
        Irving Strobing, the Brooklyn-born Army radio operator who stirred the pulse of a country by tapping out the last brave messages of horror, humor and hope before the surrender of the Philippines in World War II, died on July 8 at a veterans hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 77 and had sent the last radio transmissions before the fall of Corregidor on May 6, 1942.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        There was a Commander in Chief in the White House, a galaxy of generals and admirals in Hawaii and elsewhere and a balooning armed force of millions gearing up to turn the tide of war.
        But on the spot at the nadir of the country's fortunes in World War II,  six months after Pearl Harbor, two months after General Douglas MacArthur's flight from the Philippines to Australia, a day before the naval victory in the Coral Sea and a month before the smashing success at Midway, there was only Gen. Jonathan M. Wainwright and a few thousand exhausted American and Filipino soldiers.
        They had retreated down the Bataan peninsula to make a last stand at the fortified island rock known as Fortress Corregidor at the mouth of Manila Bay. In the final minutes before their surrender under orders to an overwhelming Japanese force, it was Cpl. Irving Strobing, a 22-year-old signal corpsman from Barbey Street in Brooklyn and an East New York tailor's son, who spoke for them all.
        For more than an hour before his radio went dead and Corporal Strobing and his colleagues were taken prisoner, he kept up the sporadic stream of telegraph transmissions that made him a national hero when the transcripts were read over the radio and reproduced in newspapers three weeks later.
        Describing the horrors of the final assault, when the troops' last line of resistance was to destroy their own weapons and other supplies to keep them out of enemy hands, Corporal Strobing punctuated his remarks with flashes of humor.
        ''We are waiting for God only knows what,'' he said. ''How about a chocolate soda?''
        Later his mood grew grimmer:
        ''I feel sick at my stomach. I am really low down. They are around now smashing rifles. They bring in the wounded every minute. We will be waiting for you guys to help.''
        It was help he knew could not come in time to stave off surrender.
        ''General Wainwright is a right guy and we are willing to go on for him, but shells were dropping all night, faster than hell. Damage terrific. Too much for guys to take. Enemy heavy cross-shelling and bombing. They have got us all around and from the skies.''
        As the end grew near, Corporal Strobing, a Thomas Jefferson High School graduate who had spent a year at Brooklyn College before enlisting in 1939 and being assigned to the Philippines, grew nostalgic:
        ''Corregidor used to be a nice place, but it's haunted now. Withstood a teriffic pounding.''
        ''The jig is up,'' he said later. ''Every one is bawling like a baby. They are piling dead and wounded in our tunnel. Arm's weak from pounding key, long hours, no rest, short rations, tired.
        ''I know how a mouse feels. Caught in a trap waiting for guys to come along and finish it up. Can pineapple. Opening it with Signal Corps knife.''
        At the end, not knowing whether he would survive, he dictated a message to his family, including his brother, Joe, a member of the Coast Artillery.
        ''My name is Irving Strobing. Get this to my mother, Mrs. Minnie Strobing, 605 Barbey Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. They are to get along O.K. Get in touch with them as soon as possible. Message, my love to Pa, Joe, Sue, Mac, Harry, Joy and Paul. Also to all family and friends. God bless 'em all. Hope they be there when I come home. Tell Joe, wherever he is, go give 'em hell for us. My love you all. God bless you and keep you. Love. Sign my name and tell my mother how you heard from me.''
        There was a pause, then ''Stand by,'' then nothing.
        Three years later, after he was released from a Japanese prison camp and introduced to Sgt. Arnold Lappert, the man who received and transcribed his messages in Hawaii, Sergeant Strobing, as he had become, learned how vital his transmissions had been to the military command.
        ''You sent the message, but me, I had a general for a runner,'' Sergeant Lappert recalled. ''He ripped the paper out of my hand and ran.''
        After leaving the Army in 1949, Mr. Strobing worked for the Federal Aviation Agency in New York and the Department of Agriculture in New Jersey. After retiring in 1980, he moved to North Carolina and became active in amateur radio clubs.
        Mr. Strobing, whose brother Joe,  also known as George, died in 1971, is survived by a sister, Sylvia Wolkin of Rahway, N.J.
      