
        Robert Warrn Barnett, a retired United States diplomat and author, died Friday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 85.
        The cause was cancer and penumonia, his family said.
        An expert on China and the Far East, Mr. Barnett retired from the Foreign Service in 1970 after an unusually long tenure as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for East Asian and Pacific Affairs. He then directed the Washington center of the Asia Society until 1979, and continued as a resident associate of the carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington through 1984.
        Mr. Barnett was born in Shanghai, the son of Eugene Epperson Barnett, a leader and future secretary general of the Y.M.C.A. He spent his boyhood in China, graduating from the Shanghai American School in 1929.
        He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and studied as a Rhodes scholar at Oxford, where he earned a master's degree in literature. He later studied Chinese language and literature at Yale and international affairs at Harvard.
        He worked for United China Relief, then rose to the rank of major in China as a combat intelligence officer during World War II. He began his diplomatic career in 1945.
        In August 1951, while serving in Washington, he was one of 26 people labeled security risks by Sen. Joseph R. McCarthy - and one of a handful who responded in no uncertain terms. Insisting that neither he nor his wife was a ''fellow traveler,'' as McCarthy referred to Communist sympathizers, Mr. Barnett noted that the State Department had never asked him to respond to unspecified charges such as the Senator had insinuated.
        ''Senator McCarthy,'' he added sarcastically, ''unaccountably has cast no specific reflections upon my sons, Dickson, aged 2, and Robert Jr., aged 6 weeks.''
        His career intact, he took up his final Government assignment in 1963.
        Mr. Barnett was the author of about a dozen books and numerous articles. His most recent book, published in 1990, was a memoir, ''Wandering Knights: China Legacies Lived and Recalled.'' Mr. Barnett is survived by his wife, Joan Burrows Barnett; his daughter, Eugenia Lois Barnett of Philadelphia; his two sons, Dickson G., of Warsaw, N.Y., and Robert Jr., of Greenbelt, Md.; a sister, Eugenia B. Schultheis, of Arlington, Va.; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. His first marriage, to Patricia Glover, ended in divorce.
      