
        Alan J. Charig, a peripatetic paleontologist who pursued dinosaurs around the world and brought their story home to a generation of scholars and schoolchildren, died on July 15 in his home in Oxted, England. He was 70 and had been curator of fossil reptiles, mammals and birds at the British Museum of Natural History.
        His daughter, Nicola Norton, said the cause was a stroke.
        During his career, he organized and led annual three-month expeditions to the remote corners of the globe, made his share of fossil discoveries and contributed a number of scholarly theories to dinosaur science. But Dr. Charig was best known in Britain for his role in rekindling interest in dinosaurs among scholars and the general public.
        A 10-part BBC television series, ''Before the Ark,'' that he wrote and presented in 1974 was followed by a 1979 book, ''A New Look at Dinosaurs,'' which has remained a standard work in the field.
        In a science laden with Latin terminology and abstruse theories, Dr. Charig was known for his ability to make the most complex science seem simple through his straightforward, cut-to-the bone prose and his sometimes colorful language.
        In 1986, for example, when he and his colleagues announced the discovery of a new dinosaur family in the guise of a two-ton, 30-foot, 124-million-year-old fish-eating dinosaur they named Baronyx Walkeri. The first word was a reference to its heavy, 15-inch claws and the second to a plumber, Bill Walker, who had stumbled on its bones in a Surrey quarry. Dr. Charig likened the beast's teeth to ''finely serrated steak knives.''
        ''It's not a pretty sight,'' Dr. Charig continued. ''I wouldn't want to meet it on a dark night.''
        A native of London whose father was an invalid as a result of injuries from service in World War I and whose mother worked as a shop clerk, Mr. Charig spent much of his childhood with an aunt. He was a bright youth and won a scholarship to Cambridge, where his original interest in geology led him into zoology.
        He drove a tank in World War II, spent two years as a Russian interpreter in Germany, then completed his undergraduate work in 1951 and obtained a doctorate from Cambridge in 1956. Joining the staff of the Natural History Museum in 1957, he remained there for the rest of his career, give or take his extended expeditions to Africa, Asia, Australia and anywhere else ancient dinosaurs may have left evidence of their long and mysterious existence.
        An expedition he led to Lesotho in 1966 led to the discovery of the oldest fossilized mammal skeleton, and a trek to Queensland, Australia, in 1978 turned up one of the geologically earliest herrings.
        For all his interest in creatures whose 100-million-year reign ended 65 million years ago, Dr. Charig was a highly gregarious man. He made so many friends around the world that he was forever serving as affable tour guide to visiting paleontologists, including one delegation of Chinese scientists, his daughter recalled, who were accompanied by minders to make sure they did not defect.
        In a field in which the most elaborate theories are of necessity based on the slimmest of physical evidence and disputes between paleontologists with rival theories can sometimes become quite heated, Dr. Charig was known as something of a synthesizer. He could point out the strengths and weaknesses of both arguments while extending and combining them with suggestions for further areas of inquiry.
        At the same time he was a meticulous scientist who made so sure of his facts that he was virtually invincible in scholarly debate. In 1986, for example, two anti-Darwinists challenged the authenticity of one of the British museum's prizes, a famous specimen of the earliest known bird, a winged dinosaur known as Archaeopteryx. They contended that the fossil had been faked in 1861, partly for greed and partly to advance the theory of evolutionary development two years after the publication of Charles Darwin's ''Origin of the Species.''
        Dr. Charig and his colleagues refuted the flimsy arguments so thoroughly and so convincingly in a 4,000-word paper in the journal ''Science'' that he apologized for ''using a sledgehammer to crack a rather trivial nut.''
        Dr. Charig loved his work so much that it was hardly interrupted after his official retirement in 1987. Even when he had heart-bypass surgery some years ago, his daughter recalled, Dr. Charig was so impatient while bedridden in the hospital that he sent for a fossil he had been working on. And when he was allowed to take his first short walk after surgery, he headed straight for a telephone to ask colleagues to bring him some research papers.
        Not that life was all work for Dr. Charig. He did, his daughter said, take regular annual vacations, leading mountain climbing expeditions for a friend's tour business.
        In addition to his daughter, of London, Dr. Charig, whose wife, Marianne, died in 1987, is survived by two sons, Mark and Francis, both of London, a sister, Molly, of Eastbourne, and six grandchildren.
      