
        Frank Parker, a product of a poor Milwaukee family who was discovered by his mentor while working as a ball boy and who rose to win the United States Nationals singles tennis title twice, died last Thursday. He was 81.
        He died at the University of California Medical Center in San Diego three days after undergoing surgery for blood clots in a lung, according to a nephew, Jim Luzar.
        At the age of 10, Franciszek Paikowski was hitting discarded tennis balls at the Milwaukee Town Club where he worked -- turning over all but a nickel of his $2 weekly pay as a ball boy to his widowed mother, Ann -- when he caught the eye of the club coach, Mercer Beasley.
        Beasley taught the youngster the game, taking him along to New Orleans for intensive coaching when the Beasley family moved there.
        At 15, Paikowski was crowned national boys' champion, at 16 he became national junior champion and at 17 he won the national clay-court championship.
        When Beasley became the tennis coach at Lawrenceville Academy in New Jersey, his protege enrolled there, then went on to Princeton. He changed his name to Frank Parker, perhaps because tournament officials had trouble pronouncing Franciszek Paikowski.
        In 1938, Beasley's tutoring of  Parker ended. That is when Beasley's wife, Audrey, divorced him and married Parker, then 22 and her junior by about 20 years. She became his adviser and trainer and also tailored his tennis wardrobe.
        ''They remained the best of friends,'' Luzar, the nephew, said of  Parker's later relationship with  Beasley. ''When he won a tournament, he got a congratulatory wire.''
        In 1943, Parker teamed with Jack Kramer to win the national doubles title. In September 1944, on leave from a California base where he was serving as a sergeant in the Army Air Forces, he captured the national singles title at Forest Hills, Queens, defeating Bill Talbert in four sets. The following year, Parker, by then in the South Pacific, got a 9,000-mile bomber ride home to defend his title. He defeated Talbert once more.
        He captured the French singles titles in 1948 and 1949, defeating Jaroslav Drobny and Budge Patty.
        In 1949, Parker teamed with Pancho Gonzales to win the Wimbledon doubles championship, and he was a five-time Davis Cup player.
        He briefly played as a pro, barnstorming with Gonzales, Kramer and Bobby Riggs. After retiring, he was a sales manager for a paper-products company.
        He lived in Chicago and is survived by a brother-in-law, Joseph Luzar, three nephews and two nieces. His wife, Audrey, died in 1971.
      