
        Clarkson S. Fisher, who rose from Monmouth County judge to serve as the chief judge of the United States District Courts in New Jersey from 1979 to 1987, died on Sunday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Long Branch, N.J.
        The cause was lung cancer, his son Clarkson S. Fisher Jr. said.
        Judge Fisher's judicial career spanned 33 years at the county, state and Federal levels. In 1973, he presided over the trial of the ''Camden 28,'' a group of antiwar protesters who were acquitted of stealing and destroying draft records from the Federal Building in Camden, N.J., in what was seen as a major victory for Vietnam War opponents.
        Since 1987, Judge Fisher had been a senior judge with his chambers at the Federal courthouse in Trenton until he stopped working weeks before his death.
        ''This was a man who never took vacations,'' Chief Judge Anne E. Thompson of Federal District Court told The Associated Press. ''This was a New Jersey person who was happy working through July and August. Even though he was on senior status, he was handling a caseload that was comparable to an active judge. His loyalty to the court, his dedication, were extraordinary.''
        After serving briefly as a state assemblyman in 1964, Clarkson Fisher was named a Monmouth County judge. He was appointed to the Superior Court, where he served from 1966 to 1970, after the reorganization of the state court system, and was then appointed to the Federal bench by President Richard M. Nixon.
        Perhaps his most notable case was that of the ''Camden 28.'' The defendants admitted breaking into the Federal Building in Camden in August 1971 and stealing and destroying the draft records.
        The break-in had been led by a paid Government informer, and Judge Fisher instructed the jury that it could acquit the defendants if it found that the Government had overreached in its use of the informer, Robert W. Hardy. Mr. Hardy, a Camden contractor, used his own tools to help the defendants break into the building. The defense urged the jury to return an acquittal as a message that the country had had enough of the ''illegal and immoral'' war in Vietnam.
        Clarkson Sherman Fisher was born on July 8, 1921, in Long Branch. He attended St. Benedict's Preparatory School in Newark, was a staff sergeant in the Army Signal Corps during World War II and graduated from the University of Notre Dame in 1947. He received a law degree from Notre Dame in 1951, joined the law firm of Edward F. Juska that  year and later became Mr. Juska's partner.
        Judge Fisher helped spur Congressional support for new Federal courthouses in Camden, Trenton and Newark. In 1995, the building in Trenton was named for him.
        In addition to his son Clarkson Jr., who is a Superior Court judge in New Brunswick, Judge Fisher is survived by his wife, Mae Hoffmann Fisher; three other sons, A. James, of Crawfordsville, Ind., Scott L., of Long Branch, and Daniel R., of Los Angeles; two brothers, Walton, of Oakhurst, N.J., and Michael A., of Haddonfield, N.J.; a sister, Patricia Dombrowski of Montville, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      