
        The jazz guitarist Chuck Wayne, who took part in the beginnings of the be-bop movement in the 1940's, played with delicacy and musical wit, and instructed countless young guitarists in the mysteries of the music, died on Tuesday at his home in Jackson, N.J. He was 74.
        The cause was emphysema, said a family friend, Dr. Sandy Termotto, of Savannah, Ga.
        Mr. Wayne, named Charles Jagelka when he was born in New York City, was the son of a Czechoslovak cabinetmaker. He started out playing the mandolin with a Russian balalaika band.
        When he switched to the guitar during high school, he once said, he threw his warped mandolin into the furnace. Later, in the 1950's, he played the mandola as a member of George Wallington's group, and in the 1960's, he was one of the few jazz guitarists to adopt the banjo as an alternate instrument.
        The warm, legato sound of wind-instrument players inspired him, especially that of the tenor saxophonist Coleman Hawkins, and in his early years Mr. Wayne tried to replicate it on the guitar. In 1941, he joined Clarence Profit's trio, playing in Greenwich Village, and soon after left New York for two years of Army service.
        On returning, he joined a group led by the Dixieland clarinetist Joe Marsala, and befriended its pianist, George Wallington. It was with Wallington that Mr. Wayne made the discovery of be-bop, the fast and jagged music that was to be all-important to him, and Mr. Wayne can be heard on such early be-bop recordings as Dizzy Gillespie's ''Groovin' High'' and ''Blue 'n' Boogie.''
        In 1946, he was the guitarist in the first Woody Herman's Herd, recording Ralph Burns's famous three-part composition ''Summer Sequence'' with the band; from 1949 to 1952, he was part of the popular George Shearing quintet. From 1954 to 1957, he was Tony Bennett's musical director, leaving Mr. Bennett to compose and play the music for the Broadway production of the Tennessee Williams play ''Orpheus Descending.'' And from 1959 to 1971, he worked for CBS, playing on television shows.
        In the 1970's, teaching increasingly, he played often in a duo with the guitarist Joe Puma. For much of the following decade, he regularly took part in a trio at Gregory's, a bar on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, with the pianist and vibraphonist Warren Chiasson, another alumnus of the Shearing group.
        Mr. Wayne became a perennial at jazz festivals and in concerts honoring the masters of jazz guitar. More recently, he wrote instruction books for guitarists. Toward the end of his life, while writing his books, Mr. Wayne suffered from Parkinson's disease and emphysema.
        He is survived by his wife, Diane Wayne, as well as four children from previous marriages, Mary Ann Anderson of Staten Island; Catherine Lee Ward and Lorna Beth Wayne, of Marietta, Ohio; and Carson Wayne of Margate, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      