
        Edgar F. Shannon Jr., a former president of the University of Virginia who inspired both cheers and scorn for his outspoken opposition to the war in Vietnam in the early 1970's, died on Sunday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, Mr. Shannon's wife, Eleanor, said.
        Although Mr. Shannon served in the Navy in the Pacific Ocean, was overseer of two United States military academies and left his stamp on the Central Intelligence Agency after serving on a Presidential commission to review the agency, he is best remembered for his dramatic stance against the war, which angered the hawks who expected him to urge more vigorous prosecution of the war.
        In 1970, after the United States drive into Cambodia and the shooting of student protesters at Kent State University by National Guardsmen, unrest mounted on the Virginia campus. Students boycotted classes, occupied the Reserve Officers Training Corps building, set fires and blocked traffic. Many were arrested and taken to jail in moving vans.
        Addressing 4,000 protesters gathered on the central lawn of the university, Mr. Shannon was at first jeered but soon won the crowd's attention as he spoke of sharing their anguish over the killings at Kent State and of his passionate opposition to the war. Then, after leading the students and faculty in signing telegrams to Virginia's two senators pressing them to stop the fighting in Southeast Asia, he was cheered.
        Later, Mr. Shannon was denounced by some university alumni and a few newspapers in the area called for his dismissal. But the university's governing board supported him, noting that he had kept the university open and free of violence when many other colleges and universities were forced to send students home.
        At the commencement exercises that year, Mr. Shannon received a standing ovation as he rose to speak.
        Under his leadership, Virginia also began coeducation and racial integration, while enrollment rose to 15,000 students from 5,000 as the institution moved to national prominence.
        Mr. Shannon was born on June 4, 1918, in Lexington, Va., where his father was a professor of English at Washington and Lee University. He graduated summa cum laude from Washington and Lee and received a master's degree in English from Duke University. He was a Rhodes scholar at Oxford University where he received a doctorate in philosophy in 1949.
        When the United States entered World War II, he volunteered for combat duty as a junior gunnery officer on the heavy cruiser Quincy,  which was sunk in the opening round of the struggle for possession of Guadalcanal, the largest of the Solomon Islands in the southwestern Pacific.
        On the night of Aug. 8, 1942, Mr. Shannon narrowly escaped death when a Japanese cruiser squadron descended on an unsuspecting American naval force off Savo Island. In time, so many Allied warships were sunk that the channel off Savo Island became known as Ironbottom Sound.
        The Quincy was one of four American cruisers sunk that night, and the Quincy's captain and 370 of his shipmates lost their lives. Mr. Shannon was one of 167 who were wounded.
        After the ship went down, Mr. Shannon was left clinging to a half-burned life jacket for 20 hours before being rescued by an American destroyer.
        By the war's end, he was awarded a Bronze Star and 10 battle stars.
        After teaching at Harvard University for several years, Mr. Shannon traveled on Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships to England, where he became fascinated by Alfred, Lord Tennyson. He published numerous books, articles and reviews on the poet.
        Mr. Shannon was president of the University of Virginia from 1959 to 1974.
        In 1975, President Gerald R. Ford named him to a commission led by Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller that investigated the domestic activities of the C.I.A.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Shannon is survived by five daughters, Eleanor Bosworth of Hanover, N.H.; Elizabeth Anderson of Oreland, Pa.; Lois McCain of Paris; Susan Lee of Charlottesville; and Virginia Finley of Boston.
      