
        William C. Moog Jr., the inventor of a valve that revolutionized aircraft and missile flight control systems, died on Friday at his house in Stuart, Fla. He was 82. His health had been declining since last year, when he suffered a stroke, his family said.
        An inventor and entrepreneur who was born in Jersey City on Aug. 15, 1915, Mr. Moog developed the flight-control device, the servovalve, in 1951 while he was working at Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory in Cheektowaga, N.Y. Because the lab's role was limited to product research and development, Mr. Moog was given permission to produce and market the valve on his own, which prompted him to create Moog Inc.
        The company's sales reached $200,000 within a year because of the device, which links the computer and mechanical components of aircraft and missile flight control systems. Today, Moog Inc., which is based in East Aurora, N.Y., has an extensive product line that includes controls for aircraft, satellites and launching vehicles and industrialized machinery. The company, which employs 4,000 people worldwide, now has sales of $400 million.
        Well ahead of the corporate globalization trend, Mr. Moog led the company's international expansion starting in the 1960's. Beginning in Germany in 1965, he expanded the company's operations throughout Europe, Asia and the Pacific Rim. Moog Inc. now has operations in 20 countries.
        Mr. Moog was not the only inventor in his family. His second cousin, Robert A. Moog, invented the Moog synthesizer, which had a tremendous impact on modern music.
        A graduate of Rutgers University with a bachelor's degree in mechanical engineering, Mr. Moog, the valve creator, resigned as chairman and president of Moog Inc. in 1988 after a disagreement with the board over the direction for the company's future. At the time, he traded his shares in Moog Inc. for control of the company's industrial controls division, which was created to develop suspension technology for automobiles. He renamed the division Moog Controls Inc. and headed it until he sold it to retire in 1994.
        Though he enjoyed a distinguished career, Mr. Moog's professional life was not without controversy. In 1979 the Securities and Exchange Commission accused him of having diverted corporate money for personal use, such as a condominium in Aspen, Colo., and three sports cars. The matter was settled when Mr. Moog and the company, without admitting or denying the allegations, agreed to put into effect new internal auditing and control procedures.
        Mr. Moog's wife, Jane Bartlett Moog, is deceased. He is survived by three daughters: Constance Moog Silliman of East Aurora, Nancy Moog Aubrecht of Orchard Park, N.Y., and Susan Lee Moog of Atlanta; a son, Douglas Bartlett Moog of Cleveland, and thirteen grandchildren. A second son, William C. Moog 3d, is deceased.
      