
        Chone Shmeruk, an authority on Yiddish, died on July 5 in Warsaw, his native city. He was 76 and taught Yiddish literature in Poland in recent years after retiring from a professorship in Israel.
        When his death was announced in Jerusalem by Hebrew University, the cause was not disclosed.
        Professor Shmeruk rose to be a professor of Yiddish literature and chairman of the Yiddish department at the university after emigrating from Poland to Israel in 1949. After his death The Times of London called him ''the world's foremost scholar of Yiddish literature and folklore.''
        A dapper, cosmopolitan figure who liked to visit Oxford and London, he  was also a prolific writer on Jewish history in Eastern Europe. He was awarded a high Israeli honor, the Israel Prize, last year and was a member of the Israeli Academy of Science.
        Professor Shmeruk's first name was sometimes spelled Khone, and it is as Khone Shmeruk that he is listed as a co-editor, along with Irving Howe and Ruth R. Wisse, of ''The Penguin Book of Modern Yiddish Verse,'' a bilingual anthology. It includes work by European, American and Israeli writers and is intendedfor the ordinary reader.
        After it was published in 1987, Harold Bloom, then the Charles Eliot Norton Professor of Poetry at Harvard, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that it was a distinguished work.
        ''Whatever the changes Judaism and secular Jewishness undergo in the generations ahead, Jewish identity will continue to have links, overt and hidden, with Yiddish literature,'' Professor Bloom added. He said the ''caring analysis and selection of Yiddish poetry'' offered by the book and by another Yiddish anthology, ''aid immensely in making materials available toward that continuity.''
        Professor Shmeruk's writings on Yiddish literature ranged through the centuries up to the works of the Polish-born Isaac Bashevis Singer. Singer is said to have been the subject of a work that Professor Shmerup was writing in his final years.
        His other scholarly writings include a 1978 book, ''Chapters in Yiddish Literature.''
        He was still a teen-ager in 1939, when the German Army invaded Poland, and he and other relatives managed to flee to the Soviet Union. But his father and mother and a sister died in the Nazi camp at Treblinka, Poland.
        He returned to Poland for a time after the war. After moving on to Israel, he specialized in literature and history at Hebrew University.He became a lecturer at the university and, when he was 40, a professor.
        Professor Shmeruk's wife Myra died in 1990. He is survived by his second wife, Krystina and a son, both of whom lived with him in Poland; and two daughters and six grandchildren, all eight of whom live in Israel.
      