
        Byron Gordon MacNabb, who directed field operations for the rocket system that launched the United States' space program and sent four astronauts into orbit, died on Monday. He was 87 and lived in Cheyenne, Wyo.
        Mr. MacNabb helped shepherd the program for the Atlas rocket from its early development in 1955 to its maturity in the 1960's as the nation's first intercontinental ballistic missile and reliable booster rocket for  manned and unmanned space flights.
        Engineers under his direction were responsible for more than 175 Atlas flights, including those that  carried John Glenn, Scott Carpenter, Walter M. Schirra Jr. and Gordon Cooper Jr. into space. Mr. MacNabb, as operations manager for the General Dynamics Corporation, the chief contractor for the Atlas, sent the first unmanned space vehicle to the Moon and the first exploratory flights past Venus and Mars.
        A colorful and energetic character who was in love with rockets and the thought of space travel, Mr. MacNabb was promoted by General Dynamics in 1963, leaving Cape Canaveral, Fla., for San Diego to be head of the corporation's test engineering.
        ''Personally, I view the move with mixed emotions,'' Mr. MacNabb said. ''It's kind of like watching your mother-in-law drive your new Cadillac over a cliff.''
        Earlier in his career, Mr. MacNabb was the field operations manager on the hydrogen bomb program at the Atomic Energy Proving Grounds in the South Pacific. He was also assistant to the director for research for the Sandia Corporation in Albuquerque, N.M., which helped develop the atomic bomb.
        Byron Gordon MacNabb was born on Aug. 4, 1910, in Gary, Ind., the son of Walter S. and Leila Mogle MacNabb. He attended New York Military Academy in Cornwall, N.Y., Rose Polytechnic Institute in Terre Haute, Ind., and the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago.
        When World War II broke out, he left his job as general foreman of the blast furnaces at the Carnegie Steel Corporation in South Chicago and joined the Navy. Serving as an ordnance officer, attached to a research and development unit, he helped deploy a weapon against Japanese suicide planes in what was the first firing of a ballistic missile from a ship at sea, the carrier Midway. He later received a Presidential citation for the work.
        Mr. MacNabb left General Dynamics to join the General Electric Company, managing and consulting on its space-related programs until 1975, when he became a consultant on energy and environmental issues. He moved to Cheyenne in 1978.
        He is survived by his wife, Kathryn Naylor MacNabb of Cheyenne; a son, Mark, of San Diego, and a granddaughter.
        In November 1967 at the Florida rocket-launching site, the first major space effort was planned for the Apollo program designed to land people on the Moon. In an eight-hour flight, a new three-stage Saturn rocket would try to establish a spacecraft's ability to withstand the high temperatures it would encounter on re-entering the atmosphere on the  trip home.
        Thousands of aerospace workers,  officials and engineers of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and others were on hand, including Mr. Mac, as Mr. MacNabb was known.
        ''You'd have to be dead from the neck up -- or down -- not to be excited about this,'' he said.
      