
        Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, known as Dodi, was killed in a car crash early this morning in Paris as he and Diana, the Princess of Wales, were fleeing paparazzi after dinner at the Ritz Hotel. Diana also died.
        Mr. al-Fayed, the eldest son of Mohammed al-Fayed, the owner of Harrods of Knightsbridge, was 41.
        Dodi Fayed dabbled in film production, but otherwise had no known occupation. His father and uncle, Ali al-Fayed, ran Harrods and Turnbull & Asser, the shirt makers of London. The younger man showed up only occasionally at the stores and played little role in managing them.
        While Mohammed al-Fayed was notorious in Britain for his pugnacious fights to obtain British citizenship, which was denied him, his eldest son from his first wife was little known until he began dating Diana, the ex-wife of Prince Charles.
        The younger Mr. al-Fayed was a nephew of Adnan Khashoggi, the Saudi tycoon and millionaire who recently said, ''We welcome Diana in our family.'' Mr. Khashoggi had played a major role in his early upbringing.
        Like his father, Mr. al-Fayed also failed to obtain British citizenship, but had passports from both Egypt and the United Arab Emirates.
        The young man received much of his primary and secondary education at private schools in Switzerland and spent some time at Britain's Sandhurst. He is not known to hold any university degrees and was more famed for his flashy life style.
        The crash in which he died happened shortly after midnight in a tunnel along the Seine River at a bridge, the Pont de l'Alma, while paparazzi on motorcycles were following the car in which Diana rode with Mr. al-Fayed, a bodyguard and a driver from the Ritz Hotel, which is owned by the al-Fayeds.
        Mr. al-Fayed began dating Princess Diana last month when she vacationed in the south of France with his family. She returned a week later for a private vacation, and they were relentlessly chased by paparazzi snapping their pictures as they appeared to be kissing.
        On Friday a close relative of Mr. al-Fayed on his maternal side said during a conversation that the couple had definitely planned to remain together and were possibly heading for a marriage. Unlike her behavior in the past, the Princess did not go out of her way to hide the close relationship, and as recently as Friday was shown in newspapers frolicking with him in the Mediterranean.
      