
        William S. Burroughs, a renegade writer of the Beat Generation who stunned readers and inspired adoring cultists with his 1959 book ''Naked Lunch,'' died on Saturday evening at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Kan. He was 83.
        The cause of his death was a heart attack that he suffered on Friday, his publicist, Ira Silverberg, said.
        Over the years, Mr. Burroughs had lived in such places as New York, London, Paris, Mexico City and Tangier. But since 1981 he maintained a house in Lawrence, where he lived simply with three cats and indulged his interests in painting and photography and in collecting and discharging firearms.
        Mr. Burroughs had undergone triple bypass surgery in 1991. He quit smoking after the operation. And though he continued to suffer from a leaky heart valve, from all reports he regained robust health quickly for a man of his years.
        His recovery was all the more noteworthy since he had spent so many of his younger days engulfed in narcotics addiction, an imperative so demanding that in 1954, while living in London, he sold his typewriter to buy heroin, although he kept working in longhand. He spent years experimenting with drugs as well as with sex, which he engaged in with men, women and children.
        ''Naked Lunch,'' first published in Paris, and later by Grove Press in New York, was hailed as a masterly definition of what was hip, although the critics were not sure how to define the definition. Herbert Gold, writing in The New York Times, said that the book was ''less a novel than a series of essays, puns, epigrams -- all hovering about the explicit subject matter of making out on drugs while not making out in either work or love.'' Mr. Gold called the book ''booty brought back from a nightmare.''
        Newsweek said that ''Naked Lunch'' possessed a ''strange genius'' and was a masterpiece ''but a totally insane and anarchic one, and it can only be diminished by attempts to give it a social purpose or value whatever.''
        For his part, Mr. Burroughs said he agreed with the writer Mary McCarthy, who thought that ''Naked Lunch,'' and his other books, had a deep moral purpose.
        ''I do definitely mean what I say to be taken literally, yes, to make people aware of the true criminality of our times, to wise up to the marks,'' Mr. Burroughs told an interviewer in 1970.
        Nobody found it especially easy to impose literality on Mr. Burroughs's sentences, either written or spoken. He described ''Naked Lunch'' as ''a frozen moment when everyone sees what is on the end of every fork.''
        A Man Who 'Simply Doesn't Like' People
        His work was not for traditionalists who loved a well-developed narrative. Dame Edith Sitwell was among those who demurred from the critics' praise, denouncing ''Naked Lunch'' as psychopathological filth. And even those who admired Mr. Burroughs's iconoclasm and his ruthless honesty had to admit that they could see flaws in the man. He was, in the final analysis, an alien among aliens, the ultimate odd duck.
        ''Just because he sleeps with boys, takes drugs and smokes dope doesn't mean that he tolerates or supports the majority of junkies, homosexuals or potheads,'' wrote Barry Miles in his 1993 biography, ''William Burroughs,'' which was subtitled ''El Hombre Invisible'' and published by Hyperion. ''Bill simply doesn't like most people.''
        William Seward Burroughs was born on Feb. 5, 1914, in St. Louis, the son of Mortimer P. Burroughs, the owner of a plate-glass company, and Laura Lee Burroughs, who came from a prominent Southern family. His grandfather, for whom he was named, invented the perforated, oil-filled cylinder that made the Burroughs adding machine add and invariably get the right answer. The machine became a standard fixture in small and large businesses everywhere.
        Mr. Burroughs's parents sold their stock in the Burroughs Company shortly before the stock market crash of 1929, and the $200,000 they received saw them nicely through the Depression. It did not leave the author with much of a legacy; his mother died in 1970, and what was left of her share of the estate was $10,000.
        When Mr. Burroughs was a teen-ager, he read ''You Can't Win,'' an autobiography of Jack Black, a drifter who took drugs and pilfered his way through a sordid, predatory life. The book made a considerable impression on him and became grist for his own books years later. It was around this time that he, too, started experimenting with drugs.
        Mr. Burroughs was educated, not happily, in private schools in St. Louis and in Los Alamos, N.M. He was sent to Harvard University, which he did not like any better than he had his preparatory schools, although the time spent reading pleased him. His favorite writers gave no hint of what was ultimately to come out of his typewriter. They included Shakespeare, Coleridge and DeQuincy. Other writers he came to admire included James Joyce, Joseph Conrad, Jean Genet, Franz Kafka, Graham Greene and Raymond Chandler. He received a baccalaureate degree from Harvard in 1936.
        He took a vacation to Europe after graduation and in Dubrovnik met Ilse Klapper, a German Jew who had fled the Nazis. She was stranded, unable to renew her Yugoslav passport and unable to go to the United States. To accommodate her, he married her. They never lived together, and dissolved the marriage almost immediately upon returning to the United States, but they remained friends. After his return he worked at many jobs, including bartender, private detective, factory worker and insect exterminator. Except for exterminating, which he rather enjoyed, these jobs bored him. He later recalled his experiences in ''Exterminator!'' published by Viking in 1973.
        In the years before World War II, he returned to Harvard and did some graduate work in cultural anthropology and ethnology. After the war began, he was drafted into the Army but got out after only three months. The Miles biography said that Mr. Burroughs's mother used her influence to win his discharge for physical reasons.
        Scrawl of 'Naked Lust' Becomes 'Naked Lunch'
        By 1944, he had an apartment on Bedford Street in Greenwich Village and developed an addiction to heroin. Among those he befriended in New York in the 1940's were Allen Ginsberg and Jack Kerouac. It was to these three and their friends and acquaintances that the term Beat Generation would later be applied. And it was Ginsberg who, several years later, inadvertently came up with the title ''Naked Lunch.'' He got it from misreading a bit of manuscript in Mr. Burroughs's scrawl, which actually referred to ''naked lust.''
        Mr. Burroughs's first book, published by Ace in 1953 under the pseudonym William Lee, was called ''Junkie'' and told of his years as an addict. The writing of ''Junkie'' came after what was arguably the saddest part of Mr. Burroughs's life. He had married Joan Vollmer in 1945, and in 1951 they were living in Mexico City. He was using drugs heavily and had returned to Mexico City from a trip to Ecuador, where he had tried to learn more about a hallucinogen called yage. His wife was addicted to Benzedrine and, Barry Miles wrote, did not mind Mr. Burroughs's homosexual interests. Indeed, she had borne him a son.
        Their life in Mexico City was not especially happy. One September afternoon in 1951, they began to drink with friends. Eventually, Mr. Burroughs, who was quite drunk, took a handgun out of his travel bag and told his wife, ''It's time for our William Tell act.'' There never had been a William Tell act, but his wife laughed and put a water glass on her head. Mr. Burroughs fired the gun. The bullet entered her brain through her forehead, killing her instantly. The Mexican authorities concluded that it was an accident; Mr. Burroughs was convicted only of a minor charge and served little time in jail.
        Years later, he would say that he would never have become a writer had it not been for her death. His wife's death, he said, ''brought me into contact with the invader, the Ugly Spirit and maneuvered me into a lifelong struggle, in which I have had no choice but to write my way out.''
        The incident did not stop his drug use, and in his introduction to ''Naked Lunch,'' he describes his addiction: ''I have smoked junk, eaten it, sniffed it, injected it in vein-skin-muscle, inserted it in rectal suppositories. The needle is not important.'' Mr. Burroughs wrote that during the time he was an addict, he did ''absolutely nothing.'' He said, ''I could look at the end of my shoe for eight hours.'' When he was 45, he ended  15 years of addiction by taking apomorphine, a chemical compound developed in Britain.
        His son, William, died in 1981. Mr. Burroughs is survived by his companion and manager, James Grauerholz, who remained at Lawrence Hospital and declined to take phone calls.
        Trying to Break Patterns To Simulate Life
        No other Burroughs book attracted the attention of ''Naked Lunch,'' but his works always interested the critics. In 1960, he started inserting shards of sentences and paragraphs from newspapers and other authors into his own prose because, he said, he wanted to break the patterns that one normally finds in a book and to emulate the peripheral impressions experienced in life itself.
        ''I don't plan a book out, I don't know how it's going to end,'' he told one interviewer. He readily admitted that there was considerable overlap of material in his books.
        In 1989, he collaborated on a comic opera, ''The Black Rider,'' which was later performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music by the Thalia Theater of Hamburg and was based on ''Der Freischutz,'' a folk opera by Carl Maria von Weber. Mr. Burroughs wrote the libretto; Tom Waits wrote the songs, and it was staged by Robert Wilson. It was also produced in Europe.
        In his later years, Mr. Burroughs spent a great deal of time as a painter and calligrapher.
        Only a week before his death, he had been helping to prepare selected writings to be published next year by Grove Press, Mr. Silverberg, the publicist, said. A reprinting of a novel, ''The Third Mind,'' is also scheduled by Grove Press for next year and last year Viking Press reissued ''My Education: A Book of Dreams.''
        In a rare interview last November, Mr. Burroughs told The New York Times that he made entries in a journal each day but had given up formal writing, adding quietly, ''I guess I have run out of things to say.'' He also said that he had temporarily given up painting. ''I don't want to keep repeating myself,'' he said.
        Several of his friends, fellow drug users and contemporaries have died in the last two years, including Timothy Leary, Herbert Huncke and Allen Ginsberg. To the end of his life, Mr. Burroughs remained pessimistic about the future for humankind. In ''Ghost of a Chance,'' he lamented the destruction of the rain forests and their creatures and wrote: ''All going, to make way for more and more devalued human stock, with less and less of the wild spark, the priceless ingredient -- energy into matter. A vast mudslide of soulless sludge.''
        Enigmas of a Gaunt Man
        William S. Burroughs, in a 1984 article for The New York Times Book Review, gave his own assessment of his peculiar body of work. Much of it, he wrote, ''is intended to be funny.'' These are among his most important books.
        Junkie (Ace, 1953)  Naked Lunch (Olympia, 1959)  The Soft Machine (Olympia, 1961)  The Ticket that Exploded (Olympia, 1962)  Dead Fingers Talk (Calder, 1963)  The Yage Letters (with Allen Ginsberg, City Lights, 1963)  Nova Express (Grove Press, 1964)  Exterminator! (Viking, 1973)  The Last Words of Dutch Schultz (Viking, 1975, from a 1970 film script)  Cities of the Red Night (Holt, Rinehart & Winston)  The Place of Dead Souls (Holt, Rinehart & Winston)  Queer (Viking, 1985)  The Western Lands (Viking, 1987)  Interzone (Viking, 1989)
        Correction:  August 9, 1997, Saturday
        An obituary and a picture caption about the Beat writer William S. Burroughs on Monday, and in some late editions on Sunday, referred incompletely to the origin of his title for the novel ''Naked Lunch.'' Although it was Allen Ginsberg who misread part of a manuscript by Burroughs as ''naked lunch'' -- rather than ''naked lust'' -- it was Jack Kerouac who said the phrase would make a good title.
      