
        Clarence M. Kelley, the square-jawed former police chief who headed the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1973 to 1978, steering it away from its campaign against Communism, out of its Watergate-era miasma and into a new battle against white-collar and organized crime, died today at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 85.
        His wife, Shirley, said Mr. Kelley had been suffering from emphysema and had had several strokes in recent years.
        An F.B.I. agent from 1940 until 1961, Mr. Kelley was selected to head the bureau in 1973 by President Richard M. Nixon. He was Director until early 1978 and was widely credited with forcing it to adopt more modern crime-fighting tools, like computers to track criminals.
        He also won praise as an administrator who worked to bring more women and members of minority groups into the bureau. And he allowed agents to develop more undercover investigations and ''sting'' operations for which the F.B.I. has become known in recent years, Terry Knowles, an agent from 1965 to 1989, told reporters in Kansas City today.
        ''Clarence Kelley was the right person for the F.B.I. at that time,'' Mr. Knowles said. ''I think Clarence Kelley was directly responsible for getting us back on our feet.''
        By any measure, the period during which Mr. Kelley led the bureau was a difficult one. When he assumed command, the agency had had two Acting Directors, L. Patrick Gray 3d and William D. Ruckelshaus, since the death of J. Edgar Hoover in 1972.
        Moreover, Mr. Gray and the F.B.I. had been deeply embarrassed by disclosures that Mr. Gray had destroyed Watergate-related documents at the direction of the White House.
        Mr. Hoover had reigned supreme over the F.B.I. for nearly a half-century. As late as 1970, he told Congress that the Communist Party in the United States remained ''under the complete control and domination of the Soviet Union,'' and therefore posed ''a menace to the security of our country.''
        Though few politicians dared say it publicly, more than a few thought that Mr. Hoover's near-obsession with Communism was hopelessly outdated, and that he presided over a bureau that had for too long relied on image-making and had become increasingly hidebound in its approach to crime-fighting.
        So President Nixon's nomination of Mr. Kelley was broadly acclaimed in June 1973, in part because Clarence Marion Kelley looked and talked like a tough but cautious lawman. At the time, he was a 6-foot, 200-pounder with a bull neck and silver hair, who had run the Kansas City police force for a dozen years.
        ''I don't believe in such activities as police round-ups or vigilantes,'' he said in an interview around that time. ''I do subscribe to the theory that society has to place some restrictions on the police. Police, after all, are constantly depriving people of their liberty.''
        Those were welcome words to people who were tiring of the Watergate scandals, which both riveted and appalled the country in the summer of 1973 with their almost daily accounts of abuses of government power. The nominee sailed through his Senate confirmation hearings.
        But Mr. Kelley also insisted that ''the pendulum can swing too far the other way, and there is no question that police activity can be hampered by too severe an interpretation of constitutional rights.''
        ''Sometimes this has made the job difficult,'' he said.
        Mr. Kelley's emphasis on ''quality over quantity'' was borne out by statistics. The bureau nearly doubled its convictions in cases of white-collar crime from 1972 to 1977, to 4,610 from 2,380. More than 175 agents with accounting backgrounds were recruited in 1976 alone.
        While taking care not to directly repudiate the Hoover legacy and its lingering emphasis on Communism, Mr. Kelley told Congress, ''I do not feel that the F.B.I. can afford to devote scarce resources to investigate areas which do not have a significant impact on the overall crime problem.''
        In 1976, he did apologize for Hoover-era abuses of the bureau's investigative powers, expressing regret for the agency's efforts to harass and discredit thousands of Americans because of their political beliefs. ''We are truly sorry,'' Mr. Kelley said, regretting the wrongdoing that had occurred in ''the twilight'' of Mr. Hoover's reign.
        Mr. Kelley did have one severe embarrassment of his own while he was F.B.I. Director. He told Congress in 1976 that he had been ''deceived'' by some of his aides about the extent of illegal burglaries carried out by F.B.I. agents. Earlier, Mr. Kelley had said no such break-ins had occurred after 1966, when they were supposedly halted by Mr. Hoover.
        Later, Mr. Kelley acknowledged sadly, he found out that the break-ins had gone on as late as 1972 and 1973, and that they had come to light only because documents in the Manhattan District Attorney's office alluded to them.
        The most controversial event of his years as Kansas City Police Chief occurred after the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., on April 4, 1968. Six blacks were killed in rioting in Kansas City, and though an inquiry placed no direct blame on the Chief, questions were raised about the supervision of the police who quelled the disturbances.
        In Kansas City, Mr. Kelley had long been regarded with suspicion among black people, and there were public complaints that black officers found it hard to rise in the ranks of his department.
        Late in his term as Chief, Mr. Kelley assigned 10 black officers to full-time recruiting duty in an effort to put more black officers on the force.
        By nearly all accounts, Mr. Kelley rooted out corruption as Kansas City Chief and brought the department up to date. His was one of the first departments to use helicopter patrols.
        Mr. Kelley endured a minor scandal in 1976, when President Gerald R. Ford hesitated before announcing that he would keep him on as Director despite disclosures that Mr. Kelley had accepted window drapery valances and a small cabinet from senior bureau officials for use in his home. The Director reimbursed the Government about $335 for labor and materials.
        But the home remodeling became an issue in the 1976 Presidential campaign, and Jimmy Carter, the Democratic candidate, made it clear that he strongly disapproved of Mr. Kelley's conduct in that episode and would not keep the Director on.
        Mr. Kelley retired early in 1978, when President Carter chose William H. Webster as a replacement. Even Mr. Kelley's critics acknowledged that his successor's main challenge was to continue the changes that Mr. Kelley had begun rather than to correct any longstanding abuses.
        Back in Kansas City, Mr. Kelley started a private security firm specializing in white-collar crime.
        A native of Kansas City, Clarence Kelley graduated from the University of Kansas in 1936 with a bachelor of arts degree and earned a law degree at the University of Kansas City Law School. He joined the F.B.I. soon after, interrupting his career for Navy service from 1943 to 1946..
        Mr. Kelley played baseball as a youth, batting .300 in an amateur league despite his inability to consistently hit a curveball. In his later years, one of his few interests outside law enforcement was teaching Sunday school. He was an elder in the Country Club Christian Church, affiliated with the Disciples of Christ.
        Mr. Kelley's first wife, Ruby, died in 1975. Survivors include his wife, Shirley, whom he married in 1976; a daughter and son from his first marriage, Mary Dobbins and Kent Kelley, both of Kansas City, and three grandchildren.
      