
        Eugene G. Fubini, a physicist and electronics engineer who was active in Allied efforts to hamstring Axis radar operations in Europe in World War II and became an Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died yesterday at his son's home in Brookline, Mass. He was 84 and lived with his son.
        The cause was a heart attack that he suffered after a long illness, said his son, David.
        Dr. Fubini, whose doctorate was in physics, was an intense scientist and manager with a flair for diodes, and also for Dante. He was born and educated in Italy and came to the United States in 1939 when his father, Guido Fubini, formerly a mathematics professor in Italy, joined the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        Eugene Fubini went to work as an engineer for CBS in New York and also studied microwave technology. Then from 1942 to 1945, he was a research associate at the Harvard University Radio Research Laboratory. His duties included working on the design, development and operation of electronic equipment for use in the war.
        His son said yesterday that Dr. Fubini was brought into the Allied war effort ''because of his knowledge of microwave technology, which was essential for radar-jamming purposes. It was a new technology at the time, and it was something that he held patents on.''
        He went on to be a technical observer and scientific consultant to the American Army and Navy in the European theater in 1943 and 1944.  He helped set up operations for locating and jamming Axis radar to reduce its effectiveness in pinpointing Allied aircraft during the Allied invasions of Italy and southern France.
        Later in 1944 and in 1945 he was with the American Eighth Air Force in Britain. There his duties included overseeing further measures to locate and frustrate Axis radar.
        In 1961 he joined the Office of Defense Research and Engineering at the Pentagon and rose to be deputy director of defense research and engineering for research and information systems. In June 1963, President John F. Kennedy selected him for the additional position of Assistant Defense Secretary, with responsibilities encompassing military research and development programs.
        In his years at the Defense Department, Dr. Fubini was one of the main managers, and in numerous ways the mainspring, of its $7 billion research and development program.
        His duties as deputy director of research and engineering included overseeing the National Security Agency, the ultra-secret organization with the missions of devising and breaking codes and operating an electronic espionage network.
        He was better known, though, as the official who could give military research projects the green light or the red light, and when he quit the Pentagon he said, ''I have become a controversial character.'' In June 1965, Dr. Fubini resigned from his Pentagon posts, citing personal reasons. He went on to become a group vice president of International Business Machines Corporation and, beginning in 1969, a private engineering consultant based for years in Arlington, Va.
        Dr. Fubini's work for the Pentagon through the decades was honored in 1996, when Secretary of Defense William Perry established an award, named for Dr. Fubini, for distinguished service to the Defense Department. Mr. Perry gave the first award to Dr. Fubini.
        married Betty Machmer in 1945. She died in 1993.
        Besides his son, Dr. Fubini is survived by five daughters, Sylvia Moore and Dr. Sandra Willwerth, both of Washington; Carol Fubini of Topsfield, Mass.; Laurie Jacobs of Philadelphia, and Dr. Susan Fubini of Ithaca, N.Y., and 16 grandchildren.
      