
        Frank E. Smith, a moderate Mississippi Democrat who spent 12 years in Congress at a time when moderates of any stripe were an endangered species in Mississippi, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson. He was 79 and had served in the House from 1951 to 1962, when his consistent support of Kennedy Administration policies led to his defeat.
        His family said the cause was complications from strokes.
        When his years in Congress came to an end, the wonder was not that Mr. Smith had been defeated, but that he had lasted so long.
        Representing a Delta district in northwestern Mississippi with a population that was more than 2-to-1 black but with a comfortable margin of white voters, Mr. Smith was a consistent voice for moderation and restraint in hot-tempered times.
        But especially in the years after the 1954 Supreme Court decision on school desegregation, moderation and restraint were alien concepts to most Mississippi voters.
        Not that Mr. Smith was bent on political suicide. Although he supported a wide range of liberal causes, he dutifully opposed civil rights legislation and even said the Supreme Court decision was wrong.
        Whatever his private views, his muted public stance against civil rights and his vociferous support for the cotton industry, Federal flood control and other important Mississippi issues were enough to win him majority support in his district through several re-elections.
        But after he campaigned hard for  John F. Kennedy in the 1960 Presidential election and then became one  of Kennedy's staunchest supporters in Congress, state Democratic leaders under Gov. Ross Barnett decided they had had enough of Mr. Smith.
        And when the opportunity presented itself, they used a familiar ploy to get rid of him. After the state lost one of its six districts after the 1960 census, the State Legislature simply marked Mr. Smith's district for extinction, combining it with a  hill country district to the east that had been represented since 1941 by Jamie L. Whitten, an ultraconservative, who won the critical Democratic primary by a 3-to-2 ratio.
        Within weeks of Mr. Smith's defeat, Kennedy rewarded him for his support by making him a member of the Tennessee Valley Authority, a post that seemed well-suited to a man whose interest in Mississippi flood control had led him to become a champion of conservation.
        Mr. Smith, who later was a professor of history at Virginia Tech, also turned out six books, among them his memoirs, ''Congressman from Mississippi'' (1964), and ''The Politics of Conservatism'' (1967).
        Growing up in Mississippi in the 1920's and 1930's was such a surreal experience for a white youth with a questioning nature that even Mr. Smith, a native of Sidon who graduating with a degree in history from the University of Mississippi, had trouble explaining how he turned out the way he did.
        When he was 8, for example, his father, a deputy sheriff, was fatally wounded by a black prisoner, then used his dying words to extract a promise from the sheriff to see that the man was not lynched, telling him, as his son later recalled it, ''I've been a deputy trying to enforce the law too long for us not to enforce it now.''
        His words were not without effect. On that very day, Mr. Smith said, a carload of cousins had stopped by the house and made him show them where his father kept his guns, explaining that they were going to kill his father's killer and did not have enough guns to go around.
        After service with the Army in World War II, Mr. Smith had a brief fling in daily journalism, serving as city editor and managing editor of The Greenwood Morning Call, before getting a taste of politics as a legislative assistant to Senator John C. Stennis.
        After two terms in the State Senate he ran for an open Congressional seat, winning a runoff in the Democratic primary.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen; two children, Fred, of Jackson, and Kathleen Miles of Barbourville, Ky., and three grandchildren.
      