
        Horace Bristol, a giant of photo-journalism, a man whose images of Depression-era despair in the United States, wartime heroism in the Pacific and postwar poverty and hope in rural Korea have been ranked with the great pictures of the century, died on Monday at a hospital in Ojai, Calif. A resident of Ojai, a small town south of Santa Barbara, he was 88.
        As far as his neighbors knew, Mr. Bristol had simply been an architect building rental houses in Mexico before he and his Japanese-born wife, Masako, moved to Ojai with their two children in 1976.
        There were some, to be sure, who had a vague recollection that Mr. Bristol, a native of Whittier, Calif., who spent parts of his childhood in Santa Paula, up the road from Ojai, had once been some sort of photographer. Indeed, there were a few old-timers around who could have remembered that Mr. Bristol had taken some photographs for the Santa Paula High School's 1933 yearbook before setting up shop as a commercial photographer specializing in children's portraits.
        Come to think of it, they might say, wasn't he the fellow who worked a while for Life magazine, then took pictures for the Navy in World War II before going off to Japan?
        As it happened, Mr. Bristol had been one of the Life's first staff photographers and had even produced half a dozen covers, but those who knew him best knew better than to remind him of his past.
        For when his first wife committed suicide during a severe depression following a hysterectomy in Tokyo in 1956, Mr. Bristol was so grief stricken that he put away his cameras, destroyed many of his negatives in a fury and abandoned photography and his past life altogether.
        He eventually found new happiness with his second wife. and he resurrected himself as an architect and builder, first in Japan and later in Mexico before returning to California. If his son, then a high school student, had not been assigned to write a book report a dozen years ago, Mr. Bristol might have gone to his grave known as an architect who had built houses in Mexico.
        As Mr. Bristol had recalled it, when his son, working on his book report idly asked if he had ever read the book, ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' John Steinbeck's classic 1939 account of the Depression-era mass migration from the Dust Bowl of Oklahoma to distitution in central California, something clicked in his mind. He realized, he said, that in suppressing his own past he had been depriving his children of something they were entitled to.
        For, as they soon learned, Mr. Bristol had not only read ''The Grapes of Wrath,'' he had dreamed up the idea for the book, recruited Mr. Steinbeck for the project and had accompanied him on his weekend research trips through the Great Central Valley of California.
        While Mr. Steinbeck took notes, Mr. Bristol took pictures, very much as Walker Evans had done for James Agee's acclaimed account of Depression-era poverty in the rural South, ''Let Us Now Praise Famous Men.''
        Unlike Mr. Agee, whose book was illustrated by Mr. Evans's haunting photographs, Mr. Steinbeck preferred to turn his notes into a novel, but the Bristol photographs, every bit as evocative as any taken in the Depression, did not entirely languish.
        Some appeared in Life magazine, but they were also used as the visual basis for the memorable look of the 1940 film ''Grapes of Wrath,'' so much so that one of the surviving images Mr. Bristol dug out of a trunk shows a man who looks like the very double of Henry Fonda, the actor who portrayed Tom Joad.
        Soon after his son's innocent question brought him to terms with his long-suppressed past, Mr. Bristol came out of his self-imposed shell.
        Thinking that some of his old photographs might fetch as much as $100 from collectors, he put them up for auction and was astounded that some sold for $1,500. Since then, his photographs have been widely exhibited, and few who have seen them have been surprised to learn that Mr. Bristol had been one of five photographers recruited by Edward Steichen for the wartime Navy project, that his fellow Life photographer, Aflred Eisenstaedt, and his one-time San Francisco neighbors, Ansel Adams and Edward Weston, had greatly admired his owrk, or that Bill Gates had purchased the digital rights to most of the 16,000 negatives Mr. Bristol had been cataloguing at the time of his death.
        Mr. Bristol, who became a favorite of the thriving Ojai arts colony, eventually took up the camera again, among other things producing a series of photographs of an abandoned oil refinery in Ventura, Calif., that provided a haunting echo of a series of pictures, ''Oil in California,'' he did for Fortune magazine early in his career.
        For all his varied and acclaimed work, Mr. Bristol himself thought that his best pictures were those he took in rural Korea after the war.
        Most have never been published or exhibited, but they are being culled and assembled for a book, appropriately enough by his son, Henri, whose book report unleashed his father's reputation.
        In addition to his wife and his son, of Los Angeles, Mr. Bristol is survived by a daughter, Akiko Diniz of Manhattan; a son from his first marriage, Horace Jr., of Los Angeles, six grandchildren and a number of great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 18, 1997, Monday
        An obituary of the photojournalist Horace Bristol on Aug. 7 overstated his role as the impetus for ''Grapes of Wrath,'' John Steinbeck's novel about the migration of Oklahomans to California. Mr. Bristol recruited Mr. Steinbeck in the fall of 1937 to work with him on a nonfiction book about the migrants, but Mr. Steinbeck had written magazine and newspaper articles about them in 1936 and was already immersed in turning the material into another form.
      