
        Roy Herbert Steinberg, a neurophysiologist at the University of California at San Francisco who helped explain the structure and function of the retina, died on July 26 at his home in San Francisco. He was 61.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, a bone marrow cancer, his family said.
        The retina, the innermost coat lining the interior of the eyeball, contains layers of photoreceptive cells that are connected directly to the brain by the optic nerve. Dr. Steinberg investigated the properties of the pigmented cells that sustain the rods and cones of the retina, the first cells that respond to light.
        He and a colleague, Dr. Sheldon Miller, showed that the pigmented cell layer controls the makeup of the environment surrounding those cells.
        Dr. Steinberg determined that the cone cells renew themselves daily by shedding used-up parts that are then absorbed by the pigmented layer. He helped establish how the rods and cones replace the spent parts with new ones.
        About 10 years ago he and Dr. Matthew M. LaVail demonstrated that injecting the eye with certain newly discovered molecules, called growth factors, preserved the rods and cones of laboratory rats. At his death he was trying to find a way to treat diseases like retinitis pigmentosa and macular degeneration by means of the new growth factors.
        He and Dr. LaVail were awarded the John A. Moran Prize in Visual Science this year for breaking new ground in that direction.
        A native New Yorker, Roy Steinberg grew up on the Upper West Side and graduated from the University of Michigan, where he also earned a master's degree in 1957. He received his M.D. from New York Medical College and a doctorate in neurophysiology from McGill University in Montreal.
        He joined the University of California Medical School in 1969, and was appointed professor of physiology and ophthalmology in 1976.
        Dr. Steinberg's first marriage, to Dr. Lois Silverstein, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Dr. Jane M. Gitschier; their daughter, Annie Xiao-Peng Steinberg; his son, Julian, of San Francisco, and a sister, Norma Fox of Hartsdale, N.Y.
        In a letter to the editor of The New York Times on July 27, Dr. Steinberg wrote about hospice care for the terminally ill.
        ''My philosophy is to fight like hell to stay alive while at the same time readying myself for death, spiritually and practically,'' he said. ''I took extreme measures and got 42 months of life from two bone marrow transplants and an additional nine months from transplant No. 3.
        ''Was it worth it, you may ask. My child has had her daddy for nine more months, and my wife has had her husband. From these simple facts, I conclude it's worth it.''
      