
        Walter I. Farmer, who was awarded a high German medal last year for having protested, as an American Army captain in Germany in the months after World War II, his superiors' decision to ship artworks including paintings by Rembrandt and Rubens to the United States, died on Saturday at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati. He was 86 and lived in Cincinnati.
        The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Margaret Farmer Planton.
        Mr. Farmer received Germany's highest civilian medal, the Commander's Cross of the Federal Order of Merit, from the German Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, in Bonn on Feb. 9, 1996.
        By then Mr. Farmer, an architect and interior designer, was one of the few American survivors of an American Government panel, the Commission for the Preservation of Works of Art of International Importance in War-Torn Areas.
        In 1945, his assignment was to direct the collection and safekeeping of art in a period when some on the winning side of World War II, including Americans, were tempted merely to plunder.
        When his superiors ordered that 202 paintings in his custody in Wiesbaden, Germany, be shipped to the United States, Captain Farmer grew angry. He said that the art, which also included works by Botticelli, Vermeer and Watteau, should not be removed, even though Germany had looted art from other countries during the war.
        And so he and 35 others who were also overseeing art-collection points met in Wiesbaden on Nov. 7, 1945, six months after Germany surrendered to the Allies, and drafted what is known as the Wiesbaden Manifesto.
        It declared, ''We wish to state that, from our own knowledge, no historical grievance will rankle so long or be the cause of so much justified bitterness as the removal for any reason of a part of the heritage of any nation even if that heritage may be interpreted as a prize of war.''
        Nevertheless, the 202 works of art were transported to the United States, where there was public controversy about the legitimacy of spoils of war. And in 1948, President Harry S. Truman directed that the works be sent back to Germany.
        By that time, Mr. Farmer was a civilian, and ''that was the end of the issue,'' he said in a 1996 interview, until he spoke about it at a symposium in 1995 in New York City. Then the German Government decided to give him the medal.
        Mr. Farmer was born in Alliance, Ohio, and received bachelor's degrees in mathematics and architecture from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio. He went on to be active also as a genealogist and was prominent in the museum field in Ohio and Texas.
        His marriages to Josselyn Liszniewska and to Renate Hobirk ended in divorce.
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in Chillicothe, Ohio, he is survived by two grandsons; a sister, Evelyn Krickbaum of Sidney, Ohio; and his companion, Theodore Gantz of Cincinnati.
      