
        The Rev. Dr. Salvador Ferigle,  who nearly 50 years ago brought the  conservative Roman Catholic movement Opus Dei to the United States from his native Spain, died on Jan. 9 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass.
        He was 73 and lived at Elmbrook University Center, Opus Dei's student center in Cambridge.
        The cause was a heart attack, said a spokesman for the Opus Dei prelature's United States headquarters, in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        Father Ferigle (pronounced FER-e-gull) was a layman himself in 1949 when he joined a priest, the Rev. Joseph Muzquiz, one of the original ordained priests in the Opus Dei movement, to establish a branch in the United States. They opened the movement's first center, Woodlawn Residence, in a house near the University of Chicago.
        A secular, mainly lay organization that originated in Spain in 1928, Opus Dei, Latin for ''Work of God,'' promotes traditional Roman Catholic values through exemplary conduct. The organization says it has 80,000  members worldwide, 1,500 of them priests.
        It is officially recognized by the Vatican and many influential Catholics in government and industry are supporters, but many liberal Catholics have accused it of secrecy and elitism and of wielding disproportionate influence at the Vatican.
        At the time that he helped establish a branch in this country, Father Ferigle was earning his doctorate at the Illinois Institute of Technology, where he was later appointed an assistant professor. Over the decades, he helped build Opus Dei into an organization with more than 3,000 members and 64 centers in 17 cities in the United States.
        Father Ferigle was born in Valencia, was educated in a Marist school and graduated in physics and chemistry from the University of Valencia. After receiving his Ph.D., he earned a doctorate in theology at Pontifical Lateran University in Rome, was ordained a priest in 1957 and returned to the United States.
        He moved to Boston in 1971 to become chaplain at Elmbrook and of other institutions.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      