
        Peter Braestrup, a former war correspondent for The New York Times and The Washington Post who became an authority on the relationship between the press and the military, died on Sunday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., where he had been on vacation. He was 68 and lived in Washington, where he was senior editor and director of communications for the Library of Congress.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sandra Newing, said.
        As a correspondent, Mr. Braestrup reported on the Vietnam War and later wrote a two-volume book, ''The Big Story'' (Westview Press, 1977), about the shortcomings of American news coverage of the Tet Offensive in 1968. He later served on panels that studied the battlefield role of the press, often gave speeches on war-time reporting and was a frequent commentator on the subject, particularly during the Persian Gulf war.
        After leaving The Washington Post and retiring from daily journalism in 1975, Mr. Braestrup was the founding editor of The Wilson Quarterly, the  magazine of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington. He went to the Library of Congress in 1989.
        He was born in Manhattan, the son of Danish immigrants. His father, Carl Bjorn Braestrup, was a physicist who participated in the Manhattan Project and was one of the first scientists to warn of the hazards of radiation.
        Peter Braestrup graduated from Yale University in 1951 with a degree in English literature and went on active duty with the Marines. He served six months in the Korean War, was seriously wounded in action, and was discharged with the rank of first lieutenant in 1953. His military service gave him an understanding of combat soldiers that he later put to use as a correspondent.
        For the next four years he worked at Time magazine, first as a contributing editor and later as a roving reporter. In 1957, he moved to The New York Herald Tribune.
        He was a Nieman Fellow at Harvard University, completing the fellowship in 1960. Later that year, he joined the Washington bureau of The New York Times. He was a correspondent for The Times in Paris, in North Africa, where he covered the Algerian revolution, and in Bangkok, Thailand, where he covered the fighting in Indochina before resigning to join The Washington Post's Saigon bureau.
        He was known for fine reporting and for his Oxford blue shirts and floppy white hat.
        H.D.S. Greenway, a close friend and former colleague who is the editorial page editor of The Boston Globe, described Mr. Braestrup as a serious, intellectual journalist. ''He did a great deal of good work trying to explain the military to the press and the press to the military and getting over some of the hostility of the two after Vietnam,'' Mr. Greenway said. ''Having been both, he was in an ideal position to do that.''
        Mr. Braestrup's first marriage, to Angelica Hollins Braestrup, ended in divorce. In addition to Ms. Newing, he is survived by his mother, Elsebet Braestrup of Hamden, Conn.; a sister, Ellen B. Strickler of Manhattan; two daughters, Angelica Cunningham of Washington and Elizabeth Kate Braestrup of Thomaston, Me.; a son, Carl P. of San Francisco; two stepdaughters, Martha Meyers of Los Angeles and Linda Engleby of Washington; two stepsons, Stuart Nash of London and David Nash of St. Paul, Minn.; seven grandchildren and eight stepgrandchildren.
      