
        Norman B. Ture, an uncompromising advocate of supply-side economics and an architect of the 1981 tax cut that was one of the largest in the nation's history, died on Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 74.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a friend, Barry Rogstad.
        For the better part of 30 years beginning in the early 1950's, both Democratic and Republican Presidents, as well as many Congressional leaders, sought out Mr. Ture for his advice on taxes and supply-side theory, the economic concept built on the belief that lower taxes spur greater economic growth.
        He was, in the judgment of Jude Wanniski, an economic consultant in Morristown, N.J., and a longtime advocate of supply-side thinking, ''the one American who bridged the Kennedy and Reagan tax cuts'' both of which lowered individual tax rates at times when the economy was lagging.
        Supply-side economics has long divided political leaders and economists. Opponents say the economy suffered from huge budget deficits throughout the 1980's in part because the 1981 tax cut was not accompanied by equivalent offsetting spending cuts. Proponents counter that the 1981 cut laid the groundwork for today's growth, low inflation and unemployment.
        Mr. Ture was a consultant to Representative Wilbur D. Mills, the Arkansas Democrat who was chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee in the 1960's.
        ''The speech that Wilbur Mills gave in 1963 that introduced the Kennedy tax cut proposal was written by Norman Ture,'' Mr. Wanniski said. ''John Kennedy was a wall-to-wall supply-sider.''
        Not everyone agrees with that. Still, President Kennedy adopted key elements of supply-side economics, Mr. Wanniski said, after ''the usual Keynesian ideas, like investment tax credits, didn't do anything'' and pushed tax cuts to revive the economy.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson won passage of the Kennedy tax cut after assuming office in 1963 and, Mr. Wanniski said, ''Norman Ture was part of that action.''
        When asked whether Mr. Ture was a Republican or a Democrat, Mr. Wanniski said: ''Nobody knew what his politics were. He was a tax guy.''
        It turns out that Mr. Ture was a Republican, said Stephen J. Entin, a resident scholar at the Institute for Research on the Economics of Taxation in Washington.
        Mr. Ture founded the institute, which Mr. Entin described as ''a nonpartisan, free-market think tank,'' in 1977, left it in 1981 to join the Reagan Administration and returned to it as president in 1982, after he quit the Administration to protest repeals of parts of the 1981 tax cut.
        People have stumbled over the pronunciation of the economist's name. His wife, Donna Cramer, said today that the family traditionally had pronounced it TOO-ray, until he became Under Secretary of the Treasury for Tax and Economic Affairs in 1981 and an article in The New York Times rendered it too-RAY. That led others to pronounce it with the stress on the second syllable, she said, and Mr. Ture decided to adopt that pronunciation himself.
        Mr. Ture was born in Cleveland and received a master's and doctorate in economics from the University of Chicago. He served in the Army in World War II.
        He was a member of the Treasury Department's tax analysis staff from 1951 to 1955 and a staff member of the Joint Economic Committee of Congress from 1955 to 1961. So thorough was his knowledge of the subject that Mr. Entin said today: ''Someone once told me that when people came to Wilbur Mills with tax questions, he told them, 'Talk to Norman about it. He understands taxes.' ''
        Mr. Ture served on tax panels for President Richard M. Nixon and was director of tax studies at the National Bureau of Economics. He taught economics at George Washington University, the Wharton School of Finance at the University of Pennsylvania and at Illinois College.
        Mr. Ture's marriages to Pearl Roberts and Daphne Laird ended in divorce.
        Besides Ms. Cramer, he is survived by their daughter, Claire Cramer-Ture of Alexandria; three daughters from his marriage to Ms. Roberts, Julianne Ture of Boston, Heather Turey of Capitola, Calif., and Martha Ture of Fairfax, Calif.; a son from that marriage, Peter Ture of Bethesda, Md.; a stepdaughter, Keli Cramer of Baltimore, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Wanniski and Mr. Entin described today how Mr. Ture got to play a pivotal role in pushing the 1981 tax cut. ''When Reagan was elected in 1980 and needed people who knew how to move this issue along, the search led to Norman Ture,'' Mr. Wanniski said. ''Reagan chose Donald Regan as his Treasury Secretary. All of us supply-siders were nervous about Regan.''
        But they were pleased when Mr. Regan chose Mr. Ture, their candidate for the top tax post in Treasury.
        ''Norman came in as a chief architect of the 1981 tax cuts,'' Mr. Entin said. ''But as soon as the ink was dry on the 1981 act, there were people in Washington who wanted to repeal parts of it, and in 1982 they repealed large parts of the business section that constituted serious back-tracking by the Administration.
        ''Norman resigned in 1982, largely in protest over the over the tax increase that repealed substantial portions of the 1981 law,'' Mr. Entin said. ''He was one of the few people who went in on principle and went out on principle. He didn't compromise.''
      