
        Dr. Reuben Abel, a writer on humanism and a professor emeritus of philosophy at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 85 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        After he received his Ph.D. from the New School in 1952, Dr. Abel taught for 40 years in the Graduate Faculty of Political and Social Science and in other divisions. After  reaching emeritus status, he continued to write for philosophical journals.
        He nurtured a particular interest in Ferdinand Canning Scott Schiller (1864-1937), who devised a philosophical system of humanism in which ''man is the measure of all things.'' Dr. Abel wrote ''The Pragmatic Humanism of F. C. S. Schiller'' (Columbia University Press, 1955), which remains in print.
        Another title was ''Man Is the Measure: A Cordial Invitation to the Central Problems of Philosophy'' (1976). Its publisher, the Free Press, reissued the book this year as part of a series commemorating its own 50th anniversary.
        Dr. Abel was known among his friends and colleagues as a man of diverse interests, including ethics, logic, esthetics and linguistics. He was versed in eight modern and classical languages, sang with the Dessof Choirs and was an inveterate writer of letters to newspapers and other publications, often bringing about changes with his arguments and contributions from his own readings.
        An example was his discovery of the transitive verb cathect, derived from the Freudians' term cathexis, which was used to describe the notion of an investment of libidinal energy. Dr. Abel came across the term in his literary and scientific readings in the 1940's and proposed it as an entry to the editors of Webster's New International Dictionary.
        While Freud wrote in plain German, his English disciples and translators reached into classical Greek  to concoct the term. Dr. Abel found that Alix Strachey, a Freud pupil, had invented the companion-verb ''to cathect'' by back-formation when she translated his ''Inhibitions'' in 1936.
        Webster's responded, saying it was weighing his opinion that the term had come into ''fairly common use.'' It conceded the point in 1950 in an addendum to its Second Edition, when it added cathect as a verb meaning ''to invest with libidinal energy.''
        He was born in New York City and graduated from Columbia College in 1929. He received a law degree from New York University in 1934 and a master's in social science from the New School in 1941. After he received his doctorate, he joined the New School faculty as a lecturer and over the years was chairman of the humanities division and associate dean.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Marion Buchman Abel; a son,  Richard, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Berkeley, Calif.; two brothers, David and Sidney, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      