
        Jack Delano, one of the few surviving members of the group of photographers who fanned out throughout the United States in the 1930's and 40's on behalf of the New Deal's Farm Security Administration and produced what have become iconic images of the Great Depression, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Puerto Rico. He was 83 and had lived in Puerto Rico since 1946.
        The cause was kidney failure, said his editor at the Smithsonian Institution Press, Amy Pastan.
        Although he was not as well known as the other F.S.A. photographers, who included Dorothea Lange, Walker Evans and Arthur Rothstein, Mr. Delano created images of people and places of surpassing elegance and empathy. Certain of his beautifully detailed, crisp black-and-white prints show the Evans influence, but the Delano stamp was very much evident.
        In one strikingly Vermeer-like photograph, taken in 1941 in Greene County, Ga., a young, somber woman stands by a doorway in the foreground, while beyond her other figures sit or stand by other doorways, each picked out by gentle light. In another photograph, of a 1940 Thanksgiving dinner in Connecticut, the centerpiece of the meal -- glistening grapes and a gleaming pitcher -- looks as though it were part of an Old Master still life, while the clearly American family at the table parallels the pumpkin and apple pies lined up on a sideboard below the mirror showing the assembled family.
        Although his work eschewed photographic contrivances, Mr. Delano was not above helping his subjects achieve what he believed was the right pose.
        In his autobiography, ''Photographic Memories,'' which he completed shortly before his death, he recalled that a Connecticut farming couple he was photographing in 1940 insisted on ''staring at the camera, not at all like the jolly people they really were.'' To help the couple loosen up, Mr. Delano finally told the man his pants were falling. When the man immediately clutched at his pants, his wife saw that it was a trick of the photographer's and threw her head back in laughter. Mr. Delano snapped the picture.
        Mr. Delano was hired in 1940 by Roy E. Stryker, the legendary director of the historical section of the F.S.A. First assigned to photograph every aspect of workers' lives in the Eastern Seaboard states from Florida to Maine, Mr. Delano subsequently went to Greene County as well as to Chicago, photographing their black communities, and to the Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico.
        Puerto Rico, both the place and the people, entranced him more than any  other place he had visited. After serving as a military photographer during World War II, he and the graphic artist Irene Esser, whom he married in 1940, returned to Puerto Rico to do a book of photographs on the island after he won a Guggenheim fellowship. It took him several  decades to complete the project, titled ''Puerto Rico Mio,'' which was published by the Smithsonian Institution Press in 1990.
        An exhibit of his work, ''Contrasts: 40 Years of Change and Continuity in Puerto Rico,'' organized by the Smithsonian, has been traveling to various American cities. Mr. Delano was represented by the Howard Greenberg Gallery in Manhattan.
        Following their move to Puerto Rico in 1946, the Delanos were closely involved in the cultural life of the island. Mr. Delano managed the Government-run television station, made films about the island, drew cartoons and composed music for ballet, orchestra, chamber groups, voice and chorus. Mrs. Delano died in 1982.
        Born on Aug. 1, 1914, in Ukraine, Jacob Ovcharov came to the United States with his parents when he was 8. He grew up in Philadelphia, and first thought he wanted to become a concert violinist. But it was the later goal of becoming a magazine illustrator that led him to enroll in the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts.
        During his last year at the academy his fellow students insisted he change his last name. (His parents had already renamed him Jack, after the boxer Jack Dempsey.) One student suggested her family allow him to use her name, which was Delano.
        He is surivived by a son, Pablo, of Hartford; a daughter, Laura Duncan of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      