
        The Rev. Frederick Hill, who as the ninth rector of St. Michael's Episcopal Church breathed new life into what had been a moribund parish on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 2 at his home in Goshen, N.Y. Father Hill, who retired as rector in 1992, was 67.
        The cause was heart failure, said James Kennedy, a friend.
        Father Hill was assigned to St. Michael's, on the northwest corner of Amsterdam Avenue and 99th Street, in 1976 when it was in the throes of a decline that was affecting the Episcopal Church nationwide. Attendance had fallen to 30 at St. Michael's as its parishioners died or moved from the neighborhood.
        Under his guidance, the parish adapted. Assembling a new team of clergy members to assist him, Father Hill led them in making services closely fit the needs of the community, establishing outreach programs and restoring parish buildings.
        He made music a central part of the liturgy as the church choir grew, adding a professional choirmaster and a composer in residence. His formula emphasized community life with after-school recreation and tutoring programs, a men's shelter, a Saturday soup kitchen, hospital ministries and arts and music programs that drew national attention.
        He forged links with other denominations on the Upper West Side. And he helped remake St. Michael's into an amalgam of the African-American, Hispanic, white and Caribbean-American residents in that part of Manhattan, from the working poor to the affluent professionals and their children. To make them feel welcome, he oversaw the restoration of the church building and adjoining structures in the last years of his ministry. Its famous Tiffany-designed chancel and seven lancet windows, showing the victorious St. Michael, were repaired and cleaned.
        St. Michael's was founded in 1807 to serve the summer residents of country houses overlooking the Hudson River. The nave of the present structure, dating from 1891, had never been decorated, so in the late 1980's, it was painted in brilliant colors and designs to make it conform to its surroundings.
        By the time Father Hill retired, attendance had grown to exceed 800. The church now counts on scores of volunteers for its many activities, and thousands of West Siders use its services. Father Hill also founded a church quarterly, The Living Pulpit, which now reaches about 10,000 readers.
        A native of Rochester, he graduated from Wagner College and, in 1956, Harvard Divinity School. He was ordained in 1958 and was assistant minister at St. James Church on Madison Avenue from 1959 until 1976.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
      