
        J. David Jones, an airborne Balanchine who used the sky as his stage and helicopters as his corps de ballet, died on July 14 at his home in Redway, Calif. He was 61 and had been Hollywood's premier helicopter pilot and an accomplished aerial coordinator.
        His family said the cause was lung cancer.
        If you're a movie fan, don't be ashamed if you've never heard of J. David Jones. With all the attention paid to actors, directors and even the odd cinematographer here and there, there simply hasn't been enough ink left over to cover the grips who push the camera dolly smoothly along a track so the director of photography can capture a steady image of actors on the move.
        In a career in which he did signal work on 400 feature films and television shows and more than 1,000 commercials, documentaries and other projects, Mr. Jones worked mostly as a simple dolly grip.
        It was just that his dolly wasn't a wheeled platform on a track, but what the industry coyly calls a mobile camera platform: a helicopter looping through space, sometimes flying circles around a helicopter flying circles around still other helicopters, sometimes tracking a speeding car or skimming low across tree tops or up steep mountain slopes to reveal a breathtaking panorama.
        In an industry in which grips are known as the cowboys of a movie set, Mr. Jones was a cowboy of the skies, a lanky, leathery man so adept at his work that a helicopter seemed an extension of his own agile body.
        He did his share of stunts, flying the Batcopter in the ''Batman'' television series, for example, and receiving a 1985 Stuntman Association award for his work on the ''Airwolf'' television series.
        But even as an aerial coordinator or second unit director planning and supervising elaborate scenes, Mr. Jones, who last year won the Society of Operating Cameramen's first Lifetime Achievement Award for Mobile Camera Platform Operator, was most often at the controls of the camera ship.
        A native of Pensacola, Fla., who was a high school track star and won a scholarship to the University of Florida, Mr. Jones learned to fly at 14, mastered helicopters in the Marines, then honed his skills as a bush pilot in Alaska and a crop-duster in South America before making his mark in Hollywood, initially on pickup assignments.
        Although aerial shots had been a Hollywood staple since well before the 1927 silent movie ''Wings'' won the first Academy Award for best picture, Mr. Jones was regarded as a modern pioneer.
        That is partly because he was around in the 1960's when a cinematographer named Nelson Tyler revolutionized aerial photography by developing a gyro-stabilized mount that neutralized a helicopter's vibrations.
        For the first time, a cameraman perched on a helicopter doorsill could capture seamless images, but only, of course, when the pilot was flying a seamless course that kept the camera forever facing the constantly changing action.
        As Mr. Tyler, himself, put it the other day: ''If you can't see it, you can't shoot it.''
        It was hardly surprising that Mr. Jones was the pilot when Mr. Tyler filmed the scene in the 1968 movie ''Funny Girl'' that has been credited with changing the face of movies: after a close-up of a wind-blown Barbra Streisand fills the screen, the camera slowly pulls back and up to reveal her standing on a tugboat against the ever-widening backdrop of New York Harbor.
        Mr. Jones, whose credits include ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' ''Capricorn One,'' ''Speed,'' ''Twister,'' ''Courage Under Fire,'' and most recently ''Con Air,'' believed he did some of his best work in the obscure 1991 movie ''At Play in the Fields of the Lord.''
        Movie fans are more likely to remember his aerial choreography of the signature scene of Francis Ford Coppola's 1979 masterpiece, ''Apocalypse Now,'' the famous ''Flight of the Valkyries'' sequence in which a swarm of helicopters swoops down on a coastal village in Vietnam to the throbbing strains of Wagner.
        To Mr. Tyler, though, his most impressive achievement occurred off camera, at an Army compound in Yugoslavia where Sydney Pollack was preparing to shoot his 1968 movie ''Castle Keep.''
        As Mr. Tyler recalled it, when the base commander led the crew to an old dusty Bell J-2 helicopter sitting on a makeshift trailer with flat tires wedged between two trees and assured them he would have it dragged to a nearby field for testing, Mr. Jones waved him off.
        Then, as the officer and a large group of soldiers watched in horror, Mr. Jones blithely climbed aboard, started the engine, lifted off in a climbing backward spiral that cleared the trees and the high surrounding walls, then proceeded to execute a series of graceful backward figure eights and other intricate aerial maneuvers before rotating back down to make a perfect landing on the trailer.
        The soldiers, Mr. Tyler recalled, broke into applause, something a dolly grip rarely hears.
        Mr. Jones is survived by his mother, Elizabeth, of Pensacola; his third wife, Anjali; four children from a previous marriage, a daughter, Sherri Wyche of Los Angeles, and three sons, Troy, of Los Angeles and Steven and Eric, of Vancouver, Wash.; a sister, Kay Flint of Oakland, Calif.; two brothers, Charles, of Pensacola, and Bill, of Denver, and seven grandchildren.
      