
        Duke Zeibert, a wise-cracking, back-slapping restaurateur who for almost half a century ran the Washington establishment's favorite power-lunch spot, died today at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86.
        He had been suffering from heart disease and cancer since closing the restaurant that bore his name and retiring three years ago.
        From the day in 1950 that he opened for business, at the corner of Connecticut Avenue and L Street just a few blocks from the White House, Mr. Zeibert's bonhomie and his shrewd flattery of the city's powerful and famous filled his dining room with Presidents, senators, lawyers, lobbyists, quarterbacks, coaches, columnists, commentators and not a few capital cads.
        They came to his tables to see and be seen and seating was by order of importance, which is to say the diners at the tables nearest the entrance were the likes of Harry Truman, Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., Edward Bennett Williams, Robert Strauss, Joe Gibbs, Jack Kent Cooke and Larry King. There was laughter and drinking and animated talking and table-hopping and, underneath it all, the endless Washington scramble for inside knowledge, position and power.
        On the walls were hung countless pictures and outlandish cartoons of political, sports and show business luminaries. The bar had regulars who started at 11 and finished at 11. In the restaurant foyer, under glass like some special dish, were Superbowl trophies won by the Redskins.
        In a sense, especially at lunch, ''Duke Zeibert's'' -- ''Duke's'' to habitues -- was a club, with food to match. The pickles and the onion rolls were close to perfection and there were good crab cakes (hold the yellow mystery sauce) and passable chicken-in-the-pot, clams casino, New York strips, and New York cheesecake (scrape off the rubbery strawberry topping). But, when it came to the rest of the menu, it was caveat emptor.
        ''Ordinary food for people who were definitely not ordinary and who had come to a place that was run by someone extraordinary,'' was the way Mr. Strauss, the lawyer and old political pro, described the restaurant and its owner upon learning today of Mr. Zeibert's death.
        ''When I thought at one point a few years back that Bill Clinton and Bob Dole could each profit from sitting down and getting to know one another over a meal, I invited them to 'Duke's','' Mr. Strauss recalled. ''They came. What better place? What other place? My God! Duke would be furious knowing that he died on a Friday and his obit will go into a skinny Saturday paper rather than a big, fat Sunday paper. He knew how it works.''
        When Mr. Zeibert (born David but called Duke even by the tourists from Des Moines) was not standing in a garish houndstooth jacket at the restaurant door greeting new arrivals, he was working the dining room, table to table, talking sports and the sports gambling he so loved, throwing out friendly insults worthy of Don Rickles and, all the while, consummate professional that he was at his chosen trade, keeping an eye on things, now nudging a waiter in this direction, now ordering up a special dish for favorite.
        ''He had a way about running a restaurant, which was his way alone,'' said his son, Randy, who worked with him in his latter years. ''And nobody ever had more fun or a better run. He loved it to the very end. One day I'd like to reopen and try to do it all over again.''
        Besides his son, Randy, of Potomac, Md., Mr. Zeibert is survived by a daughter, Terri Sanker, also of Potomac, Md., and by a sister, Mollye, and a brother, Larry, both of New York.
        There are other power dining spots in Washington these days, of course, but none quite like ''Duke's,'' if for no other reason than there seem to be no other Dukes. Mr. Zeibert somehow successfully managed to meld together a good dollop of Toots Shor, a bit of New York deli, a smattering of sports bar and a heavy measure of Washington power politics.
        ''Restaurants are not run today by real individuals with individual ideas, not anymore,'' said Larry King, the talk show host and one of Mr. Zeibert's closet friends. ''Sure there are famous chefs, good chefs. But more and more, even the good restaurants seem to be run by corporations, not individuals, not people like Duke. He came out of the school that produced larger-than-life people and places like Toots Shor and Bookbinder's, and we just don't seem to have that anymore. I loved the man.''
        Mr. Zeibert was born in 1910 in Troy, N.Y., and as a young man drifted into the restaurant business, working his way up from busing to waiter and eventually landing in Washington at Connecticut and L, a prime downtown location. He was given the nickname Duke because he was always a fancy dresser and indeed he had something of a duke's panache, or perhaps the panache of a dude, what with his tailored sports jackets and his prominent white mustache and flowing mane.
        In 1980, after 30 years at Connecticut and L, Mr. Zeibert was forced to close his restaurant for several years while the building housing it was torn down and rebuilt. By the time he reopened, he and his longtime manager, Mel Krupin, were no longer friends, for Mr. Krupin had decided to open his own version of ''Duke's'' down the street, called ''Mel Krupin's'' and complete with pickles and onion rolls.
        As Mr. Krupin told it, he had been led to believe that Mr. Zeibert would never reopen. In any event, the second ''Duke's'' is now closed and Mr. Krupin is still serving pickles and onion rolls, now out in the city's edge, and in death has only kind words for his old boss.
        ''Our quarrel is no longer important,'' he said. ''What is important is that Duke Zeibert was a great restaurateur and the city misses him badly.''
      