
        Drummond Matthews, a geophysicist whose work provided a critical underpinning for the theory that the earth's crust consists of large rigid plates, died on July 20 in Taunton, England. He was 66 and lived in the nearby town of Porlock.
        The cause was a heart attack, said officials at Cambridge University, where Mr. Matthews studied and taught for three decades.
        At Cambridge in the early 1960's, Mr. Matthews and one of his doctoral students, Fred Vine, developed a hypothesis to explain a puzzling fact: ocean surveys had shown alternating bands of normal and reverse magnetism in the sea floor.
        The phenomenon was so distinct that undersea maps, in black and white to represent the two magnetic orientations, resembled zebra stripes.
        The two men built on the work of Harry Hess of Princeton, who had theorized, as a way of explaining continental drift, that the sea floor spreads out from ridges in the middle of the oceans, and on studies that had shown that the earth's magnetic field had reversed itself numerous times over several million years.
        Under Mr. Hess's theory the sea floor could be likened to a conveyor belt, creating new crust at the ridges that then travels over millions of years to deep ocean trenches, where it returns to the mantle. The Vine-Matthews hypothesis -- as it came to be known after their paper was published in the journal Nature in 1963 -- considered the magnetic bands to be the record of the crust as it was created and spread.
        ''We showed that the conveyor belt acted as a tape recorder,'' said Mr. Vine, now dean of environmental sciences at the University of East Anglia in Norwich, England.
        Like many hypotheses, the Vine-Matthews work was one of synthesis, ''building speculation upon speculation,'' Mr. Vine said.
        ''But it wasn't exactly 'Eureka!' in the bath,'' he said. The work involved much computer analysis -- using the rather crude machines available at the time -- of data that Mr. Matthews had collected in the Indian Ocean.
        A Canadian scientist, Lawrence Morley, developed a similar hypothesis at about the same time. But his paper was not published for about a year, at least partly because it did not incorporate oceanic data.
        ''Some people were surprised ours was published as well,'' Mr. Vine recalled. ''It was a dreadful paper -- really just a letter to Nature.''
        But it was instrumental in gaining acceptance for Mr. Hess's earlier ideas. When the time scale of magnetic field reversals was confirmed in 1965-66, ''most people were convinced that sea-floor spreading was for real,'' Mr. Vine said.
        ''And once people became convinced of sea-floor spreading,'' he added, ''that very rapidly led to the theory of plate tectonics.'' Under that unifying theory of geology, the earth's crust, known as the lithosphere, is a collection of rigid plates moving in relation to each other. ''The concept of rigid plates is better than a conveyor belt,'' Mr. Vine said.
        Mr. Matthews, who was known as Drum, received an undergraduate degree in natural sciences at Cambridge in the 1950's. He spent three years on a survey in the Antarctic, returning to Cambridge in 1958 to study for his doctorate. He took over as head of the university's marine geophysics group in 1966.
        His later work involved studying structures deep in the crust and mantle, using seismic reflection techniques. One study was named by his colleagues the Deep Reflection From the Upper Mantle, or DRUM, in his honor. He retired in 1990.
        Mr. Matthews's first marriage ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Sandie, and a son and daughter from his first marriage.
      