
        Frederic A. C. Wardenburg 3d, a career Du Pont executive who interrupted his life as a staid businessman to jounce off across Europe behind advancing Allied troops on a top secret mission in the waning days of World War II, died on Aug. 10 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92.
        By rights, Mr. Wardenburg should not have been in a war zone, dodging bombs, ducking bullets and penetrating enemy lines to find and interrogate German nuclear scientists.
        Then again, he should not have been liberating wine cellars and having drinks with Marlene Dietrich in the Ritz bar in Paris, either.
        By 1944 Mr. Wardenburg, a 1927 Princeton graduate, was well above draft age, a 39-year-old family man living in Wilmington, Del., and working for E. .I. du Pont de Nemours & Company.
        He might have never left if he had not made certain choices: majoring in electrical engineering in college, mastering French and picking up a working knowledge of German during prewar business trips to Europe.
        As a result, when Maj. Gen. Leslie R. Groves, the head of the Manhattan Project, which worked on the atomic bomb, asked Du Pont if it had someone with a scientific background who spoke French and German, Mr. Wardenburg was on his way to war.
        Half a century after the Hiroshima bombing, it is hard to imagine a time when no one lived in fear of nuclear weapons -- except for a small cadre of American scientists, military men and high Government officials familiar with the nation's race to produce the atom bomb.
        Every hot breakthrough that brought them closer to a bomb made them that much more chillingly aware that the Germans must be even closer.
        Indeed, one German scientist, Otto Hahn, had discovered the principle of nuclear fission in 1938; another had published the first paper on the theory of the chain reaction, and a third, Werner Heisenberg, the renowned scientist and 1932 Nobel Prize winner, was known to be directing an all-out German nuclear effort.
        It was against that grim backdrop that the need to find out just how close the Germans were to making an atomic bomb became an overriding obsession of American military leaders, especially after the success of the Normandy invasion in June 1944 made it more likely that the Germans would speed their efforts.
        Accordingly, when American troops arrived in Paris after its liberation by French forces on Aug. 24, 1944, the first elements of the Manhattan Project had already been established by General Groves.
        Using the surprisingly suggestive code name of Alsos -- Greek for grove -- the small, elite unit was under the joint command of Col. Boris T. Pash, the Manhattan Project's chief of security, and a Dutch-born civilian physicist, Samuel A. Goudsmit.
        Mr. Wardenburg, who joined the group in October, was one of the few members of Alsos who knew its purpose.
        For Mr. Wardenburg, whose natural reserve eased in the company of the warm, high-spirited Dr. Goudsmit, those were heady times: gala evenings at the Ritz followed by grueling jeep rides over rutted roads to inspect captured laboratories under enemy artillery fire, sometimes with the added thrill of ''capturing'' German scientists, generally by simply walking into their offices, where they would greet Dr. Goudsmit as an old friend.
        It was while Mr. Wardenburg and Dr. Goudsmit were reading a pile of old letters, memorandums and other documents in Strausbourg in December 1944 that they made a crucial discovery.
        As Dr. Goudsmit recalled in his 1947 book ''Alsos,'' ''We both let out a yell at the same moment.''
        For as the papers made abundantly if inadvertently clear, the vaunted German scientists were not only not on the verge of a nuclear breakthrough, they had stumbled out of the starting gate and staggered off in the wrong direction.
        There were further adventures, in which the Strasbourg discovery and additional details of the German failures were confirmed, but by the end of May 1945, Mr. Wardenburg was in London, reopening Du Pont's European office and resuming his reserve as a dignified, pinstripe-suited businessman with an umbrella and bowler.
        By the time he retired to Scottsdale and golf in 1965, he had headed a succession of Du Pont departments.
        He rarely talked about his Alsos days, but there were a couple of mementos: an honorary membership in the Order of the British Empire (he said it was for conspicuous bravery in riding rickety wartime Paris elevators) and the American Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha; a daughter, Sylvia Crouter of Dubois, Wyo.; a son, Fred, of Seattle; seven grandchildren, and six great grandchildren.
      