
        Moshe Ganchoff, a cantor and composer widely acknowledged as one of the last great exponents of the Odessa tradition of liturgical music, died last Monday at a hospital near his home in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. He was 92.
        During an acclaimed career in which he served as cantor at a number of New York synagogues, gave international concerts, made recordings, taught at the Hebrew Union School of Sacred Music and performed weekly on The Jewish Daily Forward's radio station, Mr. Ganchoff's most impressive credential may have been his longtime role as the official cantor for Passover and High Holy Days services at Grossinger's.
        If it seems strange that a cantor, even a lyric tenor known for his breathtaking improvisations, would be a headline attraction at a Catskills resort, it is at least partly because there has been a striking decline in the everyday appreciation of the timeless subtleties of Jewish liturgical music.
        There was a time when ordinary worshipers at a synagogue were so passionately familiar with the underlying music and so attuned to the styles, talents and limitations of the various cantors that they would discuss them endlessly, like opera buffs weighing the appeal of a Caruso or a Pavarotti.
        Mr. Ganchoff, who emerged as a star in the 1940's and continued as a more or less full-time performer until the mid-1970's, seemed only too well aware that he was keeping a dying tradition alive. Toward the end of his career, he routinely reined in his talent at worship services, knowing that few in the congregation would recognize, much less appreciate, his vocal virtuosity.
        ''He was a cantor's cantor,'' is the way his former student Jack Mendelson put it recently. ''Only other cantors could really appreciate him.''
        Given his standing, it is hardly surprising that Mr. Ganchoff was born in Odessa, the Ukrainian city that for centuries has been known as a hothouse of Jewish arts and culture, especially music. What is somewhat surprising is that Mr. Ganchoff did not receive his early training in Odessa but in Toledo, Ohio.
        When he was taken there as a child, the vagaries of migration had made Toledo something of a Little Odessa, attracting a number of the great Odessa-trained cantors of the day.
        Mr. Ganchoff, the son of an accomplished sign painter, grew up listening to and learning from a series of masters, among them Simon Zemachson, Mendel Shapiro and the  Detroit-based Arye Leib Rutman.
        Mr. Ganchoff's talent was discovered when he joined a schoolboy choir, and by the time he was in his late teens he was so good and so determined to become a cantor that he traveled to New York to study with a series of great cantors, including Joshua Lind and Jacob Rapaport, and eventually Mordecai Hershman.
        In 1928, at the age of 21, he got his first position as cantor, at the Hunts Point Jewish Center in the Bronx, and over the next decade and a half, as word of his talent spread, he was lured to a succession of posts in Brooklyn.
        In 1944, when the death of David Roitman, ''the poet of the pulpit,'' created a vacancy at the Congregation Shaare Zedek on West 93d Street in Manhattan, a veritable Carnegie Hall of Jewish music, the congregation auditioned the great cantors of the day and chose Mr. Ganchoff as Mr. Roitman's successor.
        He remained with the congregation until 1957, when he became the cantor at Grossinger's, a part-time position that allowed him to fill in as guest cantor at various synagogues, to give concerts here, in South America and in Israel and to continue his work as a composer, creating innovative melodies for ancient texts.
        As a composer, Mr. Ganchoff was so prolific that he wrote a new composition for each of his weekly radio programs for 25 years.
        For all his talent, Mr. Ganchoff's music appealed to a narrow base of fans. As his wife, Peggy, recalled recently, when they were introduced in 1955 even she had never heard of him.
        ''I didn't even know what a cantor was,'' she said, explaining that at the Reform synagogue she attended as a girl in Cleveland, the cantor was merely a soloist in the choir.
        When she finally did hear Mr. Ganchoff sing, she got an inkling of what all the fuss was about. ''I didn't understand much of what he was doing,'' she said, ''but when I looked at the people around me, their faces had such rapture it looked as if they were in heaven.''
        Mrs. Ganchoff, her husband's only survivor, was able to hear a side of him few of his fans may have known existed.
        ''Cantor was his profession, but he was a singer,'' she said, recalling that the man who had deepened the religious experience of thousands used to sing love songs to her, making them up as he went along.
      