
        Ray Heatherton, the television Merry Mailman for two decades, as well as a big-band singer and musical comedy star, died on Friday at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had lived there for four years. He had been a longtime resident of Rockville Centre, N.Y.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Dick.
        He was the host of ''The Merry Mailman,'' a local weekday-afternoon children's television show in the 1950's and 60's, broadcast in New York City, first on WOR-TV, Channel 9, and then on WPIX-TV Channel 11. Mr. Heatherton, a man with a perennial smile, played the role of a warm-hearted mailman who presided over Merry Mail Land, where the entertainment included songs, puppets and storytelling.
        Earlier in his long show-business career, he was a musical comedy star, a singer with big bands in the 1930's and early 40's, and as the host on a radio show that also featured his singing.
        Mr. Heatherton, a vibrant tenor, was for a time the lead singer with the Paul Whiteman orchestra. He introduced the song ''Where or When,'' while he was starring on Broadway in the Rodgers and Hart musical comedy ''Babes in Arms'' in 1937.
        In his later working years, he was a radio personality and also a cocktail lounge performer at the Garden City Hotel on Long Island, where he also served as director of community relations.
        Mr. Heatherton, who had been a tireless toastmaster at Republican gatherings and an effective party fund-raiser, entered elective politics briefly in 1981, as the Democratic candidate for the post of Presiding Supervisor of Hempstead.
        But the Republican incumbent,  Thomas S. Gulotta, beat him by a 3-to-1 margin.
        In addition Mr. Heatherton was active in numerous charities and served for a time as president of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
        He was born in Orange, N.J., attended Columbia University and served in the Marine Corps during World War II.
        He married Davenie Ross Watson in 1941; she died in the late 1980's.
        In addition to his son, of Pasadena, Calif., a consultant in the radio industry, he is survived by his daughter, Joey Heatherton, the actress and singer, of Los Angeles; two grandchildren, Christina and Dana Heatherton of Pasadena, and his companion, Barbara Bowden of Garden City.
      