
        Legh Knowles, a trumpet player in the Glenn Miller Orchestra who went on to become chairman of Beaulieu Vineyard, one of California's most famous wineries, and a passionate spokesman for all California wines, died on Friday at a convalescent residence near his home in Napa, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause of death was cancer of the esophagus, said his wife, Margaret.
        Legh (pronounced lee) Knowles entered the wine business as a complete neophyte: just out of the Air Force in 1948, he answered an advertisement from the California Wine Advisory Board, a trade organization, for someone to promote California wines.
        ''I didn't know anything about wine,'' he recalled in a 1986 interview, ''but they wanted someone who could stand up before large crowds,'' and, as a big-band trumpeter, ''I'd done a lot of that.''
        Mr. Knowles played with a number of big bands at various times before entering the service in 1942, but he  always looked back on his days with Glenn Miller as the peak of his musical career.
        ''In 1939, we played 359 nights,'' he once said. ''I can't remember what I did with the other 6.''
        The nomadic life of a musician prepared him well for the wine business. He moved 13 times in his first 10 years in the business, as spokesman or salesman, and then spent much of the rest of his life on the road.
        From the California Wine Advisory Board, Mr. Knowles went to the Taylor Wine Company in New York. And from there, he joined the E. & J. Gallo Winery in California in 1958 for four years of what he later called the toughest and best training he ever had.
        ''Gallo salesmen had a saying,'' he  recalled. '' 'We don't want most of the business; we want it all.' ''
        In 1962, Mr. Knowles moved on to Beaulieu Vineyard, in Rutherford, Calif., in the Napa Valley. It was the golden age of Beaulieu, which was  still owned by the family of Georges de Latour, the elegant Frenchman who had founded it at the turn of the century. When Mr. Knowles arrived, Andre Tchelistcheff was making the wine, and the winery's principal label, Georges de Latour Private Reserve Cabernet Sauvignon, was widely considered the best made in America.
        Beaulieu was sold to Heublein Inc. in 1969, and despite his prickly relations with Heublein executives in Connecticut -- he called them bean counters -- Mr. Knowles became the winery's vice president and general manager that year. He was appointed president in 1975 and chairman in 1982. In 1987, the Napa Valley Vintners Association named him one of the Valley's 12 ''living legends,'' a group that included Robert Mondavi, Peter Mondavi, Louis P. Martini and Hanns Kornell.
        Mr. Knowles, a native of Bethel, Conn., took to the trumpet as a small boy and was hired at the age of 12 to play in a local jazz band. During the big-band era he played first with Red Norvo and Mildred Bailey, then with Glenn Miller and later with Charlie Spivak and his orchestra. He made 122 records with the Miller band,  including ''In the Mood, '' its signature recording.
        Besides his wife, he leaves a daughter, Barbara Pinches of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a brother, Robert; a sister, Bernice Scott, and two grandchildren.
      