
        Burnum Burnum, a battler for the cause of the Aborigines, died on Sunday in his home in the Sydney suburb of Woronora. He was 61.
        He died of a heart attack aggravated by a history of diabetes, his family said.
        The tall, imposing Mr. Burnum Burnum brought a gift for showmanship to his fight on behalf of Australia's indigenous people. His most memorable stunt came in 1988, exactly 200 years after the first English settlers came ashore in Australia, when he laid claim to England on behalf of the Australian Aborigines.
        The symbolic gesture of defiance was played against the pomp and ceremony of the bicentennial celebrations. While dignitaries in London and Canberra were making speeches extolling the great Australian nation, he climbed the cliffs of Dover and planted the red, yellow and black Australian Aboriginal flag.
        Gray beard flowing, brown eyes flashing, he made a speech full of barbed allusions to the treatment of the Aborigines by the English settlers of Australia. No harm, he promised, would come to England's ''native people'' from his invasion. Nor would he poison their water, lace their flour with strychnine, or introduce them to alcohol and toxic drugs.
        His speeches and lobbying efforts and the demonstrations he organized helped set the stage for a national referendum in 1967 that amended the Constitution to give Australia's 300,000 Aborigines the vote and other rights of citizenship for the first time.
        Throughout much of the 1970's, he demanded the honorable burial of a woman, described as the last full-blooded Aborigine left in Tasmania, who had died in the 1890's. Her skeleton was long displayed in the Museum of Tasmania in Hobart.
        Finally, in 1976, the museum authorities agreed to release the skeleton, which was cremated in the Hobart suburb of Oyster Cove, the woman's place of birth.
        Burnum Burnum, meaning great warrior, was a name adopted from his great-grandfather, a warrior of the Wurundjeri tribe. He was born Harry Penrith in January 1936 at Wallaga Lake, an Aboriginal community on the south coast of New South Wales.
        As an infant, soon after the death of his mother, he became part of what Australians now call the ''stolen generation,'' the group of about 100,000 Aboriginal children forcibly taken from their families between 1910 and the early 1970's.
        The children were generally of mixed race, usually with white fathers or grandfathers. The idea was to make them part of white society. Full-blooded Aborigines were expected to die out from disease and low birth rates in their remote desert settlements.
        Young Harry was taken from his Aboriginal father and spent time in an orphanage where, he later recounted, he suffered such indignities as a flogging with a cattle whip for breaking a window with a cricket ball, and being required to stand before his class and repeat, ''Look at me and you will see that I am an Aborigine.''
        He managed to control his hurt and anger and became an excellent student and a talented sportsman, heading his high school cricket and football teams.
        He attended law school and also wanted to be a teacher. But he turned both education and the law aside to become one of the first Aborigines to join the Australian public service. For 13 years he worked in the Agriculture Department of the state of New South Wales.
        It was in the mid-1960's, said his friend and neighbor, Hazel Wilson, director of Kirinari Hostels for Aboriginal Students, that he chose a life of political action.
        ''It suddenly became terribly important for him to affirm his Aboriginality,'' she said. ''He didn't want to know whether he had white blood.''
        He not only looked the part of a tribal elder but played it as well in two Australian films, ''Ground Zero,'' about Britain's early postwar nuclear testing in the Australian desert, and ''The Dolphin Touch,'' with a strong environmental theme.
        He is survived by his wife, Marelle; their son, Umbarra; and four children from a previous marriage, Lua, Karen, Rebecca and Ian.
      