
        Merril Eisenbud, an environmental scientist who was the first health and safety chief of the United States Atomic Energy Commission and the first head of New York City's Environmental Protection Agency, died on Friday at the Carolina Meadows retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 82 and a former resident of Sterling Forest, N.Y.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        In a career lasting six decades, he also taught and worked for 25 years at New York University Medical Center and the university's Institute of Environmental Medicine upstate, retiring in 1984.
        Professor Eisenbud, the author of books, book chapters and about 200 scientific articles, had continued to write and teach.
        He was a practical man who sought to balance ideals and realities in environmental matters -- an attitude that did not always sit well with partisans on either side. His arguments were laid out most recently in ''How Clean Is Clean? How Safe Is Safe?: A Review of Environmental Priorities'' (Cogito Books, 1993).
        In his view, pristine conditions, even if they could be regained, were no practical choice. Rather he looked for the best possible solutions in terms of economic and political feasibility in an overpopulated world.
        His focus professionally, governmentally and academically was on the effects of chemical and radioactive pollution on human health, a field that was largely unstudied when he began his career.
        A native of Manhattan, he graduated in electrical engineering from N.Y.U. in 1936. He spent the next 10 years as an industrial hygienist for the Liberty Mutual Life Insurance Company. War came and so did atomic weapons tests, and with the mushroom clouds arose environmental concerns. His work took him to the field, to factories and mines, to rivers and lakes marred by industrial pollutants, and to places near where atomic explosions had spread their deadly rays.
        In 1947, the Atomic Energy Commission recruited him to direct its health and safety laboratory. The topics of his papers then turned from purely industrial safety to concerns about radioactive dust from nuclear detonations and related subjects. He contributed significantly to scientific methods of measuring such fallout and its effects.
        The commission reassigned him in 1957 to New York to manage its operations in the Northeast. In 1959, he joined the staff at N.Y.U. as a professor and director of the laboratory for environmental studies at its Institute of Environmental Medicine.
        Professor Eisenbud took a leave of absence in 1968, when Mayor John V. Lindsay put him in charge of the city's newly formed Environmental Protection Agency. It was one of Mr. Lindsay's superagencies, bringing the Departments of Sanitation, Water Resources and Air Resources under a single administrator. He stayed in that post until 1970.
        His books included ''An Environmental Odyssey: People, Pollution, and Politics in the Life of a Practical Scientist'' (1990), ''Environmental Radioactivity: From Natural, Industrial and Military Sources'' (3d edition, 1987), and ''The Human Environment Past, Present, and Future'' (1983). All remain in print.
        He was an adviser on radiation hazards to the World Health Organization from 1956 to 1980, and a past member of the National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements, and the New York State Health Advisory Council.
        He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Irma Onish Eisenbud; their three sons, Elliott, of Sacramento, Calif., Michael, of Stamford, Conn., and Frederick, of Fort Salonga, N.Y.; his brother, Leon, of Naples, Fla.; a sister, Elsa LaPook of Manhattan; and eight grandchildren.
      