
        William Humphrey, whose highly acclaimed first novel, ''Home From the Hill,'' and other books dealt with the play of small-town family life in northeast Texas, died yesterday at his home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer, said Nick Lyons, a friend and one of his publishers.
        In his career, Mr. Humphrey wrote 13 books, including five novels, collections of short stories, several works about fishing and a memoir, ''Farther Off From Heaven.'' William Goyen wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1958 that Mr. Humphrey's first novel was ''without doubt a work of size and merit'' and called it ''one of the most distinguished firsts by a young writer (he is 33) to appear in some years.'' That proclamation, in one way or another, resonated through the other reviews of the book, which established the author's reputation as a novelist in the Southern literary tradition.
        When the novel was sold to Hollywood, a headline in Variety announced, ''Humphrey Sells Book for $750,000.'' As Mr. Humphrey dryly observed, ''Unfortunately, they had one zero too many.'' But the income was enough for him and his wife,  Dorothy, to buy a farm in Hudson. He is survived by his wife, who lives in Hudson, and by a stepdaughter, Antonia Weidenbacher of Woodstock, N.Y., and her two children.
        In 1960, Vincente Minnelli directed the MGM film version of ''Home From the Hill,'' starring Robert Mitchum and Eleanor Parker.
        With ''The Ordways'' in 1965, Mr. Humphrey broke the second-novel jinx. In The New York Times Book Review, Elizabeth Janeway compared this novel to Mark Twain and  William Faulkner and said: ''Funny, vivid and moving, this is a fine piece of work and a delight to read.'' If his subsequent fiction never matched the heights of the first two novels, he still had a long, diverse career.
        One of the oddities of that career is that Mr. Humphrey left his hometown of Clarksville, Tex., at the age of 13 (after his father was killed in an automobile accident) and did not return for 32 years. With his mother, he moved to Dallas and he spent most of his adult life in New York State, but he retained the memory of his boyhood in Red River County as a most intense experience. He was, said his friend, the poet Theodore Weiss, 'a small and lean'' version of a rangy Gary Cooper, ''a master craftsman and a man of authenticity.''
        Growing up, Mr. Humphrey was imbued with a feeling for the landscape and the people, at the same time that his family was shadowed by the Depression. He attended both Southern Methodist University and the University of Texas, but did not graduate from either school.
        He came to Manhattan with the intention of becoming a playwright. To support himself, he held a series of odd jobs. At one point he worked as a goatherd in Brewster, N.Y., in exchange for a place to live. That gave him time to write stories, which were published in Accent and the Sewanee Review in the late 1940's. During the next decade, his stories appeared in The New Yorker and other magazines. His first collection, ''The Last Husband and Other Stories,'' was published in 1953. ''Home From the Hill'' started as a short story but soon grew into a novel.
        For many years he taught at Bard College and other schools. Eventually, he was able to devote himself full-time to writing. His other novels were ''Proud Flesh'' (1973), his third Texas chronicle; ''Hostages to Fortune'' (1984) and ''No Resting Place'' (1989). His nature writing added a spark to his career, with ''The Spawning Run'' and ''My Moby Dick,'' two books that unified his talents as fisherman and author. ''September Song,'' his last volume of short stories, was published in 1992.
        In his memoir, he looked back at his father's death and the traumatic effect it had on his life. For him it was the end of his childhood: ''What my new life would be like I could only guess at, but I knew it would be totally different from the one that was ending, and that a totally different person from the one I had been would be needed to survive in it.''
        Reviewing the memoir in 1977, Reynolds Price aligned it with Mr. Humphrey's novels and their fascination with family: ''the oddly ramified and riven but intensely close families of his homecountry,'' in this case, ''the story of his own home and family, the matrix of his work.'' Mr. Price said, ''With his sinewy story, William Humphrey has fathered new lives for his parents -- lovely again and lasting now.''
      