
        Yuri Nikulin, a master comic and one of Russia's most loved actors, died today at a Moscow hospital. He was 75.
        Mr. Nikulin had been in critical condition since undergoing emergency heart surgery on Aug. 5 and died of heart failure.
        For more than 40 years, Mr. Nikulin entralled audiences as a clown, dramatic actor, television personality and director of the renowned Moscow Circus on Tsvetnoy Boulevard.
        His multiple talents, warmth and empathy for the common man made him a towering figure among Russian entertainers.
        The newspaper Izvestia described him today as Russia's answer to Charlie Chaplin. ''He was one of us, very close to each of us,'' Izvestia observed.
        Such was Mr. Nikulin's stature that President Boris N. Yeltsin lamented Mr. Nikulin's death in an emotional evening television address. ''Everybody loved him -- from the small to the great,'' Mr. Yeltsin said.
        Born in Smolensk, Mr. Nikulin got his start as a circus clown and has often been referred to as the grandfather of the circus in a country where the circus is a venerable profession. But he also made his mark as a serious actor and appeared in more than 50 films.
        Mr. Nikulin assiduously collected jokes and stories as well. His anthologies of humorous anecdotes have been best sellers.
        During Soviet times, joke-telling was not only a means of amusement;  it was also a way to tweak the authorities. Russians could go to jail for telling jokes the authorities found subversive.
        This is not to say that Mr. Nikulin was a rebel. As a soldier in World War II, he joined the Communist Party, and he considered himself a true believer. He was awarded some of the Soviet Union's highest honors.
        But he gradually came to see the failures of the Communist system and to despise its political repression. To avoid prosecution for anti-Soviet propaganda, Mr. Nikulin recorded only key phrases of the political jokes he collected. He also made up his own nonpolitical version in case the authorities found his journals and insisted on an explanation.
        A fierce opponent of Russia's new Communists, Mr. Nikulin endorsed Mr. Yeltsin's re-election campaign last year. But he also maintained a sense of independence. When the Yeltsin Government sponsored a lavish circus festival on Red Square, Mr. Nikulin was quick to criticize it as a triumph of hype over art.
        As a clown, Mr. Nikulin often played the role of the amiable fool, who made the audience feel superior. He once explained his goal as trying to ''fish love out of people'' and preached the power of laughter to help people overcome suffering.
        Doctors at Moscow's Center for Endosurgery said that Mr. Nikulin had told jokes as long as he was able.
        But during his Aug. 5 operation, his heart stopped. Though doctors managed to restart it, his condition remained grave. As the performer teetered between life and death, Russians came to Mr. Nikulin's circus, offering to donate blood.
        Mr. Nikulin is survived by his wife, Tatyana, a son, Maksim, who works as the manager of the Moscow Circus, and three grandchildren.
        A modest man who often entertained in his trademark sailor cap, Mr. Nikulin's humor was more universal than overtly political. He told the story, for example, of the famous actor who railed against his fancy New York tailor.
        ''God needed seven days to create the universe and it took you 30 days to make trousers,'' the actor complained.
        Answered the tailor: ''Look at the world and then look at the trousers.''
      