
        Richard Friedman, a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and a pioneer in the study of the mind's effects on physical health, died Tuesday of heart failure after giving a talk at the American Psychological Association meeting in Chicago. He was 49.
        Dr. Friedman had devoted most of his career to studies of how mind and behavior can affect physical health, and when he died he had just gone to take a nap after giving a talk on the economic benefits of taking behavior and belief into account in medical treatment. He had an underlying coronary condition that became fatal when a sudden arrhythmia developed, said Dr. Herbert Benson, a colleague.
        Attending the University of Connecticut on a baseball scholarship, Dr. Friedman turned his attention to experimental psychology, though he never stopped loving the Yankees, said a colleague at Stony Brook. His work in what is now called ''behavioral medicine'' began when he was a graduate student.
        He did graduate work at Stony Brook under Dr. Lewis K. Dahl. Dr. Dahl had bred a strain of mice prone to hypertension, and performed experiments in which he delivered random electric shocks to mice to see if over time they developed stress-related hypertension.
        They did not, and Dr. Dahl in one talk on the results said that stress was apparently not important in the creation of high blood pressure. But at the talk, Dr. Benson said that the experiment did not prove any such thing and that it had been done wrong.
        Dr. Dahl soon enlisted one of his top graduate students to redesign and reconduct the experiment. The student was Richard Friedman, who theorized that the rats, and human beings as well, do not get worked up over random stress as much as over stress related to the important parts of their lives, like eating for the rats and work, family or money for humans.
        In his version of the experiment, he first waited until the mice pressed a lever before he gave them food. Then he occasionally administered electric shocks. When the rats began to associate eating with the possibility of pain, they soon developed seriously high blood pressure.
        In the 20 years since that study, Dr. Friedman continued to do laboratory work, compiling more than 100 published articles delineating the links between behavior and health in both animals and humans. He helped organize a committee at the National Institutes of Health that brought together prominent scientists to study links between the mind and physical health. The committee concluded that there is indeed a link, and that it will be important to consider it in the design of future health-care systems.
        Dr. Friedman worked with Dr. Benson beginning in 1981, became director of research at the Mind/ Body Medical Institute at Harvard Medical School and was co-founder with Dr. Benson of Mind/Body Medicine, amedical journal.
        ''One of his most significant achievements was that he helped guide mind-body medicine into the mainstream of medical practice in the United States,'' Dr. Benson said.
        Taking his own medicine, Dr. Friedman practiced meditation daily.
        Dr. Friedman lived in Setauket, Long Island. He is survived by his wife, Madelon; a son, Jeffrey, and a daughter, Danielle; a sister, Harriet Boyko of Canton, Conn., and a brother, Phillip, of Vienna, Va.
        In a conference at Harvard in 1996, Dr. Friedman was pressed by reporters on whether mainstream medicine, having started to acknowledge the importance of attitudes and beliefs in the treatment of physical illness, would integrate those considerations into day-to-day practice.
        Dr. Friedman replied, ''Of course, the medical establishment is conservative,'' then he quoted an old saw from medical school: ''As a doctor you don't want to be either the first or the last to try something new.''
        He then added: ''But it is now catching on fast. Let me make a prediction. Ten years from now, in many managed-care settings, doctors will not only be asking for a medical history when you come in, but will routinely ask about your belief system as well.''
      