
        Albert Gailord Hart, a former professor of economics at Columbia University known for his research in monetary policy and economic development, died Sept. 19at his home in Sherman, Conn., at the age of 88.
        Mr. Hart, a graduate of Harvard College who earned his Ph.D. at the University of Chicago, was widely viewed as a rising star in the profession, turning down a coveted position at Chicago to come to Columbia in 1946.
        He was best known among his peers for his book ''Anticipations, Uncertainty and Dynamic Planning,'' which was published in 1940. ''This was early and very exciting work, incorporating expectations and probability in economic models,'' recalled Paul Samuelson, the Nobel Prize-winning economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        But Mr. Hart's deepest interests were in more practical aspects of economics. Early in his career, he worked on tax policy for the United States Treasury and the Committee for Economic Development -- in particular on reworking the income tax to make it more equitable. Later he focused on methods for fine-turning the control of the money supply, the Federal Government's key lever in trying to contain inflation and smooth the business cycle. And during the 1960's, he served as a consultant on public finance to the Governments of Chile and Venezuela, as well as to the Organization of American States.
        The American Economic Association recognized his achievements in 1963, electing him to the largely honorary post of vice president.
        His boundless energy and high-speed chatter gave him a reputation as a campus eccentric. But those who listened respected him for his intellectual insight and generosity. ''People wrote books on ideas Albert tossed out,'' said Shirley Johnson-Lens, a former student of Mr. Hart who now teaches at Vassar College.
        He did not confine his enthusiasm to economics. A singer and musician, he was a member of the New Amsterdam Singers and later conducted his own amateur choral groups.
        Mr. Hart is survived by Ann Webster Hart, his wife of 61 years, and two children, Stephen Hart of Buffalo and Josephine Hart Bristol of Sherman, Conn.
      