
        Roy Lichtenstein, the quintessential master of Pop painting and a major figure in American art since he began scavenging comics like ''Winnie Winkle,'' ''G.I. Combat'' and ''Secret Hearts'' (''I don't care! I'd rather sink -- than call Brad for help!''), died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his wife, Dorothy.
        Mr. Lichtenstein gained attention at his debut in 1962 at the Leo Castelli Gallery in Manhattan with work that seemed bent on deflating Abstract Expressionism, with its soul-searching claims and its emphasis on the eloquence of the artist's touch. By contrast, Mr. Lichtenstein's art looked wicked, ironic and freeze-dried, as if manufactured, because it mimicked in cunningly streamlined form the black outlines, flat vivid colors and Ben Day dots of the funny pages. Somehow he managed to take an essentially anonymous style and make it into something unmistakably his own.
        ''Roy got the hand out of art, and put the brain in,'' was how the painter Larry Rivers described Mr. Lichtenstein's accomplishment. He was a a saboteur, offering 1990's irony in the 1960's. And if in later years he was sometimes taken for granted, it was partly because his ideas had so infiltrated art that they were no longer only his. Mixing text and image, high and low, his whole strategy of appropriation paved the way for a generation of artists not yet born, or at least not yet out of elementary school, when he cribbed a picture of a girl holding a beach ball aloft from a newspaper advertisement for Mount Airy Lodge in the Poconos.
        In an interview in 1963, Mr. Lichtenstein showed himself to be a provocateur, saying he wanted to make an art so despicable that no one would hang it. Probably not even he dreamed at the time that collectors would some day pay millions of dollars to put his art on their walls. Since the 1950's, ''everyone was hanging everything,'' he continued in the interview. ''It was almost acceptable to hang a dripping paint rag. Everyone was accustomed to this. The one thing everyone hated was commercial art.''
        As a consequence, his own art, he said, was ''anti-contemplative, anti-nuance, anti-getting-away-from-the-tyranny-of-the-rectangle, anti-movement and anti-light, anti-mystery, anti-paint-quality, anti-Zen, and anti- all of those brilliant ideas of preceding movements which everyone understands so thoroughly.''
        Still, it was never easy to know just how seriously to take Mr. Lichtenstein. Years later he also said, ''I wouldn't believe anything I tell you.'' And it quickly became clear, after his Castelli debut, that his interests extended beyond just making the culture of Mickey Mouse and Bazooka Bubble Gum wrappers into a new parodic and heraldic art.
        By the end of the 60's, in fact, he quit using comic book sources. Working in one basic mode for the better part of 40 years, he turned out paintings that mimicked Picasso, Cezanne and Mondrian, treating them in much the same way that Andy Warhol treated Marilyn Monroe and Elvis Presley: as brand names of popular culture. ''I wasn't putting down Picasso or Mondrian or Cezanne or Monet or anyone else,'' he later explained. ''What I think I was doing was to take a kind of idiot's view of, say, Picasso, and make a painting of that. The subject for me wasn't Picasso, but someone's funny idea of Cubism.''
        At the same time Mr. Lichtenstein painted landscapes, interiors and nudes, even images of pyramids whose geometry and compressed abstraction might be more commonly associated with painters like Ellsworth Kelly.
        He made sculptures, prints, giant murals like the five-story-tall ''Mural with Blue Brush Strokes'' for the lobby of the Equitable Center in Manhattan. And in later decades, he exhibited drawings that had been his private exercises and preparatory studies; they had about them a feathery, almost hesitant touch very different from his bold and assertive paintings.
        An Unmistakably American Quality
        So, on what had seemed a one-liner of an idea, Mr. Lichtenstein composed unforeseen variations. They tumbled out like circus clowns from a Volkswagen. The criticism of his art that resulted was, in fact, that he turned everything into the same essential cryogenic image: he became an industry of his own skillful pastiches.
        To all of these images there was, nonetheless, a particular and unmistakably American quality: a lean, laconic scrutiny of the world that separated his art even from the paintings of Europeans of his generation, like Richard Hamilton and Sigmar Polke, who also borrowed from pop culture sources. Certainly his tone dovetailed with his personality, which was famously reticent and wry.
        How much his subjects may actually have had to do with his own life has been a matter of debate. During the early- to mid-60's, when his first marriage was breaking up, he painted various comely women in conditions of distress, like ''Drowning Girl'' and ''Frightened Girl.''
        ''Hopeless'' shows a teary blonde beneath the words: ''That's the way -- it should have begun! But it's hopeless!'' ''In the Car'' depicts a moment of chilly silence between a man and woman.
        On all this and more, however, Mr. Lichtenstein said little and revealed less. A trim, slight, shy man who in his later years wore his silver hair in a tight ponytail, he had a Cheshire cat grin and a combination of mocking and self-mocking humor that masked his seriousness.
        ''I don't have any big anxieties,'' he once said. ''I wish I did. I'd be much more interesting.''
        Roy Lichtenstein was born on Oct. 27, 1923, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, the only son of Milton Lichtenstein, a prosperous real estate dealer, and Beatrice Werner Lichtenstein.
        As a boy, quiet and a loner, he became interested in science and recalled listening to the ''Flash Gordon'' and ''Mandrake the Magician'' serials on the radio. To the end of his life, he would pore over Scientific American and Science News.
        He began taking art courses at 16 and in the summer of 1940 attended Reginald Marsh's life class at the Art Students League. ''I did sort of appalling paintings,'' he once remembered. ''A kind of Reginald Marsh realism.''
        After graduating from Benjamin Franklin High School in Manhattan  he enrolled at Ohio State University in Columbus to study art. He was drafted in 1943 and served with the engineer battalion of the 69th Infantry Division in Europe during World War II.
        In Paris, at the end of the war, like many other American G.I.'s interested in art, he stopped outside Picasso's apartment on the Rue des Grands-Augustins on the Left Bank. But Mr. Lichtenstein could not bring himself to ring the bell: ''I walked away after a while thinking, 'Why would Picasso want to see me?' ''
        He returned to Ohio State, completed his master's degree in 1951 and taught art there. After being denied tenure, he moved from Columbus to Cleveland, where he had already met Isabel Wilson, a co-director of an art gallery there, whom he married.
        For a few years he kept himself employed doing window displays at Halle's Department Store and sheet-metal designs for Republic Steel.
        A Variety of Modes, With Tongue in Cheek
        Meanwhile he was making trips to New York City to see the art shows and just to sit at the Cedar Tavern in Greenwich Village, although he was too shy to introduce himself to de Kooning, Pollock, Franz Kline and the other New York School painters who frequented the bar. He also began to exhibit: his first solo show in Manhattan was at the Carlebach Gallery in 1951.
        Mr. Lichtenstein took with him lessons learned at Ohio State from his teacher Hoyt Sherman, a late Fauvist who insisted that even representational art be regarded not as a mirror of life but as fundamentally formal and abstract. Mr. Lichtenstein remained strongly influenced by Mr. Sherman.
        Through the 50's he painted and made sculptures in a variety of modes, often tongue in cheek, sometimes influenced by Picasso, Klee, Fragonard or the Abstract Expressionists. He painted medieval subjects, images of anthropomorphic plants and themes of American folklore, including a takeoff of Emanuel Leutze's ''Washington Crossing the Delaware.'' So it was not exactly a big leap to his paintings of the early 60's based on comic books and advertisements.
        What was important in all these cases was his stress on art as a variable system of formal conventions, essentially abstract. The paradox of his work remains an outward embrace of images of everyday life belying an inward stress on art as arrangements of colors and shapes. ''When I have used cartoon images, I've used them ironically,'' he insisted, ''to raise the question, 'Why would anyone want to do this with modern painting?' ''
        In the late 60's, when he began to parody Abstract Expressionist paintings by making works of flat, anonymous and cartoonlike brush strokes that were the antithesis of the brush stroke as a kind of expressive fingerprint, he explained the works by saying: ''Actually I love the Abstract Expressionists, or I like the ones I like, anyway. My work is, after all, a kind of straitjacket. I did those pictures because it was my way of saying, 'You see, painting is a tree made out of brush strokes.' ''
        Abstract Expressionists ''put things down on the canvas and responded to what they had done, to the color positions and sizes,'' he said. ''My style looks completely different, but the nature of putting down lines pretty much is the same; mine just don't come out looking calligraphic, like Pollock's or Kline's.''
        In 1957, Mr. Lichtenstein left Cleveland with his wife and their two sons, David and Mitchell, and accepted a variety of teaching jobs in New York and New Jersey until his painting career caught on. A fellow teacher at Rutgers University was Allan Kaprow, an artist and originator of the Happenings, through whom he also met Claes Oldenburg and others who were to define Pop Art in the early 60's.
        Mr. Kaprow once recalled telling him, ''You can't teach color from Cezanne, you can only teach it from something like this,'' pointing to a Bazooka wrapper. Contact with artists like Mr. Kaprow and Mr. Oldenburg, combined with the experience of seeing the early exhibitions of Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg, clearly paved the way for Mr. Lichtenstein's first Pop pictures, like ''Look Mickey'' (1961), which he called his ''first painting with no expressionism in it.''
        He soon became so famous, or rather notorious, that by 1964, Life magazine published an article about him asking, ''Is he the worst artist in America?''
        His work was widely interpreted, at least at first, as a critical commentary on modern industrial society because of its allusions to contemporary culture and its pseudo-mechanical look. But Mr. Lichtenstein was reluctant to interpret his own art in those terms.
        ''We like to think of industrialization as being despicable,'' he told an interviewer in the 60's. ''I don't really know what to make of it. There's something terribly brittle about it. I suppose I would still prefer to sit under a tree with a picnic basket than under a gas pump, but signs and comic strips are interesting as subject matter. There are certain things that are usable, forceful and vital about commercial art.''
        The Pop artists, he added, are ''using those things, but we're not really advocating stupidity, international teen-agerism and terrorism.''
        In 1965 he was divorced and moved to the Bowery, into a former bank and warehouse also occupied by Adolph Gottlieb. Two years later, he began to spend summers in Southampton, on Long Island, then worked and lived there year-round for a while. In 1968 he married Dorothy Herzka, whom he had met a few years earlier in a Manhattan gallery where she worked. He is survived by his wife; his sons, David, a musician and computer engineer, of Oakland, Calif., and Mitchell, an actor, of Garrison, N.Y.; a sister, Rene Tolcott of Washington, and a grandson.
        A Singular Factory To Produce His Images
        In 1984, Mr. Lichtenstein acquired a loft at 105 East 29th Street in Manhattan for his studio. Visitors noticed its no-nonsense efficiency and likened it to a factory, with the painted image of a Swiss cheese on the elevator doors. He worked on several pictures at once, and a row of easels held them at different angles and in various states of completion. A man of habit, he abided by strict hours, pausing for lunch precisely at 1 P.M.
        He had a circle of friends but never courted the celebrity that was afforded him, as peers like Warhol did. He once said that he planned to mark his grave ''with a big red flashing neon arrow.''
        In the Metropolitan Museum of Art a few years ago, looking at several paintings by Ellsworth Kelly, he mused on abstraction and on how artists like to deceive others, and themselves. Mr. Kelly, he recalled, had said that his abstractions derived from nature, which led Mr. Lichtenstein to remark:
        ''I don't know why you'd want to say your work comes from nature, because art is related to perception, not nature. All abstract artists try to tell you that what they do comes from nature, and I'm always trying to tell you that what I do is completely abstract. We're both saying something we want to be true.
        ''In fact, I don't think artists like myself have the faintest idea what we're doing, but we try to put it in words that sound logical. Actually, I think I do know what I'm doing. But no other artist does.''
        Correction:  October 1, 1997, Wednesday
        Because of an editing error, the obituary of the painter Roy Lichtenstein yesterday misidentified the high school he attended in Manhattan. It was the Franklin School (now called the Dwight School), not Benjamin Franklin High School.
      