
        Samuel Kaynard, a former official with the National Labor Relations Board in Brooklyn and a law professor who helped train many of New York's labor lawyers, died last Tuesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Roslyn Estates, N.Y.
        The cause of death was complications from prostate cancer, said a daughter, Meryl R. Kaynard of Port Washington, N.Y.
        Known for his bushy handlebar mustache, which extended well beyond his equally bushy mutton-chop sideburns, Mr. Kaynard was a nationally recognized expert in labor law because of his 40 years on the National Labor Relations Board, the Government panel with jurisdiction over labor disputes.
        Perhaps the best-known dispute he oversaw was the 1965 drive by New York taxicab drivers for a union. The labor leader Harry Van Arsdale Jr. accused the Federal board of failing to address the drivers' grievances.
        Mr. Van Arsdale hanged an effigy of Mr. Kaynard outside the board's offices at 16 Court Street, Mr. Kaynard's wife, Ann, recalled last week. ''Harry even yelled up to Sam's window, 'Jump, Sam, jump,' '' Mrs. Kaynard said.
        The dispute dragged on for months until a garage-by-garage election could be conducted. Finally, Mr. Kaynard reported that Mr. Van Arsdale's group could be certified as a collective bargaining agent for 8,000 drivers. A citywide strike by cabdrivers was averted.
        Mr. Kaynard was born in Harlem. A 1942 graduate of New York University Law School, he joined the labor relations board in 1946 in Washington, while working on his master's thesis at Georgetown University Law School. He later moved to Manhattan, where he held senior positions with the board until 1964, when he was named regional director for the newly created Brooklyn office.
        In addition to his wife, Ann, and daughter Meryl, he is survived by his son, Dr. Alan H. Kaynard, and a daughter, Joyce C. Kaynard, both of Portland, Ore.; a son-in-law, Gerard L. Wall, and three grandchildren.
      