
        Lieut. Col. Edwin Maurice McConnell, the last of the three ''Flying McConnell Brothers'' of World War II whose name was given to an air base in Kansas, died on Monday at his home in Englewood, Colo. He was 76.
        He had suffered for some time from leukemia and Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        The brothers, who were lionized in the American heartland, trained and served together in the South Pacific. Each flew on a B-24 bomber as co-pilot during the war.
        The three McConnells, natives of Wichita, Kan., signed up as aviation cadets in the Army Air Forces on March 22, 1943, at Fort Riley. They trained together in California and earned their wings at Luke Field in Phoenix.
        Edwin McConnell was a sophomore pre-med student at Michigan State University at the time. He flew 56 missions and came home with the Air Medal, the Distinguished Flying Cross and the Asiatic Pacific Campaign Medal.
        The youngest of the trio, 2d Lieut. Thomas L. McConnell, died in combat at age 20. In July 1943 his B-24 Liberator crashed in deep fog into a mountainside while returning to base on Guadalcanal from a strike against a Japanese air field.
        Capt. Fred J. McConnell died at  age 27 in October 1945. He was changing assignments when the small private plane he was flying crashed en route to Garden Plains Air Force Base in Kansas from Cook Field in Nebraska.
        The former Wichita Air Force Base in south-central Kansas, a onetime municipal airport, was renamed McConnell Air Force Base in 1954 after Tom and Fred McConnell. Edwin was not included then because it is military policy that a base may not be named after living persons.
        The site once served as a training base for the Strategic Air Command and is now the host of the 22d Air Refueling Wing. Colonel McConnell paid his last visit to the base four years ago for a reunion of his old outfit, the 307th Bomb Group.
        Edwin McConnell left active duty in the Air Force after the war to become a district engineer for the Johns-Manville Sales Corporation in Colorado. He retired from the company in 1982, but he continued to serve in the Air Force Reserve until retiring with the rank of lieutenant colonel in 1981.
        He is survived by his wife, Yvonne E. VonTilius McConnell; a daughter, Shauna Jones of Arvada, Colo.; a son, Ronn McConnell of Boulder, Colo.; three stepsons, John, Terry and Mark VonTilius, all of Denver; two stepdaughters, Mary Ann Campbell of Rockford, Ill, and Nancy Huettl of Westminster, Colo.; two grandchildren; 10 step-grandchildren and two step-great-grandchildren.
      