
        Joseph Thomas O'Keefe, Bishop of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Syracuse from 1987 to 1995 and temporary head of the Archdiocese of New York for six months in the early 1980's, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Syracuse. He was 78 and lived in Syracuse.
        The cause was heart disease, said Danielle Cummings, a spokeswoman for the seven-county Syracuse Diocese, which is in central New York.
        Bishop O'Keefe was the eighth bishop of the Diocese of Syracuse. When Pope John Paul II named him to that post, he became the spiritual leader of 340,000 Roman Catholics.
        Before going to Syracuse, Bishop O'Keefe, a native of Manhattan, ran the day-to-day activities of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York as the second in command -- the vicar general of the archdiocese -- under John Cardinal O'Connor, who became Archbishop of New York in 1984.
        In 1986 the Bishop and Governor Mario M. Cuomo traded words over Roman Catholics' responsibility to adhere to church teaching, especially on the question of abortion.
        Their exchange stemmed from a directive issued earlier from the archdiocese to all pastors, barring those who disagreed with church teaching from speaking in parishes.
        The Governor contended in an interview that the policy could lead to ''restraint of intellectual activity'' and said, ''We lay people have a right to be heard.'' He also called on the Bishop to read a speech he had given in 1984 at the University of Notre Dame in which Mr. Cuomo set out his position as a public official in support of the nation's abortion law and his private position, as a Catholic against abortion.
        The Bishop scoffed at the speech and observed, ''That's the encyclical by Mario.'' He also said Mr. Cuomo was ''so smart he would confuse young people'' and ''under no circumstances would I invite him to speak to young people at a graduation.''
        Mr. Cuomo's response was: ''I've known the Bishop for a long time. I respect him now, and I always will. Regrettably, I do not agree with him.''
        It was after the death of Cardinal O'Connor's predecessor, Terence Cardinal Cooke, in 1983, that Bishop O'Keefe was selected by a panel of priests and bishops to lead the archdiocese temporarily. He stayed on in that capacity, with the title of apostolic administrator, until Cardinal O'Connor arrived.
        In 1982, Monsignor O'Keefe, as he then was, was named an auxiliary bishop of New York by Pope John Paul II. The Bishop held that title until he was named Bishop of Syracuse. He first became an administrator at the headquarters of the New York Archdiocese in 1965, and he was first named vicar general of the New York Archdiocese in 1978 by Cardinal Cooke.
        Joseph Thomas O'Keefe grew up on the West Side, graduated in 1948 from St. Joseph College and Seminary in Yonkers, was ordained in that year and earned a master's degree in biology from Catholic University of America in Washington in 1951.
        He went on to be a parish priest, teacher and school administrator, and later, in archdiocesan posts, he had a reputation as an efficient and fair behind-the-scenes administrator and was popular with priests.
        The bishop is survived by two sisters, Frances Dervin of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Betty Nolan of Glen Cove, N.Y., and three brothers, the Rev. Thomas O'Keefe of White Plains, N.Y., and Dennis and John O'Keefe, both of Larchmont, N.Y..
        A funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11 A.M. on Tuesday at the Cathedral of the Immaculate Conception in Syracuse. Cardinal O'Connor will preside.
      