
        Bradley Smith, a photographer for Life magazine and a founder of the American Society of Magazine Photographers, died on Aug. 28 at a nursing home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 and lived in La Jolla.
        Mr. Smith was born in New Orleans on June 30, 1910. The son of a railroad telegrapher, he began his working life killing armadillos and selling their hides. His photographic career began after the family moved to Karnes City, Tex., where Mr. Smith, at age 12, started making portraits of the ranchers and cowboys who came to town to buy provisions.
        In the 1940's, he became a photographer for Life magazine and also worked as a freelancer for Time, The Saturday Evening Post, Vogue, American Heritage and Paris Match. He photographed Helen Keller, Mahatma Gandhi and Harry S. Truman. But Mr. Smith, a lifelong jazz lover, took his best-known portraits of Billie Holiday and Louis Armstrong.
        In 1944, Mr. Smith assembled a group of photographers (including Philippe Halsman, John Adam Knight, Ewing Krainin, Nelson Morris and Ike Vern) who, as he later remembered it, were tired of being ''underpaid, ripped off, and ignored'' by magazine editors. They formed an organization devoted to fighting for photographers' rights, the American Society of Magazine Photographers, now called the American Society of Media Photographers.
        Photography, though, was but one of Mr. Smith's careers. He was, at various points, a vacuum cleaner salesman, a waiter at the Galvez Hotel in Galveston, Tex., the advertising manager at Godchaux's Department Store in New Orleans, a magazine publisher in Hot Springs, Ark., and a soft-shoe dancer. (His best numbers were ''Ten Cents a Dance,'' ''Just Before the Battle, Mother'' and ''Love Potion No. 9.'')
        In 1954, Mr. Smith became an author. His first book, ''Escape to the West Indies,'' was followed by 21 others, including ''Columbus in the New World,'' ''The Horse and the Bluegrass Country,'' art histories of Japan, Mexico, France, Spain, China and America, as well as ''Erotic Arts of the Masters,'' ''The American Way of Sex'' and the as-told-to autobiography of Henry Miller.
        He is survived by his companion, Mara Vivat; a sister, Evelyn Monroe of Laguna Beach, Calif.; three sons,  Steven, of Wenatchee, Wash., Terrence, of Useppa Island, Fla., and Michael, of Rome, Ga.; a daughter, Sharon Hernandez Smith of Madrid; two stepdaughters, Susan Van Kleek of Vermont and Nancy Gilbert of Winnipeg, Manitoba, and many grandchildren.
      