
        Ernst C. Stiefel, a German-born Jewish lawyer whose answer to Adolf Hitler was to become one of Germany's pre-eminent lawyers -- while practicing in New York -- died on Wednesday at a hospital in Baden-Baden. He was 89.
        In a half-century of advising American corporate investors on the intricacies of German commercial laws and providing corresponding advice for German companies investing in the United States, Dr. Stiefel (pronounced STEE-ful) never forgot that he was one of the lucky ones.
        As a lawyer, he felt the sting of Nazi anti-Semitism early enough to get out before things turned seriously ugly. He was a prime example of the unfathomable folly of Hitler's campaign against the Jews, which hounded thousands of Jewish lawyers and judges into exile and enriched dozens of other countries with exported talent. One bitter irony of the Holocaust is that the value of the millions of lives cut short and careers foreshortened is best measured by the accomplishments of those who survived.
        A native of Mannheim, he demonstrated such an early and brilliant affinity for the law that a monograph on insurance law he wrote at the age of 17 is still being cited. Yet after receiving a law degree from the University of Heidelberg, he was able to practice in Mannheim for all of two weeks in 1933 before he and other Jewish lawyers were disbarred.
        Lest anyone forget the magnitude of that wound, Dr. Steifel made it one of his life's missions to document and chronicle the contributions made to dozens of foreign legal systems by refugee Jewish lawyers. And as an adviser to the Allied military government in Germany after World War II, he helped lay the legal groundwork for a system of restitution and reparation that by the German Government's own account has sent more than $50 billion to Holocaust survivors living abroad.
        Obtaining law degrees from the University of Paris and the Middle Temple in London, as well as an advanced degree from the University of Strasbourg, Dr. Stiefel practiced briefly in France and England before moving to New York in 1939, when he found that his multiple degrees qualified him for a position as a restaurant dishwasher: a job, he later recalled, whose meager salary and limited kitchen privileges left him hungry only some of the time.
        He later became a chauffeur for a prominent lawyer and eventually found work as a clerk in a law office, where his duties included going out for sandwiches.
        Along the way he impressed two Sullivan & Cromwell partners, John Foster Dulles and his brother Allen, who secured him a job with the wartime Office of Economic Warfare studying international insurance company records to identify strategic German industrial targets.
        Dr. Stiefel, who became an American citizen, passed the New York State bar examination in 1944, making him what colleagues insist was the first and only lawyer licensed to practice in four countries.
        An independent practitioner, he was first affiliated with Cleary, Gottlieb. Since 1971 he had been with Coudert Brothers.
        As a New York lawyer with a practice focused largely on Germany, Dr. Stiefel, who maintained an office in Dusseldorf, made numerous trips to Germany, typically traveling with so much luggage that airline personnel must have taken him for something of a clotheshorse; they didn't know that 9 of his 10 suitcases were crammed with legal papers.
        A short, energetic man whose idea of a relaxing vacation was to hike barefoot through the Swiss Alps, Dr. Stiefel had an enormous capacity for work. He wrote scores of books and papers on complex legal issues, taught at New York Law School, and never retired. On his final trip to Germany he was pressing a claim for a family he had represented for almost 50 years.
        For all his regret over the Nazi era, Dr. Steifel, who was credited with rewriting the German traffic code after the war, made so many contributions to German commerce and German law that in 1995 he was decorated by the German Government.
        Still, when it came to academic philanthropy, Dr. Steifel, whose legal work and shrewd investments made him a multimillionaire, focused his attention on New York Law School. Among other contributions, he endowed a $1.5 million chair in comparative law.
        Dr. Stiefel, who was married briefly, is survived by a nephew, Eli Maor of Cleveland, and a niece, Shulamith Nathanson of Israel.
      