
        Dr. Martin Cherkasky, a renowned hospital administrator who in three decades at Montefiore Medical Center built it into a respected teaching institution, and who as a top adviser to Mayor Edward I. Koch oversaw changes to the city's Medical Examiner's office in the late 1980's, died at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan yesterday afternoon after a long illness. He was 85.
        The cause of death was pulmonary hypertension, his son, Michael, said.
        Dr. Cherkasky began his career in hospital administration when he entered the Army Medical Corps in 1940, a period of public service that continued until his death, when he was a member of a panel advising Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani on the future of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
        ''He was the giant in medical administration, and a very good friend of mine,'' Mr. Koch said yesterday.
        Dr. Cherkasky was born in Philadelphia on Oct. 6, 1911. The son of a rabbi who had migrated from the Ukraine, he received his medical degree from Temple University in 1936, and remained in Philadelphia during his residency at Mount Sinai Hospital. It was at Mount Sinai that he organized a protest strike by fellow interns, and where he met Sarah Griffin, the woman who became his first wife.
        He spent 6 years in the Army, including 27 months in Europe. In 1946, he joined Montefiore, in the Bronx, as chief resident. The following year, he designed a program, until then unheard of, using hospital personnel and equipment to care for chronically ill patients at home, at a fraction of the cost of keeping them in the hospital.
        After being named chief executive of the hospital in 1951, Dr. Cherkasky set about turning Montefiore into a modern teaching hospital and expanding its community outreach programs. Among them was an ambulatory care program at North Central Bronx Hospital, one of the first affiliation agreements between private and municipal hospitals.
        In 1958, Dr. Cherkasky was shunned by many colleagues, his son said, after Montefiore broke ranks with other hospitals and signed a contract with the Drug and Hospital Workers Union, the forerunner of 1199, the National Health and Human Service Employees Union.
        Moe Foner, a longtime official of the union, said its leaders knew of Dr. Cherkasky's strike organizing efforts as an intern when they focused on Montefiore at the start of a citywide drive to unionize hospital workers.
        Organizing poorly educated workers was hard enough, Mr. Foner recalled. ''Then we learned that one of the hospital supervisors had made arrangements for the Pinkertons to spy on the workers,'' he said. ''When Martin heard about that, he fired him.''
        More important, Dr. Cherkasky persuaded the board to permit an election, which the union overwhelmingly won, Mr. Foner said.
        As a senior adviser to Mr. Koch during an investigation of misconduct charges against the city's Medical Examiner, Dr. Elliot M. Gross,  Dr. Cherkasky headed a special panel that recommended that Dr. Gross be replaced. Dr. Cherkasky also led the search for a replacement.
        Beginning decades before privatization became common, Dr. Cherkasky argued for integrating the public and private hospitals into a single system. But he was not always his own best advocate. Mr. Koch recalled waking up one Sunday to read  that Dr. Cherkasky had announced, without any warning, that he planned to close half of the city's public hospitals.
        ''It was just absolutely stupid,'' Mr. Koch recalled, laughing. Dr. Cherkasky was soon forced from the administration, he said. ''So we were deprived of him.''
        With his first wife, who died in 1988, Dr. Cherkasky indulged a passion for collecting art.
        In 1995, Dr. Cherkasky was married to a longtime friend, Carole Pesner, the owner of the Kraushaar Gallery in Manhattan. In addition to his wife, and his son Michael, of Larchmont, he is survived by a daughter, Dr. Marny Cherkasky Brodman, a psychiatrist in Greenwich, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      