
        Quach Tom, a Vietnamese who parachuted into North Vietnam as a commando for the Central Intelligence Agency, evaded capture for three months and then survived almost 19 years of harsh imprisonment as a spy, died on Wednesday at the Columbia Northlake Regional Medical Center in Chamblee, Ga. He was 65.
        The cause was lymphoma, said his lawyer, John C. Mattes.
        Mr. Quach's years of imprisonment in North Vietnam under hard labor, starvation and torture were followed by more years of grinding poverty as he and other commandos tried to win American acknowledgment of their services and permission to immigrate to the United States.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Quach (pronounced QWOCK) had spent just one year in the United States, living among his countrymen in a small Vietnamese enclave in Chamblee. He was getting closer to receiving payment for his time in prison as an American agent.
        Mr. Quach was an ethnic Hmong, born in Hoa Binh Province in northern Vietnam, said Sedgwick Tourison, a former Defense Intelligence Agency analyst who has written about the Vietnamese commandos.
        Mr. Quach had served with the French against the Vietnamese who were trying to expel the French colonialists and finally succeeded in 1954, Mr. Tourison said last week.
        In 1965, Mr. Tourison said, Mr. Quach was recruited into a South Vietnamese commando unit and the next year, as a sergeant, was assigned as deputy commander of a team that was parachuted into North Vietnam by the C.I.A.
        The team was assigned to disrupt infiltration by the North Vietnamese into the South, but, Mr. Tourison said, ''The North Vietnamese Army was aware of the drop and security forces hunted for them.''
        Mr. Quach, he said, was the only commando in his unit not captured immediately and stayed on the run for almost three months in hostile territory, ''longer than any commando launched into North Vietnam by the C.I.A. or the Pentagon.''
        Mr. Tourison, whose book on the subject, ''Secret Army, Secret War,'' has been reissued by St. Martin's Press under the title ''Project Alpha,'' said of Mr. Quach: ''His evasion is noted by North Vietnam's intelligence, which said that he was certainly unrepentant and on the run. He almost made it, but they got him.''
        His efforts were in vain. ''His team never completed one sabotage mission,'' Mr. Tourison said. ''They were on the run from the time they landed. They were waiting for them.''
        The North Vietnamese ''had agents inside the South Vietnamese Army who were alerting them to the pending deployment against them,'' Mr. Tourison said.
        Last year, newly declassified United States documents showed that the United States had lied to the wives of the commandos and declared them dead. Mr. Mattes said last week in Miami that he had been able to find 360 surviving commandos.
        The Defense Department and the Central Intelligence Agency declined to comment last week.
        Mr. Tourison is among a small group of Americans who have been trying to get recognition and compensation for the Vietnamese who worked for the United States. The group says the C.I.A. would like to forget these Vietnamese.
        ''We asked people to put their lives on the line,'' he said, ''and we walked away from them. We didn't care if they lived or died. It's a stain on our military tradition.''
        After his release from prison, Mr. Quach ''lived in desperate poverty in hovels,'' Mr. Mattes said, adding, ''In 1994, he was so poor that he did not have the one penny needed to buy an immigration form to fill out.''
        Mr. Mattes has sued in Federal courts for compensation for the commandos and has lobbied Congress and the White House for a law that would provide the money. The law has been passed and Mr. Mattes is now pressing for the Government to carry out its provisions.
        Mr. Quach is survived by his wife, Nguyen Thi Chanh; three sons, Tuan Nguyen, Quach Anh Tuan and Quach Anh Thuyen, and a daughter, Quach Thi Thuy, all of Chamblee, Ga.
        In effect, his wife is a widow for the second time.
        ''She was a widow for 20 years after he was declared dead,'' Mr. Mattes said of the lie told by the Government. ''She was awarded a $50 gratuity.''
      