
        Leon Edel, the biographer whose writing on Henry James won a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award, died on Friday in Honolulu. He was 89 and lived in Honolulu.
        Mr. Edel's wife, the former Marjorie Putnam, said he collapsed at home from what she thought was a heart attack and was taken by ambulance to a hospital in Honolulu. She said that she was not sure whether he died in the hospital or earlier.
        Mr. Edel was a former Henry James Professor of English and American Letters at New York University. He received both the 1963 Pulitzer Prize and the 1963 National Book Award for the second and third volumes of his seminal five-volume biography of the American novelist and critic.
        That work on James has become an enduring classic. The author Louis Auchincloss said yesterday that it was ''the great American literary biography.''
        Last year the poet and critic Richard Howard wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the work was one of the ''grand English-language biographies of our time'' and gave ''the replete characterization of a fully creative human existence.''
        Mr. Edel's analysis of James has also resisted the ravages of time. Another critic, Renee Tursi, wrote last year that, generally speaking, ''Subsequent scholars have lent an updated eye to the novelist's unspoken homoeroticism but have followed Mr. Edel's Freudian explanation of a life supposedly more observed than lived.''
        In the James biography, both James's life and works are dealt with masterfully by Mr. Edel (pronounced ay-DELL). As another noted biographer, R. W. B. Lewis, wrote in 1993, Mr. Edel was one of those ''biographers who endlessly intermesh the Work with the Life.'' The first volume, ''The Untried Years,'' appeared in 1953. Following over the next 20 years were ''The Conquest of London,'' ''The Middle Years,'' ''The Treacherous Years'' and ''The Master.'' The five volumes became known as ''The Henry James Biography.'' A two-volume revised edition was published as ''The Life of Henry James'' in 1977, and a one-volume revised and abridged edition, published as ''Henry James: A Life,'' won a National Book Critics Circle award for 1985.
        In the mid-1980's, when Mr. Edel began editing the one-volume version, he found that pages he had written back in the late 1940's and early 50's now seemed curiously ''polite'' and ''excessively indirect.'' Since those decades, he wrote in an essay, the sexual revolution of the 1970's had liberated biographers from ''old shibboleths and inhibitions.'' The one-volume version, the critic Michiko Kakutani wrote in The New York Times in 1992, ''left the original's interpretive analysis of James intact while responding to the new research and recent findings of others.''
        Mr. Edel also edited books on James's letters, plays, essays, criticism and stories and wrote introductions to new editions of James's novels.
        The author Shirley Hazzard recalled in 1995 that once, when the British author Graham Greene visited the home she shared on the island of Capri with her husband, the author Francis Steegmuller, Greene ''noticed Leon Edel's editions of James's letters there, and said that he too brought those volumes to Capri.'' Greene added, '' 'They move me to write.' ''
        Literary critics have praised the James biography for its journalistic enterprise, scholarly writing and daring psychological interpretation.
        After Mr. Edel completed his monumental work, Philip Rahv wrote in The New York Review of Books: ''It is a phenomenal production, if only because of the truly exhaustive research that has gone into it and because it is probably the longest biography in English, and for all I know in any other language, of any single writer.'' But Mr. Rahv went on to find Mr. Edel ''far too staunch an adherent of the James cult.''
        Mr. Edel was unquestionably staunch in affirming, however, that the biographer must not make things up. ''The biographer may be as imaginative as he pleases -- the more imaginative the better -- in the way in which he brings together his materials,'' is how he once put it, ''but he must not imagine the materials.''
        Mr. Auchincloss said yesterday that Mr. Edel ''was quite short, and yet you noticed him,'' mostly because of ''the intensity of his gaze.'' Mr. Auchincloss added: ''He was quiet, witty and usually kind, but he could be crushing when he encountered gross error or pretensions in his field. He was always willing to listen, but he did not suffer fools gladly. He thought life was too short for that.''
        Mr. Edel was also intense in his work habits, Mr. Auchincloss recalled. In working on the five-volume James biography, he said: ''Leon almost became Henry James. In preparing his chapters on James's youth in Newport, he procured and studied maps of the town as it existed in the Civil War to be sure he knew where every character in James's history lived. And he ransacked the correspondence or journals of any person acquainted with James on the mere chance of coming across a reference.''
        That approach drew some criticism in 1992 from another writer on James, Miranda Seymour. She said  that in the five-volume biography ''the drawback for the reader was that the principal figure was often lost from sight in a wealth of detail.''
        Mr. Edel's work about James also included being a co-editor, with Lyall H. Powers, of ''The Complete Notebooks of Henry James,'' which came out in 1986. One critic wrote of that book, ''Anyone who likes to eavesdrop on the workings of a master must be grateful to those, like Mr. Edel and Mr. Powers, who give us the opportunity.''
        In addition to his writings about James, Mr. Edel was the editor of four volumes of Edmund Wilson's papers, and wrote introductions to  notebooks and diaries of Mr. Wilson's. Mr. Auchincloss said there was ''an extraordinary friendship'' between the ''two great critics.''
        Mr. Edel was also the author of critical biographies of Willa Cather and Thoreau and, in 1979, a book about the Bloomsbury circle, ''A House of Lions.'' His many other writings included an article about the American writer Edith Wharton, in The New York Times Book Review in 1991, in which he recalled visiting her in France not long before her death in 1937. ''She talked about novel writing and especially about the world that was so changed'' since World War II, Mr. Edel wrote. ''She felt that somehow the new world, 'so cinematized, so collectivized,' offered fewer subjects to the novelist than the old life of more organized manners.''
        Joseph Leon Edel was born on Sept. 9, 1907, in Pittsburgh, the son of Simon Edel and the former Fannie Malamud.. His family moved to Canada when he was a toddler. He went on to study at McGill University in Montreal, where he received a master's degree in English in 1928, and continued his studies at the University of Paris, where he was awarded a doctorate in literature in 1932. He wrote his doctoral thesis, ''Henry James: The Dramatic Years,'' in French, then translated it into English.
        It was while he was studying and living in Paris and London in the 1930's that Mr. Edel decided to make James his lifelong literary interest, and he began to interview the surviving members of James's generation, including George Bernard Shaw.
        Mr. Edel began his teaching career as an assistant professor of English in 1932 at Sir George Williams University in Montreal. Between 1934 and 1943, he worked as a freelance writer and journalist and in broadcasting. During World War II, he served in the Army. He began teaching English at New York University in 1953, was promoted to full professor in 1955 and was the Henry James Professor from 1966 to 1972.
        Mr. Edel moved to Honolulu in 1972, when he was named the Citizens Professor of English at the University of Hawaii. He retired from that post in 1978, and continued to lecture there and occasionally at universities across the rest of the United States.
        Mr. Edel's first marriage, to Bertha Cohen, ended in divorce, and his 1950 marriage to Robert Roberts ended in divorce in 1979.
        In addition to his wife, Marjorie, whom he married in 1980, he is survived by a brother, Abraham, of Philadelphia and Manhattan; a niece, Deborah Edel of New Jersey; and three grand-nephews.
        During most of his writing life, Mr. Edel was active in promoting the interests of authors. Between 1957 and 1959, he was president of the American Center of PEN, and in 1969 and 1970 he was president of the Authors Guild. He also served as a member of the Authors Guild Council, the organization's governing body. In 1972, he was elected a member of the American Academy-Institute of Arts and Letters.
        Despite all Mr. Edel's labors and distinctions in the field of letters, Mr. Edel felt that existence, not literature, was the great teacher. As he put it: ''There is, in reality, only one school: the school of experience. I have been a student all my life.''
        Correction:  September 17, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary of the biographer Leon Edel on Sept. 8 misstated the given name of his second wife in some copies. Her name is Roberta Roberts, not Robert Roberts.
      