
        Derek Taylor, a publicity spokesman for the Beatles, the Byrds, the Beach Boys and other groups in the 1960's, and the author of several books that captured the spirit of the era, died on Sunday at his home near Sudbury, in Suffolk, England. He was 65.
        Geoff Baker, a friend, said the cause was cancer of the esophagus.
        Mr. Taylor's career included 15 years as a newspaper reporter, several years as the director of his own publicity agency in Hollywood in the mid-1960's and a variety of record industry positions. But he was best known for the alternately urbane and whimsical ways in which he ran the press department at Apple, the Beatles' production company, during the two years leading up to the band's breakup in 1970.
        Richard DiLello, in ''The Longest Cocktail Party,'' a memoir of the Apple years, describes the press office that Mr. Taylor ran as a place that often had a circuslike atmosphere -- there were always assorted journalists and hangers-on partaking of Apple's open bar and other facilities -- but that also reflected the tensions of working for four demanding superstars who had no experience in running a multimillion-dollar corporation.
        It was Mr. Taylor's task to explain everything from John Lennon and Yoko Ono's early peace campaigns and solo recordings to increasingly persistent rumors -- many of them occasioned by the Beatles' own unguarded comments in interviews -- that personal and business problems were driving the band members apart. And because Apple was a flourishing record label at the time, he was also responsible for the promotion of a wide-ranging roster that included Mary Hopkin, Billy Preston, James Taylor, Doris Troy, Badfinger, Jackie Lomax, the Modern Jazz Quartet and the composer John Tavener.
        Although he left Apple in 1970, Mr. Taylor remained on close terms with all the former Beatles, and he joined the company again in the mid-1990's during the preparation of the ''Beatles Anthology'' project. He was one of only three non-Beatles (the others were George Martin, their record producer, and Neil Aspinall, their former road manager, who now runs Apple) interviewed for the ''Anthology'' video, and he edited a 500,000-word book from the project that is to be published next year.
        Derek Wyn Taylor was born in Liverpool in 1932 and grew up in West Kirby, Cheshire. When he was 17, he became a reporter for The Hoylake and West Kirby Advertiser. He wrote for The Liverpool Echo and The Daily Post in the mid-1950's and later, in Manchester, for The Sunday Express and The Daily Express. It was as a critic for The Daily Express that he first heard the Beatles, in May 1963.
        Early in 1964 he was hired to ghostwrite ''A Cellarful of Noise,'' the autobiography of Brian Epstein, the Beatles' manager. But Mr. Taylor soon became Epstein's personal assistant and then the Beatles' press spokesman. After a fight with Epstein at the end of the Beatles' American tour in the summer of 1964, Mr. Taylor resigned. Early in 1965, he moved to Hollywood and started a publicity agency that, over the next three years, represented Paul Revere and the Raiders, the Beau Brummels, the Byrds, the Beach Boys, Buffalo Springfield and Captain Beefheart.
        Mr. Taylor also worked briefly for the Doors at the start of their career, and he promoted Mae West's rock album, ''Way Out West.'' In 1967, he helped Lou Adler, John Philips (of the Mamas and Papas) and Alan Pariser organize and promote the Monterey International Pop Festival. He also worked briefly for A&M Records before returning to Britain to run the press office of the Beatles' new Apple company in 1968.
        When Mr. Taylor left Apple in 1970, he became director of special projects and later managing director of Warner Elektra Atlantic Records in London. In the mid-1970's, he returned to California as a vice president of Warner Brothers Records. He produced several recordings, including Harry Nilsson's ''Little Touch of Schmilsson in the Night.'' He went back to Britain in 1978 and worked briefly for George Harrison's Handmade Films.
        Mr. Taylor published a short but amusing memoir, ''As Time Goes By,'' in 1973, and a much more extensive and lavishly illustrated one, ''50 Years Adrift,'' in 1984. He edited Mr. Harrison's 1980 memoir, ''I Me Mine,'' adding copious commentary to the text; Mr. Harrison returned the favor in ''50 Years Adrift.'' Mr. Taylor's other books include ''The Making of 'The Raiders of the Lost Ark' '' (1981) and ''It Was 20 Years Ago Today'' (1987), a study of the Summer of Love. With his wife, Joan, he wrote ''Getting Sober . . . And Loving It!'' (1992) and edited the ''Safe Food Handbook'' (1990).
        Besides his wife, he is survived by three sons, Timothy, Gerard and Dominic, and three daughters, Abigail Victoria, Vanessa and Annabel.
      