
        Hans J. Eysenck, one of the most distinguished, prolific and maddeningly perverse psychologists of his generation, died on Sept. 4 at a hospice in London. He was 81.
        Dr. Eysenck had been suffering from a malignant brain tumor for about a year, said Shirley Chumbley, his longtime secretary.
        In the course of a career at the department of psychology of the Institute of Psychiatry at London University, Dr. Eysenck published some 80 books and 1,600 journal articles, and managed to offend a great many people. Among other things, he argued that psychotherapy was virtually worthless, that blacks scored lower on I.Q. tests than whites at least partly because of their genetic makeup, and that there is no demonstrable correlation between smoking and lung cancer.
        At the height of the controversy over race and I.Q. tests in 1971, Dr. Eysenck and Arthur R. Jensen, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley who held similar views, were escorted by bodyguards for their safety.
        ''He was always willing to stick his neck out,'' Professor Jensen said on Monday. ''I don't think he would agree with my saying this now, but I think he enjoyed controversy. He was always polite yet intellectually aggressive.''
        Dr. Eysenck's daughter, Connie, took exception to this view. ''He never tried to be controversial for its own sake,'' she said on Monday. ''He wanted to tell the scientific truth.''
        Professor Eysenck's professional reputation was worldwide, not because of his sometimes provocative opinions but because of his pioneering empirical approach to the problems of psychology. His analysis of the layers of personality led to his coining the terms extroversion and introversion, and attracted students and collaborators from around the world.
        Frank Farley, a professor of psychology at Temple University in Philadelphia and former president of the American Psychological Association, said that in terms of influence, Dr. Eysenck was the British equivalent of B. F. Skinner. Professor Farley said Dr. Eysenck ''led the way in defining the structure of human personality.''
        Critics who denounced Dr. Eysenck as racist because of his views on the results of I.Q. testing were often baffled to learn that he had fled Nazi Germany in the early 1930's because of his opposition to Nazi racist ideology.
        ''He was violently opposed to Nazism,'' said his daughter. ''It came to the point where he would have had to join the Nazi Party in order to hold a post at the University of Berlin, and so that left him no choice but to leave the country.''
        Dr. Jensen said Dr. Eysenck's first brush with controversy came in the early 1950's when he published an article declaring that psychotherapy had no beneficial effect on individuals. Predictably, there was a storm of protest. Over the years, Dr. Jensen said, Dr. Eysenck modified his views and eventually came to the conclusion that some forms of psychotherapy could have limited beneficial effects.
        Dr. Eysenck aroused the most heated controversy of his career when he supported Dr. Jensen's article in The Harvard Education Review in 1969. It argued that the 15-point average difference between the scores of blacks and whites on I.Q. tests could be explained by genetic as well as environmental factors.
        ''I came under a lot of fire from the Progressive Labor Party, the Students for a Democratic Society and other student protester groups which are now defunct,'' Dr. Jensen recalled. ''But Eysenck published a book called 'Race, Intelligence and Education' (1971), which explained my article and defended it. That was when we both had to have bodyguards. He never changed his view on that.''
        Daniel Schacter, chairman of the department of psychology at Harvard University, said on Monday that Dr. Eysenck's argument ''still comes up from time to time and is a controversial issue although the majority opinion is probably unfavorable to it.''
        The third and final dispute that occupied Dr. Eysenck came when he argued that smoking did not cause lung cancer.
        ''He surveyed all the literature on the subject,'' said Dr. Jensen, ''and came to the conclusion that certain personality types were drawn to smoking and that they had a weakness to its ill effects. As far as I'm concerned, the evidence against his position is overwhelming. The only ones who accept it today are the tobacco industry.''
        Dr. Eysenck also raised eyebrows by writing about such subjects as astrology and the paranormal. He retired from London University in 1983.
        Born in Berlin, Hans Jurgen Eysenck was the son of successful actors. Since his parents traveled frequently, he was brought up chiefly by his grandmother.
        He left Germany in 1934 to continue his education in Britain, and later said that he came to concentrate on psychology by taking a required course in the subject at the University of London.
        In addition to his daughter, Connie, who lives in Washington, Dr. Eysenck is survived by his second wife, Dr. Sybil Eysenck of London, and four sons: Gary and Kevin, of Surrey, England; Darrin, of London, and Michael, also of London, from his first marriage.
        Correction:  September 26, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Sept. 10 about Hans J. Eysenck, the psychologist, included an incorrect reference to his work on extroversion and introversion. He carried out extensive research on the topics, but he did not coin the terms.
      