
        Maurice Levine, the founder and artistic director of the Lyrics and Lyricists series at the 92d Street Y, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said Kate Cohen, associate director of public relations at the Y.
        A lifelong love for the musical theater, in which he worked for many years as a conductor and arranger, led Mr. Levine to start Lyrics and Lyricists in 1970. As the title made clear, his idea was to examine the art of the theater song through the words and their creators, although composers invariably came into the discussion.
        In a 1990 interview, Mr. Levine said he at first doubted there would be an audience for such a program. But a discussion with the lyricist E. Y. (Yip) Harburg changed his mind. ''I went over to visit Yip,'' Mr. Levine said, ''and as he talked, I realized that I had only a peripheral understanding of lyrics. What he said was so exciting that I knew I had to have an audience there.''
        At first, Mr. Levine invited lyricists to talk about their work, which was performed between discussion segments. By 1983, however, Mr. Levine had exhausted the supply of lyricists who were available to give the kind of illustrated lectures the programs had become. His solution was to reconfigure the evenings by providing scripts and adding film clips to the live performances.
        He also added an audience sing-along, which became such a popular element of the program that when he skipped it once, he received letters of protest. The series developed a large and loyal following and became the Y's most consistently successful music series. ''We try to give an impression of who the person is, what he stood for and what he tried to accomplish, along with a certain amount of musicology and music history,'' he said. ''In three words, we inform entertainingly.''
        Mr. Levine was born in West Haven, Conn., in 1918, studied conducting with Serge Koussevitzky at Tanglewood beginning in 1940 and earned bachelor's and master's degrees in music at Yale University. In 1947 he joined the 92d Street Y as the conductor of its resident symphony orchestra. His career in the theater began in 1949, when Kurt Weill engaged him to conduct the premiere of ''Lost in the Stars.''
        Mr. Levine worked as a conductor and vocal arranger on several other productions, and in 1987 he directed and wrote the narration for concert versions of Gershwin's ''Of Thee I Sing'' and ''Let 'Em Eat Cake'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. He briefly ran ML Records, which issued recordings based on several of his Lyrics and Lyricists programs, including ''An Evening with Johnny Mercer'' and those featuring Sheldon Harnick, Sammy Cahn and the team of John Kander and Fred Ebb. These have recently been reissued by DRG Records.
        He also produced television programs devoted to theater composers and lyricists, including several installments of ''They Write the Songs,'' a series syndicated in the United States and Canada, and he was co-producer of an Off Broadway show, ''Taking My Turn'' in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Bobbie Baird; a son, Michael Levine of Middletown, N.Y.; two daughters, Tedra Schneider of Orange, Conn., and Whitney Levine of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      