
        George Louis Schaefer, an award-winning producer and director who worked in television, theater and film, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 76.
        He died after a long illness, his family said.
        In a career spanning 60 years, Mr. Schaefer directed nearly 100 television productions, many of them for the ''Hallmark Hall of Fame,'' including the first live television productions in the early 1950's of ''Hamlet,'' ''Richard II'' and ''Macbeth.''  He was nominated for more than 30 Emmys, winning the award for several productions, including ''Macbeth,'' with Maurice Evans and Dame Judith Anderson, and ''Little Moon of Alban'' and ''Victoria Regina,'' both with Julie Harris. He also received 17 nominations from the Directors Guild of America, becoming the first director in film or television to win that prize four times.
        Mr. Schaefer was born in Wallingford, Conn., and attended Lafayette College in Easton, Pa., and the Yale School of Drama. During World War II, he directed some 50 plays for the Central Pacific Base Command, then headed by Mr. Evans, including a streamlined version of ''Hamlet,'' later known as ''G.I. Hamlet,'' which had a run on Broadway after the war.
        In 1953 he and Mr. Evans produced ''The Teahouse of the August Moon,'' which won the Pulitzer, Tony and New York Critics prizes. He directed many other plays on Broadway, among them ''Idiot's Delight,'' ''Man and Superman'' and ''Write Me a Murder.''
        That same year Mr. Schaefer began an affiliation with ''Hallmark Hall of Fame.'' As the head of Compass Productions, the company responsible for the Hallmark shows, he directed more than 50 presentations over the next 17 years, among them many Shakespeare plays and ''The Magnificent Yankee,'' which was Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne's only joint television appearance.
        In 1982 he joined with Merrill H. Karpf to form Schaefer/Karpf Productions. Among their television shows were the HBO feature ''Right of Way,'' with Bette Davis and James Stewart, and ''The Best Christmas Pageant Ever.'' His last television production, Mary Chase's ''Harvey,'' starring Harry Anderson and Swoosie Kurtz, is to be broadcast on CBS later this season.
        He was president of the Directors Guild of America from 1979 to 1981.  In 1982, President Ronald Reagan  appointed him to a six-year term on the Board of the National Council on the Arts. From 1985 to 1991, he was the chairman and later the associate dean at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Theater, Film and Television. He recently published an autobiographical account of his career, ''From Live to Tape to Film.''
        He is survived by his wife, Mildred Trares, and two brothers, Louis and William.
      