
        George W. Crockett Jr., a civil rights warrior who went over the top so often in the battle for racial justice that he earned a decade of bemused retirement in Congress, died on Sept. 7 at a hospice near his home in Washington. He was 88 and had represented a Detroit district in the House of Representatives from 1980 to 1991.
        In the quest for racial equality, Mr. Crockett often operated so far beyond the trenches that it was often decades before society caught up.
        As the first hearing officer of the wartime Fair Employment Practices Committee, for example, he regularly ordered companies to adopt race-neutral hiring and promotion policies that would not become standard until the 1970's.
        As a lawyer in 1949 representing 11 Communist leaders accused of violating the Smith Act, he presented such a vigorous defense of the right of free speech and association that he served four months in jail for contempt of court. Years later, the Supreme Court gutted the Smith Act's strongest provisions, and the 1949 prosecution itself came to be viewed by many as an embarrassing relic of an aberrant era.
        And as a judge in Detroit in the 1960's and 1970's, he freed so many black defendants and handed out so many lenient sentences, refusing to countenance police brutality, that he became a hero to the local black population even as he was widely castigated by the white press.
        A native of Jacksonville, Fla., who graduated from Morehouse College and received a law degree from the University of Michigan before entering private practice, first in Jacksonville and later in West Virginia, Mr. Crockett went to Washington in 1940 as a protege of West Virginia's Senator Matthew M. Neely, the man who had converted him from a Lincoln Republican to a New Deal Democrat.
        Although he had been assured a position with the Justice Department, Mr. Crockett was shunted to the Labor Department, holding a series of posts that convinced him that black Americans and American workers were often fellow victims of an oppressive society.
        A chance meeting with a top official of the United Auto Workers led to a job organizing and running a union fair-employment division.
        It was through his work with the union in Detroit that Mr. Crockett was asked to join the team defending the 11 Communist leaders, including the head of the Michigan Communist Party. Before accepting the offer, Mr. Crockett read both the Smith Act and the Constitution and decided the two were incompatible.
        Although he had no interest in Communism, Mr. Crockett savored and even courted the notoriety the case brought him, once describing the Communist Party as the conscience of America and forever pointing out that it was the only party that demanded full equality for black Americans.
        After narrowly avoiding disbarment because of his contempt conviction, Mr. Crockett, who had become something of a hero to civil libertarians, helped to organize Michigan's first integrated law firm and later ran the legal defense arm of the Mississippi voting project -- an experience that left him shaken after three young people he asked to investigate a church burning were lynched and buried in a dam.
        After an abortive race for the Detroit City Council, he was elected in 1966 to Detroit's criminal court, known there as the Recorder's Court, and became an outspoken practitioner of equal justice in a system that regularly trampled on the rights of poor black defendants.
        Although he could be tough on defendants convicted of serious crimes that harmed innocent victims, he regularly freed first offenders, gave lenient sentences to those convicted of minor offenses and was once so outraged that a real criminal had been beaten by the police that he let the man go free, announcing that he had suffered enough.
        Convinced that black judges had to lead the fight for equal justice, he also helped organize the National Bar Association's Judicial Council, with some 400 black judges now.
        In 1969, when he was awakened with the news that a Detroit policeman had been killed by a sniper firing from a church during a meeting of black separatists and that the police had shot their way into the church and seized some 140 people, holding them in the police garage pending chemical tests to determine if any had recently fired a gun, Judge Crockett did not wait for the case to come to him.
        He went to the police station, declared court in session and began freeing prisoners he determined were being held without probable cause, allowing only a handful to be retained in custody, making him a hero to the local black population.
        Just how much of a hero became apparent in 1980 when, at the age of 71 after retiring from the bench, he won a sinecure in the House of Representatives with 98 percent of the vote. He held the seat for five terms with only slightly reduced majorities, even though he made it a point not to introduce a single bill.
        He did introduce a couple of resolutions denouncing South African apartheid and was duly arrested while picketing the South African Embassy, but his only bid for the spotlight came when he sought appointment as chairman of the Foreign Affairs subcommittee on the Western Hemisphere.
        The quest predictably drew a wave of hysterical denunciations from right-wing groups questioning his loyalty, but with the backing of the black caucus, Mr. Crockett prevailed and had the satisfaction later of being named by President Ronald Reagan as a citizen delegate to a United Nations session.
        And before he retired in 1991, the man who liked to be out in front of controversial issues had become the first member of Congress to call for the decriminalization of drugs.
        Mr. Crockett is survived by his second wife, Dr. Harriet Clark Harris; three children from his first marriage, George 3d, a judge on the Recorder's Court in Detroit; Elizabeth Ann Hicks of Los Angeles, and Dr. Ethelene Jones of Detroit; two stepsons, Dr. Cleveland Robert Chambliss Jr. of Atlanta and Marque Chambliss of Mountain View, Calif.; a sister, Alzeda Hacker of Pittsburgh; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      