
        After William R. Ferris left a teaching position at Yale University 18 years ago to become founding director of the University of Mississippi's Center for the Study of Southern Culture, he wandered through dormitory hallways with his Gibson guitar, playing the blues for any student he thought he could serenade into joining his unconventional program.
        ''I'm sure they thought I was a very strange and curious figure,'' said Mr. Ferris, a Mississippi native who is in line to become chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities.
        If students found Mr. Ferris a bit odd, they were not alone. Regional studies programs in that time were on the fringes of academic life. That Mr. Ferris's focused on Southern culture did not help. It was not unusual for scholars to inform him that Southern culture was an oxymoron.
        Nearly two decades later, Mr. Ferris does not hear much of that anymore, and he no longer has to attract students by imitating B. B. King.
        The center is widely considered a treasure of Ole Miss, and a model for regional studies programs. Classes on topics from Southern folklore to the development of country music are oversubscribed. While there have been setbacks, like last year's closing of Reckon magazine, a fledgling quarterly about Southern culture, the Center's eight-pound Encyclopedia of Southern Culture, edited by Mr. Ferris and Charles Reagan Wilson, has sold more than 100,000 copies.
        Its bimonthly music journal, Living Blues, is also highly regarded, as are its collections of folklore and blues recordings.
        The Center's popularity and new respectability helped persuade President Clinton to select Mr. Ferris for the endowment, which finances  scholarship, cultural conservation, exhibitions and broadcasts on the humanities. Mr. Ferris's formal nomination awaits the completion of background checks.
        The two Southerners do not know each other well. But when he presented the endowment's Charles Frankel Prize in the Humanities to Mr. Ferris two years ago, the President remarked that Mr. Ferris ''leads the sort of life I'd like to lead if I had another one to live. He lives in the Deep South, he writes funny, wonderful books and he's still trying to find out if Elvis is alive.''
        That remark referred to the Center's ''International Conferences on Elvis'' in 1994 and 1995. At one of them, the lesbian Elvis Presley impersonator Elvis Herselvis mingled with scholars presenting papers on topics like Mr. Presley's ''semiotic significance.'' Events like these have led some critics to label as excessive showmanship Mr. Ferris's relentless promotion of the center.
        For his part, Mr. Ferris, who is 55, said the conferences were ''a great success,'' that ''the intellectual and emotional energy that was felt at these sessions was really significant.'' More traditional scholars condemned the topic as insufficiently serious for academic discussion.
        Among some intellectuals, the Elvis conferences have obscured Mr. Ferris's academic reputation as a folklorist, author, filmmaker and administrator. While he has written extensively about Ray Lum, a Mississippi mule trader whom he once recruited to auction a mule at Yale, he has also written about Eudora Welty and has helped organize Ole Miss's Faulkner conferences.
        Still, some skeptics worry that Mr. Ferris would overemphasize popular culture at the endowment.
        John M. Ellis, secretary of the Association of Literary Scholars and Critics, for one, said the endowment needed a leader ''who has a strong feeling for what is central, not what is peripheral, and a person who sponsors conferences on Elvis, it would seem to me, does not have that sense.''
        Mr. Ferris said that his vision for the endowment encompassed all forms of culture. ''That includes and embraces the classic canon of literature and history,'' he said in an interview. ''It also includes popular and folk culture.''
        That being said, Mr. Ferris believes virtually anything can be worthy of scholarly examination. That includes Goo Goo Clusters, the caramel, chocolate, marshmallow and peanut confection that merits an entry in his Southern culture encyclopedia.
        ''It's not so much the subject as how you do it,'' he said. ''Obviously, you can have a cavalier approach to any subject, be it Twain or Goo Goo Clusters. But through food, and in this case a commercially produced candy, you can understand a great deal about the culture of a region.''
        Mr. Ferris is the kind of academic whose sartorial tastes run from T-shirts to Polo shirts. He said he would buy ties for Washington, but only reluctantly. He has slightly rheumy blue eyes, a whispery drawl  and a tuft of salt-and-pepper hair that flops over his right brow.  He grew up on a large family farm near Vicksburg, Miss., the oldest of five children. His parents' racial views, he said, were unusually progressive for their time and place. ''I remember my parents washing my sister's mouth out with soap when she used the word 'nigger,' '' he said. At Ole Miss, he has joined other faculty members in advocating  abandonment of the school's Confederate symbols.
        Mr. Ferris dates his interest in Southern folklore to childhood visits to Rose Hill Church, a black church on his family's farm. While an undergraduate at Davidson College, he began to tape services there and later interviewed generations of members to construct a church history.
        If nominated and confirmed, Mr. Ferris said he would push to increase the endowment's financing, which was cut by the Republican-controlled  Congress to $110 million from $177 million in 1994. The endowment has contributed close to $1 million to the center, including $300,000 to the encyclopedia.
        A political independent, Mr. Ferris said he would try to persuade lawmakers to distinguish between the humanities endowment and its sister, the National Endowment for the Arts, which has been under attack by Congress. And he said he hoped to convince Republicans that the endowment deserves bipartisan support.
        If that does not work, he said, he may just have to sit a spell with fellow Southerners like Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina and have a long talk about mules.
      