
        The Rev. Abraham K. Akaka, who as Hawaii's most widely known clergyman led the historic Kawaiahao Church in Honolulu for three decades, died on Sept. 10 in Honolulu. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Akaka, the brother of Senator Daniel K. Akaka, Democrat of Hawaii, died at Queen's Medical Center from complications of a dissecting aortic aneurysm, a condition often mistaken for a heart attack, said his son, Dr. Jeffrey Akaka.
        The soft-spoken Mr. Akaka would often begin his Sunday sermons at Kawaiahao Church, the largest Congregational church in Hawaii, by strumming a ukulele.
        For 28 years until his retirement in 1984, he led Kawaiahao Church, originally a grass-thatched meeting place, built by Hawaiians in 1821 for the Rev. Hiram Bingham, the first New England missionary to preach and teach on Oahu.
        It was rebuilt in 1842 as a typically New England-type edifice, but made of gray coral blocks cut from offshore reefs. It became known as Hawaii's Westminster Abbey, having become the official church of the Hawaiian Kingdom. Its kings, queens and high chiefs were interred in tombs outside in its walls. All sermons were given in Hawaiian until Mr. Akaka, as one of his first innovations, preached regularly in both English and Hawaiian.
        At a service in April 1970 for the safe return to Earth of the Apollo 13 mission, attended by President Richard M. Nixon, Mr. Akaka compared the people of the Earth to the strings of a ukulele. He then demonstrated how beautifully they could work together in harmony and how ugly they could be when harmony was lost.
        ''Some of God's people are white, some black, some brown, some yellow,'' he said. ''God didn't intend all people to be alike, not even in families. But people were intended to live in harmony, as when the strings of the ukulele blend. There is a tremendous job ahead to bring all people in tune with God. Then they will be in tune with each other.''
        Known as Hawaii's kahu, or shepherd, Mr. Akaka led a procession through Honolulu to celebrate Hawaii's statehood in 1959 and officiated at the state ceremony celebrating the state's admission as the 50th state. He wanted Hawaii to be known as the Aloha State. ''Aloha is the spirit of God at work,'' he said.
        Abraham Kahikina Akaka shared much of the background of his racially mixed congregation. He was born Feb. 25, 1917, the fourth of four boys and four girls, on the outskirts of Honolulu where the starchy root crop taro, which is used to make poi, is farmed in the Pauoa Valley. His mother was Hawaiian, his father was half Hawaiian and half Chinese.
        Mr. Akaka attended the University of Hawaii but finished his senior year at Illinois Wesleyan University.
        In 1939, at the World Conference of Christian Youth in Amsterdam, with 2,000 young people from 72 countries, he decided to join the ministry.  ''Here was a gathering of many nationals united by love of God and of man,'' he said. ''There was no common language, but they understood each other.''
        After graduating from the Chicago Theological Seminary, Mr. Akaka returned to Hawaii and began working with the Congregational church.
        As the first chairman of the Hawaii Advisory Committee in the United States Commission on Civil Rights, Mr. Akaka lobbied for passage of the civil rights bill in 1964.
        He was a regent of the University of Hawaii from 1960 to 1961 and in 1969 was elected a corporate member of the United Church Board of World Ministries, the overseas arm of the United Church of Christ.
        He he survived by his wife, the former Mary Louise Jeffrey of Denver, whom he married in 1944; a son, Dr. Akaka of Honolulu; five daughters, Fenner-Marie, Pualani Suzanne, Sarah Elizabeth Kahikina, Sandra Phoebe Komohana, all of Honolulu, and Sandra Phoebe Komohana of Hawaii; his brothers, John, Daniel and Mark, all of Honolulu; a sister, Susan, of Honolulu, and eight grandchildren.
      