
        Daniel Meenan, a television and radio news reporter whose gravel-voiced delivery was known to nearly every cabby in New York City for three decades, died at New York University Medical Center on Monday. He was 75 and had spent most of his time on Shelter Island since his retirement in 1988.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, said his wife, the WCBS radio reporter Irene Cornell.
        In the 30-plus years of his career, Mr. Meenan covered City Hall, parades, politicians, scandals, strikes and crime scenes. But he may be best remembered for getting a youth-gang member, Salvador Agron, to confess to killing two boys in a playground on the West Side of Manhattan in 1959.
        Mr. Agron, then 16, became known as the Cape Man, because he wore a red-lined black satin cape. He confessed to the killings into Mr. Meenan's microphone and also told where he had hidden the knife he used. A fictionalized version of his life is the basis for the new Broadway musical ''The Capeman,'' written by Paul Simon and Derek Walcott, which is to open this winter.
        Mr. Agron, who was arrested and convicted, became the youngest person to face execution in the history of the state. His sentence was commuted in 1962 after a campaign for clemency supported by Eleanor Roosevelt and the Manhattan District Attorney, Frank S. Hogan. Released from prison in 1979, Mr. Agron, who had educated himself and become a poet, died of pneumonia in a Bronx hospital in 1986.
        Mr. Meenan, who was born in New York City on March 21, 1922, graduated from Columbia University and served in the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II.
        After the war, he became a reporter for The Daily News, covering police stories. He then moved to WPIX television, where he won an Emmy for WPIX-TV's coverage of the sinking of the Andrea Dorea.
        In the late 1950's, he went to WMCA radio, where he remained until retirement.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Meenan is survived by 10 children, Pauline Sartori of Glen Cove, N.Y.; Diane Doyle of Tampa, Fla.; Anne Peasley of Foresthill, Calif.; Laura Meenan of Glen Cove; Daniel Meenan Jr. of Sydney, Australia; Mary Meenan of White Plains; Michael Meenan of Glen Cove; Katherine Smith of Portland, Me.; Christopher Meenan and Sarah Meenan, both of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      