
        Sam Chase, a broadcasting and publishing executive who won awards for programming dealing with civil rights, died of natural causes on Aug. 11 in Mexico, his son, Bradley, said. He was 80.
        A radio program that Mr. Chase, who was white, created and produced won a Peabody Award in 1966, the first time that that honor had gone to a station that aimed at black audiences. The Peabody was awarded for ''Community Opinion,'' which gave listeners a chance to talk live with public officials at WLIB in New York.
        The station won a second Peabody for another of Mr. Chase's programs in 1969. That show, ''Higher Horizons,'' gave listeners detailed information about scholarships and financial aid at colleges in the metropolitan area, information that was not widely available at that time. The Peabody award cited the program for ''demonstrating high dedication to aiding black youth to find jobs, to stay in school and to obtain higher education.''
        In 1968 Mr. Chase produced a 13-part series based on Newsweek magazine's ''What Must Be Done'' report, an examination of the conditions blacks faced. Tapes of the series are in the permanent collections of the Smithsonian and the Museum of Television and Radio.
        ''Sam was an enthusiastic, able and good-spirited man who cared about civil rights,'' said Osborne Elliot, the former editor of Newsweek.
        After service in the merchant marine during World War II, Mr. Chase worked as a radio writer for The Associated Press. In 1947 he joined Billboard, the music industry trade magazine, rising to editor in chief and assistant publisher and creating many of the formats and popularity charts that are still in use. He left Billboard in 1963.
        He was host of ''Skull Session With Sam Chase'' on the DuMont television network in 1947 and 1948, which  pioneered the use of graphics to explain sports strategy.
        After he left WLIB and its sister station WBLS, where he was vice president for programs and operations, Mr. Chase went into syndicated radio and media promotions. In the 1970's he created syndicated radio shows for Newsweek, Harper's and World Press Digest.
        Mr. Chase founded Ovation, a classical music magazine, in 1980 and sold it in 1986 and retired.
        In recent years, Mr. Chase and his wife of 49 years, Nancy, divided their time between the Upper West Side of Manhattan and San Miguel de Allende, Guanajuato, Mexico, where he died.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Chase is survived by two sons, Marc of Oceanside, N.Y., and Bradley of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      