
        Timothy Joyce, a pioneer in the field of magazine readership research, died on Sept. 13 in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Joyce had long been suffering from hepatitis, said Alain Tessier, a friend and business colleague.
        Mr. Joyce was born, raised and educated in Britain, receiving a Ph.D. from Cambridge University, and he began his career in market research in London. In the 1960's, as a director of the British Market Research Bureau, he developed a survey system for measuring a magazine's total audience, which included pass-along readership and reading done on airplanes.
        In 1972, Mr. Joyce introduced the more extensive magazine readership survey methodology to the United States, when he joined J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency, as a research director.
        The survey system Mr. Joyce helped devise and championed seems common sense today, but it was considered a significant advance at the time. It was a research method that was particularly in step with changing social trends as more and more women were entering the work force, doing more of their reading outside the home.
        In 1977, Mr. Joyce returned to London to become media director of J. Walter Thompson there. Two years later, Mr. Joyce returned to New York to become a founder of Mediamark Research Inc., a magazine readership research company.
        In 1979, Mediamark was the upstart challenger to the American giant in the field of magazine readership research, Simmons Market Research Bureau.
        Mr. Joyce left Mediamark in 1991 to work with A. C. Nielsen to develop  a system of measuring media markets using point-of-sale scanning technology, called Homescan. At the time of his death, Mr. Joyce was the vice chairman of the research company, Roper Starch Worldwide.
        A former president of the Market Research Council, Mr. Joyce was elected to the professional group's hall of fame in 1995.
        Mr. Joyce is survived by his second wife, Helen, whom he married in 1988. His marriage to his first wife, Barbara Joyce, ended in divorce. Mr. Joyce is also survived by a son, Nicholas, of Bristol, England, and a daughter, Rachel Frosh, of London.
      