
        Arthur T. Roth, a driving force in the consumer banking business and in the development of Long Island,  died Wednesday at his home in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 91.
        Mr. Roth built the Franklin National Bank from a tiny branch in Franklin Square on Long Island into what became the country's 20th largest bank. At a time when many banks were unfriendly institutions, reluctant to lend money to anyone but the most affluent, Mr. Roth reached out to working people and sought to make banking inviting.
        Franklin financed much of the growth of Long Island's bedroom communities, and it lent money so that the area's residents could buy refrigerators and televisions to fill their new homes. Franklin was the inventor of a number of banking innovations, most notably the general purpose credit card, which it introduced in 1952 to allow smaller merchants to compete with department store charge plans.
        In 1974, however, six years after Mr. Roth was ousted, Franklin collapsed in what was then the nation's biggest bank failure.
        Arthur Thomas Roth was born in the Bronx in 1906, the son of a house builder from Bavaria. After a stint at Manufactures Hanover Trust, Mr. Roth joined what was then known as Franklin Square National Bank in 1935 as a cashier, one of four employees. He began to solicit accounts, door to door in the tiny village on the Hempstead Farmingdale Turnpike.
        Mr. Roth rejected conventional banking as ''a gentleman's game, played according to rules that made as much sense in the 1940's as the court etiquette of Louis XIV,'' he told an interviewer for a history published by the New York State Bankers Association.
        Franklin was one of the first banks to take advantage of Depression-era laws, like the Federal Housing Act's mortgage loan guarantees. During World War II, it solicited customers who came to the bank for rationing coupons to put money into special accounts to save up for the consumer goods that would be available after the war. Despite sugar rationing, children visiting the bank were given lollipops that had been bought under the table from Schrafft's.
        Franklin built branches to look like Colonial homes rather than the neo-classical mausoleums that many banks resembled. In 1947, he renovated the main Franklin Square branch as a financial department store, complete with a display of the cars and boats that the bank would lend people money to buy. There was even a children's banking section with Lilliputian furniture.
        It would be 25 years until the big New York banks, lead by Citibank, would decide that retail banking was an important business line.
        Picking up another trend that continues to dominate banking, Mr. Roth was an early practitioner of bank mergers, buying more than a dozen small-town institutions to build Franklin into the largest bank on Long Island.
        In the late 1950's, Mr. Roth fought efforts by New York State to allow New York City banks to expand onto Long Island. By 1963, he had lost the battle, and Franklin opened its own branches in Manhattan.
        Ultimately, it was Franklin's move into the city that set the stage for the bank's downfall. In 1966, Franklin bought Federation Bank and Trust, a Manhattan bank. That move proved expensive and brought Franklin into a world of high finance with which it was not familiar.
        Two years later, Franklin's board, unhappy about the strain on profits from the bank's expansion, forced Mr. Roth, then 62, to resign in favor of the bank's president Harold V. Gleason, a marketing executive whom Mr. Roth had hired.
        After his retirement, Mr. Roth became an outspoken and public critic of Franklin's management. In particular he criticized the sale in 1972 of 20 percent of Franklin's stock, held by the Loew's Corporation to Michele Sindona, a wealthy Italian financier.
        His criticism proved well founded. In 1974, the bank was shut, after losses in currency trading, bad loans and wrong-headed bets on interest rates. It was the biggest bank collapse until 1984, when the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago was rescued by the Government. Mr. Sindona was convicted of fraud and sent to prison on fraud charges stemming from Franklin's collapse. Franklin was acquired by European American Bank, which is now owed by ABM-Amro of the Netherlands.
        After leaving Franklin, Mr. Roth bought an interest in the Bank of Suffolk County in Stony Brook, N.Y., which he sold in 1979 to to Banco Exterior de Espana.
        Mr. Roth was active in the development of Long Island, serving as president of the Long Island Association and on the board of Long Island University and the Long Island Rail Road. Mr. Roth often challenged the railroad's management to scale back fare increases.
        Mr. Roth is survived by his wife, Genevieve; a daughter, Carol Madigan of Oldwick, N.J.; a son, Donald A. Roth of East Setauket, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      