
        Stanley N. Garfinkel, a historian and documentary film producer, died on Monday at University Hospital in Cleveland. He was 67 and lived in Cleveland.
        The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman for Kent State University in Kent, Ohio, where Mr. Garfinkel taught for more than 30 years before retiring last year.
        Mr. Garfinkel wrote and produced texts and documentaries on a number of subjects, including architecture, American Indians and fashion. His most widely known work was a documentary, ''Completely Dior,'' based largely on oral histories conducted with Stanley Marcus of Neiman-Marcus in Dallas, the actress Olivia de Havilland and other people who knew the designer well.
        Mr. Garfinkel was also credited with bringing to the attention of fashion historians and others a forgotten collection of mannequins that were dressed in the 1940's by some of the best-known designers in the history of couture.
        The collection, titled Theatre de la Mode, consisted of 172 mannequins, each two and three feet tall and dressed by Paris couturiers in 1944 and 1945 to rekindle the fashion industry in France after the country's liberation.
        During his research on the Dior project in 1983, Mr. Garfinkel happened upon the collection in the small, private Maryhill Museum of Art in Goldendale, Wash., about 100 miles east of Portland, Ore.
        Fifty-three designers took part in the project, including the houses of Worth, Balenciaga, Pierre Balmain, Schiaparelli, Nina Ricci, Madame Gres, Jean Patou and Jacques Fath.
        Accessories designers created miniature shoes, handbags, gloves and hats, and famous hairdressers supplied the wigs. Cartier, Van Cleef and Arpels and others designed fine jewelry to scale, and some of the original theatrical sets for the mannequins' display were created by Jean Cocteau and other artists.
        The collection was exhibited in Europe in 1945 and in the United States in 1946. It found its way to Maryhill after the French couture group, apparently believing the mannequins had served their purpose, declined to pay for their return shipment.
        Mr. Garfinkel, a native of Cleveland, graduated from Harvard College in 1952 and received a master's degree from Princeton University in 1956.
        He is survived by a companion, William Acree of Cleveland.
      