
        Sir Rudolf Bing, who as the dapper and acerbic general manager of the Metropolitan Opera from 1950 to 1972 ushered the company into the modern era and into Lincoln Center, died yesterday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 95 and lived at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in the Bronx.
        Sir Rudolf firmly established the Met as not only the biggest but also  in many ways the most prominent company on the world stage today. He used his well-developed European contacts to draw some of most prominent international stars to the Met, and he offered significant new opportunities for Americans. In particular, he broke the company's racial barrier by hiring Leontyne Price in 1953 and Marian Anderson in 1955.
        He cut an autocratic figure at the Met, where he seemed to relish controversy when he did not actively court it. He had run-ins with some of the top international stars of the time, including Maria Callas and Lauritz Melchior. In 1968, he was  called the man who ''fired'' Callas, although the incident, as he later took pains to explain, was not so simple, and he made attempts, which were unsuccessful, to lure her back to the Met.
        His tenure included devastating strikes by members of the company in 1961 and 1969. He offered the Met board his resignation after the first one and resigned not long after the second.
        ''He revolutionized the way the company's productions looked by bringing to the Met the world's greatest directors and designers,'' said Joseph Volpe, the Met's current general manager, who started with the company as a carpenter. ''On a personal note, I shall always remember that it was Mr. Bing who gave me my first opportunity when he put me in charge of getting the opening production of 'Antony and Cleopatra' on the stage.''
        Sir Rudolf's later years took a farcical turn with a romance that was played out in the tabloids. In 1987, at 85, he married Carroll Douglass, who was 47 and had a history of three hospitalizations for psychiatric causes and three marriages to significantly older men. Sir Rudolf was suffering from Alzheimer's disease, those close to him said, and they were able to have the marriage annulled in 1989.
        Sir Rudolf was born in Vienna in 1902, the youngest of three children. He studied voice. ''I still believe that if I had stayed with it I might have become a lieder singer of real distinction,'' he wrote many years later.
        Menial jobs with bookstores opened a new avenue when the Hugo Heller bookstore entered the field of concert management. Sir Rudolf took an active hand in the agency in 1921, establishing contacts that led to appointments as assistant manager of the Darmstadt Opera in 1928 and the Municipal Opera in Berlin in 1931.
        The Benefits Of Steady Nerves
        ''With all this pressure, amid all these crises, with artists losing their nerves and their heads several times a day,'' he wrote of the experiences in opera houses, ''a young man who kept his nerve and his head could make a real contribution.''
        He married Nina Schelemskaya-Schlesnaya, a Russian ballet dancer, in 1928, and they lived together until she died of a stroke in 1983. Both eventually became British citizens.
        In 1934, Sir Rudolf helped found the first Glyndebourne Festival in England. He was named general manager of the festival in 1935 and maintained the relationship until he left for the Met in 1949, although Glyndebourne ceased its standard seasons of opera productions during World War II and did not resume them until 1951.
        During the war years, Sir Rudolf eked out a living working for the John Lewis department stores in London. For a time, he was a divisional manager at the Peter Jones  department store, but he leapt at the opportunity to re-enter the arts, reopening the Glyndebourne office in 1944 and running a children's theater.
        On Glyndebourne's behalf, he played an crucial role in the founding of the Edinburgh Festival in Scotland in 1946 and was its artistic director until 1949. ''Until Edinburgh, I had worked all my life as someone's assistant,'' he later wrote. There he discovered the ''fine sense of freedom which accompanies the assumption of ultimate responsibility.''
        Sir Rudolf moved to New York in 1949, taking up residence with his wife in a suite at the Essex House on Central Park South. He lived there  until after his wife's death, leading a closely regulated existence.
        After a season spent observing the Met's operation under his predecessor, Edward Johnson, Sir Rudolf took control in June 1950. ''All my life up to 1949 could be seen as the proper preparation for being manager of the Metropolitan,'' he wrote later.
        In 1966, the company moved into its new home at Lincoln Center, with the premiere of Samuel Barber's ''Antony and Cleopatra.'' The occasion was dampened by poor reviews.
        In addition to assigning that production to Mr. Volpe, the current general manager, Sir Rudolf also hired James Levine, now the company's artistic director, for his Met debut as a conductor in 1971.
        ''You don't need wit to run an opera house,'' Sir Rudolf wrote in his  memoir ''A Knight at the Opera.''  ''You need style.'' Style he surely had, yet few would have denied that he also had wit, and a quick one.
        His targets included himself. ''Don't be misled,'' he once said. ''Behind that cold, austere, severe exterior, there beats a heart of stone.''
        Sir Rudolf has often been been criticized for a perceived neglect of contemporary music and innovative stage direction. Operas given their premieres during his tenure, in addition to 'Antony and Cleopatra,'' were Barber's ''Vanessa,'' in 1958, and Marvin David Levy's ''Mourning Becomes Elektra,'' in 1967.
        Perhaps the most hotly debated  staging was an aborted Wagner ''Ring'' cycle, darkly directed as well as conducted in its first installments by Herbert von Karajan.
        His favorite directors included Franco Zeffirelli, who mounted a late production Verdi's ''Falstaff'' at the old Met, in 1964 and Verdi's ''Otello'' as the last new production of Sir Rudolf's tenure.
        A Favorite Opera And Chagall Murals
        But perhaps his favorite production of all was the Mozart's ''Zauberflote,'' designed in 1967 by his friend the painter Marc Chagall. Sir Rudolf also arranged for Chagall to paint the large murals at the new Met, which are visible from Lincoln Center Plaza.
        Sir Rudolf was knighted by Queen Elizabeth in 1971. He left the Met in April 1972 with a gala concert and a performance of Verdi's ''Don Carlo, with which he had also opened his tenure.
        ''As the steadily expanding Met season collided with the jet age's increased mobility for star performers, Bing at first succeeded in maintaining some semblance of a resident company, and, when this became impossible, kept up a steady flow of talent that assured, if not cohesive casts, at least many memorable performances,'' the Metropolitan Opera Encyclopedia cautiously summed up his achievement in 1987.
        He was to have been succeeded by the Swedish producer Goeran Gentele, who was killed in a car crash in the summer of 1972. Schuyler Chapin took the position from 1972 to 1975.
        After leaving the Met, Sir Rudolf taught at Brooklyn College just long enough to decide that he was not cut out for the job. At the same time, he took up employment at Columbia Artists Management, a position he found more congenial.
        He wrote two books of memoirs, ''5,000 Nights at the Opera,'' in 1972,  and ''A Knight at the Opera.'' In 1973, he also took his first role in an opera, a nonspeaking part in Hans Werner Henze's ''Junge Lord'' at the New York City Opera.
        In January 1987, on his 85th birthday, Sir Rudolf married Miss Douglass. The couple's trips to Florida,  Anguilla, England and Scotland provided frequent fodder for the tabloid press.
        In September 1989, Justice Carmen Ciparick of the New York State Supreme Court annulled the marriage. ''Sir Rudolf Bing, as a result of the degenerative nature of his disease, lacked the mental capacity to enter into a marriage,'' Justice Ciparick wrote, citing the opinion of a medical expert.
        In 1989, Sir Rudolf was admitted to the Hebrew Home for the Aged at  Riverdale with what was diagnosed as Alzheimer's disease. He remained there until a week before his death, when, suffering from respiratory distress, he was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital. There are no survivors in his immediate family.
        Sir Rudolf's passing finally removes the sting from one of his most famous barbs. When told that the conductor George Szell, with whom he had crossed swords several times, was his own worst enemy, Sir Rudolf responded, ''Not while I'm alive.''
        Correction:  September 11, 1997, Thursday
        The obituary of Sir Rudolf Bing on Sept. 3 misstated the year when Leontyne Price made her official debut at the Metropolitan Opera during his regime as general manager. It was 1961, not 1953. Her earlier appearance was in a fund-raising concert, the Metropolitan Opera Jamboree, at the Ritz Theater. The obituary also misstated the year of Sir Rudolf's dismissal of Maria Callas. It was 1958, not 1968.
        Correction:  September 19, 1997, Friday  An obituary of Sir Rudolf Bing on Sept. 3 referred incorrectly to the departure of Maria Callas from the Metropolitan Opera after her dismissal by Sir Rudolf in 1958. It was not permanent; she returned to the Met in ''Tosca'' in 1965, seven years before his retirement.
      