
        Eileen Heckart, the actress with a smoky voice and toothsome smile who won an Oscar for ''Butterflies Are Free,'' three Emmys and a special lifetime achievement Tony, died on Monday at her home in Norwalk, Conn. She was 82.
''
        Her best-remembered film roles include the mother of Rocky Graziano in ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' (1956) Marilyn Monroe's waitress friend in ''Bus Stop'' (also 1956) and the overbearing mother of the blind boy in ''Butterflies Are Free,'' for which she won the Academy Award as best supporting actress in 1972.
But the actress often said in interviews that her heart belonged to the stage and that was where she performed the bulk of her work.
''
        The actress was born Anna Eileen Heckart in Columbus, Ohio, on March 29, 1919.
Heckart is what one might describe as a long actress,'' Mr. Rich continued, ''long of face, of torso, of tongue.
''
        Correction:  January 4, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the actress Eileen Heckart on Wednesday referred incorrectly to her Broadway appearance as the mother (Mrs. Banks) in ''Barefoot in the Park.

        Bibi Osterwald, an actress in theater, television and films, died on Jan. 2 in Burbank, Calif. She was 83 and lived in Burbank.
In the golden age of big bands she was a singer of renown with Benny Goodman's orchestra and she went on to become a top nightclub singer, a prolific recording artist, a successful songwriter and an actress skillful enough to be nominated for an Oscar.
'' Her performance as an alcoholic blues singer in ''Pete Kelly's Blues'' (1955) won her an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress.

        Edith Bouvier Beale, once a successful model and aspiring actress who later lived a gothic life in Grey Gardens, a dilapidated 28-room house in East Hampton, N.Y., with her mother and dozens of cats, raccoons and opossums, was found dead in her small apartment in Bal Harbour, Fla., on Jan. 14.

        Hildegard Knef, the actress whose career emerged from the dark realism of German filmmaking that followed Hitler's defeat and then grew to encompass Broadway, recordings and a best-selling memoir, died yesterday in Berlin.

        Mary Stuart, a veteran actress and pioneer of soap operas who spent 35 years as the star of one daytime series built around her, died on Thursday at her home in New York.
She was the first daytime actress to have her pregnancy written into the plot.
In the 1950's, when Ms. Farrell had all the concert engagements she could possibly want and was enjoying her regular work with the Bach Aria Group, a respected New York ensemble, she stumbled into one of her greatest popular successes: providing the singing voice for the actress Eleanor Parker in the 1955 film ''Interrupted Melody,'' the story of Marjorie Lawrence, the opera star, and her battle with cancer.
The obituary also misstated the illness central to the plot of the film ''Interrupted Melody,'' in which Ms. Farrell provided the singing voice for the actress Eleanor Parker, as the soprano Marjorie Lawrence.

        Peggy Hewett, a Broadway actress, died on March 1 at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 56.

        Irene Worth, a consummate actress of the English stage celebrated for her performances in the widest diversity of classical and contemporary roles from Shakespeare to Samuel Beckett and including Chekhov, Ibsen, Shaw and Edward Albee, died on Sunday in New York.
Ms. Worth (whose first name was pronounced eye-REENY) won three Tony awards for her roles on Broadway, as best actress as Miss Alice in Mr. Albee's ''Tiny Alice'' in 1965 and as Alexandra del Lago in a revival of Tennessee Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' in 1976 and as best featured actress as Grandma Kurnitz in Neil Simon's ''Lost in Yonkers'' in 1991.
Ms. Worth (whose first name was pronounced eye-REENY) won three Tony awards for her roles on Broadway, as best actress as Miss Alice in Mr. Albee's ''Tiny Alice'' in 1965 and as Alexandra del Lago in a revival of Tennessee Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' in 1976 and as best featured actress as Grandma Kurnitz in Neil Simon's ''Lost in Yonkers'' in 1991.
In her virtuosity she became a complete actress, an artist in tune with her time -- and with other times as well.
''
        The actress had a continuing kinship with Chekhov.
In Berlin, she became an actress and dancer.
She had a lofty bearing that stood in complete contrast to the traditionally submissive Mexican actress.
Fifteen years later, Mr. Fuentes again publicly dissected Ms. Félix's personality, along with that of another major Mexican actress, Dolores del Rio, in a play, ''Orchids in the Moonlight.
Although Mrs. Spaisman never worked with the renowned actress Molly Picon, she appeared with many of the other luminaries of the Yiddish stage.
The cause was breast cancer, said her sister, the actress Caroline Aaron.

        Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment.
She starred in the musical ''Carnival in Flanders,'' for which she won a Tony in 1954 for best musical actress.
Correction:  July 17, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Dolores Gray on June 29 included an erroneous reference, from her lawyer, to her marriage to Andrew Crevolin, a California real estate developer who died in 1992.
She was fond of relating how, for the Warhol portrait (a nine-panel work sold at auction by Christie's last year for $2 million), she took $25 in quarters into a photo booth and spent hours snapping herself doing facial exercises learned as a budding actress.
Josephine Louise Laimbeer was born in Manhattan and attended the Spence School and the Formatta School in Aiken, S.C. She became an actress and appeared in the 1929 Broadway production of a Cole Porter musical, ''Fifty Million Frenchmen.
A meeting with Rita Hayworth, the film actress, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease, led to a gift of about $1 million last year to the Alzheimer's Association, for medical research.

        Katrin Cartlidge, a British actress celebrated for the boldness of her performances in films by Mike Leigh and other independent directors, died on Saturday in London.
Ms. Cartlidge had entered a hospital with ''flulike symptoms,'' said a representative of the actress's agent.
For ''Career Girls,'' she won an Evening Standard award as best actress.
The actress had just appeared in ''Down and Out in Beverly Hills.
''
        The role of Stella also won her an Academy Award for best supporting actress when the director Elia Kazan adapted his Broadway production to the screen.
''
        The ''Streetcar'' role came about because Selznick's wife Irene remembered the actress when it came time to cast the role of Stella.

        Lolita Torres, a leading actress and singer from Argentina who became an international symbol of that nation's golden age of moviemaking in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Buenos Aires.
Ms. Torres acted in 17 films before retiring as an actress in 1972.
He said the actress who played the role spoke Ms. Pienkowska's words: ''Here in the shipyard I stopped being afraid, stopped running away, and became a real person.

        Phyllis Calvert, a ladylike actress who packed British movie theaters in the darkest days of World War II with her performances in wildly melodramatic, escapist costume dramas, died on Tuesday in London.
In reviewing her second novel, ''Consider This, Señora'' (Harcourt, 1993), published in 1993, when she was 83, the critic Margo Jefferson wrote in The Times, ''Everything is richer, as when an actress takes a role you saw her play a decade ago, and lets you read that decade in her face, her voice and her body.
Bright's first curtain design, for the actress Ellen Barkin in 1983, redirected her professionally into a field that she was acknowledged by design professionals to have redefined -- almost single-handedly.

        Vinnette Carroll, the trailblazing actress, director and playwright who was the first African-American woman to direct a production on Broadway, died Tuesday at her home in Fort Lauderhill, Fla. She was 80.
As an actress, Ms. Carroll won an Emmy (''Beyond the Blues,'' in 1964), an Obie (''Moon on a Rainbow Shawl,'' in 1962) and was nominated for three Tony awards.
