
        Nell Carter, the robustly sassy singer and actress who exploded onto the New York musical stage in the Fats Waller revue ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and went on to become a popular television star in the series ''Gimme a Break!,'' died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 54.
Ms. Carter won a Tony for best featured actress in that musical.
The show was a hit, with sketches ranging from ''Hamlet'' performed as a musical comedy to a location rehearsal for a film sequence in which one of the characters, a trained ape, turns out to be smarter than the glamorous actress who is the star of the film.

        Peggy Conklin, a stage actress who found early success in ''The Petrified Forest'' in 1936 and followed it with a wide variety of dramatic and comic roles on Broadway, died last Tuesday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 96.
' ''
        Correction:  March 27, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the actress Peggy Conklin on Tuesday misstated her birth year.
In the first installment she told of reading that Barrymore's marriage to the actress Dolores Costello was on the rocks and of ''turning faint with exultation.

        Vera Zorina, a dancer and actress who starred in ballets, films and stage musicals choreographed by her first husband, George Balanchine, and whose mix of glamour and culture made her prominent in a variety of theatrical and musical fields, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 86.
Correction:  April 14, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about the dancer and actress Vera Zorina misspelled the surname of one of her sons.
Her survivors include three brothers, a sister and a daughter, Lisa, a singer and actress known professionally as Simone who is currently appearing on Broadway in ''Aida.
Mr. Steinbeck had been asked to escort Ava Gardner to a dinner party in Carmel and when Miss Gardner was unable to attend, the hostess asked to pick up the actress Ann Sothern and ''a friend.
''
        Correction:  May 30, 2003, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Rachel Kempson, a British actress and matriarch of the Redgrave acting clan, misstated the name of a character she played in Shakespeare's ''Coriolanus'' in 1932.
A previous actress had been fired for not capturing the character in the final act, when Emily appears after death.
Hepburn, in turn, became such a cheerleader that Miss Parker called the actress her ''Hollywood press agent.

        June Carter Cash, a singer, songwriter and actress and the wife and collaborator of Johnny Cash, died yesterday in Nashville.

        Dame Wendy Hiller, the distinguished English stage and screen actress who was George Bernard Shaw's choice to play two of his most famous heroines, Eliza Doolittle and Major Barbara, died on Wednesday at her home in Beaconsfield, England.
She cemented her fame by playing a materialist turned romantic in a lyrical 1945 film, ''I Know Where I'm Going!,'' and a lonely but resilient hotelkeeper in ''Separate Tables'' (1958), which earned her an Academy Award as best supporting actress.
The actress graciously credited this change entirely to Shaw, saying: ''He changes Eliza mentally.

        Katharine Hepburn, the actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in the Fenwick section of Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 96 and also had a home in Manhattan.
She won an Academy Award for her role as Eva Lovelace, the naïve aspiring actress who learns a tough lesson about survival, in the 1933 film ''Morning Glory,'' only her third movie.
Playing a tough, determined actress in ''Stage Door'' (1937), she read a line from a play -- ''The calla lilies are in bloom again'' -- that became the all-time favorite of Hepburn impersonators.
Life magazine said that ''Stage Door'' proved that she was ''potentially, the screen's greatest actress.
There was still something of the typical Hepburn persona in the steely manipulation and breaking heart of the aging, dismissed queen, but none of the actress's contemporary mannerisms.

        Leela Chitnis, an actress whose half-century-long 40-film career in India progressed from romantic roles to the motherly ones for which she is best remembered, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. She was 93.
''
        Kathryn Crawford, a white actress, sang the song in Porter's revue.
''It is rare to come across an opera star who is as good an actress as she is a singer,'' Mr. Pappano said in The Times of London on Thursday.
A popular dancer and actress before becoming a movie director in 1932, she enthusiastically put her talent at the service of the Nazis.
Writing in The New York Review of Books in 1975, Ms. Sontag said there was a common ''aesthetic'' running through what she called Ms. Riefenstahl's ''triptych of fascist visuals'' -- her early work as an actress in Arnold Fanck's ''mountain films,'' her two principal documentaries and her photographs of the Nuba.
'' Her popularity as an actress made the request seem reasonable; Hitler's appreciation of her role in ''The Blue Light'' made the encounter possible.
''
        Ms. Riefenstahl's only marriage lasted little longer than her numerous affairs during her time as an actress and filmmaker.

        Janice Rule, an actress in film and onstage who became a psychoanalyst late in her career, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
She was pictured on the cover of Life magazine on Jan. 8, 1951, as a rising young actress.
''My ambition was to be a successful enough actress to get myself thrown out of the Social Register,'' she once said.
''My ambition was to be a successful enough actress to get myself thrown out of the Social Register,'' she once said.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died yesterday.
She won the Tony Award for leading actress in a musical over her 13-year-old co-star, Andrea McArdle, who played the title role.
She had not worked as an actress in two years, but she nailed the audition.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday.
She won the Tony Award for leading actress in a musical over her 13-year-old co-star, Andrea McArdle, who played the title role.
She had not worked as an actress in two years, but her audition was a great success.
Ms. Shelley began submitting short poems to Walter Winchell and other newspaper columnists while attending high school in Lawrence, N.Y. She briefly worked as an actress and dancer before trying her hand at song lyrics in the late 1930's.

        Hope Lange, a film, television and stage actress noted for a natural comedic style and intelligent portrayals of women in difficult circumstances, work that brought her two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award nomination, died at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday.
Her earnest portrayal of the troubled high school student earned her an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress.
''
        Ms. Lange was born in November 1933 in Connecticut to show business parents -- her father was a composer and arranger, and her mother was an actress.

        Katharine Sergava, the dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 11 in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had settled in the mid-1960's.
Correction:  December 5, 2003, Friday  An obituary on this page yesterday erroneously reported the death of Katharine Sergava, a dancer and an actress who portrayed the dream-ballet  version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!
Correction:  December 5, 2003, Friday  An obituary yesterday erroneously reported the death of Katharine Sergava, a dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!
