A major movie presence for more than five decades, Shelley Winters turned herself from a self-described ''dumb blond bombshell'' in B pictures to a widely respected actress who was nominated four times for Academy Awards.
Her first Oscar, for best supporting actress, was for her performance in ''The Diary of Anne Frank'' (1959) as the middle-age Mrs. Van Daan, one of eight Dutch Jews hiding from the Nazis in an attic.
She won again for best supporting actress as the vicious mother of a blind girl in ''A Patch of Blue'' (1965).
'' She was nominated for an Academy Award as best actress for that performance.
As a teenager, wearing high heels borrowed from her older sister, Blanche, and with six powder puffs stuffed into her bra, she auditioned during a nationwide search for an actress to play Scarlett O'Hara in ''Gone With the Wind.
During the 1960's Ms. Winters found her métier as a character actress.

        Anne Meacham, an actress whose notable stage appearances included roles in the original production of Tennessee Williams's ''Suddenly Last Summer'' and Eva Le Gallienne's 1964 Broadway staging of ''The Seagull,'' died on Thursday at her home in Canaan, N.Y. She was 80.
''
        Correction:  March 23, 2006, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 2 about the ballerina and movie actress Moira Shearer misspelled the name of the city where she was born.
From 1942 to 1944, she wrote 39 songs for Wills's western movies; was a movie actress herself; and, in 1944, wrote her first Top-10 country hit, ''You're From Texas,'' which Wills performed.
Ms. Reeve, a singer and an actress, won international admiration for her devotion to Mr. Reeve's care and for her involvement in the Christopher Reeve Foundation, which seeks a cure for spinal cord paralysis.
Tennessee Williams had written a play called ''The Rose Tattoo,'' and he wanted the renowned Italian actress Anna Magnani to play the lead role, that of Serafina Delle Rose, an earthy Sicilian-American widow looking for love.
'' Then Hollywood beckoned, and in her very first film, an adaptation of Nathaniel West's ''Miss Lonelyhearts'' (1959), she was nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actress, playing a deceitful man-eater.
When she was old enough to work, her goal was to save $100 to move to New York City and become an actress; in 1943, she left Troy for Manhattan, where she and a friend shared a $45-a-month apartment.
Ms. Stapleton had an earlier disappointment when Magnani won an Academy Award for best actress as Serafina in the 1955 film version of ''The Rose Tattoo.
She was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for ''Airport'' (1970); she won a best-actress Tony that same year for her portrayal of an alcoholic down-and-out singer in Mr. Simon's laughing-through-tears drama ''The Gingerbread Lady''; she and her co-star, Charles Durning, received Emmy nominations for ''Queen of the Stardust Ballroom'' (1975), playing a couple who warm to romance when they meet at a dance hall.
Another Oscar nomination, for supporting actress, followed her work in Woody Allen's 1978 drama, ''Interiors.
In his review in The Times, Frank Rich called her ''a wonder'' and added, ''such is this actress's talent that she can conjure abject terror out of silence and thin air.
'' The performance won her the Oscar for best supporting actress.
(She was not related to the actress Jean Stapleton, as many people have thought.
''
        Correction:  March 20, 2006, Monday  An obituary of the actress Maureen Stapleton on Tuesday misspelled the given name of the author of the novel that inspired her first film, ''Miss Lonelyhearts.
Jay Presson Allen's adaptation for the stage became a vehicle in London in 1964 for Vanessa Redgrave, on Broadway in 1968 for Zoe Caldwell, who won a Tony for her performance, and in Hollywood in 1969 for Maggie Smith, who won an Oscar for best actress in the role.
In its first few years, the role brought out critically acclaimed performances from almost every actress who played it; Vanessa Redgrave, who originated the role in London in 1966, won raves, and Zoe Caldwell won a Tony Award in the 1968 American production.
In 1969, Ms. Allen adapted the play for the screen, and Maggie Smith won the Academy Award for best actress.
Liza Minnelli won best actress for her role as the tragically oblivious party girl Sally Bowles.
She attended a girls' school in Dallas but skipped college, moving out to California at 18 to become an actress.
In 1965, when she was 35 and starring in ''La Mancha,'' Ms. Diener told an interviewer that when she was first noticed as a young actress, the only offers she received were for ''the Jayne Mansfield-type part.
''
        Born in Columbus, Ohio, on Feb. 24, 1930, Ms. Diener attended Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y., where she majored in psychology and moonlighted as a stage actress.
Mr. Powell divorced his wife, the actress Joan Blondell, and married Miss Allyson in 1945, despite Mr. Mayer's opposition.

        Carrie Nye, a stage, film and television actress and a fixture at the Williamstown Theater Festival, died Friday at her home in Manhattan.
''I only became an actress so I wouldn't have to cook or make a bed.
For a time in her younger years she pursued a career as a film actress and might have succeeded had she continued.

        A memorial tribute to the actress Maureen Stapleton will take place on Monday at 1 p.m. at the Circle in the Square Theater, 50th Street between Broadway and Eighth Avenue.
Ms. Stapleton, who died on March 13 at the age of 80, made her Broadway debut in 1946 in ''The Playboy of the Western World'' and went on to win Tony Awards for her performances in ''The Rose Tattoo'' and ''The Gingerbread Lady,'' and an Oscar as best supporting actress for her work in the film ''Reds.
She was an alluring woman and a natural actress who conveyed both tragic dignity and impetuosity.
''
        Correction:  October 24, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary and headline yesterday about the actress Jane Wyatt misstated her age.

        Mary Orr, an actress and writer whose first short story, about a scheming ingénue named Eve Harrington, became the Oscar-winning film ''All About Eve,'' died on Sept. 22 in Manhattan.
But in her version, the familiar antagonists are already in place: the insidious Eve, and the eminent actress -- Ms. Orr called her Margola Cranston -- whom Eve cultivates and soon betrays.
In 1943, a play called ''The Two Mrs. Carrolls'' opened on Broadway, starring the noted Viennese actress Elisabeth Bergner.
The actress Julie Harris played her in ''Gorillas in the Mist,'' the movie about Ms. Fossey.

        Elizabeth Allen, a leading actress on Broadway and in movies who got her start as the ''Away we go!
She was twice nominated for Tony Awards: in 1962 for best featured actress in a musical in ''The Gay Life,'' and in 1965 for best actress in a musical in ''Do I Hear a Waltz?
She was twice nominated for Tony Awards: in 1962 for best featured actress in a musical in ''The Gay Life,'' and in 1965 for best actress in a musical in ''Do I Hear a Waltz?
'' The show was scheduled to open in five days, but there had been difficulty with the actress cast as Juliet.
In 1971, disappointed with the projects she was finding as an actress, Ms. Adamson gathered a group of actors and started an ensemble in a converted storefront in the East Village.

        Bettye Ackerman, an actress best known for her role as Dr. Maggie Graham, Vince Edwards's love interest in the television drama ''Ben Casey,'' died on Nov. 1 at her home in Columbia, S.C. She was 82.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.

        Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village.
In 1993 Janet Maslin wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Shelly was ''a spirited and captivating actress capable of perfect deadpan delivery.

        Marian Marsh, a Hollywood actress of the 1930s and early '40s best known for starring opposite John Barrymore in the 1931 melodrama ''Svengali,'' died on Thursday at her home in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 93.
A petite blond actress described by critics of the day as doll-like, Ms. Marsh was also known for her performance opposite Edward G. Robinson in ''Five Star Final'' (1931).
A hard-working actress who appeared in films until early this year, Ms. Kishida was nonetheless a devoted sleeper, according to an obituary in Asahi Shimbun, the Japanese newspaper.
A former stage actress and nightclub singer, Ms. Webb was said in later years to resemble a cross between Zsa Zsa Gabor and Auntie Mame, and she lived both parts to the hilt.
(A former singer and actress who was a client of Ms. Webb's, Ms. Spillane was once married to the crime novelist Mickey Spillane.
