As a young actress, she consistently won praise for her roles in movies like ''Easter Parade'' (1948), in which she danced most gracefully with Fred Astaire as she tried to woo him away from Judy Garland; ''Kiss Me Kate'' (1953), in which she portrayed Lois Lane, the nightclub hoofer who became Bianca in Cole Porter's version of ''Taming of the Shrew''; and ''On the Town'' (1949), which paired her with Jules Munshin, the sidekick of Frank Sinatra and Gene Kelly, sailors desperately looking for girls on their 24-hour leave in New York.

        Beatrice Winde, a character actress of stage, film and television, died on Jan. 3 at her home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, two days short of her 80th birthday.
Her nomination for best supporting actress in a musical, in Melvin Van Peebles's ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death,'' was the first of seven she received.
The Audelco Award for best supporting actress was given for her portrayal of the godmother in ''A Lesson Before Dying,'' staged by the Signature Theater Company.
Correction:  January 27, 2004, Tuesday  Because of editing errors, an obituary of the Broadway and film actress Beatrice Winde on Sunday misstated the dates of her birth and death and her Tony nomination record.
She was nominated once, in 1972, as best supporting actress in a musical, for her role in ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death.
The daughter of a cantor, Ms. Oysher began her career as a child actress in the Yiddish theaters that once dotted Second Avenue on the Lower East Side.

        Uta Hagen, the formidable and wide-ranging stage actress who electrified audiences with her Tony Award-winning performance as the ferocious, tart-tongued Martha in the original Broadway production of Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
With her husband Herbert Berghof (who died in 1990), she ran the HB Studios in Manhattan and was celebrated not only as an actress but also as a teacher of acting and author of books on the subject.
Despite her onstage strength, she said she always considered herself ''a vulnerable actress.
'' Once asked what qualities an actress needed to play Martha, Ms. Hagen said, ''Intelligence, voluptuousness and hypersensitivity,'' and then added, ''wit'' -- all of which she had in abundance.
In a recent interview, Mr. Albee recalled her ''extraordinary performances as Desdemona in 'Othello' and Martha in 'Virginia Woolf,' '' and praised Ms. Hagen first as ''a profoundly truthful actress'' and then as ''a dedicated and demanding teacher.
''
        In 1999, she called her whole goal as an actress ''the spontaneity that comes without planning.
''
        She believed a performance should change in the course of the run, depending on the identity of the other actors, the audience response and the actress's mood and temperament.
Joan'' in Berlin, she wanted to be an actress.
As Le Gallienne recalled in her autobiography, her impulse was to refuse, but something in the letter encouraged her to invite the young actress to audition.
'' by Edward Albee, and they were searching for an actress to play the central role.
''Virginia Woolf'' was a turning point for the actress and for Mr. Albee.
Correction:  January 29, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the Broadway actress and drama teacher Uta Hagen on Jan. 15 misidentified the German city where the cathedral is the site of a statue for which she was named.
The legendary actress Eva Le Gallienne coached her in French.
The commission, working under the auspices of the International Rescue Committee, was founded in 1989 by the actress Liv Ullman.

        Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a classical repertory actress who won critical acclaim for her many roles Off Broadway, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Newcastle, Me.
Correction:  February 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a stage actress, misstated the name of the Shakespeare play in which her portrayal of Doll Tearsheet won an Obie.

        A memorial service for the actress and teacher Uta Hagen will be held on Thursday at 1 p.m. at the Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, Manhattan.
As choreographer, actress, painter and writer as well as dancer, she tried to associate the different art forms in some of her performances.
At 13 she enrolled in the Italia Conti stage school in London and soon discovered she was too shy to be an actress, according to obituaries in The Guardian and Daily Variety.

        Virginia Capers, an actress and singer who won a Tony Award in 1974 for her role in ''Raisin,'' the musical version of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' died on Thursday in Los Angeles.
Ms. Capers was an experienced but little-known character actress when she was cast as Lena Younger, the matriarch of the struggling working-class black family in ''Raisin,'' a musical that opened in the fall of 1973, based on Lorraine Hansberry's play.
''
        Ms. Capers won the Tony for best actress in a musical.

        Irene Manning, a lyric soprano and actress who charmed audiences with her performances in 1940's musical films like ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' ''Shine On, Harvest Moon'' and ''The Desert Song,'' died on May 28 at her home in San Carlos, Calif. She was 91.
Correction:  June 12, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Irene Manning, a singing film actress of the 1940's, misstated the name of an Off Broadway musical in which she appeared in 1961.

        Doris Dowling, who made an impression as a husky-voiced character actress in the film classics ''The Lost Weekend,'' ''The Blue Dahlia'' and ''Bitter Rice,'' died on June 18 in Los Angeles.
Ms. Dowling was the brunette sibling of a well-known blond actress of the era, Constance Dowling.
The film gave the actress Silvana Mangano her sensational start and opened as ''Bitter Rice'' in this country in 1950.
A book she wrote in 1955 with the actress Gertrude Berg, ''The Molly Goldberg Cookbook,'' based on Ms. Berg's famous television character, was reissued most recently in 1999.
Correction:  August 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Myra Waldo, an author of travel guides and cookbooks, gave an incomplete title for a book she wrote with the actress Gertrude Berg.

        Jane Hoffman, a versatile actress on and off Broadway, died on Monday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., her son, Sam McMurray, said.

        Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said.
Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the actress and acting teacher Phoebe Brand Carnovsky on Monday misstated the forum in which the director Elia Kazan named her and her husband, the actor Morris Carnovsky, as Communists.

        Isabel Sanford, the Emmy Award-winning actress who portrayed Louise Jefferson, the stoically beleaguered better half to Sherman Hemsley's reactionary in ''All in the Family'' and ''The Jeffersons,'' died on Friday at a Los Angeles hospital.
In 1981, Ms. Sanford became the first black woman to win an Emmy for best actress in a comedy series.
As a teenager, she dreamed of becoming an actress, earning raves at an amateur night at the Apollo Theater before her mother's death quashed her aspirations, leaving Ms. Sanford to take over her job as a cleaning woman.
''
        In 1960, she moved with her children to Los Angeles, where the actress Tallulah Bankhead almost immediately asked her to join the national production of ''Here Today'' -- a job that Ms. Sanford said resulted in her first encounter with discrimination, as she found herself relegated to separate sleeping and dining quarters from her white colleagues.
The Grey home was frequently visited by Hollywood hopefuls, and Ms. Grey recalled that one of her babysitters was a Sennett actress, Gloria Swanson.

        Fay Wray, an actress who appeared in about 100 movies but whose fame is inextricably linked with the hours she spent struggling, helplessly screaming, in the eight-foot hand of King Kong, died on Sunday at her apartment in Manhattan.
The 19-year-old Jeanette Morrison became a movie actress in classical old-Hollywood fashion.

        Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78.
''
        Ms. Sontag's final novel, ''In America,'' was loosely based on the life of the 19th-century Polish actress Helena Modjeska, who immigrated to California to start a utopian community.
When Ms. Herscher received a special Tony Award in 2000, she modestly credited her long career to forces beyond the control of someone like her, a would-be actress born to Eastern European immigrants of no great means.
By the time the blacklist's power faded, Ms. Chaney was entrenched as a stage actress.

        Henny Backus, the widow of the comic actor Jim Backus and an actress and author of wit and verve, died on Dec. 9 in Los Angeles, her longtime home.
