The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, the actress Jayne Meadows.
Audrey Meadows was the second actress to play Alice Kramden, whose bus driver husband, Ralph, threatened her weekly with a fist-propelled trip to the moon.
She pursued an earlier career as an actress, director and writer for theaters and radio stations in California and New Mexico.
Miss Pearl, who aspired to be an actress and dancer, attended Ward-Belmont College, a fashionable finishing school in Nashville.
Miss Pearl, who aspired to be an actress and dancer, attended Ward-Belmont College, a fashionable finishing school in Nashville.

        Lucille Bremer, an actress and dancer who was Fred Astaire's partner in "Yolanda and the Thief" and "Ziegfe'd Follies" during her brief film career in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 and lived in
        The cause of death was complications after a heart attack, said Dale C. Olson, a friend in Los Angeles.

        Lucille Bremer, an actress and dancer who was Fred Astaire's partner in "Yolanda and the Thief" and "Ziegfeld Follies" during her brief film career in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 and lived in La Jolla and in Las Cruces, Baja California, Mexico.
Miss Travers, a native of Australia who had lived in England since she was a  young woman, had been at various times in her life a poet, journalist, essayist, film and theater critic, dancer, Shakespearean actress and scholar of folklore and myth.

        Greer Garson, the actress who epitomized a noble, wise and courageous wife in some of the sleekest and most sentimental American movies of the 1940's, died yesterday morning at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.
She won the best actress Oscar for "Mrs. Miniver," in which she superbly symbolized  the spirit and virtue of a British homemaker in wartime.
With much of the earth ravaged by World War II, the Scotch-Irish actress with titian hair, blue-green eyes and alabaster complexion filled a need for a dignified and intrepid wife-mother figure.
"
        Early on, the actress enjoyed peerless popularity.
Actress and theater were one.
The actress's recreations included raising cattle and domestic animals as well as gardening and fishing.
Fearing she would not be able to support herself as an actress indefinitely,  she had become a lawyer in 1981 and had begun a practice in immigration law that drew her increasingly into public affairs, partly because of a column on immigration matters she wrote for El Diario La Prensa.
Applauding a 1956 work, "Wingless Victory," about Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian poet, novelist and dramatist, and his mistress, the actress Eleonora Duse, Miss Frenaye wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book's author, Frances Winwar, "in her spirited and lush re-creation of the  posing poet, has done well to present him in his own terms.

        Rosaura Revueltas, the Mexican actress who starred in the politically inflammatory film "Salt of the Earth," died on Tuesday at her home in Cuernavaca, just south of Mexico City.

        Luana Patten, a child actress in the 1940's who appeared in the Walt Disney films "Song of the South" and "So Dear to My Heart," died on May 1.

        Dorothy Hyson, a Chicago-born stage and screen actress of the 1930's and 40's who was famed for her beauty, died on Thursday in a London hospital.
Ms. Clark wanted to be an actress, but, she told The New Haven Register, "I grew so tall I was cast only in men's parts.
Ms. Van Fleet was known as an actress's actress, a highly skilled professional who worked with equal ease onstage, in films and on television.
Ms. Van Fleet was known as an actress's actress, a highly skilled professional who worked with equal ease onstage, in films and on television.
For her first screen appearance in 1955, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for playing James Dean's mother in Elia Kazan's film "East of Eden.
" Two years later, she won a Tony Award as best featured actress for her role as the irritable Jessie Mae Watts in Horton Foote's "Trip to Bountiful.

        Brigitte Helm, the German actress who defined the unobtainable, cool-eyed screen vamp as the haunting teen-age star of Fritz Lang's futuristic 1926 masterpiece, "Metropolis," died on Tuesday in Ascona, Switzerland, where she had lived in seclusion for more than 30 years.
She was the most sought-after actress of the glory days of the German film industry, a tall blond beauty who starred in more than 35 movies and set directors against one another in the competition for her services.
Correction:  July 27, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary of the actress Jean Muir on Thursday misstated the title of one of her films.

        Virginia Christine, a character actress who portrayed the motherly Mrs. Olson in Folger's coffee television commercials for 21 years, died on Wednesday at her home in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles.
"
        The actress, whose name was originally Virginia Kraft, was born in Stanton, Iowa, in 1920.

        Aliki Vouyouklaki, a film actress who was the darling of towns and villages throughout Greece and who never seemed to age over a career that spanned more than four decades, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Athens Medical Center.
Her greatest triumph was playing a runaway heiress opposite Clark Gable's cynical reporter in Frank Capra's film comedy "It Happened One Night," a performance that won her an Academy Award as best actress in 1934.
In 1927 the young Leland Hayward, who would become a celebrated theatrical producer, told the director Frank Capra that Miss Colbert was "a real headline maker, the finest young actress that's hit Broadway in years.
"
        When Oscar time rolled around, the film won the five top awards: best picture, best writer, best director, best actor and best actress.
"
        "All this is a sad pity," he wrote, "because she is, within her limits, an excellent actress and those limits she imposes on herself.I have for years had a definite affection for her as a person, but these rehearsals are wilting it considerably.

        The badly decomposed body of the actress and model Margaux Hemingway, who was once described as the face of a generation, was discovered by friends yesterday  in her home in Santa Monica, Calif., the police said.

        Pamela Mason, an author, actress, talk-show host and former wife of the actor James Mason, died on Saturday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 80.

        The badly decomposed body of the actress and model Margaux Hemingway, who was once described as the face of a generation, was discovered by friends on Monday  in her home in Santa Monica, Calif., the police said.

        Brenda Forbes, a character actress who gave vital support onstage to Katharine Cornell, Alfred Lunt, Lynn Fontanne and other stars during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Born in London in 1909, Miss Forbes came from a theatrical family: her mother, Mary Forbes, was an actress and her brother Ralph Forbes was an actor.

        Alvaleta Guess, an actress who appeared in the musical ''Swinging on a Star'' last season on Broadway, died on Sept. 2 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.

        Bibi Besch, an actress who appeared on many of television's most popular shows and was on the board of the Screen Actors Guild, died last Saturday at the Daniel Freeman Hospital in Los Angeles.
Ms. Besch, a daughter of the actress Gusti Huber and the mother of the actress Samantha Mathis, appeared on such television series as ''Northern Exposure,'' ''E.R.,'' ''L.A.
Ms. Besch, a daughter of the actress Gusti Huber and the mother of the actress Samantha Mathis, appeared on such television series as ''Northern Exposure,'' ''E.R.,'' ''L.A.

        The actress and film director Christine Pascal, who made her movie acting debut at 21 and directed her first film at 25, has died at the age of 42, her husband's production agency said yesterday in Paris.
''She was extraordinarily sensitive, and she showed it in the films she made as a director and as an actress.
She returned to France for good after a divorce in 1948 from Power, who went on to marry the actress Linda Christian.
Correction:  September 24, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary of the actress Dorothy Lamour yesterday reversed parts of the name of her second husband in some copies.
''She is an actress of individuality and power.
In 1931, after working for a local radio station as an announcer, actress and occasionally a singer, she moved to New York, where she sang on network radio programs, although she considered herself primarily an actress.
In 1931, after working for a local radio station as an announcer, actress and occasionally a singer, she moved to New York, where she sang on network radio programs, although she considered herself primarily an actress.

        Beryl Reid, the versatile British character actress who won a Tony Award in 1967 for her performance in ''The Killing of Sister George'' and was one of the most popular stars on the London stage and on British television, died on Sunday.
'' June was a lusty, cigar-smoking soap opera actress whose role as a rural nurse named Sister George was being excised from a long-running radio serial.
Correction:  October 22, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary of the actress Laura La Plante on Thursday misspelled the surname of her first husband.
As actress, singer, adapter of plays, radio personality and teacher, Ms. Kressyn was one of the most popular artists in the Yiddish-speaking theater, brightening musicals as well as plays over a period of 60 years.
In reviewing the musical ''A Cowboy in Israel'' in The New York Times, Richard F. Shepard said that the actress, ''rising to the occasion as usual, plays the tsoriss-ridden heroine -- no laughs, all trouble -- who stands to inherit a fortune if only she marries.

        Virginia Cherrill, a 1930's actress who starred as a beautiful, blind flower girl in the classic Charlie Chaplin silent film ''City Lights'' (1931), died late Thursday in a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 88 and had settled in Santa Barbara in 1950.
Later she said, ''I was no great shakes as an actress.

        Mary Rolfe, a radio and stage actress, died on Oct. 28 at Maui Memorial Hospital in Hawaii.
Mrs. Shaw was born in New York City and grew up in Hollywood, where, at the age of 15, she became an actress.

        Virginia Downing, an actress in theater, films and television for 70 years, died on Nov. 21 in Manhattan.

        Kay Strozzi, an actress who appeared on Broadway in the 1920's and 30's and who also performed on radio and television, died on Thursday at the Bayberry Nursing Home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 96.

        Rita Lynn, an actress in radio and television who also helped develop the use of theatrical performances as therapy for psychiatric patients, died on Jan. 21  at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 74.
