
        Elizabeth Montgomery, the pert actress who enchanted television audiences as the star of the long-running comedy series "Bewitched," died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles.
In it, the actress portrayed the reporter Edna Buchanan, whom she had played in "The Corpse Had a Familiar Face" in 1994.
Her mother, Elizabeth Allen Montgomery, was an actress.

        Sally Moffet, a stage and television actress, died on Monday at her home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. She was 63.
Other major roles were a rebellious student in "These Glamour Girls" (1939), a shallow performer in "Ziegfeld Girl" (1941) and an alcoholic actress in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952).
"
        The actress, a star at MGM for 17 years, was a quintessential product of the Hollywood studio system.

        Mary Doyle, an actress in theater, films and television, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Other major roles were a rebellious student in "These Glamour Girls" (1939), a shallow performer in "Ziegfeld Girl" (1941) and an alcoholic actress in the thrall of a megalomaniac Hollywood producer (Kirk Douglas) in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952).
"
        The actress, a star at MGM for 17 years, was a quintessential product of the Hollywood studio system.
" Stage-struck, she joined Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theater as an actress.

        Clarice Blackburn, an actress and television writer, died at her home in Manhattan on Saturday.

        Phyllis Brooks, a popular film and stage actress in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at her home in Cape Neddick, Me.

        Genevieve Tobin, an actress who worked in theater and films, died on Monday at Las Encinas Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. She was 93.

        Janet Ward, an actress who appeared on the stage in "The Impossible Years," "Middle of the Night" and "The Egg," died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.

        Ida Lupino, an earthy, intelligent movie actress who created a luminous gallery of worldly wise villainesses, gangster's molls and hand-wringing neurotics, died on Thursday night at her home in Burbank, Calif. She was 77 years old.
The actress was also celebrated for directing eight provocative and socially relevant feature films and scores of episodes of many long-running television series, including "The Untouchables," "Have Gun, Will Travel" and "Alfred Hitchcock Presents.
Her father, Stanley Lupino, was a noted comedian, and her mother, Connie Emerald, was an actress who was also descended from a theatrical family.
The New York film critics honored her as the best actress of 1943 for her portrayal in "The Hard Way" of a ruthless woman who propels her younger sister to stardom and destroys everyone in her way.
She insisted she was not a born actress, saying: "I study and work hard.

        Esther Muir, a character actress who began her career on Broadway in the 1920's and went on to appear in some 70 films, died on Aug. 1 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 92 and lived in Somers, N.Y.
        Ms. Muir started modeling while still in high school in New York City and soon landed a role in a show called "Greenwich Village Follies.
She is survived by a daughter, Jacqueline Coslow of Manhattan, who is also an actress, and by two grandchildren.
      
A singer, actress, radio personality, painter and sculptor, Ms. Venuta was best known as an active participant in New York theater for more than 50 years.

        Louise Lorimer, an actress who appeared on Broadway, in films and on television, died on Aug. 12 at her home in Newton, Mass.
She is the actress Jenny Quayle, a granddaughter.
      

        Carmen Sylva Mathews, an actress, environmentalist and philanthropist who established a summer camp for disadvantaged children, died on Thursday at her farm in Redding, Conn. She was 84 years old.

        Mary Wickes, a tart-tongued character actress whose long career on the stage  and in films extended from "The Man Who Came to Dinner" to the two "Sister Act"  movies, died on Sunday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center.
She was also in "Anna Lucasta," "White Christmas," "The Actress," "The Music Man" and "Postcards From the Edge," in which she played Meryl Streep's grandmother.

        Viveca Lindfors, the tall, dark and square-shouldered Swedish actress whose towering presence made her a star in dozens of movies and plays, died yesterday  in Uppsala, Sweden.
The actress, who lived in Manhattan, had returned to her home city  in July to tour in the play "In Search of Strindberg," Ms. Tabori said.
Miss Lindfors appeared in many plays in Sweden and was considered that country's leading film attraction before leaving in 1946 for the United States,  where her auburn hair and elegant features led more than one observer to proclaim her an actress of Garboesque beauty.
Her early starring roles in American movies included parts in "Adventures of  Don Juan" (1948), with Errol Flynn; "No Sad Songs for Me" (1950), with Margaret  Sullavan, and "Four in a Jeep" (1951), with Ralph Meeker, for which she won the  "Best Actress of the Year" International Film Award.
She won a Best Actress Award at the Berlin Film Festival for her 1962 performance in "No Exit" and the Special Award at the Venice Film Festival for the 1960 movie "Weddings and Babies.

        Leila Mourad, an Egyptian singer and actress who rose to fame in the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday, Egyptian newspapers reported today.
They said the Jewish-born actress -- who withdrew from the limelight after a  career spanning 39 years -- died of heart failure.
The actress, who converted to Islam in the 1940's, is survived by a son, Zaky Fateen Abdel Wahab.
      
Calling herself "a one-lady  movement," she was not afraid to speak her mind, realizing that as an actress, "if you yell loud enough, someone will listen.
Before long Miss Adelaide became one of the strongest elements in the show, simply because an actress had  put her mind to making something out of nothing.

        Butterfly McQueen, the actress best remembered for her portrayal of Prissy in "Gone With the Wind," the vexing slave girl who confounded Scarlett O'Hara with  the tearful pronouncement, "I don't know nothin' 'bout birthin' babies, Miss Scarlett," died yesterday.
In 1966, still unable to find work as an actress, Ms. McQueen wrote a letter  to a Georgia congressman asking him for help in getting a job.

        Madge Sinclair, an actress who appeared on television and in film, died on Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles.

        Lita Grey Chaplin, an actress and Charlie Chaplin's second wife, died today at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital here.

        Valerie Cossart, an actress who appeared in many Broadway and Off Broadway productions in the 1930's and 40's, died on Dec. 31 at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan.

        Nancy Kelly, an award-winning stage actress who also appeared in scores of films, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Bel Air, Calif. She was 73.
Ms. Kelly started as a child model and successful child movie actress.

        Kay Aldridge Tucker, an actress and model who was one of the most photographed women in the country in the 1930's, died on Jan. 12 at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me.
And there were many rumors of infidelity with socialites and movie stars, notably the actress Gloria Swanson.
And there were many rumors of infidelity with socialites and movie stars, notably the actress Gloria Swanson.

        Nora Dunfee, an actress who taught for many years in the graduate acting program of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, died on Dec. 23 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.

        Katherine Squire, an actress who had a long career on Broadway and in regional theater, movies and television, died on March 29 in Lake Hill, N.Y. She was 92.

        Yvette Hawkins, a stage, film and television actress, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.

        Tessie O'Shea, a Tony-winning music-hall singer and actress with a bouncy stage personality that cheerfully capitalized on her girth, died yesterday at a nursing home in Leesburg, Fla. She was 82 and lived in East Lake Weir, Fla.
" Her 12 minutes onstage, singing a medley of four songs by Noel Coward, was a show-stopper that won her a Tony Award that year as best supporting actress.

        Ginger Rogers, the vivacious actress whose supple grace in the arms of Fred Astaire lifted the spirits of Depression-era moviegoers in some of the most elegantly romantic musical films ever made, died yesterday at her home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was 83.
The blond, blue-eyed actress, who came out of Charleston contests and the vaudeville circuits to win notice as a cherub-faced flapper with a piping voice and a sassy air in early musicals like "42d Street" and "Gold Diggers of 1933," went on to win acclaim for her dramatic portrayals and an Academy Award for best actress for her depiction of a lovelorn career woman in the 1940 film "Kitty Foyle.
The blond, blue-eyed actress, who came out of Charleston contests and the vaudeville circuits to win notice as a cherub-faced flapper with a piping voice and a sassy air in early musicals like "42d Street" and "Gold Diggers of 1933," went on to win acclaim for her dramatic portrayals and an Academy Award for best actress for her depiction of a lovelorn career woman in the 1940 film "Kitty Foyle.
While her graceful dancing was on display in her many musicals, Miss Rogers also won renown in dramatic roles including an aspiring actress in "Stage Door" (1937) and a prostitute's daughter in "Primrose Path" (1940).
"
        When the actress went to the stage of the Biltmore Bowl in the Biltmore Hotel in Los Angeles to accept her Oscar on Feb. 27, 1941, she stood with tears streaming down her face and said: "This is the greatest moment of my life.
The actress was married five times: to Edward Culpepper, a dancer and actor known in vaudeville as Jack Pepper (1928 to 1931); the actor Lew Ayres (1934 to 1940); Jack Briggs, another actor (1943 to 1949); Jacques Bergerac, a French actor and businessman (1953 to 1957), and William Marshall, a director and producer (1961-1967).

        Isabel Leighton Bunker, whose long career as an actress and writer embraced theater, journalism and television, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
