
        Esther Ralston, a silent-screen actress and vaudeville star who was known for a time as "the American Venus" for her starring role in the 1926 film of that name, died on Jan. 14 at her home in Ventura, Calif. She was 91.

        Sherry Mathis, an actress who performed on Broadway and in the daytime soap opera "Search for Tomorrow," died on Jan. 23 in Memphis.

        Hilda Simms, an actress best known for her starring role on Broadway in "Anna Lucasta," died on Sunday in Buffalo at the home of her sister Evelyn Sharp.

        Murial Williams Hart, a Broadway actress of the 1930's and a soap-opera heroine of the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday at York Hospital in York, Me.

        Maria St. Just, an actress and longtime friend of Tennessee Williams, died on Tuesday at her home in London.

        Anita Morris, an actress who was nominated for a 1982 Tony Award for her exuberant performance as a brassy redhead in black-lace body stocking in the musical "Nine," died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.
Ms. Morris was nominated that year for best featured actress in a musical, and also won a Drama Desk award for her performance.

        Mai Zetterling, the Swedish actress who went on to a career as one of Europe's busiest female film directors, died on Tuesday in London.

        Lili Damita, a French-born actress who became one of Hollywood's most glamorous celebrities in the early years of talking pictures, died on Monday in Good Samaritan Medical Center in Palm Beach, Fla. She was thought to be about 90, and she lived in Palm Beach.

        Paula Trueman, an actress whose career in theater and films spanned more than six decades, died on Wednesday in New York Hospital.

        Melina Mercouri, the vivacious actress with a husky laugh who went on to become Greece's Minister of Culture, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Coming from a politically prominent family, the actress was a passionate anti-Fascist who lost her citizenship and property in 1967 for her aggressive opposition to the junta that held power in Athens for seven years, until 1974.
" Politics and Pacifism
        The outspoken actress and politician with a flashing smile and feline movements was a favorite of interviewers, who called her a charming, forceful and quotable woman very much in love with life.
The wide-ranging contacts and conviviality made her an egalitarian and gave her a liberal education while she resolved to be an actress.
Miss Mercouri was widely praised for her Madonna-prostitute role in "He Who Must Die" and, three years later, for her hedonistic prostitute in "Never on Sunday," for which she won an award as best actress at Cannes and an Academy Award nomination.
She began as a Hollywood actress in the 1930's and became a television spokeswoman for Westinghouse appliances in the 1950's.
In 1932, before graduating, she dropped out to become an actress.

        Louise Troy, a tall and elegant actress who was praised for performances in Broadway musicals, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.

        Nadia Gray, an actress best known for her performance in Federico Fellini's 1961 film "La Dolce Vita," in which she did a striptease to entertain a roomful of bored party guests, died yesterday at New York Hospital.

        K. T. Stevens, a theater, film and television actress and a theatrical-union official, died on June 13 at her home in Brentwood, Calif. She was 74.
She turned to writing after an automobile accident in the 1940's cut short her career as an actress.

        Janis Carter, an actress in film and theater, and the co-host of the television quiz show "Feather Your Nest," died on Saturday in Durham, N.C. She was 80 and had homes in Longboat Key, Fla., Durham and Manhattan.

        Alice Childress, an actress and a writer of plays and novels, including "A Hero Ain't Nothin' but a Sandwich," died on Sunday at Astoria General Hospital in Queens.
Before she turned to writing, she was an actress with the American Negro Theater, and acted in the original company of "Anna Lucasta.

        Danitra Vance, an actress and performance artist who appeared in "The Colored Museum" and "Spunk" at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Sunday at the home of her grandfather, Clarence M. Edwards, in Markham, Ill. She was 35 and lived in Brooklyn.
" In it, she created a range of comic characters including a ghetto Shakespearean actress, a feminist stripper and a genteel "lesbian recruiter.

        Nomi Mitty, an actress who appeared on stage and in films and television, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Cliburn's mother was an actress and her father was a judge and adviser to state officials.

        Dolly Haas, a petite and vivacious actress on stage and screen, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
When Miss Haas made her New York stage debut in 1941 in Erwin Piscator's production of the Chinese fantasy "The Circle of Chalk," Brooks Atkinson, the drama critic of The Times, wrote that she was "an exquisitely beautiful actress, with the limpid grace of a Chinese poem or print.
" Almost four decades later, another New York Times drama critic, Frank Rich, wrote of her, "Everything this actress does is so pure and right that only poets, not theater critics, should be allowed to write about her.
Miss Tandy was nominated for best actress but did not win.
She appeared in more than 25 movies and played the leading role in a number of television programs, developing from a diffident neophyte into an actress sure of her craft, a star adored by directors for her serenity.
"
        In 1929 she made her West End debut in "The Rumor," by Charles Kirkpatrick Munro, but it was in 1932, in the role of Manuela in Christa Winsloe's "Children in Uniform," that she became recognized as a gifted actress.
Jessica is a very good actress, but I never thought she was believable as Blanche.
"They tried to make a glamour girl out of me," the brown-haired, blue-eyed actress complained.
After Miss Raye suffered a stroke in 1991, she and Melody battled in court over control of the actress's money.
Ms. Basquette is survived by her daughter, Lita Warner Heller; a son, Edward Alvin Hayes; a half-sister, the actress and dancer Marge Champion, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      

        Mildred Natwick, a versatile actress who created an engaging gallery of eccentric, whimsical and spunky characters in plays, films and television for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
"
        She received an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress for her work in the 1967 film version of "Barefoot in the Park.
Correction:  November 8, 1994, Tuesday
        An obituary on Oct. 26 about the actress Mildred Natwick referred incorrectly to her debut in a singing role in a musical.

        Iris Adrian, an actress who played the brassy blonde in scores of films from the 1930's and 40's, died on Sept. 17 at her home in Hollywood.

        Lillian Hayman, a Tony Award-winning actress and singer, died on Oct. 25 at her home in Hollis, N.Y. She was 72.
Miss Hayman won a Tony in 1968 as best supporting actress for her performance in the musical "Hallelujah Baby.

        Joanne Rathgeb, an actress, director and educator who fought for greater awareness and increased resources to fight breast cancer, died of the disease on Nov. 19 at her home in Essex Junction, Vt. She was 64.
"
        Since 1958, she had been a producer, director, coach and actress at St. Michael's Playhouse in Vermont.

        Priscilla Morrill, a stage and television actress, died on Nov. 9 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.

        Sally A. Knapp, a singer and actress who appeared in numerous productions of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, died on Tuesday at Gwinett County Hospital in Georgia.
Miss Knapp was a leading actress with Dorothy Raedler's Masque and Lyre Light Opera Company, which later became the American Savoyards.
It's like an actress who selects a role that contains something she wants to portray.

        Lilia Skala, a stage and screen actress best known for her portrayal of the headstrong Mother Superior in the 1963 film "Lilies of the Field," died on Sunday at her home in Bay Shore, L.I.

        Julie Haydon, the actress who created the role of the fragile Laura Wingfield in the original production of "The Glass Menagerie," died on Saturday in La Crosse, Wis. She was 84.
For 10 years she was actress in residence at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.
        She played the mother in revivals of "The Glass Menagerie," and in 1980, still petite with a cameo face, she returned to the New York theater to do the role off Broadway, opposite Ms. Angelin as the daughter.
