
        Linda Eder Jamieson Storrow, a former actress, magazine executive and official New York City greeter for the State of New York who was  host for 13 years of a radio program  celebrating those she called ''splendid seniors,'' died at her Manhattan apartment on Jan. 6.
She made a bargain with her father that she would attend Skidmore College for one year if she could then leave school to become an actress.
In 1995, the actress offered to sell the Oscar she won for her supporting role in the 1947 film ''Gentlemen's Agreement'' to keep the clinic open, to no avail.
She graduated from the Laurel School in Cleveland in 1933 and moved to New York, where she worked briefly as an actress and model before a successful career as a photographer.

        Peggy Converse, a character actress whose seven-decade career in show business included films, television and more than 100 roles in more than 1,000 theaters, died on March 2 at her home in Los Angeles.
She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Portia Nelson, a cabaret singer, songwriter, actress and author who was one of the most beloved New York nightclub performers of the 1950's, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Annie was a damned good Broadway musical comedy actress.
In 1988, at the age of 79, she was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for her performance as Lillian Gish's optimistic friend and neighbor in the 1987 drama of old age, ''The Whales of August.
'' In 1989, 28 years after ''The Ann Sothern Show'' went off the air, the actress sold the rights to the cable channel Nickelodeon, where the show became an unexpected hit.
''In a sense she was too good an actress to be a star,'' he said.
''
        Ms. Sothern is survived by her  daughter, Tisha Sterling, an actress and designer; a sister, Sally Adams of Boise, Idaho; and a granddaughter.
''
        Correction:  March 20, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the actress Ann Sothern on Saturday misidentified the distributor of ''Trade Winds,'' a 1938 film in which she played a supporting role.

        Josephine Premice, an actress nominated for Tony Awards for her performances in the musical ''Jamaica'' and ''A Hand Is on the Gate,'' an evening of black poetry, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.

        Maria Karnilova, a charter member of American Ballet Theater who channeled her comic gifts and vitality as a dancer into an award-winning career as an actress on Broadway, died on Friday in Manhattan.

        Beatrice Straight, a graceful and versatile actress who won both an Oscar and a Tony Award, died on Saturday in North Ridge, Calif. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., for most of the last 10 years.
'' That role earned her a Tony as best supporting actress.
In 1977 she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her performance in Sidney Lumet's ''Network'' as the wife William Holden's character spurns.
Despite her patrician background, Ms. Straight always regarded herself as a working actress.
For Ms. Porter, whose performance won her an award from the Society of Film and Television Arts as best actress and designation by Queen Elizabeth II in 1970 as an officer of the Order of the British Empire, ''The Forsyte Saga'' proved to be a mixed blessing.
And her private life was shadowed  by her success and her travels as an actress.

        Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?
''She was a very good actress, and convinced the interviewee that she really cared,'' Ms. Bach said.

        Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?
The actress, along with Dorothy Kilgallen and Bennett Cerf, appeared on the show for 15 years, with John Daly as the genial moderator.
''She was a very good actress and convinced the interviewee that she really cared,'' Ms. Bach said.
''
        At the height of her success, Ms. Coca, who won an Emmy as the best actress of 1951, was making $10,000 a week.

        Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow.
'' As an established actress with a kindly face and large, handsome eyes, she was so helpful to fledgling performers that she acquired the nickname Mama.
      

        Sally Gracie, an actress whose career embraced television, theater and films, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
In that film Ms. Stanley won praise as a glamorous actress whose life is emotionally barren, managing to project glamour even though she was quick to concede she was no celluloid siren.
In 1964 Ms. Stanley returned to the source of her first inspiration as an actress and appeared as Masha in an  Actors Studio Theater production of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters,'' directed by her old mentor, Lee Strasberg, and co-starring Geraldine Page and Shirley Knight.
The same year, in the British film thriller ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' her portrayal of a sinister London medium who, with her compliant husband (Richard Attenborough), schemes to kidnap a child, won her rave reviews and an Oscar nomination as best actress.
'' She did not win an Oscar, although the New York Film Critics gave her their best actress award.
''
        As it turned out, she did neither, but she did return to films in 1982 in ''Frances,'' in which she played the ambitious, devouring mother of the actress Frances Farmer (Jessica Lange).
Her performance brought her a second Oscar nomination, this time for best supporting actress.
Correction:  August 27, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the actress Kim Stanley on Tuesday misstated the surname of her son and misidentified his father.

        Kathleen Freeman, the veteran character actress whose salty comic talents were most recently on display in the current Broadway musical ''The Full Monty,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
With a jowly face, quizzical eyes and an almost perpetually furrowed brow, Ms. Freeman soon established herself as a nimble character actress, turning her talent for deadpan into a lengthy career.

        Aaliyah, a multimillion-selling, precociously sultry rhythm-and-blues singer and actress, died on Saturday in the crash of a small airplane, The Associated Press reported.
An actress of unquenchable modesty, she once said, ''Shakespeare is so rich and complex that you know perfectly well you can never do it well enough .
In 1989 she played the actress Desiree in a revival of ''A Little Night Music.
She had a distant relationship with her father for decades after he and  her mother, the actress Jane Wyman, divorced in 1948.
After a year at Marymount College of Virginia in Arlington she dropped out because, she said, ''I wanted to do something, be somewhere, I wanted to be an actress, and to be one, you had to know something of the world.
With her sister, Marisa, a widely known model of that era who became an actress, Ms. Perkins captured the attention of fashion editors and society columnists.
Celeste Holm won an Oscar as best supporting actress for the film, and Miss McGuire was nominated for best actress but lost to Loretta Young in ''The Farmer's Daughter.
Celeste Holm won an Oscar as best supporting actress for the film, and Miss McGuire was nominated for best actress but lost to Loretta Young in ''The Farmer's Daughter.
Miss McGuire remained strongly interested in the stage long after she established herself as a movie actress.
Graduating from Pine Manor at 19, she came to New York, determined to work as an actress while supporting herself as a model.
Writing in The Times, Brooks Atkinson said that although Miss McGuire was ''a little inexperienced as an actress, she is personally genuine; the charm she radiates across the play is not merely a theater mannerism.
Reviewing it in The Times, John O'Connor said that Miss McGuire was ''an actress whose presence has been unfailingly elegant'' and that she gave ''a performance of powerful dignity.

        Gloria Foster, the distinguished stage actress who portrayed generations of African-American characters in plays like ''In White America'' and ''Having Our Say,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
That performance won Ms. Foster another Obie in addition to a Theater World Award, and officially established her as a formidable classical actress.
As an aspiring actress in New York, her first job was modeling sweaters.
The play was revived in 1995 by Lincoln Center Theater and received Tony Awards for best revival and for Cherry Jones as best actress.
For her performance, Ms. de Havilland won an Academy Award as best actress.
''
        She is survived by her daughter, Judy Goetz Sanger, a poet, and a granddaughter, Katie Firth, an actress.

        Polly Rowles, an experienced character actress in theater and film whose most famous role was as Inspector No.

        Diana van der Vlis, the blond-haired, blue-eyed actress who caused a stir on Broadway in the 1950's hit ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Missoula, Mont., where she had a home.

        Charlotte Coleman, a British film actress best remembered in the United States as Scarlett, the cheerily punkish roommate of Hugh Grant's Charles in the 1994 comedy ''Four Weddings and a Funeral,'' died on Nov. 14 at her home in London.
'' In 1990 the Royal Television Society named her best actress for her part in the BBC's adaptation of ''Oranges Are Not the Only Fruit.

        Rachel Gurney, the British actress best known to American audiences as the elegant Lady Marjorie Bellamy on the popular 1970's serialized drama ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' has died, according The Daily Telegraph of London.
For an actress so associated with highbrow entertainments, Ms. Gurney's true personality was considerably more humble.
At 10, she sent the actress Jane Wyman sketches for a wardrobe, and received a handwritten reply.
