"
        Her fiery portrait of a barbarian woman who takes revenge on Jason, the unfaithful father of her two sons, by murdering them won the actress an honored niche in theater history.
Many Notable Roles
        Among the actress's other notable stage roles were Lavinia Mannon in Eugene O'Neill's "Mourning Becomes Electra" (1932), Delia in Zoe Atkins's "Old Maid" (1935) and Gertrude in "Hamlet" (1936).
She was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her portrayal of the malevolent housekeeper Mrs. Danvers in "Rebecca," a Gothic romance directed by Alfred Hitchcock and starring Joan Fontaine and Laurence Olivier.

        Dorothy Uris, a Broadway and Hollywood actress and voice teacher known professionally as Dorothy Tree, died yesterday at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 85 years old.

        Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old
        Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Dennis had been fighting a long battle with cancer, said Doris Elliott, a longtime friend.
"
        Then, in 1966, she won an Academy Award for best supporting actress for her portrayal of Honey, the mousy, scared-of-her-own-shadow half of a young faculty couple alternately seduced and brow-beaten by Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in Edward Albee's scalding "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
"
        Her performance won the New York Film Critics' award and the Moscow Film Festival prize for best actress.
Fewer Roles
        Ms. Dennis's success was extraordinary for any actor or actress, but even then, she seemed to recognize that such oversized fame might be ephemeral.
"I knew then I had to be an actress," Ms. Dennis said.
It was the Moscow Film Festival prize for best actress, not the New York Film Critics' Circle Award.
Correction:  March 5, 1992, Thursday
        An obituary by The Associated Press in some editions yesterday about the actress Sandy Dennis referred incorrectly to the actor Eric Roberts.

        Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony Awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old.
"
        Then in 1966, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for her portrayal of Honey, the mousy, scared-of-her-own-shadow half of a young faculty couple alternately seduced and browbeaten by Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton in Edward Albee's scalding "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf.
"
        Her performance won the Moscow Film Festival prize for best actress.
Ms. Dennis's success was extraordinary for any actor or actress, but she seemed to recognize that such oversize fame might be ephemeral.
A long-faced, red-haired, petite actress, Miss Walker said she was never able to play what she called a "gray character.
A long-faced, red-haired, petite actress, Miss Walker said she was never able to play what she called a "gray character.
Although her career was launched and revolved around her widely acclaimed beauty, Miss Colby became an author, a newspaper columnist, an advertising executive, chief assistant to Hollywood moguls and a host on the "Today" show -- as well as a model and film actress.

        Leueen MacGrath, an actress and playwright who co-wrote the 1955 Broadway musical "Silk Stockings" with her third husband, George S. Kaufman, died on Friday at her home in London.
"
        In 1976, when Miss MacGrath appeared as the grand actress Irina Arkadina in Chekhov's "Seagull" at the Manhattan Theater Club, Clive Barnes, writing in The New York Times, said her work was "one of the best individual performances on view anywhere in New York at present.

        Margaret T. Barker, an actress and director who was an original member of the Group Theater, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.

        Ruth Hammond, an actress whose career on Broadway spanned half a century, died in her sleep on Thursday, her 96th birthday, at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J.
        Miss Hammond created the role of Cora in the 1939 hit play "Life With Father" and remained in the cast for the entire run of the show, missing only one performance in seven and a half years.

        Molly Picon, the comedic actress and singer who lightened and brightened the often dolorous themes of Yiddish theater with shows that were sprightly operettas, died yesterday in Lancaster, Pa. She was 94 years old.
Correction:  April 8, 1992, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about the actress and singer Molly Picon misstated the publication date of her autobiography, "Molly!

        Mae Clarke, a film actress best remembered for the scene in which James Cagney pushed a grapefruit in her face in the 1931 gangster movie "Public Enemy," died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 81 years old and lived in Woodland Hills.
Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany.
When she returned to England she worked briefly as an actress, then as a sales clerk for Worth.
" A Lifelong Task Of Creating an Image
        Working with von Sternberg, the actress became a thorough professional and perfectionist, expert in makeup, lighting, clothes and film editing.
The von Sternberg movies were increasingly self-indulgent, lyrical, exotic romances with pallid plots that trapped the actress in elaborate decor and special effects.
The actress, as a freewheeling saloon entertainer, seduces a valiant sheriff (James Stewart) and has a hair-pulling, face-pummeling brawl with a competitor (Una Merkel).
" The director had been searching for an actress who could exude the electric eroticism of the movie's cruel temptress.
Two decades later, the actress was referred to by the press as "the world's most glamorous grandmother.
" Her daughter, also an actress, married William Riva, a scenic artist, in 1947, and had four sons.
Moments after she had finished singing a program of songs associated with her longtime friend Frank Sinatra, the 74-year-old singer and actress collapsed and was taken to St. Clare's Hospital, where she was pronounced dead on arrival.

        Joan Merrill, a nightclub singer and actress, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Merrill was a featured actress and singer in several movies, among them "Time Out for Rhythm" (1941) and "Iceland" (1942), in which she introduced the song "There Will Never Be Another You," which became a pop standard.
' It was like an actress having her name up in lights the first time.

        Hope Miller Lessman, a former actress and real estate executive, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.

        Georgia Brown, a gravelly voiced singer and an earthy actress who originated the role of Nancy in the musical "Oliver!," died yesterday in London.
She was nominated in 1963 for a Tony Award as best actress for her role in "Oliver!," but lost to Vivian Leigh for "Tovarich.

        Virginia Sale, a character actress whose career in theater, film, radio and television spanned more than four decades, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., where she lived.

        Marie Paxton, an actress who appeared in many Broadway plays, died on Aug. 16 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center after a brief illness.

        Ruth Nelson, an actress in the legendary Group Theater that transformed American acting and whose career on stage, film and television spanned nearly 70 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Ruth Nelson, an actress in the legendary Group Theater, which transformed American acting, and whose career on stage, film and television spanned nearly 70 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.

        Shirley Booth, an actress whose warmth and versatility brought her acclaim on stage, screen and television, died on Friday at her home in North Chatham, Mass.
'I Like My Work'
        In a lighter vein, on television, the actress played the title role of an irrepressible maid on "Hazel" from 1961 to 1966, for which she received two Emmys.
"
        The actress was born in Manhattan to the former Virginia Wright and Albert J. Ford, a business executive.
At the height of her career, in the 1950's and 60's, Miss Kirsten appealed not only to opera fans, who knew her as an attractive, intelligent, thoroughly musical singer and a fine actress, but also to a broader public that knew her from her frequent radio and television appearances or from her performances in the films "The Great Caruso," with Mario Lanza, and "Mr. Music," with Bing Crosby.

        Charlotte Jones, an actress who appeared in plays and musicals on and Off Broadway and in regional theater, died on Nov. 6 at Community Medical Center in Toms River, N.J. She was 76 years old and lived in Toms River.
A first marriage, to Dr. Richard Jones of Chicago, ended in divorce in 1947; subsequently Ms. Jones came to New York City to make a career as an actress and dancer, and won her first role on Broadway in 1952 in the musical "Buttrio Square," starring Billy Gilbert.

        Regina Carrol, an actress who starred in many cult horror movies, died on Nov. 4 in St. George, Utah.
" Often blunt, she told one actress: "You've got no talent!

        Mary Green, a dancer, an actress, a writer and a longtime assistant to Agnes de Mille, died on Dec. 16 at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City.
" (1950), she did a reprise of her role in "Pal Joey" in 1952, for which she was named best actress in a musical by the New York Drama Critics.
