In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson characterized her as ''a slender, enchanting young lady with a heart-shaped face, a pair of burning eyes and the soul of an actress.
''
        If ever an actress was at home in the theater it was she.
Her grandfather, Sam Bryant, a onetime gardener at Buckingham Palace, had no known theatrical inclinations until he fell in love with a young Gilbert and Sullivan actress named Violet Chapman, who had inclinations enough for both of them.
As the only member of her generation among the now six Bryants (although Aunt Florence was increasingly an absentee actress), she played boys as often as girls, but regardless of the sex, she soon learned, her forlorn character was sure to die before the final curtain.
Ms. Verrill, who had already recorded the film's soundtrack, suddenly found herself ousted by the actress of the moment, Andrea Leeds, who had become an overnight success that year in ''Stage Door.

        Shirley Stoler, an actress best known for her role as the Nazi commandant in Lina Wertmuller's 1976 film ''Seven Beauties,'' died on Feb. 17 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York.
Ms. Stoler, a native of Brooklyn whose acting career spanned four decades, considered herself the first significantly fat actress to do dramatic roles rather than comedy.
Although her childhood dramatizations in front of a mirror convinced her that she had a future as an actress, the family conviction that it was a metier for loose women dashed that hope.
When she declaimed, ''I am Tondelayo,'' a Harvard undergraduate leaped from his seat and shouted, ''What an actress!
After turns as a stenographer, telephone operator, advertising solicitor and model, she finally convinced a producer that she was an actress.
Her performance earned her a Tony Award for best supporting actress.
''
        Forsaking the Footlights For a Backstage Role
        Miss Lortel gave up a career as an actress in 1939 in deference to her wealthy husband's wishes and in 1947 began an experimental summer theater for American and foreign plays and playwrights in the barn of the couple's summer estate in Westport.
''When the White Barn began, it was to summer theater what Off Broadway is to the commercial theater,'' the actress and producer Eva Le Gallienneonce said.

        Francine Everett, a singer, dancer and actress who was one of the stars of the all-black cast ''race'' movies of the 30's and 40's, died at a nursing home in the Bronx on May 27.

        Hillary Brooke, an actress who appeared in some 50 films as well as in the early 1950's television series ''My Little Margie,'' died on May 25 at a  hospital in Fall Brook, Calif. She was 84 and lived in Bosnall, Calif.
Rarely the leading actress, Ms. Brooke mainly portrayed elegant blondes who were ''the other woman.
Born Beatrice Peterson in Queens, she attended Columbia University and worked as a model before becoming an actress.
Correction:  June 14, 1999, Monday  An obituary of the actress Hillary Brooke on Tuesday misspelled the names of two California communities.
Miss Sidney determined to be an actress at the age of 15 and perfected her artistry over six decades in a versatile mix of 40 films and 100 classical and modern plays.
In her 20's, the petite actress with a heart-shaped face, large, moist eyes and a tremulous voice played anguished film heroines in Rouben Mamoulian's ''City Streets,'' Theodore Dreiser and Josef von Sternberg's ''American Tragedy,'' Elmer Rice and King Vidor's ''Street Scene,'' Sidney Kingsley's ''Dead End'' and Alfred Hitchcock's ''Sabotage.
''
        In Lang's stark cinema of social injustice, the film historian David Thomson wrote, the actress ''caught exactly the fragile happiness allowed in Lang's world and played with a restraint that perfectly matched the fatal simplicity of the plots.
She considered herself not a star, but an actress.
Eventually she expanded her gallery of screen characters to include a chic Eurasian double-agent in ''Blood on the Sun'' (1945), an idealistic journalist in ''The Searching Wind'' (1946), a drudge in ''Les Miserables'' (1952) and a hard-bitten matriarch in ''Summer Wishes, Winter Dreams'' (1973), for which she was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress.
I'm an actress, and I have to work.
''
        Correction:  July 3, 1999, Saturday  An obituary of the actress Sylvia Sidney yesterday misspelled her original surname.

        Nancy Guild, a film actress who starred opposite some of the leading men of the 1940's and early 50's, died on Monday at her home in East Hampton, Long Island, after a long battle with emphysema.

        Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side.
Miles is survived by a daughter, the actress Joanna Miles; a grandson, Miles Brandman, and a sister, Kitty Daffron of Florida.
      

        Ruth Roman, a screen actress who parlayed her electrically charged combination of sexiness and wholesomeness into Hollywood stardom in the late 1940's and 50's, died on Thursday at her home in Laguna Beach, Calif. She was 75.
''
        Ms. Roman quit high school in her second year when she decided to become an actress.
They had three children: Niklas, a brilliant dancer; Mats, 54, and his twin, the actress Malin Ek.

        Bernadette O'Farrell, an actress best known for her role as Maid Marian in the 1950's television series ''The Adventures of Robin Hood,'' died this week at 75, The Daily Telegraph of London reported on Wednesday.
Born in Birr, County Offaly, Ireland, to a bank manager and a gifted amateur actress, Ms. O'Farrell nevertheless showed no interest in the stage.
Ms. Bergman was a sought-after voice-over actress for the last two decades.

        Mabel King, an actress and singer best known for her portrayal of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Broadway and movie productions of ''The Wiz'' and her role as the mother in the mid-70's television comedy ''What's Happening!
Ms. Kahn was nominated for Academy Awards for best supporting actress two years in a row, for her portrayal of a floozy named Trixie Delight in ''Paper Moon'' in 1973 and her role as a saloon singer in ''Blazing Saddles'' in 1974.
She won a Tony Award for best actress in 1993 with her role as a ditsy matron in the Broadway production of ''The Sisters Rosensweig.

        Anne Francine, an actress who worked in film, theater and television and who was also a prominent cabaret performer for six decades, died on Friday at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in London, Conn. She was 82 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn.
        Born into Main Line Philadelphia society, Miss Francine came of age during the 1930's, when New York's numerous intimate night spots offered opportunities for beginners.
