A cousin was married to a son of the industrialist Norton Simon, and through that association she became part of a well-connected extended family that included the actress Jennifer Jones, who was married to Simon, and Simon's sister, Marcia Weisman, a prominent art collector.
''I always counted myself lucky, especially at the beginning, to be in the presence of such a legendary, glamorous actress,'' Ms. Lucci said in a telephone interview.

        Virginia Mayo, who began her film career as a chorus girl and comic foil and then proved herself an accomplished actress, died yesterday at a nursing home in Thousand Oaks, Calif., the Los Angeles suburb where she had lived for many years.

        Sandra Dee, the perennially perky, blond-haired and blue-eyed actress who helped American teenagers of the late 1950's and early 1960's cope with the frustrations of adolescent romance and the temptations of premarital sex, died yesterday at the Los Robles Hospital and Medical Center in Thousand Oaks, Calif. She was 62.
Correction:  February 23, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Sandra Dee on Monday misspelled the surname of her co-star in ''A Summer Place'' and misstated the color of her eyes.

        Simone Simon, the French actress of near-feline beauty best known to American audiences for her haunting role in the 1942 RKO horror film ''Cat People,'' died on Tuesday in Paris.

        Beverly Dennis, an actress who played on Broadway, in films and television, most notably on CBS as Red Buttons's wife on ''The Red Buttons Show'' until she was blacklisted in the 1950's, died on Jan. 20 at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 79.
'' She lost her role as Mr. Buttons's wife in 1952 after the publication ''Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television'' (1950) listed her as belonging to ''subversive organizations,'' probably because she ''signed a few petitions like the rest of us,'' her friend the actress Lee Grant said.
'''
        Correction:  March 5, 2005, Saturday  An obituary on Feb. 14 about Beverly Dennis, an actress who was largely barred from work during the anti-Communist campaigns of the 1950's, misidentified a source of allegations against her.
Her performance in the film moved its director, William Wyler, to tell The New York Times that she was the most promising young actress he had ever directed.
She proved his point by being nominated for an Academy Award for best supporting actress for the picture.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
''I was going to be Joan of Arc,'' she said in an interview with The New York Post in 1969, ''and all I proved was that I was an actress who would work for less money.
She was inspired to become an actress by seeing Helen Hayes in ''Victoria Regina'' on Broadway while still a student.

        Maria Schell, an Austrian actress who achieved international fame in Hollywood and became a major star of German-language films, died on Tuesday at her home in Preitenegg, Austria.
Ms. Schell was named best actress at the Cannes film festival in 1954 for her portrayal of a young doctor in ''Die Letzte Brücke'' (''The Last Bridge'') and became internationally known for her role as Grushenka in ''The Brothers Karamazov'' in 1958.
She was also a prominent stage actress in Austria and Germany.
She was born in Vienna on Jan. 15, 1926, the daughter of a Swiss writer and an Austrian actress.

        Elisabeth Fraser, a versatile character actress with a 40-year career on stage, screen and, most enduringly, television, died on May 5 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles.
When the play opened in 1958, Ms. Bancroft stole the show and ultimately won a Tony Award as best supporting actress.
''The Miracle Worker'' was a resounding hit, and Ms. Bancroft came away with her second Tony Award, this time as best actress.
''
        Correction:  June 18, 2005, Saturday  The obituary of the actress Anne Bancroft on June 8 misstated the name of the acting school she attended and omitted a major award.
Ms. Bancroft won an Emmy in 1999 for best supporting actress in a mini-series, for the CBS drama ''Deep in My Heart.

        Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
He was looking for an actress for his South American tour.
Although she regarded herself as more of a singer than an actress, she appeared in roughly 30 films and was half of the successful radio comedy duo ''The Bickersons,'' in which she and Don Ameche played a mismatched, querulous couple.
Ms. Fitzgerald appeared on the New York stage and as a highly coveted character actress in dozens of Hollywood films, including ''Watch on the Rhine'' in 1943, ''Ten North Frederick'' in 1958, ''The Pawnbroker'' in 1964, ''Harry and Tonto'' in 1974 and ''Arthur'' in 1981.
''
        Correction:  July 27, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Geraldine Fitzgerald on July 19 misspelled the given name of the Macy's co-owner whose grandson she married.

        Barbara Bel Geddes, a critically acclaimed stage, screen and television actress known for her work with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950's and, more recently, for her role as Miss Ellie, the matriarch of the fractious Ewing clan on the long-running nighttime soap opera ''Dallas,'' died on Monday at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me.
In 1980 she won the Emmy Award for best actress in a dramatic series for her role on ''Dallas.
''
        Correction:  August 13, 2005, Saturday  An obituary of the actress Barbara Bel Geddes on Thursday misstated the year of her final appearance on the television show ''Dallas.

        Jane Lawrence Smith, an actress and singer and the widow of the architect and sculptor Tony Smith, died on Aug. 5 at her home in Greenwich Village.
At various times a singer, dancer, stripper, carnival performer, film actress, clothing designer and memoirist, Ms. Friedman was married to Bruce from 1951 until their divorce in 1957.

        Constance Cummings, a versatile American actress who lived mostly in England and, in a more glamorous age of liners and ocean crossings, captivated audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a long stage, screen and television career, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Oxfordshire.
From that inauspicious apprenticeship, she climbed on rungs of talent and drive to become a serious and celebrated actress in New York and London.
'' Ms. Cummings shared the Tony award for best actress that year with Carole Shelley, who was cited for her role in ''The Elephant Man.
Correction:  November 30, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Constance Cummings, a stage and screen actress, misspelled the surname of the co-star of the film ''The Devil to Pay!

        Katharine Sergava, a dancer and actress who portrayed Laurey in Agnes de Mille's dream ballet in the original Broadway production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 26 at her home in Manhattan.
The death was announced by her companion, Sylvia Short, a stage and film actress, who is her only immediate survivor.
