
        Audrey Hepburn, the actress who epitomized Hollywood chic in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at her home in Tolochenaz, near Lausanne, Switzerland.
Audiences were enchanted by her combination of grace, elegance and high spirits, and she won an Academy Award as best actress.
The role was considered the triumph of her later career and a reflection of the graceful way the actress herself had moved into middle age.

        Constance Carpenter, an actress whose roles included a starring performance opposite Yul Brynner in the original Broadway production of "The King and I," died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Some classified her as a singing actress rather than an opera singer.
In an early review, Raymond Ericson of The New York Times wrote that as Gilda in "Rigoletto" in 1963, "Miss Brooks was attractive to both eye and ear, a musicianly artist and an intelligent actress.
She auditioned for Mr. Mann, who was smitten and confided to his partner, Jose Quintero, that he intended to marry the aspiring actress.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Valentina Fratti, an actress who lives in New York, and a nephew, Paul Dubman of San Francisco.

        Kate Wilkinson, an actress who appeared in the theater and on television, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Joy Garrett, an actress who performed in soap operas and on the New York stage, died on Thursday at the U.C.L.A.

        Constance Ford, an actress who appeared for 25 years in the role of Ada Hobson, an indestructably upbeat mother in the NBC daytime serial "Another World," died yesterday at New York Hospital.

        Eren Ozker, an actress and a puppeteer with the Muppets, died on Thursday at her home in New York City.
Advocate of an Early Start
        "To become an actress, one cannot begin too soon," said Miss Gish, and she meant it, for she had made her acting debut at the age of 5.
Under the guidance of the director D. W. Griffith, Miss Gish became the pre-eminent actress in silent films, appearing in classics like "The Birth of a Nation," "Intolerance," "Broken Blossoms" and "Way Down East.
"I wanted to be an actress.
"
        Throughout her life Miss Gish remained singularly devoted to her mother and to her sister, Dorothy, who was younger, but who became an actress at about the same time Lillian did.
When Lillian was 5, a Gish boarder, an actress named Alice Niles, persuaded Mrs. Gish to let her take the child with her to act in a production of "In Convict's Stripes," which played one-night stands across the country.
"
        Her survivors include her mother, Dorothy Boroff of Manhattan; her husband, Richard, and two daughters, Molly and Daisy, the Tony-award winning child actress in "The Secret Garden.

        Helen Hayes, the tiny actress whose big-hearted portrayals of Queen Victoria and other regal women helped make her one of the century's best-loved stars, died yesterday at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 92 and lived in Nyack.
Lights Dimmed on Broadway
        In tribute to the actress, who was often called the First Lady of the American theater, Broadway marquees were dimmed for one minute last night at 8 P.M.
        Miss Hayes's greatest stage success was the 1935 drama "Victoria Regina," in which she played the long-lived British monarch from girlhood to widowhood, aging visibly from act to act thanks to the makeup artist's skill, and her own.
"
        Miss Hayes won an Academy Award for best actress for her first major film role, in "The Sin of Madelon Claudet" (1931).
In 1971 she won a second Oscar, as best supporting actress, for "Airport.
" "Since the Queen is dead, God rest her soul," he wrote, "let the cheers go to her actress, who deserves all the homage the town contains.
When she was in her late 20's and already a stage veteran, the producer Jed Harris remarked after talking to her that she was ignorant, but he later said admiringly that "as an actress, her instinct was always perfect.
Helen Hayes Brown was born on Oct. 10, 1900, in Washington, the only child of Francis Van Arnum Brown, a pork and poultry salesman, and Catherine Estelle Hayes Brown, a sometime actress who remained stagestruck all her life.
Her daughter, Mary, a novice actress, died of polio in 1949, and Miss Hayes then spoke and wrote movingly of her grief.

        Joyce Carey, a British stage actress known for her performances in plays by Noel Coward, died on Feb. 28 at a London hospital.

        Kate Reid, an actress whose hundreds of roles included starring onstage in "Death of a Salesman," in the film "Atlantic City" and in television episodes of "Dallas," died on Saturday at her home in Stratford, Ontario.
A 1984 New York Times profile said, "Kate Reid may not be a household name to the general public, but she is to the theater industry, which knows her as an actress who works constantly.

        Katherine Hynes de Groot, an English-born theater and television actress, died on Saturday at the Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. Ms. de Groot, who was 88, had been a resident of the Actors Fund Retirement Home in Englewood for the last six months.

        Patricia Peardon, the actress who created the central role in "Junior Miss" on Broadway, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan.

        A memorial service for the actress Audrey Hepburn, who died at 63 on Jan. 20, will be held on Tuesday, the anniversary of her birth, at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, Fifth Avenue and 55th Street.

        Eugenie Leontovich, an actress, playwright, director and teacher who created memorable roles on Broadway in "Grand Hotel," "Twentieth Century" and "Anastasia," died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan.

        Edna Amadon Toney, a writer, an actress and a producer, died on Tuesday at her home in Katonah, N.Y. She was 79.
She attended Cornell University for a year but dropped out to become an actress.

        Minnie L. Gentry, a stage and television actress, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday.

        Alexis Smith, a Hollywood actress of the 1940's and 50's who later won a Tony Award as a star of the Broadway musical "Follies," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
In a career that began when she was spotted by a Warner Brothers talent agent in 1941, Miss Smith had an image as a strong-willed actress who often played tempestuous romantic leads opposite many of Hollywood's most glamourous male stars.
Starting out as a young actress at Warner Brothers, she played a series of film roles that established her as one of Hollywood's leading actresses.
"Although pure lyricism is obviously Miss Auger's strong point, there is more to her than that," he wrote, adding that she "is a singing actress of some depth.

        Gusti Huber, a leading Viennese actress before World War II who continued her successful stage and film career in this country, died on Monday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78.
Her mother, the former Eleanor Reed, was a stage actress.
Miss Haber and her syndicated column played a role in a sensational case in the 1970's that involved the actress Jean Seberg, who suffered a premature labor and later committed suicide.
"
        Three months later, Newsweek named Miss Seberg, a white actress, as the expectant mother.

        Barna Ostertag, a theatrical agent and actress, died on Monday at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan.
She received her early training as an actress at the Goodman Repertory Theater in Chicago.

        Rita Karin, a stage, film and television actress who performed in both Yiddish and English, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
She was a former actress and member of Max Reinhardt's drama school.

        Adrianne Allen, a winsome British actress who appeared on Broadway in the 1930's, 40's and 50's, and also acted in films, died on Tuesday in Montreux, Switzerland.

        Edith Meiser, a stage actress, writer and radio producer, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital.

        Zita Johann, a stage and film actress who played Boris Karloff's love interest in "The Mummy," died on Friday at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 89 and lived in Orangeburg, N.Y.

        Rene Ray, an English actress and author who appeared on Broadway and in films, died on Tuesday on the British island of Jersey, where she lived, The Times of London reported last week.
She graduated from Barnard College, was a Fulbright Scholar in Berlin and was an actress and playwright in Manhattan as well as a journalist.
After moving to New York City, she worked as an advertising copywriter and as an actress in summer stock and Off Broadway theater under the name Kay Gillian.

        Ruth Gilbert, a stage actress discovered by Eugene O'Neill who went on to perform on television as Milton Berle's lovesick, scatterbrained secretary, Max, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
A Famous Line
        After a successful stint as a radio actress, she played the secretary on "The Milton Berle Show," and her repetitious plea, "Let's not fight this, Mil-l-ton, it's bigger than both of us," became a line repeated and laughed at across the country.
Correction:  October 22, 1993, Friday
        An obituary last Friday about the actress Ruth Gilbert misstated the place of her death.

        Eda Helen Brooks, an actress and voice teacher, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Reizl Bozyk, an actress who received top billing in the Yiddish theater for more than 60 years, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital Medical Center.

        Gwen Welles, a screen actress best known for her role in the 1975 movie "Nashville," in which she played an aspiring country singer, died Wednesday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 42.

        Lois Kibbee, a stage actress, director and writer who became known late in life for her decadelong role as the matriarch Geraldine Whitney Saxon on the daytime television serial "The Edge of Night," died on Monday in Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She received four Emmy nominations for best supporting actress on the show, and, as an "Edge of Night" associate writer, shared an Emmy nomination for outstanding writing in the show's 1981-1982 season.
"
        Eventually she became a radio actress in Hollywood, appearing on "Our Miss Brooks," "Sam Spade," "The Jack Benny Show" and "The Green Hornet.
Her mother, the actress Lois Wilson Kibbee, made her theatrical debut in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" on a river boat; her uncle was the actor Guy Kibbee.

        Fran Carlon, an actress who worked in radio, television, films and theater, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.

        Patricia Drylie, a dancer and an actress best known for her performance as a dancing waitress in the 1979 Michael Bennett musical "Ballroom," died on Nov. 11 at a nursing home in Brooklyn.

        Claudia McNeil, an actress known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "A Raisin in the Sun," died on Thursday in the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 77 and had lived in the home for nine years.

        Evelyn Venable, an actress whose films include "Death Takes a Holiday" with Fredric March, died on Nov. 16 in Post Falls, Idaho.

        Anna Sten, a melting-eyed but star-crossed Russian actress whom Samuel Goldwyn hoped to ballyhoo into another Garbo or Dietrich in the 1930's, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Educated at Cambridge, she became an actress, and she appeared with Mario Lanza in the 1959 film "For the First Time.

        Carlotta Monti, an actress who wrote the 1971 book "W. C. Fields and Me," an account of her role as companion to the comedian for the last 14 years of his life, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland, Calif., after a long illness.

        Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
With a pert face, crinkly smile and velvet voice, the auburn-haired actress was universally called the "perfect wife.
"
        Of Welsh descent, the actress was born Myrna Williams on Aug. 2, 1905, on her father's cattle ranch near Helena, Mont.
The actress interrupted her career for Red Cross volunteer work throughout World War II.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
Of her postwar film work for Unesco, the actress said, "One little incident to battle prejudice, dropped into the middle of an entertaining film, is worth all the documentaries ever made.
Lauren Bacall, the master of ceremonies, said she admired Miss Loy "as a person, an actress and a face, but also as a woman aware of what went on in the country and the world.

        Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
With a pert face, crinkly smile and velvet voice, the auburn-haired actress was universally called the "perfect wife.
"
        Of Welsh descent, the actress was born Myrna Williams on Aug. 2, 1905, on her father's cattle ranch near Helena, Mont.
The actress interrupted her career for Red Cross volunteer work throughout World War II.
The performance won her the Brussels World Film Festival prize for the best performance by an actress.
Of her postwar film work for Unesco, the actress said, "One little incident to battle prejudice, dropped into the middle of an entertaining film, is worth all the documentaries ever made.
Lauren Bacall, the master of ceremonies, said she admired Miss Loy "as a person, an actress and a face, but also as a woman aware of what went on in the country and the world.

        Janet Margolin, an actress with a string of roles in the 1960's and 70's including parts in two Woody ALlen movies, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles.

        Jennifer Howard Coleman, a painter and former actress, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Coleman's parents were Sidney Howard, who wrote the screenplay for "Gone With the Wind," and the actress Clare Eames.

        Janet Margolin, an actress with a string of roles in the 1960's and 70's, including parts in two Woody Allen movies, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles.
The actress Katharine Hepburn is her second cousin.
