
        Ada Moore, a singer and actress who performed on Broadway and in jazz clubs across the nation, died on Sunday at the Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.
Correction:  January 11, 1991, Friday
        An obituary in some copies yesterday about Ada Moore, a singer and actress, misstated her relationship to Paul J. Ash.

        Ada Moore, a singer and actress who performed on Broadway and in jazz clubs across the nation, died at Long Island College Hospital on Sunday.

        Lilian Bond, an English actress who appeared in more than two dozen Hollywood films in the 1930's, died on Friday at Convalescent Hospital in Reseda, Calif., where she lived.
Mrs. Peskin was the daughter of Louis Schnitzer, founder of the Yiddish Art Theater in New York, and his wife, Henriette, a noted actress on the Yiddish stage.
Mrs. Peskin was a child actress before attending Pratt Institute, where she received a degree in art.
"
        Ms. Morley is survived by her daughters, Melissa Hacker, a film maker and editor, and Emily Hacker, an actress, director and teacher of English.
      

        Miriam Burton Holman, a soprano and actress who appeared on Broadway and in opera, died last Sunday at High Ridge House, a Christian Science nursing facility in the Bronx.

        Marcella Markham, a Brooklyn-born actress who had stage and television careers in New York and London, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

        Marcella Markham, a Brooklyn-born actress who had stage and television careers in New York and London, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

        Nancy Kulp, an actress best known for her role as the secretary Jane Hathaway on the television series "The Beverly Hillbillies," died of cancer on Sunday at a friend's home.

        Jane Lloyd-Jones, a stage actress, died yesterday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 69 years old and had homes in Woodstock, N.Y., and Manhattan.
Off Broadway, the actress had leading roles in "No Exit," "The Daughters of Atrius" and "Macbeth" and in a 1970 production of "Little Murders" at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven.

        Gloria Holden, an actress whose film career spanned three decades, died Friday after a heart attack.
The London-born actress played the wife of Paul Muni in the Oscar-winning 1937 film "The Life of Emile Zola.

        Natalie Schafer, an actress best known as the stranded millionaire's wife, Lovey, on the long-running television series "Gilligan's Island," died on Wednesday at her home.

        Emily McLaughlin, an actress who was a star in the television soap opera "General Hospital" for nearly three decades, died of cancer on Friday at her home here.
Ms. Lansbury, who had written a number of scholarly literary works, began writing fiction late in her career when her cousin, the actress Angela Lansbury, said to her seven years ago, "Darling, are you going to go on all your life writing those dreary academic books that nobody reads?

        Edwina Booth, an actress who made headlines in the 1930's when a mysterious illness ended her film career, died Saturday.

        Coral Browne, an actress who had leading tragic and comic roles on the stage, mostly in London, and played urbane characters in occasional films, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.
The Australian-born actress with chiseled features and a patrician manner began appearing with the Old Vic in London in 1951 in such Shakespearean plays as "Othello," "King Lear," "Troilus and Cressida," "Hamlet" and "Macbeth.
"  An Early Start, Long Run
        In films, Miss Browne was the cynical and tippling actress and friend of the title character in "Auntie Mame" in 1958.
At 17, she filled in for an actress and liked it so well she changed direction, appearing in 28 plays in Australia.

        Bertice Reading, an American jazz singer and actress who became a theater and cabaret star in Britain, died on Saturday at King's College Hospital.
"
        She received a 1959 Tony nomination as best supporting actress when "Requiem" moved to Broadway.

        Heidi Bruehl, an actress and singer, died on Saturday in a hospital at this resort near Munich.

        Dame Peggy Ashcroft, an actress who was in the forefront of British theater for more than half a century, died yesterday in London.
She was made a Dame of the British Empire in 1956 and in 1962 she became the first British actress to have a theater -- the Ashcroft, in her hometown, Croydon -- named after her in her lifetime.
"
        She won a 1984 Academy Award as best supporting actress for the film; the New York Film Critics Circle voted her best actress.
"
        She won a 1984 Academy Award as best supporting actress for the film; the New York Film Critics Circle voted her best actress.
She had previously won a string of awards as the finest actress on the British stage, and in April she won a special Laurence Olivier Award, London's major theatrical prize, for lifetime achievement in the theater.
A Juliet to Remember
        Dame Peggy was praised as a natural actress who projected an inner serenity and moral gravity.
Sir John Gielgud spoke of the actress's "shimmering radiance and a kind of forthright, trusting quality.

        Jean Arthur, the buoyant actress whose piquant charm and infectious laughter enriched some of the finest comedy dramas of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at the Carmel Convalescent Hospital in Carmel, Calif., where she lived for 35 years.
The actress's honesty made even implausible scenes and films appear credible.
"
        The actress, who was originally named Gladys Georgianna Greene, was born on Oct. 17, 1900, in Plattsburg, N.Y., and grew up in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan.
"
        The actress also won plaudits for roles in such films as "Diamond Jim," "The Plainsman," "History Is Made at Night," "Only Angels Have Wings," "Arizona" and later, in 1953, in "Shane," about the disturbing effect of a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) on a frontier family, with Miss Arthur playing a gentle and loyal wife and mother.
In 1972, she remarked, "I guess I became an actress because I didn't want to be myself.

        Joan Caulfield, an actress who starred in films of the 1940's and in television situation comedies of the 1950's, died on Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Occasional Film Appearances
        Her films made the most of her beauty, although she was determined to win a reputation as an actress and not, as she said, "just a decoration.
Correction:  June 21, 1991, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Joan Caulfield, the actress, reversed the identities of the male stars in two films.

        Eva Le Gallienne, who as an actress, producer, director, translator, writer and teacher was for many decades one of the grand figures of the American stage, died late Monday night at her home in Weston, Conn. She was 92 years old.
The Civic Rep's production of "Peter Pan," with the actress sailing to the balcony on an invisible wire, enchanted masses of children, and Josephine Hutchinson as "Alice in Wonderland" with Miss Le Gallienne as the White Queen enchanted grownups as well.
"
        With her longtime companion, the late actress Marion Evensen, she moved to the estate at Weston, which she had bought at a prosperous time in 1926.
During the war years, the actress also toured for the Guild as Mrs. Malaprop in "The Rivals" and returned to Broadway as a star opposite Joseph Schildkraut in two successes: "Uncle Harry" by Thomas Job and a new "Cherry Orchard.
As a result of her work in "The Royal Family," she received New York City's cultural award, the Handel Medallion, and the observation by the actress Rosemary Harris:
        "If you listen to Miss Le G., you can hear 15 shades of meaning in 15 syllables.
Grew Up in Poverty
        Raised in conditions so poor that hunger reportedly left her with lifelong stomach problems, Ms. Jiang grew up to become a beautiful actress, then used her marriage to Mao to reach the apex of power in China and help preside over the brutal persecution and chaos of the Cultural Revolution.
There is no doubt that the former actress offended other leaders, usually men, with her aggressiveness, and many accused her of using beauty and sex to win power.

        Mildred Dunnock, the actress best known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "Death of a Salesman," died Friday evening at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Oak Bluffs, Mass.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      

        Mildred Dunnock, the actress best known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "Death of a Salesman," died Friday evening at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Oak Bluffs, Mass.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
She was an actress who appeared in more than 60 movies and a soprano with the London Opera Company and, under the name Maria de la Hull, with the Columbia Opera Company in Washington.

        Lee Remick, the elegant actress who illumined dozens of films and many stage and television plays, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles.
The actress died of cancer after fighting the disease for two years, a spokesman for the family said.
Writing in The New York Times of her performance in the 1980 television movie "The Women's Room," John J. O'Connor said, "Lee Remick proves once again she is an uncommonly gifted actress whose somewhat fragile, almost stereotyped good looks tend to distract one from that fact.
"
        "I'm really a housewife who is incidentally an actress," Ms. Remick told an interviewer.
Correction:  July 29, 1991, Monday
        An obituary on July 3 about the actress Lee Remick omitted one of her survivors.

        Armina Marshall, an actress, a playwright and a co-administrator of the Theater Guild whose career on Broadway spanned more than half a century, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Correction:  July 23, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary headline yesterday about Armina Marshall, an actress and playwright, misstated her connection with the Theater Guild.

        Erma Campbell, an actress in theater, television and films, died on Tuesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.
"She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper.
She attended Milwaukee Downer College, a girls' school, and decided to become an actress.
Her first Broadway role with lines came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
"She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper.
She attended Milwaukee-Downer Collegewhere she decided to become an actress.
Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
She began her career as an actress, playing minor roles in Hollywood silent films, then performing in soap operas and other radio programs in St. Louis.
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      

        Julie Bovasso, an actress and playwright in the avant-garde theater Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway, died Saturday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan.
In the New York premiere of "The Maids" by Genet, she won an Obie Award as best Off Broadway actress in 1956.
Ms. Bovasso also won Drama Desk and Outer Critics Circle awards in 1972 as best actress for her performance in "The Screens" by Genet.
3 Obies in the Same Year
        In 1970, she won three Obies, as best playwright, director and actress, for "Gloria and Esperanza," which opened at Cafe La Mama.
Correction:  September 20, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about the actress and playwright Julie Bovasso omitted the films in which she appeared.
Mrs. Chaplin, who became known as Lady Oona after her British-born husband was knighted in 1975, was an 18-year-old Brearley graduate and fledgling actress in 1943 when she became the fourth wife of the internationally beloved actor and director, who was then 54 years old.
When she visited the West Coast in her brief attempt to become an actress, she received long daily letters from an admirer named "Jerry" -- the author J. D. Salinger.
"
        She is survived by her children: Geraldine, the actress; Michael, Josephine, Victoria, Eugene, Jane, Annette-Emilie and James, and 17 grandchildren.
She entered the theater first as a singer, then as an actress, and spent some time working in theater production and management before opening her agency early in the 1950's.

        Aline MacMahon, an actress whose stage, screen, radio and television career lasted more than 50 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress in "Dragon Seed" in 1944, appearing as the Chinese mother to the part played by Katharine Hepburn.

        Ernestine McClendon, an actress, comedian and theatrical consultant, died on Sept. 23 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles.
In the late 1950's, after 18 years as an actress, Ms. McClendon founded Ernestine McClendon Enterprises, a theatrical agency, in New York City.
Even in her youth as a contract actress for Cecil B. DeMille, she had an eye for up and coming people.

        Aline Laveen MacMahon, an actress whose career on the stage, screen, radio and television lasted more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress in "Dragon Seed" in 1944, appearing as the Chinese mother to the part played by Katharine Hepburn.
In an address, Sir Peter Hall said that the fiercely private actress might have found the grand service, with performances by the guitarist Julian Bream, the Westminster Abbey Choir, the English Chamber Orchestra and the Royal Shakespeare Theater Wind Band, embarrassing and "slightly pompous.
Though a great classical actress, Sir Peter said, Dame Peggy was also devoted to contemporary theater and, in her later years, "developed an intense and wonderful passion with the camera.
"
        Ben Kingsley, Paul Scofield, Donald Sinden, Willard White and Ian Holm read passages describing the many Shakespearean heroines portrayed by the actress, among them Desdemona, whom she played famously to Paul Robeson's Othello in 1930.

        Gene Tierney, the elegant actress whose beauty bewitched a tough detective in the 1944 film "Laura" and whose portrayal two years later of a diabolically selfish woman in "Leave Her to Heaven" won her an Academy Award nomination, died Wednesday night at her home in Houston.
"
        But by 1946, when she made "Leave Her to Heaven," the actress in Miss Tierney that had been noticed years before by other critics emerged.
She was born in New York City, the daughter of Alice Leal Pollock, an actress and playwright, and was educated at the Gardner and Finch Schools.
