She was a Romanov princess in ''Adoration,'' a murderous chorus girl in ''One Night at Susie's,'' a French actress in ''Cock of the Air'' (produced by Howard Hughes and written by Robert E. Sherwood and Charles Lederer) and a Follies girl in ''Blondie of the Follies.
'' She had been considered, along with Gloria Stuart (currently featured in the movie ''Titanic''), but both were rejected in favor of Margaret Sullavan, then a New York stage actress.
She once told an interviewer that her Olive Oyl voice was an attempt to imitate the actress ZaSu Pitts.
Correction:  January 16, 1998, Friday  A picture caption on Jan. 8 with an obituary of the actress who was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl misspelled her surname.
She is an Expressionistic actress, given to splintering significant words under the stress of emotion and to wrenching her body and chopping her arms in a way that inevitably distorts her singing.
She aspired to be an actress.

        Laurie Beechman, the throbbing-voiced singer and actress who played Grizabella in the Broadway musical ''Cats'' for more than five years, died on Sunday at her home in White Plains, N.Y. She was 44.
'' Her performance in that show won her Tony and Drama Desk nominations for best featured actress in a musical.
''
        Correction:  May 11, 1998, Monday  An obituary of the actress and singer Alice Faye in some editions yesterday misidentified the source of the song ''You'll Never Know,'' which won an Academy Award in 1944.
She graduated from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, was an actress in Canada and studied drama at the New School for Social Research, in Manhattan.
''A singing actress of both wit and power, she finds bitter humor in the character's distorted sense of self: when she barks her outrageous demands to her lackeys, we see a show business monster who's come a long way from her roots.
In the first scene the actress playing the maid accidentally dropped a tray of dishes, and, later, several actors forgot their lines.
She was a character actress who had become a star.
The actress toured the show at colleges and universities and later brought it back to Broadway.
''
        In her 1979 memoir, ''Openings and Closings,'' Miss Stickney, who seemed to be the most quietly confident actress onstage, wrote about her lifelong battle with stage fright.

        Maureen O'Sullivan, a leading Hollywood actress in the 1930's and early 40's best known for playing Jane to Johnny Weissmuller's Tarzan in the series of popular jungle adventure movies, died yesterday at the Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 87.
Ms. O'Sullivan, who was the mother of the actress Mia Farrow, had homes in Phoenix and Grantham, N.H.
        One of the brightest of ingenues, the actress appeared in more than 60 films, from ''Tugboat Annie'' to ''Pride and Prejudice,'' starring with everyone from Robert Taylor to the Marx Brothers.
Ms. O'Sullivan, who was the mother of the actress Mia Farrow, had homes in Phoenix and Grantham, N.H.
        One of the brightest of ingenues, the actress appeared in more than 60 films, from ''Tugboat Annie'' to ''Pride and Prejudice,'' starring with everyone from Robert Taylor to the Marx Brothers.
Ms. O'Sullivan never studied acting and was modest about her talents, telling a 1986 interviewer: ''I didn't pretend to be an actress.
After that, Ms. O'Sullivan had an active career as a Broadway actress, starring in ''The Subject Was Roses,'' ''Keep It in the Family,'' ''No Sex Please, We're British,'' ''Charley's Aunt'' and the charming 1980 revival of Paul Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven.
''
        The actress's honors included a Roman Catholic Interracial Council's 1980 award as ''a distinguished Catholic who has worked to combat racial and religious bigotry and discrimination in our society.

        Josephine Hutchinson, a stage and film actress who gained prominence in the 1930's and early 40's, died on June 4 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan.

        Binnie Barnes, an English actress who was lured to Hollywood after her role as Catherine Howard in ''The Private Life of Henry VIII,'' the 1933 film starring Charles Laughton, died on Monday at her home in Beverly Hills.
When her parents divorced in 1919, she moved to Hollywood with her mother and began a career as an actress.
But by her own admission she was an unexceptional actress, and she decided to become a writer.

        Protima Gauri Bedi, a dancer and actress and the founder of the Nrityagram ensemble and school, which sought to preserve elements of Indian classical dance, died on Aug. 19 in a Himalayan mountain village 200 miles east of New Delhi.
Along the way Dr. Butler's own course became one of the largest and most popular at the University of Connecticut, in part because she turned it into something resembling a three-ring circus with a string of guest lecturers that included falconers, puppeteers, troubadours, Maurice Sendak, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Bruno Bettelheim, Dr. Benjamin Spock, Big Bird and the Wicked Witch of the West (the actress Margaret Hamilton).

        Mary Frann, an actress best known for playing the wife of the comedian Bob Newhart in his second successful CBS series, ''Newhart,'' died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.

        Joan Hickson, a stage, screen and television actress who became an international celebrity when she played Miss Marple, Agatha Christie's sharp-witted elderly detective, in a BBC television series from 1984 to 1992, died over the weekend at a hospital in Colchester, Essex, said her son, Nicholas Butler.
She also played Mrs. Bradman in the National Theater Company's production of Sir Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' (1976) and won a Tony Award as best supporting actress for her performance as Delia in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Bedroom Farce'' (1977).

        Megs Jenkins, a British stage, film and television actress who specialized in playing kindly, matronly characters, died on Oct. 5, said a spokeswoman for the Gordon Rodwell Funeral Service in Felixstow, Suffolk, where her funeral was held.
''
        She retired as an actress after starring as the governess, Anna, in the 1953 stage production of the musical ''The King and I'' in London.
That role, The Daily Telegraph said on Saturday, was her greatest success, and ''as an actress, she knew, like Garbo, when to quit.

        Esther Rolle, a pioneering African-American actress who gained national recognition in the 1970's for her role as Florida Evans on two television shows, first ''Maude'' and then ''Good Times,'' died at a hospital here on Tuesday.
Norman Lear, one of the executive producers of both of her shows, said the once-stocky actress appeared thin but vibrant, and that she had a role in a forthcoming movie, ''Down in the Delta,'' directed by the poet Maya Angelou and scheduled for release this month.
Mr. Lear, who was the executive producer of ''All in the Family,'' from which ''Maude'' and ''Good Times'' were later spun off, said one of his most vivid memories of Ms. Rolle was a musical number she performed with Beatrice Arthur, the actress who played Maude.
She had a theatrical bent and after high school followed her sister, Rosanna Carter, also an actress, to New York.

        Edwige Feuillere, a much-loved French actress whose 60-year career took her from sensual screen beauty to grande dame of the Paris theater, died here on Nov. 13.
'' When she appeared in the role in London in 1968, the British theater critic Harold Hobson described her as the greatest actress he had ever seen.
''
        Correction:  December 3, 1998, Thursday  A picture caption on Nov. 23 with an obituary of the French actress Edwige Feuillere misstated the original nationality of the actor and director Erich von Stroheim, shown with her in an unidentified film.

        Bobo Lewis, a screen and stage actress who performed with the Circle Repertory Company for 25 years, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
'' She moved to New York as a teen-ager and changed her given name, Barbara, because Actor's Equity had another actress by that name.
With her wide-eyed, dimpled good looks, Miss Hervey, who was born in Venice, Calif., became a contract player at MGM in 1933, where she played featured roles in movies and short subjects until she became a freelance actress in the mid-1930's.

        Michelle Thomas, an actress in the television programs ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Family Matters'' and ''The Young and the Restless'' died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Image Award for outstanding actress in a daytime drama series for her acting in that program.
She was born in Boston, Mass., grew up in Montclair, N.J., and graduated from West Essex High School in North Caldwell, N.J.
        She received her basic training in acting from her mother, Phynjuar Thomas, a stage actress who remained her personal coach for the rest of her career.
