In it, they wrote: ''Except for words that refer to females by definition (mother, actress, Congresswoman), and words for occupations traditionally held by females (nurse, secretary, prostitute), the English language defines everyone as male.
Hayward had three children from his marriage to the actress Margaret Sullavan, who committed suicide in 1960, 11 years after their divorce.

        Ruth Brinkmann, an actress and director who was a founder of the English Theater in Vienna, died there on Jan. 18.
'' the ''Because I'm worth it'' campaign for L'Oreal hair products, with the actress Cybill Shepherd, and the ''square inch'' advertisements for Triscuits, the cracker made by Nabisco.
During a life in which she was variously a French teacher in Wales, a secretary, a traveling saleswoman, an Olympic sailer, a competitive skier, a pioneer field hockey player, an actress, a sculptor's model and a movie stuntwoman, Ms. Maillart seemed most comfortable on the frontiers of social convention and  Western civilization.

        Lenore LoPresti, a singer, actress and interior decorator, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
As a young woman, she had careers as both a singer and an actress and worked for a time in production at NBC Television.

        Catherine McLeod, an actress whose headache-induced outburst -- ''Mother, please!

        Frances Foster, a character actress, a stage director and a founding member of the Negro Ensemble Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Far Rockaway, Queens.
The other honors she received included one of the company's Adolph Caesar awards in 1987 and two of the annual Audelco Awards, which honor achievement in black theater: a best actress award in 1978 for ''Do Lord Remember Me,'' and a best director award for 1983 for ''Hospice.

        Cathleen Cordell, an actress who appeared on Broadway, in Britain and in films and television, died on Aug. 19 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.

        Joyce Ebert, a versatile character actress for more than 30 years with the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, died on Thursday at Southport Manor, a rest home in Southport, Conn. She was 64.
Ms. Ebert was a dedicated company actress, playing cameo roles as well as starring ones, and and unlike many actresses she never stopped working.

        Joanne Tree Winship, a former actress who played an active role in many New York City charity benefits, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.

        Sally Blane, an actress who appeared in more than 100 films, died on Aug. 27 at her home in Los Angeles.
Her older sister, Polly Ann Young, was also an actress.

        Ann Dunnigan, an actress and translator, died on Sept. 5 at her home in Manhattan.

        Connie Clausen, an actress and literary agent who began her career by riding circus elephants, died on Sept. 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
They remained friends until the actress's death.
Her father, Walter J. Kingsley, was a writer and Broadway press agent, and her mother, Alma Hanlon, was an actress in silent movies.

        Miriam Phillips, an actress on Broadway and in regional theaters for more than four decades, died on Oct. 24 at the Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 98.

        Louise Campbell, a screen and stage actress, died on Wednesday in Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86.

        Abby Lewis, an actress whose long career embraced theater, films, television and radio, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Manhattan.
She had already developed a celebrity persona that made photographers take as many pictures of her at a premiere as a movie actress.
''
        For her role in ''Brigadoon,'' she won many awards, including the Donaldson Award for best debut performance by an actress in a musical.

        Tamara Geva, a Russian-born dancer and actress who was the first wife of the choreographer George Balanchine, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
