But even though most Americans never saw it, ''Ecstasy'' excited their interest in the actress and shaped her career.
In 1973 Claude Jutra turned the novel into a critically acclaimed movie, casting the French-Canadian actress Genevieve Bujold in the lead.
''
        Sarah Caudwell was born May 27, 1939, to the author and journalist Claud Cockburn and his wife, Jean Ross, the actress and writer who was Christopher Isherwood's model for Sally Bowles in his Berlin stories and the musical ''Cabaret.
'' For many years, she taught courses in movement to actors at the HB Studio, directed by Herbert Berghof and the actress Uta Hagen.
She occasionally worked as an actress.

        Sasha Von Scherler, an actress and comedian who appeared in more than 100 productions in New York City, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Miss Von Scherler followed her mother, an actress trained by the playwright and producer David Belasco, into a life in the theater.

        Lila Kedrova, the Russian-born actress whose portrayals of an aging French prostitute in screen and stage versions of ''Zorba the Greek'' won her an Academy Award and a Tony, died on Feb. 16 in Sault Ste.
''
        The role that won Miss Kedrova her Oscar as best supporting actress and her Tony for best featured actress in a musical was first offered by the film's Greek director, Michael Cacoyannis, to Simone Signoret.
''
        The role that won Miss Kedrova her Oscar as best supporting actress and her Tony for best featured actress in a musical was first offered by the film's Greek director, Michael Cacoyannis, to Simone Signoret.

        Helen Martin, a character actress whose career embraced the Broadway stage as well as films and television, died on March 25 at her home in Monterey, Calif. She was 90.

        Claire Trevor, an Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists -- reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops -- died Saturday at a hospital near her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 91 and had suffered from respiratory ailments in recent months, said Richard Elbaum, a spokesman for the family.
She may be best remembered for ''Key Largo,'' for which she won the Oscar for best supporting actress playing the part of Gaye Dawn, a has-been cabaret singer who, in one emotionally charged scene, is forced by her sadistic lover to sing ''Moanin' Low'' in return for a drink.
In other key roles, she was a faithless lover in ''The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse'' (1938), a conspiratorial killer in ''Murder, My Sweet'' (1945), a vitriolic Broadway actress in ''The Velvet Touch'' (1948), an overprotective mother in ''Marjorie Morningstar'' (1958) and a scornful shrew in two melodramas, ''Two Weeks in Another Town'' (1962) and ''How to Murder Your Wife'' (1965).

        Paula Wessely, a legendary Austrian stage and screen actress whose postwar career flourished despite her having starred in several Nazi propaganda movies, died on Thursday at a hospital in Vienna.

        Nancy Marchand, the distinguished character actress who excelled at playing wise and imperious authority figures -- newspaper publishers, queens, grande dames and a madam -- and who achieved perhaps her greatest fame as the domineering mother of a mob boss in the television series ''The Sopranos,''  died on Sunday at her home in Stratford, Conn., one day short of her 72nd birthday.
Her daughter Katie Sparer Bowe said that no specific cause of death was given, but for several years the actress had been suffering from cancer and chronic pulmonary disease.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
Mr. Chase would not discuss forthcoming events in the series, but if the actress had lived, undoubtedly the mother and son battle would have continued and Livia Soprano would have had the last word.
Correction:  June 21, 2000, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Nancy Marchand yesterday misidentified Livia, a Roman historical figure, in some copies.
Correction:  June 22, 2000, Thursday  An obituary of the actress Nancy Marchand on Tuesday misstated the title of a Peter Shaffer play in which she appeared with the Roundabout Theater Company in 1993.
She attired both Jayne Wrightsman, the wife of the oil industrialist Charles Wrightsman, and the actress Jane Fonda as if for a visit to a caravanserai in Kabul.
She is survived by two daughters, the actress Marlo Thomas, and Terre Thomas; a son, Tony; five grandchildren and three sisters.
      

        Loretta Young, the Academy Award-winning actress whose high cheekbones, pale skin and luminous eyes made her a reigning Hollywood beauty of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday in Los Angeles.
She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif.
        Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress for her performance in ''The Farmer's Daughter'' in 1947, later became a favorite of television viewers as the glowing star who twirled onto the stage in a designer gown each week to introduce an uplifting drama on ''The Loretta Young Show.
''
        While Miss Young said she considered herself more of a ''movie star'' than an actress, she achieved her greatest popularity as the ''first lady'' of dramatic television, with ''The Loretta Young Show.
She won the first of three Emmy Awards in 1953, which made her the first actress to win both an Oscar and an Emmy.
The annual poll of TV-Radio Mirror readers earned her six consecutive gold medals as their favorite actress, and an episode of the series received the first television Grand Prix at the 1959 Cannes International Film Festival.
In 1939, when she rejected a five-year, $2 million contract with 20th Century Fox to try working as a freelance actress, she was blackballed by the studios.
Miss Wells, whose childhood ambition was to become an actress, began her career in small roles in Hollywood films like ''Here Come the Waves'' (1944) and ''The Searching Wind'' (1946).
Miss Wells said that from the age of 5 she wanted to become an actress, and when she grew up she managed to get an audition at Paramount, which led to her career.

        Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx.
She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.

        Renee Orin, an actress and singer known for her roles in Broadway musicals, died on Sunday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Simmons, who was the adopted child of the English actress Margaret Rutherford, had Parkinson's disease, said her daughter, Natasha.

        Beah Richards, whose distinguished career as an actress on stage, screen and television over 50 years was capped this month when she won an Emmy as a guest actor on ''The Practice,'' died on Thursday in Vicksburg, Miss.

        Ann Doran, a character actress who appeared in hundreds of movies and television shows over the course of a career that began during the silent film era and lasted into the 1980's, died on Sept. 19 in Carmichael, Calif. She was 89.
Ms. Doran, who was born in Amarillo, Tex., was the daughter of Carrie Barnett, an actress who appeared in silent films and had her child performing in front of the cameras almost as soon as she could walk.
Ms. Peters, who was known as  Pete during her acting years, was a lead actress from the moment she arrived in Hollywood at the age of 21 after winning a Miss Ohio State beauty contest whose prizes included a Fox screen test.
A highly capable actress as well as an exceptional dancer, she was adept at enriching the characters she played.
The show's star was the temperamental French actress and singer Lilo, who was not amused by the way audiences were applauding this redheaded newcomer during out-of-town tryouts and who saw to it that Ms. Verdon's part was cut back.
The musical that became the perfect showcase for Ms. Verdon's gifts as both dancer and actress was also the first of her shows to be both choreographed and directed by Fosse.
She was also an actress in scores of movies and television shows, including the popular role of Nurse Dixie McCall in ''Emergency!
Correction:  October 23, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the singer and actress Julie London on Thursday misspelled the surname of her second husband, who died last year.

        Mary Sinclair, an actress who was a familiar face to television viewers in the 1950's, died on Nov. 5 in Phoenix.
''I wanted to go to New York and be a real actress.
In the 40's she also began to acquire valuable experience as a freelance television actress, appearing on 36 programs in two years.
The Times reported that she was the first dramatic actress ''to enter video's incubator for hatching its own stars.

        Eugenia Rawls, a theater actress who portrayed Tallulah Bankhead and others in one-woman shows, died on Nov. 8 in Denver.
''
        As an understudy for the actress playing Bankhead's daughter in Hellman's ''Little Foxes'' in 1939, Miss Rawls met the woman who would become her mentor and lifelong friend.
In 1972, Miss Rawls became the first American actress to perform at the Abbey Theater in Dublin.
''
        Although no longer a professional actress, Ms. Mitchell never lost her flair for the dramatic.
In 1949, she even took over a small role in the play ''Mister Roberts,'' with Henry Fonda, for a week when the actress playing the part went on vacation.
That role spurred Kubrick to cast her as an unfaithful wife in ''The Killing,'' for which she won the best supporting actress award from Look.

        Libertad Lamarque Bouza, a singer and actress whose career ranged from the gritty days of early tango recordings in Argentina to the contemporary daily soap operas produced for mass audiences in the Spanish-speaking world, died on Dec. 12 in Mexico City.
'' She was said to have quarreled with a young actress named Eva Duarte.
