
        Margarete Schutte-Lihotzky, an Austrian architect known for her work in Weimar Germany and for being jailed for her role in the Austrian resistance against Nazism, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Vienna.
There she became a member of a team assembled by Ernst May, who was Frankfurt's architect and overseer of city planning in the late 1920's.

        Jane B. Davies, an independent architectural historian whose devotion took her from reference librarian at Columbia University to pre-eminent authority on the 19th-century American architect Alexander J. Davis, died on Feb. 9.
''
        The greatest recognition of her achievement came with the 1992-93 exhibition ''Alexander Jackson Davis, American Architect,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for which she was the consulting curator.
She is survived by her brother, of Dixon, Ill.
        For more than 30 years, Ms. Davies worked on a critical biography of the architect, which she may not have completed; other architectural historians did not produce such a biography, leaving the field to her.
After spending the next six years training as an architect, she worked briefly in Dublin and London before turning her talents, through a friend's offer, to the burgeoning movie-studio system in England, where she earned a place in the art department at Fox Studios.
Soon afterward she met and married Rolf Hamburger, an architect.
For the rest of the 1950's, the master architect and the determined editor worked closely together.
She called her office ''an extension of Taliesin,'' and allowed Wright to install an apprentice architect from Taliesin as the magazine's architecture editor.
Ms. Gordon devoted two special issues to Wright, keeping the aging architect in the public eye when the eyes of critics had turned elsewhere.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
In 1935, she completed her formal training as a landscape architect at the Cambridge School of Architecture and Landscape Architecture in Massachusetts when it was affiliated with Smith College.
