The name came from the turkey farm in West Nyack, N.Y., where Ms. Potter lived with her husband, J. Sanford Potter, an architect.
Indrani married Habib Rahman, who was named India's chief architect and who died in 1995.
A landscape architect from Irvington came in for Faulkner's ''As I Lay Dying.
Her 1958 marriage to John Kennedy Magruder, a landscape architect and a director of the Alcoholics Anonymous Men's Home in Alexandria, Va., also ended in divorce.
Miss Lutyens (pronounced LUTCH-ens) was a daughter of Sir Edwin Landseer Lutyens (1869-1944), the British architect who planned New Delhi and many of its Government buildings, including the Viceroy's palace.
Until Ms. Boutelle published ''Julia Morgan, Architect'' (1988), little was known about Morgan (1872-1957) beyond the fact that she had designed William Randolph Hearst's spectacular California castle, San Simeon.
''
        Ms. Boutelle, who taught art and architecture at the Brearley School in New York, became fascinated with Morgan when she visited San Simeon in 1972 and learned that its architect was a woman she had never heard of.
She said Morgan had ''a special knack'' for swimming pools, using color, light and shape to create ''sumptuous designs that flaunted a hedonism startling for so modest an architect.
For these activities, she was made an honorary member of the American Institute of Architects in 1991, the highest award the organization gives to someone who is not an architect.
In 1964, she married John Damien Parsons, an architect, who survives her.
      
In 1954 Ms. Richards, Tudor and Cage, along with Paul Williams, an architect, and Karen Karnes, a potter, who had both also been at Black Mountain, established a commune called the Land near Stony Point, N.Y. Ms. Richards lived there for a decade, working in a studio with Ms. Karnes; they developed a form of flame-proof clay that enabled them to make ceramic cookware.
A brief marriage in the late 1950's to an architect, Adrian Lozano, ended in divorce.
Preferring to be known as an interior architect instead of a furniture designer, Ms. Perriand subscribed to the modernist notion that furnishings and architecture needed to be developed as a single entity.
) The couple had one daughter in 1944, Pernette Perriand, now an architect in Paris.
Preferring to be known as an interior architect instead of a furniture designer, Ms. Perriand subscribed to the modernist notion that furnishings and architecture needed to be developed as a single entity.
) The couple had one daughter in 1944, Pernette Perriand, now an architect in Paris.
