
       Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 76 years old.
Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 76 years old.
Mrs. Knapp worked as an architect with the Department of the Navy and in Princeton after her graduation from the Cambridge School of Architecture in 1941.
Mrs. Greneker was also an architect, contractor, bricklayer and corporation president.
Mrs. Gugler's husband, the architect Eric Gugler, died in 1974.
Her architectural projects over the next 30 years included Bellevue Hospital, Coney Island Hospital, Kingsborough Community College, the Brooklyn Developmental Center, Brookdale Hospital Medical Center in Brooklyn and the McLean Home in Simsbury, Conn.
        Miss Weber, a native of Chicago, attended the University of Illinois and the Art Institute of Chicago before apprenticing to Charles Morgan, a noted Chicago architect, in the early 1920's.
''
        Mrs. Boston, an energetic woman who wrote during the cold months and gardened in the summers on her four-acre estate, suffered two strokes in March, according to her son, Peter, an architect in nearby Cambridge, who illustrated most of her books.

       Nelva M. Weber Sammataro, a landscape architect and columnist in New York and Connecticut, died on Tuesday at the Rose Haven nursing home in Litchfield, Conn. She was 81 years old and lived in Litchfield and Manhattan.
Nelva M. Weber Sammataro, a landscape architect and columnist in New York and Connecticut, died on Tuesday at the Rose Haven nursing home in Litchfield, Conn. She was 81 years old and lived in Litchfield and Manhattan.
Ms. Weber is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Joseph M. Sammataro, a retired architect; two daughters, Sandra S. Phillips of San Francisco and Diana Sammataro of Medina, Ohio; two sisters, Vera Campion of Rockford, Ill., and Lois La Rue of Pompano Beach, Fla., and one grandson.
      
Her husband, John Alexander Frank, an architect, died earlier this month.

        Taina Waisman Katz, an architect, died on Friday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I.
With her husband, Sidney, and another architect, Read Weber, Mrs. Katz founded the firm of Katz Waisman Weber in Manhattan in 1942.
