' ''
        At 20 she married a fellow showboat actor, Jat Herod, a jazz violinist who joined the Army and was soon entertaining troops, as he and his wife continued to do after the war.
The United States Government decorated her for her many performances in Army camps and hospitals during World War II.
She served in the Army Nurse Corps as a first lieutenant in World War II and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in education in 1953.

        Harriet M. Waddy, one of the two highest-ranking black officers in the Women's Army Corps in World War II and its wartime adviser on racial issues, died on Feb. 21 in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 94.
In April 1943, First Officer Harriet West, as Harriet Waddy was then known, made a radio broadcast on behalf of the Army, urging black women to get into uniform.
''
        The 6,500 black women who joined the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, created in 1942, and the organization that succeeded it a year later, the Women's Army Corps, joined an institution in which segregation was the official policy.
''
        The 6,500 black women who joined the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, created in 1942, and the organization that succeeded it a year later, the Women's Army Corps, joined an institution in which segregation was the official policy.
''
        Major West fought racially insulting Army decrees.
tour of ''The Doughgirls'' and spent seven months in Australia without stepping into costume because the United States Army had by then moved to the Philippines.
' He told me he was cultural editor of The Daily Worker but had just been drafted into the Army and must find a replacement by the weekend.
After he returned to Germany in 1946, she followed the next year, via Paris, after almost joining the American Army in a desperate effort to enter restricted Berlin at a time when almost everyone there would have given anything to get out.
In 1928, she married Chu Shih-ming, an army officer and an official in the Nationalist Government who at one time was an interpreter and aide-de-camp to Chiang Kai-shek.
She enlisted in the French Army and landed in Normandy after the Allied invasion.
She then was a lecturer in the university's psychology department until 1942, when she was commissioned in the Canadian Women's Army Corps, attaining the rank of major.
Col. Robert O'Brien Jr., an Army cavalryman, but declined his proposal because she felt she must go to New York to discover if she had artistic talent.
Ms. Schwartz's familiarity with the debilities of old age stemmed from her years as an Army nurse in World War II, when she tended to wounded soldiers with similar afflictions.
She enlisted in the Army Nurse Corps and served in the Pacific and, after the war, at a military rehabilitation center in Battle Creek, Mich., rising to the rank of captain.
Nearly 100,000 people from 148 countries have studied at the school in the last five decades, among them ambassadors, Israeli Army officers and Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
She was born into an army family and was unconventional even as a child.
''
        Of course, Miss Carioca married many interesting men, among them an American army officer whom she met during World War II, an actor and a prominent playwright.
