Dr. Laughlin recalled that, in writing the book, Miss Hsieh accompanied soldiers of the Chinese Nationalist army in 1926 and 1927, when it was trying to bring warlords in the eastern half of China under control and while she was a ''girl soldier'' with propaganda training.
After two years in the army, she returned to singing, releasing pop albums that were best-sellers in Israel; in all, she had 16 gold and platinum albums there.

        Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington.
Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had lived in Alexandria, Va., since 1980, said her husband, Everett Jones, a retired Army major.
In 1945, Mrs. Jones, then Second Lieutenant Barnes, was one of 31 officers who accompanied more than 700 enlisted members of the Women's Army Corps' 6888th Battalion when they were sent to England.
''
        Mrs. Jones became one of the first African-American women commissioned as an officer in the Women's Army Corps.
At the time, African-Americans were limited to 10 percent of the overall troops, said the Army Center of Military History.
Suspecting that British commanders would not welcome a woman at their headquarters, she accredited herself to the First French Army and crossed the Rhine with Charles de Gaulle and accompanied French troops through Germany and Austria.
She wound up in a less rigorous camp, one for workers who processed fur for the German army's winter coats.

        Phyllis Propp Fowle, a New York lawyer who was the first woman to be an officer of the Army judge advocate general's corps, died Thursday in Manhattan.
Colonel Propp, as she was known to her former Army colleagues, was made a distinguished member of the corps at a banquet in her honor in April 1999 at the Judge Advocate General's School in Charlottesville, Va.
        A native of Laurel, Iowa, and a 1930 graduate of the University of Iowa, she earned her law degree there and was the only woman in the law school's class of 1933.
She was working in the legal department of the Federal Land Bank in Omaha in 1942 when Congress opened the Army to women by creating the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps.
She was working in the legal department of the Federal Land Bank in Omaha in 1942 when Congress opened the Army to women by creating the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps.
As a captain in 1942, she persuaded the Army to transfer her to the judge advocate general's corps.
One involved the Hessian crown jewels, purloined by three Army officers from Kronburg castle outside Frankfurt.
Early in 1947, when the Army discharged all its women, it asked Colonel Propp to remain as the civilian chief of legal assistance, which she did until 1951.
From then until the 1970's, while she was in private practice in Manhattan, she served as an advocate general in the Army Reserve, encouraging female law students to follow her path into the corps.
Mr. Sorge, then 35, had been the Shanghai agent of the Soviet Army's intelligence service for a year.
She accompanied the South African Sixth Armored Division and the American Sixth Army as they swept through Europe.
Women had served in a quasi-military capacity, as nurses, but there were no women in the regular Navy or Army.
She spent the last few years archiving the photo albums and diaries of her father, Bernhard Bardach, a doctor in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I.
The Trumps were also active in the Salvation Army, the Boy Scouts of America and the Lighthouse for the Blind, among others.
