A comprehensive restoration plan for the Everglades is expected later this year from the Army Corps of Engineers, which together with the South Florida Water Management District, a state agency, has been directed by Congress to oversee the huge replumbing project designed to restore the flow of fresh, clean water on which the Everglades depends.
As a student at Vassar when the United States entered World War I, she was so determined to do her part for the cause that she helped form a Vassar unit of the women's Land Army, established to have women work the fields in place of mobilized farmers.

        Chana Timoner, a onetime housewife with such a passionate devotion to tradition and social justice that she became first a rabbi and then the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time Army chaplain, died on Monday at her home in New Haven.
Anyone who was surprised when Ms. Timoner, then a self-styled housewife and couch potato, began five years of intense religious training at age 33 or who was surprised even more when she entered the Army and endured six weeks of grueling basic training at age 39, simply had not been paying attention.
Her Russian-born maternal grandfather had been a rabbi in New Haven, and her mother had been so eager to fight the Nazis in World War II that she joined the Canadian Army in 1940, a year before the United States entered the war and she was able to transfer to the newly organized Women's Army Corps.
Her Russian-born maternal grandfather had been a rabbi in New Haven, and her mother had been so eager to fight the Nazis in World War II that she joined the Canadian Army in 1940, a year before the United States entered the war and she was able to transfer to the newly organized Women's Army Corps.
After working for the National Council of Christians and Jews and as a hospital chaplain, Rabbi Timoner joined the Army Reserves and in 1993 became the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time chaplain in the regular Army.
After working for the National Council of Christians and Jews and as a hospital chaplain, Rabbi Timoner joined the Army Reserves and in 1993 became the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time chaplain in the regular Army.
After a brief stint in Korea, where the Epstein-Barr virus and the related chronic fatigue syndrome were first diagnosed, Captain Timoner completed her Army service at Fort Benning, Ga., where, as usual, she made waves, especially when she insisted on adding prayers for Catholic, gay and gypsy victims of the Nazi terror at a Holocaust service.
She was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, the daughter of a British Army officer, and spent her childhood in Ireland and England.
With World War II  under way, Ms. Standen became an American citizen and joined the Women's Army Corps, ending up in Ohio working for the Air Force.

        Mildred Elizabeth Buller Smith, who cut a singular swath through the 20th century by, among other things, picking apples and digging potatoes for the Women's Land Army in World War I, riding herd on New England milk prices for the Office of Price Administration in World War II and becoming a Connecticut television celebrity as a consumer price specialist, died on Aug. 12 at a nursing home in Hartford.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
Mrs. Blumkin was 20 when she married Isadore Blumkin, a shoe salesman, soon before he fled to the United States to avoid being drafted into the Russian Army.
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
During a crisis in Quebec in 1970 when Prime Minister Pierre Trudeau sent the Canadian Army into the streets of Montreal in response to separatist violence, Ms. Julien and Mr. Godin were among a number of Quebecers who were swept off the streets and briefly jailed.
She flew planes for the Army Air Forces in World War II and will mark another Veterans Day on Nov. 11.
She made a pitch to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and to General of the Army Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, chief of the Army Air Forces, to get women involved in military flying to free men for combat air duty.
She made a pitch to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and to General of the Army Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, chief of the Army Air Forces, to get women involved in military flying to free men for combat air duty.
Ms. Cochran wanted officers' commissions for the female fliers, but there was pressure on Congress from thousands of civilian men who also wanted Army Air Forces commissions.
In 1945, while in Army intelligence, Captain Rosenberg led the preparation of a 140-page report based on hundreds of interviews of prisoners at Buchenwald, a Nazi concentration camp liberated by the Allies.
Her father was Italian and, because he was drafted by the Italian army in World War I, Edwige spent much of her childhood in Italy.
Although the couple subsequently had two daughters, their marriage ended in 1941 after Foster joined the army, leaving Ms. Godden with the children and huge gambling debts.
