While in the Women's Army Corps in 1943 she gained attention for her depictions of military life, including air evacuation of the wounded in the Pacific.

        Charity Adams Earley, the commander of the only all-black Women's Army Corps unit to serve overseas during World War II, died on Jan. 13 in Dayton, Ohio, long her hometown.
The Army first permitted black members of the Wacs to serve overseas in the winter of 1945, when it created the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, an all-black unit,  and assigned some 850 African-American women to it.
Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942.
''The Army soon shattered whatever closeness we had felt,'' she recalled in her memoir, ''One Woman's Army'' (Texas A&M Press, 1989).
''The Army soon shattered whatever closeness we had felt,'' she recalled in her memoir, ''One Woman's Army'' (Texas A&M Press, 1989).
''
        That dignity was tested by both the Army and the Red Cross.
On April 18, 1945, she wrote in her memoir, she donned a Wehrmacht uniform and the couple, armed with a submachine gun, pistol and hand grenades, tried to pass through Red Army lines to reach Allied territory.
Her first husband, Kurt Hirsch, was an American Army officer who took her to Hollywood in 1947.
She was linked romantically with Anthony Barton, a friend of her husband, and then had a relationship with Robin Douglas-Home, an aristocrat and former army officer who was the nephew of a former prime minister and played the piano in nightclubs.
In October 1979, six weeks after Earl Mountbatten was killed by Irish Republican Army terrorists, she angered many Irish-Americans while on a visit to Chicago, reportedly declaring in the presence of Mayor Jane Byrne that the Irish were ''pigs.
As East Prussia was overrun by the Soviet Army, Schloss Friedrichstein was destroyed, and the countess undertook a grueling flight on horseback to Hamburg.

        Margaret E. Lynn, who directed the Army's extensive worldwide theatrical program, which encouraged participation by soldiers, officers and their dependents, died on June 11 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 81 and lived in Reston, Va.
In 1962, she helped found the Army Music and Theater Program, and then for two decades she directed the program, which The Washington Post in 1976 called ''the largest producing organization of music and theater in the world.
The organization that Miss Lynn led, now called the Army Entertainment Program, is also separate from the service clubs where military personnel go to relax and play checkers or Ping-Pong.
When she returned to Washington in 1955, she continued working for the Department of the Army, creating and directing a show called ''Rolling Along,'' which toured the world from 1955 to 1961.
In 1962, she helped push for a new organization to promote and support theatrical and musical productions at Army bases.
The result, the Army Music and Theater Program, was a continuation of more informal efforts dating to the Revolutionary War.
In World War I, the Army set up Liberty Theaters, where soldiers could entertain themselves and develop their talent.
She pushed successfully to convert unused Army movie houses into spaces for live theater.
Later she took Behan's Irish Republican Army play, ''The Hostage,'' to the West End and on to New York.
In 1945 she served in the Woman's Army Corps for three years.
Her father worked there and had joined in protests in 1970 that led to army shootings in which dozens of workers were killed.

        Lynda Van Devanter, whose pained account of her life as an Army nurse in Vietnam focused attention on the burdens of American servicewomen in the war, died on Nov. 15 at her home in Herndon, Va. She was 55.
He had learned to play the piccolo from his Scottish father, and, having fled from Virginia, played it in a Union Army band during the Civil War.
