In late 1996, Speaker Newt Gingrich gave her and Representative Jane Harman, Democrat of California, the tough assignment of investigating sexual harassment in the Army.

        Col. Mary A. Hallaren, who led the Women's Army Corps into the ranks of the regular military in 1948, died on Feb. 13 in McLean, Va. She was 97.
Colonel Hallaren commanded the first battalion of the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps to serve in Europe, the largest unit of women to serve overseas in World War II.
Shortly afterward the word auxiliary was dropped, making it the Women's Army Corps.
Colonel Hallaren was the first woman to be sworn in as an officer of the Regular Army outside its medical branch.
She was named director of the Women's Army Corps, Regular Army, which gave enlistees a chance to try for any noncombat position and provided for an initial peacetime strength of 18,000.
She was named director of the Women's Army Corps, Regular Army, which gave enlistees a chance to try for any noncombat position and provided for an initial peacetime strength of 18,000.
She decided to retire from the military in 1960, well before the Women's Army Corps was finally dissolved and women were formally integrated into all the services in the 1970's without restrictions on rank.
Her mother, who had been a governess in St. Petersburg, Russia, before marrying an army officer, was her first piano teacher, and sent her to school in a convent in Liège, Belgium, when she was 6, setting the tone for a nomadic and international life.
But even as she worked hard to build good relations with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, she alienated unionists, who want it to remain united with Britain and who accused her of being too sympathetic to the republican cause.
She had risen to supervising warden when the Soviet Army approached the camp.
She then spent the remaining years of World War II touring Army installations for the U.S.O.
