On April 25, 1945, as a reporter for United Press, Mrs. Stringer was ordered back to Paris from the First Army front.
She persuaded friends in Army Intelligence to lend her a plane and a pilot, who flew her over the lines to the village of Torgau.

       Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday.
Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday.
Miss Luhrman, who joined the Army in 1918, when she was 36, spent her military service at Camp Lewis, Wash., and was discharged in 1919.
He was stationed nearby as an Army lieutenant.
''
        In 1940, she joined the Army's Signal Intelligence Service, the organization that again broke Japanese diplomatic codes.
In 1941 she left the Army to rejoin Mr. Yardley in establishing a Canadian coding service.
Miss Li was promoted to major general in 1955 and until 1988 was the only woman serving as a general in the Chinese Army, China Daily said.
The 3.5 million-member army is now believed to have four women who are generals.
She took part in the 1934-35 Long March, the Red Army's epic escape from the ruling Nationalists to northern China, and held political positions in the army.
She took part in the 1934-35 Long March, the Red Army's epic escape from the ruling Nationalists to northern China, and held political positions in the army.
There, she met and married Aaron G. Hill, a soldier who shortly after the end of World War I was stationed at Fort Wood, an Army post at the foot of the Statue of Liberty on what was then called Bedloes Island in New York Harbor.
They lived in one of several dozen brick and clapboard Army houses clustered on the island, and sent their children to school on Governors Island by boat.
Weeks was a professor and head of the physics department at Wilson College in Chambersburg, Pa. For six years after her retirement from Wilson she coordinated a program at the United States Army's arsenal at Watertown, Mass., that developed radiological shielding materials for use against nuclear weapons, neutrons and gamma rays.
Leaving the Army's Materials Research Agency in 1964, she became a spectroscopist, studying solar satellites at the Harvard College Observatory.
After the three-year voyage, which ended in 1939, she became a ham radio operator and served in the Army Signal Corps throughout World War II.
From the 1940's through the 1960's Miss Seegar appeared in American plays including ''At War With the Army'' with Gary Merrill, directed by Mr. Stone on Broadway in 1949, and Sheridan's ''School for Scandal'' with Patricia Neal in 1953 and ''Ernest in Love,'' a musical based on Oscar Wilde's ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' in 1960, both off Broadway.
For nearly 25 years Miss Seegar toured under the auspices of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the American College Theater Festival and the United States Army.
When the women Marines were formed, they joined other female reserve service arms like the WAVES, for the Navy, and the WACs, for the Army.
''
        South Carolina records show that Mrs. Cave's husband was born in 1844 and enlisted in the Confederate Army in 1862.
She left in 1944 to marry Dr. Gabel, then an army dentist, and in the war years was a reporter at Fort Hood, Tex., before returning to New York.
In it, according to Miss Leatherman, Miss Marble writes of her marriage to Joe Crowley, an Army pilot who was shot down and killed over Germany during World War II.
She also told of accepting an assignment as a spy for Army Intelligence in 1945 to gather information in Switzerland about German financial accounts.
She was a member of the Women's Air Raid Defense, an Army unit composed initially of civilian women who tracked aircraft in the Pacific.
      
