Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.
Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.

        Marjorie McKeown Clay, widow of Gen. Lucius D. Clay, commander of American forces in Europe after World War II, died of pneumonia on Saturday at Walter Reed Army Hospital in Washington.
Mrs. Clay is survived by two sons, both retired generals, Lucius D. Clay Jr. of the Air Force, a resident of Alexandria, Va., and Frank B. Clay of the Army, who lives in Chevy Chase, Md.
She taught French in Cooperstown, N.Y., until World War II, when Cornell University started training Army officers in Russian.
She traveled to war zones to entertain and encourage American soldiers who were fighting the Nazi army.
Ms. Marton came to public attention in 1985 when she represented the estate of a young Hungarian woman who joined the British Army in World War II and parachuted into Yugoslavia to help rescue downed British fliers and Jews from the Nazis.
Her brief marriage in 1944 to Anthony David, a British Army officer, was childless.
Before joining Brooklyn College, she worked as a librarian for the United States Army Special Services in Germany and for the American Association of Advertising Agencies in Manhattan.
Before joining Brooklyn College, she worked as a librarian for the United States Army Special Services in Germany and for the American Association of Advertising Agencies in Manhattan.
'She Was Irresistible'
        "She was the general of a volunteer army," said Beverly Sills, the national chairwoman of the March of Dimes and a longtime friend of Miss Whitelaw's.
In the late 1930's she returned to legal work as a volunteer lawyer for various agencies: the New Jersey Board of Mediation, the Army's Legal Department, the Governor's Commission for Refugees after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and the Governor's Landlord-Tenant Committee in the 1960's.
Her work was honored by two Army commendations, a New Jersey State Bar award in 1986 and Governor Thomas Kean's Humanitarian of the Year Award in 1989.
