At the end of World War II, Princess Vera fled again before the advancing Soviet Army.
The daughter of an Army colonel, Ms. Ball was born Anne Carter in Osaka, Japan, in 1948.
An 18-year-old Army private, he had complained of feeling ill after dining at an enlisted men's club.
Debra Ellen Bernhardt was born on May 9, 1953, in Nuremberg, West Germany, where her parents were civilian employees of the United States Army; she was raised in Iron River, Mich., where several members of her Danish-American family worked in the iron mines.
The New York American in 1936 told of her sorrow at the death of an army aviator with whom she had ''an understanding'' that marriage was imminent.
''
        The daughter of an English Army officer, she was born Edris Stannus in County Wicklow, Ireland, in 1898; her family moved to England when she was 10.
In the Korean War, Ms. Gritsavage revolutionized the command structure of the Army Nursing Corps, obtaining hospital supplies when equipment was scarce and helping get the military to commission male nurses on an equal footing with women.
At the time male nurses were drafted as enlisted men but were forbidden to be commissioned with their female counterparts because the Army thought that nursing was for women only.
She joined the Army in November 1942 and during World War II served in Africa, France and Italy.
In 1942 she volunteered for the Women's Army Corps and was assigned to Algiers, where she sent undercover operatives and radio technicians to occupied zones.
At war's end in 1945, with the Soviet Army approaching Berlin, she flew north with her 2-year-old son and wound up with thousands of other refugees in a small town near the Danish border.
''The fact is that any instrument with no institutional grounding of second- and third-raters, no spectral army of amateurs, will wither and vanish: how can it not?
During World War II, when she was about 19, her mother, who worked for the War Department, saw to it that Jane was one of three young women selected to model uniforms for the new Women's Army Corps.
Mrs. Holberton, a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, was one of the six young women recruited by the Army to program the Electronic Numerical Integrator and Computer, which became known by its evocative acronym, Eniac.
During World War II, she covered the Pacific from Pearl Harbor and was one of the few women accredited to report on both the Army and the Navy.
