The daughter of an Army officer who was killed in World War I when she was 8, Miss Panter-Downes was born in London and grew up in Essex.
She taught at Smith College and Princeton University before being asked to join the Manhattan Project, the Army's secret project to develop the atomic bomb in World War II.
''
        After following her husband to a succession of army camps, Pamela Churchill was taken under her father-in-law's wing.
An Army general's widow with a commanding presence, Mrs. Gibson, who was the head trustee from 1980 to 1992, took her job so seriously that she supervised the planting of hundreds of tulip bulbs every fall.
Her father was scandalized, but with the approval of her mother, Mrs. Gibson, who took such pride in her shapely feet that she had her toenails painted even in her 90's, became a foot model in Paris, where she also studied at the Sorbonne and met a self-effacing American Army captain from Poultney, Vt., named Herbert Daskum Gibson.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
By the early 1920's, at least, she was well known in New York as the first full-time lawyer for the Salvation Army.
Dr. Bramley was a physicist at the United States Army Signal Corps Engineering Laboratory in Belmar, N.J.
From 1941 to 1943, she was a second lieutenant in the Army Nurses Corps.
During World War II, she worked as an analyst for Army Intelligence in Washington.
Mrs. Henson, who married after the war and supported a family as a worker at a cigarette factory, embarked in her 60's on a new life as a symbolic representative of as many as 200,000 women who had been forced to work in Japanese Army brothels.
In order to break into it, she used her 1959 vacation to go to Europe to do a radio feature on the peacetime activities of the Women's Army Corps.
After entering private practice, she later  worked 11 years as a private lawyer with the Army.
As a member of International Relations, she fought to stop the nuclear arms race, but she  helped prevent the Army's Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County from closing in 1976 by having the Armament Research and Development Command transferred there.
Her father was a career Army officer.
