Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she was a lifelong writer who made her debut in 1968 with two books of fiction for children, ''Speaking Terms'' and ''The Sixth Seal.
''
        Ms. McClendon served as a public relations lieutenant in the Women's Army Corps in World War II, and she diligently covered the Veterans Administration, later the Department of Veterans Affairs.
In her 20's, she became an international film star by playing Eliza, the celebrated Cockney flower seller, exchanging barbs and grimaces with Henry Higgins (Leslie Howard) in the 1938 film of ''Pygmalion,'' and an heiress turned Salvation Army worker, matching wits with her professorial fiancé (Rex Harrison), in ''Major Barbara'' (1941).
She was an Army telegraph operator during World War II and attended the Art Students League in Manhattan.
When Mr. McCrary returned from the war after service as a photographer and public relations officer for the Army Air Corps, he courted Miss Falkenburg and they were married in June 1945.
But Gibson became so disenchanted with her failure to break through to the top that she considered abandoning tennis and entering the Army.
The film won Ms. Riefenstahl assorted German prizes, and although she again pledged to make no more party films, she then made an 18-minute documentary, ''Day of Freedom: Our Army,'' about the Wehrmacht in 1935.
Ms. Riefenstahl said she saw Hitler for the last time in March 1944 when she visited him in Kitzbühel, Austria, to introduce her new husband, an army officer named Peter Jacob.
Toward the end of the war, she met John Donaldson, a lieutenant colonel in the army, through his mother, whom Miss Warwick cared for in the hospital.
In 1998, Ms. Kroc gave $100 million to the Salvation Army to build and endow the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego and $25 million to the University of San Diego to establish its Institute for Peace and Justice.
The project, jointly sponsored by the United States Information Agency and the United States Forest Service, was a memorial to members of the Army Air Force who were killed in World War II.
The project, jointly sponsored by the United States Information Agency and the United States Forest Service, was a memorial to members of the Army Air Forces who were killed in World War II.
In her long career, Dr. Singer investigated and testified about techniques used by North Koreans against American soldiers in wartime and the Symbionese Liberation Army's influence over the kidnapped heiress Patricia Hearst.
Dr. Singer and her colleagues delved into a little known area of psychology at the trial, arguing that Ms. Hearst had helped rob a bank because she had been brainwashed to embrace the values of the Symbionese Liberation Army, which abducted her.
