Her own experiences in taking care of patients for the Army in Washington, and later as a public health nurse there and in New York in the 1920's, informed and inspired her work.
By the  time she was propelled by patriotic fervor to enroll in the Army Nursing School  at the Walter Reed Hospital in Washington, training programs spurred by Nightingale's preachings had helped.
That is to be followed in early 1998 by a presidential  race in which Mr. Suharto, a former army general who has been President since 1968, is expected to run for a seventh term.
In World War II she served in the Women's Army Corps in the United States and in occupied Germany.
She was the daughter of a czarist army colonel and his wife, who were fleeing the Bolsheviks.

        Honor R. Holland, who served as a British Army officer with the future Queen  in World War II and as a high Government official in Imperial Ethiopia, died last Monday in Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. She was 79 and lived  in Saratoga Springs.
She lived in Switzerland as a young woman but returned to Britain at the outbreak of war to join the Auxiliary Territorial Service of the  British Army.
The daughter of a Prussian Army officer who died when she was a toddler, Ms.
She married James Watson Gerard, a United States Army officer, the same year.
And in Vietnam she hitched a ride with the United States Army, which flew her to isolated villages deep in the interior so she could study their Buddhist traditions.
Not until two years after Mrs. Farkas arrived did she make her first splash in the social life of Luxembourg, with a charity gala that featured the singer Sacha Distel and a United States Army orchestra.
Miss Donovan was a history teacher in the Boston public school system from 1938 to 1943, and then served in the Women's Army Corps during World War II, where she quickly rose from private to captain.
The novelist was born Suzanne Doreau, the daughter of an army officer and a teacher, in a village near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera.
