Sokol, the Czech word for falcon, symbolizing freedom, was established in 1863 to combine athletics suggestive of an army in training with national democractic resistance.
She was a member of the Salvation Army's advisory board; vice chairwoman of the board of managers of the New York Botanical Garden; a trustee of the Brick Presbyterian Church; a board member of the Young Women's Christian Association, and a member of the national Y.W.C.A.
She was chief of civilian personnel at the Army Pictorial Center, in Long Island City, Queens.
A twin brother was killed in action with the German Army in World War I.
At the end of World War II, she met her husband, then a lieutenant in the United States Army, while attending a sculpture course he was teaching at an Army school in Biarritz in France.
At the end of World War II, she met her husband, then a lieutenant in the United States Army, while attending a sculpture course he was teaching at an Army school in Biarritz in France.
She later became chief of research and analysis for the Army's Southeast Asia Command.
The Army awarded Dr. DuBois the Exceptional Civilian Award, and she also received the Order of the Crown of Thailand for her participation in the Free Thai underground movement through the O.S.S.
"
        The delay in announcing her death almost certainly was linked to the Government's concern about possible protests leading up to the second anniversary today of the army crackdown on the Tiananmen Square democracy movement.
Ms. Jiang caught Mao's eye in the caves at Yanan, the Red Army's hideaway in northern China during the civil war against the Nationalists, in 1938, and she scandalized top Communist officials when the couple apparently began living together before Mao got around to divorcing his previous wife, a respected revolutionary.
Miss Rosenthal, who lived in the Salvation Army Williams Residence in Manhattan, died of respiratory failure, her family said.
Her first husband, Charles Wilson Kingsbury Sr., a career officer in the Army, died in the early 1950's; in 1968 she married E. Swift Newton, an Irish businessman, who died in 1974.
In World War II she served as an Army psychologist and then worked at several institutions in New York, Buffalo and Niagara Falls, N.Y. She retired as an educational psychologist at City College in 1980.
