
        Sally Michel Avery, an artist, illustrator and widow of the painter Milton Avery, died on Jan. 9.
Starring Donald Cooke, Jackie Cooper and Cloris Leachman, and staged by Mr. Kerr, the 1954 comedy about a comic-strip artist and his love-struck secretary was well received.
In its first-person narrative a young woman, Faith Duckle, makes a difficult journey from schoolyard outcast to trapeze artist in a circus.
'' In 1943, she tried to return to a serious ballet career and was a guest artist with Ballet Theater, where Balanchine cast her as Terpsichore, the leading muse in his ''Apollo.

        Caroline H. Newhouse, a philanthropist and artist who was the widow of Theodore Newhouse, a co-founder of the Newhouse communications company, died on Saturday at her weekend home in Roxbury, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Manhattan.
Born in Jersey City on July 4, 1907, Mrs. Carter trained as an artist at the Art Students League in New York, studying primarily with the sculptor Alexander Archipenko.
But she was best known as the exquisitely beautiful dancer who was the first black artist to perform at the Metropolitan, four years before Marian Anderson sang there.
The trust's programs for professional artists include a competitive artist-in-residence program and a regional visiting artist program.
In 1969 Ms. Miller retired from the Modern and became an adviser to various corporate collections and, with Eleanor Price Mather, was co-author of ''Edward Hicks: His Peaceable Kingdom and Other Paintings,'' about the early 19th-century American folk artist.
She moved to New York to be an artist, working in found industrial objects, but lost interest, New York magazine said this July.
''
        Ms. Crozier, who was born in Hobart, Okla., attended the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she received a bachelor's degree in 1936 and both a master's degree and an Artist's Diploma in 1941.
In 1993 Ms. Crozier moved to Portland, where she was artist in residence at Trinity Episcopal Cathedral until early this year.
In an interview with The New York Journal in 1956, she said she worried that the name Gisele La Fleche ''sounded like a strip tease artist's.
Her first Sudan book, ''Last of the Nuba,'' published in the United States in 1974, won her recognition as a photographer and to some extent rehabilitated her as an artist.
An artist in her teens, she began writing plays in the 1940's; several were performed in New York and London, sometimes featuring her husband, the actor James Broderick, who died in 1982.
