Although she committed more than 100 operatic roles to memory, she never appeared on an opera stage; there were no such opportunities for a black artist  in the late 1930's and the 1940's, when she was in her prime.
In 1952, by special permission of the Daughters of the American Revolution, she appeared as a soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra at Constitution Hall in the first commercial appearance there by a black artist since Miss Anderson had been barred from performing at the hall in  1939.
But stenciling, an early American art form, became the focus of her life in the 1950's after she read a book about it and began reproducing some designs at her home in East Hampton, L.I., where she lived with her first husband, Nicholas Carone, an artist.
Her husband, Warren J. McHugh, a folk artist who kept an art gallery in Sag Harbor for many years, died in 1986.
She gave $5 million in 1991 to establish the Hedwig van Ameringen Guest Artist Endowment Fund, which helped engage scores of the world's leading soloists to play with the Philharmonic.
When Miss Fitzgerald's contract with Decca expired, she became the first artist Mr. Granz signed to his new Verve label.
She created the dance department at Southern Utah University in 1982, and was later named its distinguished artist in residence.
She also wrote three books on the artist: "Kandinsky and Old Russia: The Artist as Ethnographer and Shaman," (Yale University Press, 1995); "Kandinsky in Munich, 1896-1914," the catalogue for the Guggenheim exhibition, and "Kandinsky in Munich: The Formative Jugendstil Years," (Princeton University Press, 1979).
She also wrote three books on the artist: "Kandinsky and Old Russia: The Artist as Ethnographer and Shaman," (Yale University Press, 1995); "Kandinsky in Munich, 1896-1914," the catalogue for the Guggenheim exhibition, and "Kandinsky in Munich: The Formative Jugendstil Years," (Princeton University Press, 1979).
Joe Eula, the New York fashion artist, said in 1975 that Ms. Hemingway had "the face of a generation, as recognizable and memorable as Lisa Fonssagrives and Jean Shrimpton.
Joe Eula, the New York fashion artist, said in 1975 that Ms. Hemingway had "the face of a generation, as recognizable and memorable as Lisa Fonssagrives and Jean Shrimpton.
Ms. Bearden's husband, the artist Romare Bearden, died in 1988.
When she was 21, she married a 38-year-old artist and moved to Spain.

        Elizabeth Eyre de Lanux, an American artist, writer and designer of 1920's Art Deco furnishings whose works were rediscovered in the late 1980's, died on Sunday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
After Ms. Reid appeared in a revue sketch by Harold Pinter in 1959, Harold Clurman called her ''a real artist and trouper with technical command.
A tall, dark-haired woman who dressed conventionally and had an open, unassuming smile, away from the typewriter she seemed anything but an artist.
During the 1950's she supported herself as a commercial artist, designing brochures for art galleries.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her twin sister, the artist Carol Anthony of Sante Fe, N.M.; her brother, Jack M. Anthony of Seattle, and three children from her first marriage, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan of Middletown, R.I., Tessa Wohl of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mark Sanchez de Movellan of Hilversum, the Netherlands.
      

        Greer Lankton, an artist known for her flamboyant doll-like sculptures, was found dead in her apartment in Chicago last Monday.
Mrs. Pulleyn, an amateur artist, contributed her work and staffed the counter to sell the Magic Shop's wide variety of children's clothing and other handmade materials.
She was a budding artist before she met and later married Mr. Leakey, when she turned to fossil hunting and archeology.
In 1946, in Red Lodge, Mont., she married Ivan Albright, an artist of the Chicago school who was known for his realistic paintings.

        Leonor Fini, an Argentine-born artist and theater designer who was as well known for her eccentric lifestyle as she was for her erotic and fantastic paintings, died on Jan. 18 in a Paris hospital.
She always insisted on going her own way as an artist.

        Jane Miller MacRae, an artist who wrote and illustrated children's books, died on Tuesday at her home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 89.
She also danced with Donald McKayle and the Merry-Go-Rounders, and performed as a solo artist.
