
        Amelia Opdyke Jones, an artist who made the "Subway Sun" posters for the New York City Transit Authority for 20 years, died on Thursday at her home in Sea Girt, N.J. She was 80.
During this period, her books included "The Artist's Voice" (1962), "Break-Up: The Core of Modern Art" (1965) and "The Open Eye: In Pursuit of Art" (1971).

        Aida Anthony Whedon, an artist and a teacher to generations of children, died yesterday at her home in Port Washington, L.I.

        Lil Picard, an artist and critic whose activities included painting, collage, film and performance as well as a stint as a designer of women's hats, died on Tuesday at her home.

        Anni Albers, a leading textile artist of the 20th century, died yesterday at her home in Orange, Conn., near New Haven.
She was the widow of the abstract artist Josef Albers and was 94 years old.

        Alexandra Troubetzkoy Malcom, a Russian princess and an artist who exhibited in this country and in Europe, died on Friday at Cabrini Hospital.

        Phoebe Helman, an artist and professor at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor.
She is survived by her husband, Jack Sonenberg, who is also an artist, and a daughter, Maya Sonenberg of Seattle.
      

        Danitra Vance, an actress and performance artist who appeared in "The Colored Museum" and "Spunk" at the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Sunday at the home of her grandfather, Clarence M. Edwards, in Markham, Ill. She was 35 and lived in Brooklyn.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the Broadway artist Al Hirschfeld.
"
        Miss Haas and Mr. Hirschfeld met when the artist was on assignment to draw a sketch of a summer theater company for The Times.

        Dorothy Dehner, a gifted sculptor of Surrealist and geometric abstractions in bronze and wood, whose professional career began in the 1950's after a stormy marriage to David Smith, the New York School artist, was found dead yesterday in a stairwell outside her apartment in Manhattan.
Her career as an artist had to play second fiddle to Smith's.
Among her husbands were the makeup artist Buddy Westmore, the composer David Rose, the businessman Neal Lang, the dancers Nick Condos and Edward Begley and the policeman Robert O'Shea.
Miss Baker came to the fore when an artist named Paul Colin featured her in a now-famous poster for the show, which the French producers decided to call "La Revue Negre.
"Coming from an artist and colleague whom I admire," said an excerpt published on Nov. 1, "I'm greatly touched.
