The calligraphy text was the work of the artist's mother, Julia Warhola.
By her own admission she was not an intellectually probing artist.
But she returned to the Ballet Russe as guest artist under her familiar surname in the late 50's.
Before earning a master's degree in sociology of religion at the University of Tennessee, she married Edward Knippers, an artist who paints biblical scenes.

        Ida Libby Dengrove, a New York courtroom artist who visualized the moods and faces of some notorious trials for the television audience, died on Wednesday while on a family visit to Los Angeles.
'' The government awarded her the order of Lenin and named her People's Artist of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.

        Carolyn Brady, an artist known for her large Photorealist watercolor paintings, died on May 5 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. She was 67 and lived in New York City.
She withdrew from ballerina roles in 1952 after recurring knee injuries but continued in mime and character roles at the Royal and as a guest artist elsewhere until her retirement from the stage in 1982.
Thus she began yet another career, as a cabaret artist.
''
        In 1980, Dame Cicely married Marian Bohusz-Szyszko, a Polish artist.
In addition to acting, Ms. Bel Geddes also worked as a professional artist.
Hoping to be an artist, she studied at the Art Students League and later found work hand-painting linen neckties for John Wise, a textile dealer and collector.
Ms. Tanaka was a member of the artist group Gutai.
In a 1956 essay, Shozo Shimamoto, another Gutai artist, called the bell piece ''perhaps the first-ever invisible work in the history of art.

        Débora Arango, a prolific artist who at first repelled socially conservative Colombia with stark paintings of nudes and social conflict but who was later celebrated as one of the country's most inventive, daring artists, died on Dec. 4 at her rambling colonial home outside Medellín.
In 1935, she began working with Pedro Nel Gómez, a well-known artist who painted murals that portrayed the powerful and influential of Colombian society.
''She did it with brazen language,'' Fernando Botero, Colombia's most renowned artist, said of Ms. Arango's message in a telephone interview from his studio in Paris.
Ms. Cohen wrote and edited several important books, among them ''The Modern Dance: Seven Statements of Belief'' (Wesleyan University Press, 1966), an anthology of essays by contemporary choreographers; ''Doris Humphrey: An Artist First'' (Wesleyan, 1972), a biography of a pioneering modern dancer; and ''Next Week, Swan Lake'' (Wesleyan, 1982), a study of dance aesthetics.
