
        Anne Poor, an American artist who painted combat scenes in World War II and later concentrated on dreamlike landscapes, died in Nyack, N.Y., on Jan. 12.
In the 1930's she helped her stepfather, the artist Henry Varnum Poor, paint murals for the United States Justice Department and the Department of the Interior in Washington.
In the golden age of big bands she was a singer of renown with Benny Goodman's orchestra and she went on to become a top nightclub singer, a prolific recording artist, a successful songwriter and an actress skillful enough to be nominated for an Oscar.
''It is with a man's vision that this artist looks at her subjects -- in the streets, the elevated trains, at the beaches, in the parks, the lobbies of theaters, in seaport places or in a church,'' Frederick James Gregg wrote in The New York Herald in a review of her first solo show in 1919.
In her virtuosity she became a complete actress, an artist in tune with her time -- and with other times as well.
As Gielgud wrote forthrightly in one of his books, ''She is a great artist as well as one of my most devoted friends.
The artist Diego Rivera became so obsessed that he dedicated an entire period to painting her portraits.

        Niki de Saint Phalle, a Franco-American artist internationally known for her colorful, monumental, cartoonlike sculptures and environments, died on Tuesday in San Diego, Calif. She was 71.
She was mostly a self-taught artist.
But Theodor, a cousin of the artist Daniel Spoerri, died in 1973, and Mrs. Spoerri became the chief guardian and interpreter of Wölfli's art.
Unraveling Wölfli's complex autobiographical narratives and rhythmic celebratory chants, she separated his real life's story from his imagined one, excavating an artist of extraordinary imagination but also sharp observations, as evidenced by his accounts of his impoverished childhood.
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
But her first megahit came the next year, when Mitch Miller, the artist and repertory man at Columbia, persuaded her to sing ''Come On-a My House.
A year ago, she bought at auction a major 1963 painting by the California-based artist Ed Ruscha, and last November she helped the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art acquire ''Splitting: Four Corners'' (1974), by Gordon Matta-Clark, which consists of parts of a house that the artist had sawn vertically in half.
      
A year ago, she bought at auction a major 1963 painting by the California-based artist Ed Ruscha, and last November she helped the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art acquire ''Splitting: Four Corners'' (1974), by Gordon Matta-Clark, which consists of parts of a house that the artist had sawn vertically in half.
      
In its heyday, the Holly Solomon Gallery represented an eclectic mix of talents, from the video artist Nam June Paik to William Wegman, the painter and draftsman better known as a whimsical photographer of Weimaraners.
Mr. Kushner, who as a young artist searched for manufacturers' cast-off fabrics in SoHo, recalls that he was working in a local restaurant when Ms. Solomon, already a collector of his art, appeared in a floor-length white mink coat.
But her first megahit came the next year, when Mitch Miller, the artist and repertory man at Columbia, persuaded her to sing ''Come On-a My House.

        Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93.
''
        Ms. Slobodkina married Mr. Bolotowsky, a fellow artist, in 1933.
She went on to write regularly for the magazines High Fidelity, Musical America (where she wrote a monthly column called Artist Life) and Opera News.
)
        She's not an artist but is known for thinking like one.
She accompanied her mother, a schoolteacher, to the Ministry of Education, where they had a chance exchange in an elevator with Rivera, then a renowned artist in his 40's working on murals in the building.
''I was never a friend of Frida Kahlo,'' Mrs. Olmedo conceded in an interview with The New York Times, in which she referred to the artist's bisexuality.
Mrs. Olmedo had little regard for Kahlo as an artist, and in several interviews referred to her works as ''trashy.
And she was its musical Zelig, whose close friends included, besides Mr. Spoons, the historian Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., the artist Saul Steinberg and the writer Norman Mailer.
A documentary on her life is being completed by Danielle Lemaire, a Belgian artist.
Her husband, Bill Fulbrecht, is an artist and kindergarten teacher at Public School 321 in Park Slope.
