
        Margaret Wentworth Owings, a California artist and conservationist who fought for the survival of sea otters, sea lions, mountain lions and other wild creatures, died on Jan. 21 at Wild Bird, her clifftop home above the Pacific in Big Sur, Calif. She was 85.
Correction:  January 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about Frances Gershwin Godowsky, an artist and the sister of George Gershwin, misstated the nationality of her father-in-law, the pianist Leopold Godowsky.
Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained glass windows for a synagogue in Jerusalem, endowed Hadassah educational seminars in the United States and Israel and wrote the book 'A Tapestry of Hadassah Memories.
The artist agreed to create the design for the stained-glass windows that were to be installed in the synagogue in the Ein Kerem hospital complex, saying, ''I have always looked forward to a call from the Jewish people.
Indrani was an artist of international repute and often appeared before heads of state in her native India and abroad.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.
Over the next few years, Miss Bloch worked on Rivera's controversial mural at the Detroit Institute of Art and on the Rockefeller Center project, along the way falling in love with the artist's chief plasterer, Stephen P. Dimitroff, a young Bulgarian immigrant, and immortalizing their romance in lyrical passages in her diary, which a granddaughter, Lucienne Allen, plans to use as the basis for a book.
After a lifetime devoted to art, including wide-ranging sculptures in glass, wood and terra cotta and a famous series of photographs of Kahlo, Miss Bloch is nevertheless largely recalled for her association with another artist's work, but, then, the artist was Rivera, widely regarded as a 20th century giant, and her photographs are all that remain of his most famous work.
After a lifetime devoted to art, including wide-ranging sculptures in glass, wood and terra cotta and a famous series of photographs of Kahlo, Miss Bloch is nevertheless largely recalled for her association with another artist's work, but, then, the artist was Rivera, widely regarded as a 20th century giant, and her photographs are all that remain of his most famous work.
Ms. Rogers, who was married to the Canadian artist Hubert Reginald Rogers, was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., and attended St. Lawrence University and Columbia University.
It was there that she met her future husband, Andrew Tilberis, an artist, who was her tutor.
Fokine choreographed solos for her, among them ''Tennis,'' a witty sketch she offered in vaudeville shows and as a guest artist with ballet troupes.
'' She returned as guest artist during Ballet Theater's 15th-anniversary season in 1955 and was partnered by Erik Bruhn in ''Les Sylphides.

        Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England.
Ms. Ross is survived by a daughter, Linda Proctor of Concord, N.H.; her companion, George Hofmann, an artist and professor at Hunter College, and two grandchildren.
      
It mentioned that she was an artist in residence at Brandeis University's theater department.

        Rummana Hussain, a painter and conceptual artist who was also active in Indian politics, died on July 5 at her home in Bombay.
As an artist in residence at Art in General, an alternative space in Manhattan, she created a video-based installation last fall.
Titled ''In Between,'' the video combined images of Bombay with others of South Asian immigrant life in New York and alternated shots of the artist under treatment in a Manhattan hospital with others of her walking across the Queensboro Bridge wearing the tinkling ankle bells of an Indian classical dancer.
She later became a filmmaker, producing a film about George Grosz, the Weimar artist, with whom she had once studied.
In 1981 she relocated to Santa Fe  and continued work as a visual artist until her health began to decline in recent years.
She was also an artist and sculptor; she studied with Alexander Archipenko.
She received an artist's diploma from Curtis in 1953 and a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Columbia University the same year.
An artist who wrote poems about pottery and made pots inspired by her reading, Ms. Richards was perhaps best known for ''Centering in Pottery, Poetry and the Person,'' a book of essays published in the middle of the tumultuous 1960's that was impressive for its synthesis of thought, plain speech and incantatory momentum.
There she met and married a fellow winner, Stephen Greene, an artist.
The work reflected both the artist's long-standing interest in Asian art and thought, and her commitment to the spiritual implications of Western modernist art.
One of Ms. Hoyte's favorites -- a baby doll with wide eyes and long eyelashes -- was carved in mahogany in 1977 by a California artist, Patty Hale.

        Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex.
She performed as a guest artist at Radio City Music Hall, on the television shows of Ed Sullivan, Perry Como and Garry Moore and in summer theater at Jones Beach.

        Laura Adasko Lenzner, an artist who worked in pastel, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.

        Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.
The cause was cervical cancer, said Mark Kramer, the artist's cousin.

        Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.
