Many decades after the film and her subsequent fame as a striptease artist, Miss Barr was listed by Playboy magazine in 1999 as one of the 20th century's most desirable women.
Among Professor McKay's other books are ''Jean Toomer, Artist: A Study of His Literary Life and Work, 1894-1936'' (University of North Carolina, 1984); ''Critical Essays on Toni Morrison'' (G. K. Hall, 1988), a collection she edited; and the Norton Critical Edition, published in 2001, of Harriet Jacobs's ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' which she edited with Frances Smith Foster.
She graduated from Empire State College of the State University of New York and worked as a commercial artist for McGraw-Hill and other companies.
She also appeared as a guest artist with Sadler's Wells and with Roland Petit's company.
For a brief time, though, Ms. Moffo was a lovely singer and appealing artist who broke out of the traditional career mode to reach the larger public.

        Stella Snead, a British Surrealist painter and collage artist who fled wartime Europe to work in the United States and later became a photographer noted for her books on India, died on March 18 in New York.
''
        In her later years it became clear that she and her son, Robin, a painter who lives in Edinburgh, were irreconcilably estranged over various issues, including what he referred to as her abandonment of him, as well as her opinions about his ability as an artist and his public statements about their heritage.

        Barbara Schwartz, an artist whose painted plaster reliefs were tangentially associated with the Pattern and Decoration movement in New York in the late 1970's, died on Monday in Manhattan, where she lived.

        Joyce Ballantyne Brand, a commercial and pinup artist who created the famed Coppertone Girl advertisement, died on Monday at her home in Ocala, Fla. She was 88.
In the United States, she worked with the Federal Theater in Chicago, where she met John Pratt, an artist and designer to whom she was married from 1941 until his death in 1986.
Born in New York on March 22, 1911, Ms. Maslow was a first cousin of the artist Leonard Baskin.
In addition to her son Al Seckel, of Malibu, Calif., Ms. Schonthal is survived by her husband, Paul Seckel, an artist, of New Rochelle, and two other sons, Bernhard and Ben, both of Scarsdale.
In her defense, she said that for an artist needing work, joining the party had been ''akin to joining a union.
From the 1950's until the 1970's, she was for many listeners the high priestess of the lieder recital, a sublime artist who brought textual nuance, interpretive subtlety and elegant musicianship to her work.
She retained a fondness for the country, which after the war embraced her as an artist and made her a Dame of the British Empire in 1992.
Opinion is divided about the effect Legge had on Miss Schwarzkopf as an artist.
11, 1972,'' was a Minimalist portrait of sunlight in her studio, made with the conceptual artist Joseph Kosuth.
She also collaborated with the video artist Joan Jonas and the director Lizzie Borden.
Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the family, who has exhibited with Ms. Juda's gallery since 1963.
''People are never just spots of color,'' Ms. Ruellan told American Artist magazine in 1943.
The cause was cancer, said the Michael Rosenfeld Gallery, which represents her companion, the artist Nancy Grossman.
In 1973 Ms. Raven was a founder, with the artist Judy Chicago and the graphic designer Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, of the Feminist Studio Workshop.

        Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn Heights.
Correction:  September 11, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Sept. 2 about the artist Buffie Johnson misstated the dimensions of the panels that made up the mural she painted for the Astor Theater in New York in the late 1950's.
But to opera buffs and insiders, Ms. Varnay was a comparably excellent artist.
The Postal Service hired an artist, Howard Koslow, to copy it -- telling him to leave out the dangling cigarette, in the interest of public health.
She later married Charles Goldhammer, an artist and teacher; the marriage was reported to have ended in 1954.
She happened to see some films about Africa presented by Kenneth Carr, who had lived there for 28 years, hunting big game and working as a tattoo artist, coffee planter and miner.
A self-taught artist, Ms. Castanis was known in particular for her method of laying an epoxy-soaked cloth over a mannequin built of plastic foam.
She attended New York's High School of Music and Art but did not start working as an artist until 1964, after 10 years as a full-time wife and mother of four.
''Here before me was indisputable evidence of what I had thought possible -- an intensely vital artist whose medium was photography.
In the early 1940s Ms. Bernhard became involved with an artist and designer, Eveline Phimister, and for the next 10 years they lived together in New York, then in Carmel, Calif.; Los Angeles; and San Francisco, which became Ms. Bernhard's permanent home in 1953.
