''
        Other films she did with the Maysleses included ''Salesman'' (1969), an account of four real-life sales representatives of the American Bible Company, and ''Running Fence'' (1978), a chronicle of the successful efforts of the artist Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, to erect a 24-mile fabric fence in the California hills.
An artist and former member of the Hunter College faculty, he died in 2002.
The Kornblee Gallery mounted several shows of work by Ms. Parsons, who was also an artist.
She returned to Graham's company in 1944, dancing as a guest artist for nine years.

        Ludmilla Tcherina, a raven-haired French artist and ballet star who danced for many of Europe's top choreographers, died on Sunday at her home in Paris at the age of 79, France's culture ministry said today.
Ms. Asher was an artist whose work was shown and published for more than 50 years, starting with a one-woman show in 1953 and a collection of poetry in 1955.

        Lygia Pape, an influential Brazilian artist who worked in two important movements, Concretism and the looser Neo-Concretism, and later moved beyond them, died on May 3 in Rio de Janeiro.
A restlessly experimental artist, Ms. Pape (pronounced PAH-pay) worked at challenging formal and conceptual limits in many different media, including painting, printmaking, sculpture, dance, film, performance and installation.

        Viola Frey, an artist known for large, colorfully glazed clay sculptures of men and women that expanded the traditional limitations of ceramic sculpture, died on Monday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 70.
Anna Kisselgoff described her in The New York Times in 1971 as ''an extraordinary artist with an astounding mastery of technique.

        Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf.
After high school she decided to become an artist and studied sculpture for three years at an art school in Karlsruhe and, in 1928, at the Academy of Art in Stuttgart.
A foundation named after her, started by her artist friends, is planning a memorial event for next year to commemorate the 75th anniversary of her career at the State Opera.
      
''
        Her books (she was a medievalist in her academic days) are not yet unpacked, but the Oriental carpet and artwork -- including a Klimt-inspired portrait of Ms. Mirrer's ''inner spirit'' by a Dominican artist, Jorge Severino, who painted her as a white-gowned and regal black woman -- lend a rich ambience.
He was also an artist, a poet and a serious food lover who opened up her taste horizons on their travels in China.
Professor Hanson initially trained as an artist.
She wrote a book about the artist, ''Peter Voulkos: A Dialogue With Clay'' .

        Nuha al-Radi, the Iraqi artist and diarist whose work depicted her country's tribulations with a wry, impish wit, has died in Beirut.
Some were devoted to the work of a single artist like Lichtenstein, others had a mix of works.
Also over the years the couple became friends with many of the artists whose work they collected and would often name horses either after an artist or one of their famous works.
She and her step-mother, a Baltimore artist named Ruth Bernstein, established a memorial art fund in his memory at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
She also represented the estate of Horace Pippin, a black folk artist, and worked on an important traveling exhibition of his work in 1977 that was organized by the Phillips Collection in Washington.
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
She joined the staff of Cricket magazine for children as an artist and illustrator in 1972 and became its art director.
Her marriage to Harvey Weiss of Westport, Conn., an artist who illustrated some of her early work, ended in divorce.
She later performed Giselle as a star of Ballet Theater (as American Ballet Theater was originally called) and as a guest artist with companies around the world.
Reviewing a 1958 performance by Ballet Theater in which Miss Markova appeared as guest artist, John Martin, then the dance critic of The New York Times, remarked: ''Markova has danced the role so many times that she could undoubtedly do it in her sleep; what is so notable is that she never does.
Though a dedicated artist, she was reluctant to challenge herself.
But artistically, the idea that they were opposites -- Callas the galvanizing dramatic artist and Tebaldi the supreme vocalist who valued beauty of sound above all else -- was wrongheaded.

        Gretchen Bender, an artist who worked in several photographic and film mediums, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home.

        Anne Truitt, a sculptor and writer widely admired for her painted, columnar structures and for her published journals about her life as an artist, died on Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington.
In 1974, after retrospective exhibitions of her work at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington left her feeling emotionally drained, Ms. Truitt began to keep a journal focusing on her life as an artist.
Short, dated entries written in graceful, lucid prose describe her processes and her spiritual ups and downs in the studio, her effort to balance being an artist and being a wife and mother and her struggles to make ends meet after her divorce from James Truitt, a Washington journalist.
The diary was published in 1982 as "Daybook: The Journal of an Artist," and two more volumes followed: "Turn" in 1986 and "Prospect" in 1996.

        Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said.
The lectures were collected into a book in 1992, ''Writings,'' which established her as a moral thinker as well as an artist.
