Madeleine M. Kunin of Vermont; the poets Anne Sexton and Sophie Cabot Black; the performance artist Anna Deavere Smith; the anthropologist Mary Catherine Bateson, and the geophysicist and astronaut Marcia McNutt.
Wills was an artist by avocation.
She maintained an artist's studio at her residences in San Francisco and later in Carmel, once sold 40 paintings for $100 each and illustrated her own articles for The Saturday Evening Post.
Soon, however, they became a force to be reckoned with, and by the early 1980's had amassed a portfolio of residential and commercial projects for boldface celebrities like the artist Kenneth Noland, the television producer Douglas Cramer and the fashion designer Bill Blass.
After her marriage to Owen Kampen, an artist and illustrator whom she had met in college, the couple settled in Levittown, on Long Island, where Mrs. Kampen kept house, took care of her young daughter, and, in a concession to her training, contributed society columns to the weekly Levittown Tribune.

        Lily Harmon, an artist who worked in portraiture, assemblage and book illustration, and whose third husband was the collector Joseph H. Hirshhorn, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Nena Manach Goodman, an artist, patron of the arts and philanthropist, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Mrs. Goodman was the widow of Andrew Goodman, owner and chairman of Bergdorf Goodman in the 1950's and 60's.
She was a true artist.
Her older sister, Mary (Minnie) Cushing, was married to Vincent Astor, the wealthy real estate owner, and after a divorce, to James Whitney Fosburgh, an artist.

        Beatrice Wood, a ceramic artist known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luminous luster-glaze chalices, and who  inspired at least two movie characters, died on Thursday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She had celebrated her 105th birthday on March 3.
She was a late-bloomer as an artist and did not encounter ceramics until the 1930's, when she failed to find a teapot to match some neo-Rococo luster-glaze plates she had bought in Holland.
In 1994, the Smithsonian Institution named Ms. Wood an Esteemed American Artist and Pete Wilson, Governor of California, declared her a ''California Living Treasure.
She soon abandoned her studies to become an artist and decided to leave for Paris in the summer of 1929 after seeing an exhibition of photographs by the Paris-based Florence Henri, who had embraced New Photography, which was characterized by extreme close-ups, unusual angles, high and low vantage points, and the rendering of everyday objects and reflected surfaces as abstract geometric forms.
With the occasional augmentation of other musicians they became a popular radio and live act up and down the West Coast beginning in the early 1940's; they continued as a band until 1957, after which Ms. Rose recorded as a solo artist for Columbia, Capitol, Starday and Arhoolie records, among others.
Mrs. Spelce, who had to overcome considerable odds to make it to the pinnacle of her profession and who earned acclaim as a folk artist known as the Grandma Moses of Texas, died at her home in Austin on April 11.
If Mrs. Spelce demonstrated some remarkable perseverance in dealing with the vagaries of modern life, the well-spring of her character eventually became manifest, so much so that when she died at her home in Austin, Mrs. Spelce was remembered less for her distinguished nursing career than as an acclaimed folk artist who had for 20 years turned out oil paintings of life on an Arkansas farm in such rich and vivid detail that it was apparent that her childhood had not been a distant memory but something she had carried with her close to the surface throughout her life.
Her emergence as an artist came about by accident.
Correction:  May 22, 1998, Friday  An obituary on April 19 about Fannie Lou Spelce, a nurse who became a prominent folk artist, misspelled the name of the Arkansas town where she was born and misidentified both the residence of Mrs. Spelce's sons and the town in which she lived before moving to Austin, Tex.
She described growing up in artistic and materialistic surroundings, with a status-conscious mother and a father whose friends and clients included the artist Willem de Kooning and the songwriters Hoagy Carmichael and Harold Arlen.
She was also an artist with a particular interest in the print media and had studied art in college in California and later in Hawaii.
A few weeks later, at a party at the store for an artist friend, she got the answer: One of the guests was Ms. Safro, a young antiques restorer who took one look at Ms. Epstein and the jumble of crushed and torn cartons of buttons and decided to set them straight.
Ms. Donegan was better known as a performer than as a recording artist, and her flamboyance helped her find work in a field that was largely hostile to women.
''My wish is to make something permanent out of the transitory,'' Ms. MacIver wrote in 1946, in a three-paragraph artist's statement, the only one she ever composed.
The work has become an emblem of black American self-identity and is on view in the exhibition ''Rhapsodies in Black: Art of the Harlem Renaissance'' at the Corcoran Gallery, where a small memorial show of the artist's work has been organized.
After marrying the Haitian artist Louis Vergniaud Pierre-Noel in 1953, Ms. Jones visited Haiti frequently, and in the 1960's and '70's she traveled in Africa.
Ms. Jones retired as professor emeritus from Howard in 1977 but continued her career as an artist and lecturer, and exhibited in the United States, Europe and Asia.
Besides her son Clifford, she is survived by another son, Alfred F. Ross, of New York City; a daughter, Beverly Ross; two sisters, Marjorie Iseman and Helen Frankenthaler, the artist, both of New York; a stepdaughter, Ann Bookman of Brookline, Mass.
''
        In a review in The New York Times of a 1997 retrospective exhibition at Public School 1 of the work of Jack Smith, the filmmaker and performance artist, Holland Cotter said that the artist's ''heart would have  warmed to see how lovingly his costumes have been refurbished'' by Ms. Brecht.
''
        In a review in The New York Times of a 1997 retrospective exhibition at Public School 1 of the work of Jack Smith, the filmmaker and performance artist, Holland Cotter said that the artist's ''heart would have  warmed to see how lovingly his costumes have been refurbished'' by Ms. Brecht.
After the couple were divorced in 1956, Miss Southgate, whose later marriage to the artist Mike Goldberg also ended in divorce, became a fixture in the Long Island art scene, forming close friendships with Willem de Kooning, Larry Rivers and other acclaimed painters even as she continued her own work, contributing to The Evergreen Review, translating a series of books from French and eventually finding her late-life niche with The East Hampton Star.
While she was appearing in the hotel's Persian Room, she was introduced to an artist, Hilary Knight, and he became the illustrator of ''Eloise,'' which was subtitled ''A Book for Precocious Grown Ups.
She grew up as the daughter of a working artist.
''She seemed to lack the toughness that can allow an artist to express herself to the full in spite of unhelpful circumstances and depressing setbacks,'' Ms. Walker wrote in Dance Now.
Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, said Ms. Roberts had ''a real ability to think like a producer, feel like an artist and act like an agent.
Born into a musical family in Brooklyn and named Mildred Sophia Weiss, Mrs. Baker became deeply involved with museums and art galleries after marrying an artist, Emil Holzhauer, in 1925.
