From 1950 to 1970, the Catherine Viviano Gallery at 42 East 57th Street was the dealer for the Italian artists Afro, Mirko, Leonardo Cremonini and Renato Guttuso; the English artist Peter Lanyon, and the Americans Kay Sage, Carlyle Brown, Tony Rosenthal, Bernard Perlin and Joseph Glasco.
The gallery also handled the estate of the German artist Max Beckmann.
Her performance as an elderly artist in Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" won her awards in South Africa, London and New York.
She made her most important discovery in the late 1960's, when she identified portraits attributed to four unidentified painters as the work of one man, Ammi Phillips, an itinerant 19th-century artist born in Connecticut.
Miss Johnson left her eclectic art collection, ranging from Cezanne to the American contemporary artist Judy Pfaff, to the Allen Art Museum, where it is currently on view.
Miss Lewis, who was a self-taught artist, won many awards, including the New Mexico Governor's Award in 1983.
I mean, an artist is an artist no matter what he does.
I mean, an artist is an artist no matter what he does.
I mean, an artist is an artist no matter what he does.
I mean, an artist is an artist no matter what he does.
Born Anita Counihan in Washington, on Aug. 5, 1914, Miss Colby was the eldest daughter of Bud Counihan, a cartoonist for the New York Evening World and the artist for the Betty Boop series.
The Portuguese-born artist was 83 years old and had lived in Paris since 1928.
Although Miss Vieira da Silva had been a French citizen since 1956, she was regarded by many as Portugal's greatest contemporary artist.
In addition to her acting, she was an artist known for portraits and caricatures.

        Musa McKim Guston, a poet and painter who was the widow of the Abstract Expressionist artist Philip Guston, died on Monday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Woodstock, N.Y.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Musa Mayer of New York City.

        Thelma Saks Bradford Ingersoll, an artist and the widow of the editor and publisher Ralph A. Ingersoll, died on Saturday at her home in West Cornwall, Conn. She was 81 years old and died of kidney failure, a family spokesman said.

        Moira Dryer, an abstract artist known for working in glowing colors on sheets of plywood, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Sari Dienes, an artist whose career spanned many different media and several decades of the New York art world, died on Monday at her home in Stony Point, N.Y. She was 93 years old.
She was married at the age of 19 to a French mathematician, Paul Dienes, and she did not decide to become an artist until she was 29 and living in Wales with her husband.
'Nothing Is So Humble'
        As an artist, Mrs. Dienes had an innately experimental approach to materials and techniques and a lasting faith in the power of the found object.
Her most recent exhibition at A.I.R., a retrospective that closed last month, included a number of Styrofoam prints and paintings that the artist made in the 1980's.
" Her daughter, also an actress, married William Riva, a scenic artist, in 1947, and had four sons.
Miss Alba also performed as a guest artist on many flamenco programs in New York.
She exhibited at the Daniel Gallery in Manhattan, and in the early 1930's was the first artist invited to join the Public Works of Art Project, the predecessor of the Works Progress Administration, which gave artists work during the Depression.
The artist had her first one-woman show there in 1940.
Her 1972 book about the composer, "And Music at the Close: Stravinsky's Last Years," created a controversy in the music world by challenging previously published portraits of the artist.
A Nun's Encouragement
        Born in Flint, Mich., Ms. Nelson grew up on the vaudeville circuit with her mother, Eva Mudge, a noted quick-change artist.
A Nun's Encouragement
        Born in Saginaw, Mich., Ms. Nelson grew up on the vaudeville circuit with her mother, Eva Mudge, a noted quick-change artist.
Her second husband, William H. Baker Jr., an artist and farmer, died of heart disease in 1951.
Ms. Wasey died of cancer, said Priscilla Pattison, an artist and longtime friend.
In 1969 she wrote "The World of Turner, 1775-1851," an examination of the work of the artist Joseph Mallord William Turner, published by Time-Life Books.
She died of heart failure, said Laurence Hovde of the Mary Ryan Gallery, the artist's New York representative.
Miss Andrews, who was born in Bury St. Edmunds, England, on April 19, 1898, specialized in linocuts, a printing method popularized between the wars in England by the artist Claude Flight, who was her teacher at the Grosvenor School.
