Later that year, she was again Nureyev's ballerina as guest artist with the Royal Ballet in London.
She was guest artist with American Ballet Theater several times in the 1950's and 60's, dancing both classical and contemporary works.
In fact, the humanism in her work went with an artist's eye for composition and form.

        Miné Okubo, a Japanese-American artist who recorded in 2,000 drawings and a book what she saw and felt as an internee in American detention camps for Japanese and Japanese-Americans during World War II, died on Feb. 10 in Manhattan.
How desirable and how distant is the ideal of the contemplative, artist, or saint -- the inner inviolable core, the single eye.
As a result, she became what she termed ''a permanent guest artist'' with the company from 1946 to 1960, creating roles in such major works as Limón's ''Moor's Pavane'' (1949) and Humphrey's ''Ruins and Visions'' (1953).
She was named folk artist of the year by the National Endowment for the Arts in 1984.

        Hollis Sigler, a Chicago-based artist whose autobiographical narrative paintings often focused on her long struggle with breast cancer, died of the disease on Thursday at her home in Prairie View, Ill. She was 53.
This year she was awarded the College Art Association's Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement; she also received the Chicago Caucus for Women in the Arts Lifetime Achievement Award.
After working for several years in the art world, she took a job at the gallery owned by Pierre Matisse, a son of the artist Henri Matisse and a leading international dealer in modern art.
This morning, she is going on enthusiastically about William Blake, the British Romantic poet and artist.
''If one is an artist, one is an artist within.
''If one is an artist, one is an artist within.
As an artist, I stayed true to myself and true to my work.
Adele Dellenbaugh was born in Boston, a granddaughter of Frederick Samuel Dellenbaugh, an artist, writer and explorer.
David Wheeler, the editor of Hortus, a garden quarterly in England, who has built, with the artist Simon Dorell, a garden on the edge of Wales, was also nurtured by Ms. Verey, who opened up her library, garden and larder to him.
''The artist is gone.
She often accompanied O'Keeffe on the camping trips throughout northern New Mexico on which the artist created many of her paintings.
Ms. Borgenicht held her first Avery exhibition the following October, represented the artist until his death in 1965 and then represented his estate until 1995, when she closed her gallery.
As a young artist in Manhattan, she found that the bathroom of her apartment was the ideal size for a studio.

        Margaret Kilgallen, an artist who contributed to the vibrant fusion of graffiti art, folk art, painting and installation art that emerged in San Francisco in the 1990's, died Thursday in San Francisco.

        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan.

        Tove Jansson, a Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many countries, died on June 27 in Helsinki.
In her later years Ms. Jansson was active as an artist.
Like 25 other books by her, it was illustrated by her friend, the British artist Nora Unwin.
Often lonely as a child, she wrote poetry and dreamed of becoming an artist or, at the very least, the local May Queen.

        Lillian Kiesler, an artist, art patron and the widow of the sculptor and avant-garde architect Frederick Kiesler, died on July 25 in Manhattan.
Ms. Kiesler studied painting with Hans Hofmann in New York in the 1930's and was introduced to her future husband by the artist Burgoyne Diller.
The architect Frank O. Gehry was the first recipient, the multimedia artist Judith Barry the second.
'' Later that year she sold it at auction for $3.63 million, then the highest amount paid for a work by a living artist.
She remained a member until 1944, but later appeared as a guest artist with the company.
Her daughter, an artist, lived nearby with her family.
Osgood is an actor and Elvis an artist.
One of her few artist friends was Jim Hodges, who worked as caretaker and preparator at her Duane Street building in return for free studio space in the building's basement.

        Jacqueline Hudson, a landscape painter, graphic artist and benefactor of the arts, died Wednesday at her home in Damariscotta, Me.
Ms. Hudson was born in Cambridge, Mass., a daughter of the artist Eric Hudson.
She grew up in Manhattan and Monhegan Island, Me., surrounded by her father's artist friends, including George Bellows, Robert Henri, Edward Hopper and Rockwell Kent.
''
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Wakpala, she is survived by a son, Kevin Locke, also of Wakpala, a performing artist who works to preserve Lakota music; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Campanelli described herself ''not as an artist who paints but as a person who lives.
Her sensibility was decidedly not that of a folk artist.
Her father, Ilya, was a painter, goldsmith and artist of Judaica.
Her mother, Resia, was also an artist.
'' In it, she lamented the phasing out of the extended studio classes required to initiate ''that painfully slow education of the senses,'' which she considered an artist's life work.
''But I told John, 'If you're an artist, you can't be a huckster.
