Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Sarah W. Adams, a historic preservation specialist of Ithaca, N.Y., and Mary Chatham, an artist of Manhattan, and a son, William S., a lawyer, also of Manhattan.
      
Miss Martin, who died of cancer in November at the age of 76, was recalled as a high-spirited artist who personified some of her signature roles; the eternal child in "Peter Pan," the "cockeyed optimist" in "South Pacific," the ebullient and nurturing protector in "The Sound of Music.
"
        Recalling the same car accident and another sign of the artist's indomitable temperament, Florence Henderson cited a time when Miss Martin, still a patient, was given a walker, an object she had apparently never encountered.
" The tape's final image, of the artist with her arms outstretched, remained on the screen as participants in the memorial returned to the stage to applaud it.
      

        Edith Bry, an artist who was best known for her work in fused glass, died on Jan. 19 at her apartment in Manhattan.

        Sylvia Weiner Leiferman, an artist, philanthropist and president of the Leiferman Investment Company, died on Thursday at the Heartland of Miami Lakes, a nursing home in North Miami, Fla. She was 77 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla.
        She died of a respiratory ailment, a family spokesman said.

        Adele Lawrence Auchincloss, an artist, environmentalist and former deputy administrator of the New York City Parks and Recreation Department, died on Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Her husband, the landscape artist, John F. Folinsbee, died in 1972.
In "Apparitions" (1936) she was an artist's unattainable vision, while in "Nocturne" (1936) she portrayed a poor flower seller wistfully watching rich people at a ball.
" But she widened her range successfully and dramatically when she performed as a guest artist with Roland Petit's company in Paris in 1948.
" In 1975, she danced in Martha Graham's "Lucifer" as a guest artist with the Graham company in Manhattan.
" James Atlas, writing in The New York Times, hailed her "impressive perseverance" in showing "how Gertrude Stein made the English language an artist's medium, a sort of prose imitation of the Cubist practice of portraying an object on all sides at once.

        Dagmar Freuchen-Gale, an artist and illustrator for such fashion magazines as Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, died March 9 at a hospital in Fredensborg, Denmark.

        Elizabeth Olds, a writer and artist of children's books, died on Monday in Sarasota, Fla., where she lived.
She married the French artist and stage designer Andre Delfau in 1983.
Her own life as a creative artist epitomized the independent spirit with which she so frequently imbued her dramatic heroines.
"
        Martha Graham was living proof of her own adage: "No artist is ahead of his time.

        Patricia Golden Levine, an artist known professionally as Pat Golden, died on Friday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md.
She was sometimes described as a representational artist of the West Coast figurative school.
"
        In 1942, the designer married Alexander Liberman, an artist and editorial director of Conde Nast Publications.

        Ilse Koehn, a writer and graphic artist, died on May 8 at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 61 years old.

        Alison Stilwell Cameron, a daughter of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell who became an artist, author and lecturer on China, died Thursday at the Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron died of pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
For 40 years she operated Marion Ridgway, artist representative, at 299 Madison Avenue in Manhattan and represented commerical artists, photographers and writers for publishers and advertising concerns.
In addition to her son Christopher, book critic for The New York Times, she is survived by two other sons, Carl, a graphic artist and painter, and Alexander, a sound engineer, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      

        Margot Tomes, an artist and illustrator of children's books, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.

        Anita Hart Balter, an artist and writer well known for her role in fostering the arts in the Hudson Valley, died on June 29 at her home in Garrison, N.Y.
        Mrs. Balter, who was 57 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla., died of complications from breast cancer, a family spokesman said.
Mrs. Mayer also helped her husband research and edit several reference books he wrote for artists, including "The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques," first published in 1940 and now considered a classic in the field.

        Princess Fahrelnissa Zeid, great-aunt of King Hussein of Jordan and an artist best known as an abstract painter of the Paris School in the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday after a short illness.
An ethnologist, artist, oral historian and writer of folk tales, Ms. Cabrera devoted most of her life to the study of Cuba's African-based culture and religions.

        Claire Zeisler, an artist and art collector who helped transform the two-dimensional craft of weaving into the three-dimensional medium called fiber art, died yesterday at her home in Chicago.
These works actively exploited the inherent qualities of weaving and thread, especially in their emphasis on knotting and wrapping and on free-falling unwoven strands of fiber, a device that the artist considered her trademark.
Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, who was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985, said he was "over the moon" about the award to Miss Gordimer: "She's an outstanding artist, has a way with words but more than anything else she has had this tremendous commitment and caring about people, caring about justice.
Although once dismissed as a minor writer because of her preoccupation with family life, Miss Ginzburg had seen her six works of fiction, a play ("I Married You for the Fun of It"), essays, a biography of the 19th-century novelist Alessandro Manzoni and translations of Flaubert and Proust recognized in recent years as the creations of a major artist.

        Charlotte Moorman, the cellist, avant-gardist and performance artist who won notoriety for her arrest by the New York City police in 1967 for playing the cello nude from the waist up, died yesterday in Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Moorman was arrested on Feb. 9, 1967, by two policemen who interrupted her performance at the Cinematheque in Manhattan of "Opera Sextronique" by Nam June Paik, a composer, video artist and performance artist.
Ms. Moorman was arrested on Feb. 9, 1967, by two policemen who interrupted her performance at the Cinematheque in Manhattan of "Opera Sextronique" by Nam June Paik, a composer, video artist and performance artist.
Correction:  December 4, 1991, Wednesday
        An obituary on Nov. 9 about the cellist and performance artist Charlotte Moorman misattributed three works she performed.

        Madeleine Martin, an artist and founder of the Peter and Madeleine Martin Foundation for the Creative Arts, died on Saturday in San Francisco.
Mrs. Martin became an artist after serving in the Waves in World War II and after attending the California School of Fine Arts, where she studied under Hassell Smith.
