She won national fame in the 1940's, singing with the popular flamenco artist Manolo Caracol, and landed her first film contract at 17.
The owner introduced him to the artist, who invited him to look at the hundreds of artworks that filled her tiny apartment on East 61st Street.
Mrs. Kaplan also bought works by artists like the American painter Ammi Phillips and the Austrian artist Egon Schiele before they were well known.
When she got off the elevator of the Fuller Building on the wrong floor one afternoon, she spotted some drawings by the artist, which she promptly bought.
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      

        Anne Tabachnick, a figurative artist whose painterly style was inspired by Matisse, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich Village.
Correction:  June 26, 1995, Monday
        An obituary on Friday about the artist Anne Tabachnick misidentified the San Francisco gallery that held her last exhibition, in April.
She was also in demand as a garden designer, collaborating with Frank Gehry, the architect, and Claes Oldenburg, the artist.
Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer.
The core of her contributions consisted of five paintings by Matisse: "Moroccan Garden" (1912), "Woman on a High Stool" (1914), "Artist and Goldfish" (1914), "Variation on a Still Life by De Heen" (1915) and "The Moroccans" (1915).
Miss Brooks, a native of Boise, Idaho, started her career as an artist's model in New York, posing for the magazine illustrator James Montgomery Flagg and others.
The turning point came with "The Light That Failed," in which she forcefully played a vengeful prostitute who betrays an artist going blind (Ronald Colman).

        Frances Webb Roosevelt, a portrait artist who was the mother-in-law of Gov.
A well-known portrait artist in Oyster Bay, Mrs. Roosevelt taught art at C. W. Post College in Brookville, L.I.
During the late 1940's and early 1950's, she worked as a courtroom sketch artist for several newspapers and covered the perjury trial of Alger Hiss, the American diplomat who had been accused of spying for the Soviet Union.

        Nancy Graves, an erudite Post-Minimalist artist who combined abstraction with an exacting naturalism, died on Saturday at New N.Y.
A prolific artist who worked in painting, sculpture, printmaking and film, Ms. Graves first made her presence felt on the New York art scene in the late 1960's and 70's, with life-size sculptures of camels that seemed as accurate as a natural history display (down to the real skin).

        Nancy Graves, an erudite Post-Minimalist artist who combined abstraction with an exacting naturalism, died on Saturday at New N.Y.
A prolific artist who worked in painting, sculpture, printmaking and film, Ms. Graves first made her presence felt on the New York art scene in the late 1960's and 70's, with life-size sculptures of camels that seemed as accurate as  a natural history display (down to the real skin).
"The measure of an artist is the silence he or she can inspire," Ross Parmenter wrote in The Times in 1948 of her performance of the Sixth Suite.

        Kate Witte Ericson, an artist who collaborated with her husband, Mel Ziegler, on indoor and outdoor installation works noted for their beauty, complexity and  social awareness, died on Sunday at her home in Milanville, Pa. She was 39 and also had a home in Manhattan.
Fleming hired the gawky, painfully shy Ms. Jeakins in 1947 as a sketch artist for "Joan of Arc," his film adaptation of Maxwell Anderson's play.

        Nancy LaMott, a cabaret singer and recording artist whose unadorned, heartfelt interpretations of songs epitomized the best of what could be called an all-American style of traditional pop singing, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She at first thought of becoming an artist and for a time studied sculpture with Brancusi in Paris.
Nancy Kelly was born in Lowell, Mass., to a New York ticket broker and an artist's model; the family moved to New York shortly after her birth.

        Gertrude Fogelson, a New York philanthropist and artist, died on Sunday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 92 and also had a home in Manhattan.
She came to the United States in 1952 and worked in New York City as a textile designer and freelance artist before turning to creating picture books for children.
