
        Katharine Homer Fryer, an artist, teacher and writer who devoted much of her later life to the mentally disturbed, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
In that job, and later as artistic administrator, she had a hand in everything from pitching in to solve production problems to negotiating artist fees and helping plan seasons.
In 1991 she edited ''Memoirs of an American Artist: The Sculptor Richard W. Bock,'' a book about her father.
Ms. Piper had known Britten since the mid-1940's, when her husband, the artist John Piper, designed the sets for several operas, including ''The Rape of Lucretia'' and ''Billy Budd.
Much of her work grew from a creative symbiosis with her husband, Clement Hurd, the artist and illustrator.
Last year Mrs. Ganz also donated a drawing by Tom Levine, a young New York artist.

        Kiki Kogelnik, an artist known for rakish depictions of figures and heads, died on Saturday at the Vienna Private Clinic.
In recent years, she resumed her career as an artist.

        Wendy Moore, an artist whose work ranged from installation sculptures to computer-manipulated photographs and drawings, died on Saturday in a hospital in Cleveland.
As a recording artist, Ms. Nyro never had a gold album or a hit single, but many of her songs were hits for others.
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She was on the Actors Equity Association council from 1953 to 1967 and an artist in residence at City College of New York from 1973 to 1977.
She married Frederick Clay Bartlett, a Chicago-born artist, architect and patron of the arts, in 1931.
Her daughter, Valerie, is an accomplished trapeeze artist.

        Mattie Lou O'Kelley, who began painting as a hobby at the age of 60 and became a celebrated folk artist of rural Southern life, died on Saturday at her home in Decatur, Ga. She was 89.
Robert Bishop, an art dealer and collector and later the director of the American Museum of Folk Art (in Manhattan), is credited with discovering Miss O'Kelley, a story he recounted in 1989 in the introduction to the book ''Mattie Lou O'Kelley: Folk Artist.
'' And ''most compelling of all,'' he added, an artist with ''a unique vision.
'' He immediately canceled his flight back to Detroit, where he was director of publications at the Henry Ford Museum, and drove 50 miles to find the artist, tracking her down in her one-room cabin in sleepy Maysville.
That developed me enormously as an artist, much more than if I had danced just 'Swan Lake' and 'Giselle.
Miss Danilova gained the reputation of being an artist who was never slack and who gave one-night appearances in tiny villages the same loving care that she bestowed upon seasons at the Metropolitan Opera House.
In addition to Ms. Dundy, who lives in Los Angeles, she is survived by another sister, Betty Lorwin of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Wendy, a video artist who also lives in Los Angeles.
As she recalled, she hired an artist to exaggerate the effect and wrote her own copy for the ad: ''Grow your own .

        Kathy Acker, a child of Sutton Place who rose to prominence as a willfully abrasive novelist and performance artist in the post-punk East Village of the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at an alternative cancer treatment center in Tijuana, Mexico.
Reviewing the show in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Miss Geva ''is so magnificent as the mistress of the dance that she can burlesque it with the authority of an artist on a holiday.
