In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
In an early review, Raymond Ericson of The New York Times wrote that as Gilda in "Rigoletto" in 1963, "Miss Brooks was attractive to both eye and ear, a musicianly artist and an intelligent actress.

        Hannah Wilke, a sculptor and Conceptual artist who made the body and female sexuality the subject of her work, died yesterday at Twelve Oaks Hospital in Houston.
This fortune-cookie-like configuration became the artist's signature; it was sometimes small and made of homey materials like chewing gum or laundry lint, or it could be larger and painted with Abstract Expressionist brushstrokes.
These forms could hang on the wall, or be marshaled in great numbers across the floor, or be stuck directly to the body of the artist herself, as they were in some of her Conceptual photographic pieces.
Ravages of Cancer
        In the late 1970's, Ms. Wilke's involvement with the female body became even more personal when her mother contracted cancer and the artist began to photograph the physical ravages of the disease and its treatments.

        Meredith Bowman Neuffer, 70, an artist who specialized in Oriental brush painting, died on Friday at her home in Weston, Conn.
        She died of lung cancer, her family said.

        Jean Gould, who wrote biographies of Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay and Amy Lowell, as well as of the artist Winslow Homer, died on Monday at a nursing home in Perrysburg, Ohio.
Lights Dimmed on Broadway
        In tribute to the actress, who was often called the First Lady of the American theater, Broadway marquees were dimmed for one minute last night at 8 P.M.
        Miss Hayes's greatest stage success was the 1935 drama "Victoria Regina," in which she played the long-lived British monarch from girlhood to widowhood, aging visibly from act to act thanks to the makeup artist's skill, and her own.

        Irene Claire Fromer, a retired teacher and artist, died on Tuesday at Doctors Hospital on Staten Island.
Her works were exhibited in many group shows and in several one-woman shows, including the first devoted to an American artist by the State Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow, in 1991.
Ms. Magafan was born in Chicago and grew up in Colorado Springs, Colo. She and her twin sister, Jenne, an artist who died in 1952, studied with Boardman Robinson and the muralist Frank Mechau at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.
Ms. Magafan was born in Chicago and grew up in Colorado Springs, Colo. She and her twin sister, Jenne, an artist who died in 1952, studied with Boardman Robinson and the muralist Frank Mechau at the Colorado Springs Fine Arts Center.
" "She has the dignity, the pleading sincerity of an artist -- all nerves and pride," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times.
For seven years in the 1960's Miss Leontovich was an artist in residence at the Goodman Theater in Chicago.
In retirement she became an artist who exhibited her abstract canvases in Dutchess County and in New York City.

        Vera, the artist and designer whose name has been emblazoned on brightly printed scarves, bed and table linens, draperies and sportswear for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in Ossining, N.Y.

        Reva Clamage Shwayder, an artist who was the subject of a documentary film that won an Academy Award, died at her home in Franklin, Mich., on Thursday.

        Reva Clamage Shwayder, an artist who was the subject of a documentary film that won an Academy Award, died Thursday at her home in Franklin, Mich. She was 91.
She Felt Destined To Be an Artist
        Agnes George de Mille was born into a theatrical family in 1905.
Miss de Mille's childhood was spent partly in New York City, where her father wrote plays for the Broadway producer David Belasco, and partly in a summer colony called Merriewold in Sullivan County, N.Y. Miss de Mille described life at this vacation site for writers and theater people in her memoir "Where the Wings Grow," in which she recalled how, as a girl, she danced by herself in the woods and felt that she was destined to be an artist.
Mrs. Tondel graduated from Wheelock College in Boston and was an artist in the Boston area for many years, maintaining a graphic arts business.

        Dolli Tingle Brackett, an artist and designer of Christmas stamps for the Postal Service, died on Dec. 11 in Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk, Conn. She was 82.
