Dr. Ray was appointed by President Gerald R. Ford in 1975 as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, International Environment and Scientific Affairs.
At the time of her death, Dr. Mintz was assistant deputy for Asia, Middle East and Southern Hemisphere affairs in the department's Economic Security Directorate.
From 1981 until her retirement in 1987 she served with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington, where she was the deputy assistant administrator of its National Environmental Satellites, Data and Information Service.
She became Ms. Ouroussow's assistant.
She joined William Morris in 1964 as a secretary in the Chicago office and was promoted to assistant in the personal appearance department in New York in 1962.

        Ruth Mortimer Lancaster, curator of rare books and assistant librarian at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., died on Monday at her home in Williamsburg, Mass.
Ms. Mortimer, who was born in Syracuse, became associated with rare books while working as a student assistant in her freshman year at Smith.
Mrs. Saunders started her career as a teacher and an assistant principal and then worked as principal at Junior High School 220 in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn.
In 1967 President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her his special assistant for consumer affairs, though consumer groups feared that because of her association with Westinghouse, she would go easy on American industry.
In 1967 she became assistant to the President for consumer affairs.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
She also was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs and was head of the New York State Consumer Protection Board in 1970 and '71.
She later served as assistant regional counsel of the New York Environmental Protection Agency.
Dr. Berezin served as an assistant commissioner and director of child and adolescent services for the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services from 1971 to 1978.
She became an assistant professor in 1977 and a full professor in 1988.
From 1933 to 1939, she was an assistant professor of art at Black Mountain.
She also served as a literary assistant to Mary McCarthy.
She later served as administrative assistant to the federation's executive secretary-treasurer.
Dr. Peschel was an adjunct assistant professor of internal medicine and co-director of the program for humanities in medicine at the School of Medicine at Yale.

        Mary C. McDonald, a retired assistant director of continuing education for the New York City schools, died on Monday at her home in Rockville Centre, L.I.
She was assistant director of the Child Study Association of America before going to the Orthopsychiatric Association.
In 1959 she began teaching at the Harvard University Medical School as an assistant professor of sociology in the department of psychiatry, and later became an associate professor.
" From Hitchcock to Hollywood
        In 1939, Miss Harrison accompanied Hitchcock to Hollywood, working as his assistant and as a writer on "Rebecca," "Suspicion," "Saboteur" and "Shadow of a Doubt.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
She began her career at the Brookings Institution as a research assistant on Soviet energy and economics.
At the security council she was the principal policy assistant on the economies of the republics of the former Soviet Union.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Donna Rae Mann, Miss Sumner's assistant.
Moving back to the Seattle area, she became an assistant to her sister Dorothy, a teacher and choreographer, who died in 1988.
She was an assistant director at the Ciba Foundation from 1966 to 1981.
Shouse, a lawyer and businessman, had been a Congressman from Kansas and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Coolidge.

        Charlotte Moton Hubbard, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs from 1964 to 1970, making her the top-ranking black woman in the Johnson Administration at the time, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md.
She retired in 1971 as an assistant commissioner in the city's Department of Welfare.
