She worked for a time as an assistant stage manager at La Scala in Milan, Italy, and as an assistant to several opera directors.
She worked for a time as an assistant stage manager at La Scala in Milan, Italy, and as an assistant to several opera directors.
She also worked as an assistant to Eliot Richardson, later Attorney General in the Nixon Administration, when he was a lawyer in Boston, and was an assistant to Nelson A. Rockefeller in New York City and Washington.
She also worked as an assistant to Eliot Richardson, later Attorney General in the Nixon Administration, when he was a lawyer in Boston, and was an assistant to Nelson A. Rockefeller in New York City and Washington.
She began her career as an assistant to the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright Charles Gordone during the production of "No Place to Be Somebody" at the Public Theater.
She also taught for many years as a clinical assistant professor of medicine at New York Medical College and worked on the staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center and Beth Israel Hospital North.
She came to Sarah Lawrence in 1973 as an assistant to the dean of studies.
She was promoted to assistant dean the following year and to associate dean in 1980.
In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State.
From 1966 she was the assistant to the chairman and president while Mr. Bernstein held those positions at Random House.
Ms. McLean retired in 1977 as the director of Columbia University's Division of Dental Hygiene and an assistant dean at Columbia's School of Dental and Oral Surgery.
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
Born in Northeastern Italy
        Retiring in 1990, she sold the music box shop to her assistant in restoration, Gerald Wright, who has preserved the name and character of the establishment.
Waters was born in Salem, Ore. She studied in Colorado at the Perry-Mansfield School and in New York City with Ruth St. Denis, also working as the famed dancer's personal maid and assistant in 1931.
She was a soloist in the Holm company from 1935 to 1939 and was Ms. Holm's teaching assistant at the Bennington School of the Dance in Vermont.
She taught high school English in Ohio and was an assistant professor at Bryn Mawr College before she went to Rochester.
At Purchase she became an assistant professor of language arts in 1973 and an associate professor five years later.
From 1963 to 1984 she taught in Center School in New Canaan, where she was assistant principal and head of the mathematics program.
After a series of promotions, she was named assistant administrator in 1970.
She was appointed assistant director of the Nurses' Aide Corps of the American Red Cross in 1942 and later helped set up a program to house and feed British soldiers released from Japanese prison camps who stopped in New York on their way home.
She became a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in 1972 and was instrumental in drafting legislation that led to the Freedom of Information Act.
Denied Re-Election
        She was working an assistant professor of health at Lehman College of the City University of New York when she was appointed as the second woman ever to serve on the Board of Regents, which supervises all education in the state.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer-screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer and screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
