Before that, she was assistant minister of St. Alban's Congregational Church in Queens.

        Dr. Leona Baumgartner Langmuir, a public health official who was New York City's Commissioner of Health from 1954 to 1962 and later was an assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Tuesday in Chilmark, Mass.
Safeguarding Public Health
        She left for 18 months in the late 1940's to become associate chief of the United States Children's Bureau, returning to the Health Department in 1950 as assistant commissioner.
She later became the executive assistant to the producers Herman Levin, Lemuel Ayres and Saint Subber.
Mrs. Siegel was an assistant corporation counsel for New York City during the administration of Mayor John F. Hylan in the 1920's.
Her initial title was rehearsal pianist, but in 1967 that was upgraded to assistant conductor, although she never conducted a performance at the Met.
In 1932 she became assistant to M.F.
Mrs. Wickens retired from the Department of Labor in 1970 after a 42-year career in Fderal service that began when she joined the Federal Reserve Board as a research assistant in 1928 after having taught at Mount Holyoke College for four years.
From 1946 to 1961 she was assistant and then deputy Commissioner of Labor Statistics.
President John F. Kennedy gave her a post in the State Department, and within two years she was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, at that time the highest job in the department ever held by a woman.
From 1978 to 1981 she was an assistant editor in the financial news department of The Times.
She later joined the faculty of the College of New Rochelle as assistant to the director of finance and as director of financial aid.
After working as an editorial assistant at Family Circle magazine, she joined The Times as a trainee in 1986, working on the copy desk of the Connecticut weekly section.
She was also the first woman to be an assistant attorney general for West Virginia, a post she held from 1952 to 1961.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
From 1962 to 1965, as assistant city commissioner to the United Nations, she created the first mayoral office providing programs and help to the United Nations diplomatic corps.
Before joining the authority, she was executive assistant to the president of Federal Metal Maintenance in Manhattan, and from 1974 to 1978, she was the director of executive staff relations for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation.

        Enid C. Baird, executive assistant to three presidents of the National Urban League, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 85 years old and lived in Port Charlotte and Brooklyn.
Mrs. Baird, who joined the League in 1940 as a secretary, was executive assistant to three chief executive officers, Lester B. Granger, Whitney M. Young Jr., and Vernon E. Jordan.
She was executive assistant to Bishop Stephen F. Bayne in London in the late 1960's and early 1970's.

        Frauke Petersen Haasemann, the assistant conductor of the Westminster Choir and professor of conducting at the Westminster Choir College, died last Friday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 68 years old.
She later became an acting assistant principal, assistant superintendent of schools in District 16 and deputy superintendent of schools in District 32.
She later became an acting assistant principal, assistant superintendent of schools in District 16 and deputy superintendent of schools in District 32.
From 1982 to 1986 she was a New York State assistant attorney general specializing in trusts and estates.
She had earlier been a law assistant to New York County Surrogate Millard L. Midonick.
Dr. Lundberg, a 1925 graduate of Vassar College, was an editor at several magazines, including Cosmopolitan, and an assistant to the president of an educational consulting firm before earning a Ph.D. in 1957 from the New School for Social Research.
Miss Leiser began her career as assistant editor and advertising manager of The Wisconsin Journal of Education.
She became an assistant professor in 1949, associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1965.
She was a past chairwoman and a member of the Assistant Board of Woman's Hospital since 1949.
In 1973 she became an assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, specializing in the education, vocational training and counseling of men and women in urban and rural ghettos.
In 1973 she became an assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, specializing in the education, vocational training and counseling of men and women in urban and rural ghettos.
From 1974 to 1982 she was an assistant professor of psychology at Barnard College, and in the early 1970's she was a pychologist at the Bank Street College of Education.
Before joining the museum in 1947 she was a research assistant for the Office of Strategic Services.

        Agnes Waldron, a research assistant to Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday at the Washington Hospice Center.
As special assistant to President Ford she edited the daily news summary, prepared the Presidential briefing books and managed research projects.
She was called back to the White House by President Reagan in 1985 and was named special assistant to the President in the office of communications, where she remained until the end of his second term.
" On Broadway she was the assistant lighting designer for "Jesus Christ, Superstar," "Pippin" and a 1982 revival of "Othello.

        Carol Laise, an American Ambassador who was the wife of an American Ambassador and the first woman to be an Assistant Secretary of State, died yesterday at her home in Dummerston, Vt. She was 73 years old.
Named Director General
        In October 1973 she returned to Washington and was sworn in as Assistant Secretary of State in charge of the Bureau of Public Affairs, the first woman to hold so high a post in the department.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
Mrs. Falk joined the association in 1968 and was assistant director in charge of social services at its Cottage School in Pleasantville, N.Y., until 1989, when she took over the training post at the headquarters in Manhattan.

        E. Tamu Bess, a former special assistant to Basil Patterson when he was deputy mayor of New York City and New York State Secretary of State, died on Aug. 1 in Midway Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles.
She also served as assistant dean of women at the university before beginning a new career in 1940 as the principal aide to Senator Pat McCarran, Republican of Nevada, in Washington.
She continued as administrative assistant to Mr. McCarran until he died in 1954, then served under his interim successor and under Senator Alan Bible, a Democrat elected as Mr. McCarran's permanent replacement.
In New York City, where she began her career, she was principal of Public School 165, assistant principal of Public School 41 and a teacher at Public School 192.

        Carol Wilson Trueblood, assistant to the editor of The Washington Monthly, which she helped to found, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital.

        E. Tamu Bess, a former special assistant to Basil Patterson when he was deputy mayor of New York City and New York State Secretary of State, died Aug. 1 in Midway Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Before that she was an executive assistant to the chairman of Genimar Inc., manufacturers of fabricated masonry wall reinforcements, also in New York.
She joined the periodical in 1942 as assistant editor and new wife of its editor and founder, Whitney Ewing Burnett.
She died of heart and circulatory problems, her assistant, Mary Carter, said.
In 1961 she worked for George Hinman, a political adviser to Rockefeller when he was Governor of New York, and became the Governor's executive assistant in 1965.
She was the editor in chief of Cue and Family Life, the managing editor of Charm and an assistant to Fleur Cowles in the women's division of Look and Quick magazines at Cowles Publications.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
In Stamford she volunteered as a teacher's assistant.
Assistant to Man Ray
        Atget's photographs, which combine straightforward description with great formal beauty, have exerted a great influence on the development of American photography.
She went into photography by accident, going to work in Paris in 1923 as a darkroom assistant for the American Surrealist Man Ray.
