A year later, she became his pupil and subsequently his assistant, a job she held for seven years.
She later worked as dining room hostess and assistant banquet manager at the old Theresa Hotel.
She received her Ph.D. at Penn in 1939, two years after she started her academic career as an assistant instructor.
A year later, at the age of 17, she joined the Juilliard faculty as an assistant.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Det.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Detective Dwight Cunningham, a police spokesman.

        Elizabeth Adams, the flamboyant Madam Alex who operated a Beverly Hills prostitution ring for two decades until she was arrested in 1988 and displaced by her former assistant, Heidi Fleiss, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Titus is survived by two children of her first marriage, Louis E. Slesin of Manhattan, and Suzanne Slesin Steinberg of Manhattan, an assistant editor in the Home section of The New York Times; and three grandchildren.
      
She became an assistant professor of French, and later an assistant dean at the University of New Orleans.
She became an assistant professor of French, and later an assistant dean at the University of New Orleans.
Later she became a production assistant and associate producer at a New York radio station.
She went on to head the department's Hazardous Materials Bureau with the title of assistant commissioner.
Mrs. Haynes served as an executive vice president and assistant treasurer and each owned 26 percent of the team before it was sold to Carl Pohlad in 1985.
She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
She was a graduate of Hunter College and studied music before becoming an administrative assistant to the conductor and composer Walter Damrosch, whom she succeeded as director of the academy in 1941.
Defeated in her first attempt in 1955, she won in 1957 and rose to become assistant majority leader in 1960 and 1961.
After graduating from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, she became an assistant clinical professor at Cornell University Medical College.
She worked as the executive secretary of the New York League of Women Voters and on the staff of the Atomic Energy Commission, becoming assistant director of public information.
After being discovered at age 20 -- a clerical worker, she was shopping at a Fifth Avenue department store when spotted by an assistant to Louise Dahl-Wolfe, the celebrated Harper's Bazaar photographer -- Ms. Tripp soon began to appear frequently on magazine covers.
She joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1968 and became a tenured professor in 1978.
An assistant police chief in Corpus Christi, Ken Bung, said that Selena, whose full name was Selena Quintanilla Perez, was shot in a room at the motel just before noon and stumbled to the lobby.
"We had 20 performances this year," said Leroy Shafer, assistant general manager of the show.
She began her career in publishing at Doubleday, working her way up from editorial assistant to editor, and later became an editor at Straight Arrow Books, Charles Scribner's Sons and Simon & Schuster.
"She died peacefully in her sleep," said her personal assistant, Sue Leary, who could not say which of Miss Kuhn's many ailments, from arthritis to osteoporosis, had caused her death.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
