She joined it as a research assistant in 1952, became an associate editor in 1956, editor in 1962, and finally editor in charge from 1973 until her retirement in 1996.
During this period she became an assistant to the conductor Boris Goldovsky, who ran an opera program at the New England Conservatory.
In 1967, Ms. Gaines was appointed assistant superintendent in charge of School District 12 in the Bronx, where she was responsible for the day-to-day operation of 22 schools serving more than 40,000 students.
''
        Not wanting to go to college, she took an unpaid position as assistant to the women's editor at The Scranton Tribune.
After five years as an assistant at DePaul, Maggie Dixon became the Army coach in late September, 11 days before the first practice.
In May 2000, she was cut by the Los Angeles Sparks of the Women's National Basketball Association and later talked her way into an assistant's job at DePaul.
She deeply influenced distinguished students like Alicia Munnell, an assistant secretary of the treasury and member of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration and now a professor at the Carroll School of Management at Boston College.
She began her editorial career as an assistant at Doubleday, then quickly rose to prominence there as the editor of Anne Frank's ''Diary of a Young Girl,'' among other books.
She worked as a reporter for The Morning Call of Paterson, N.J.
        Ms. Dubrow became secretary for the Textile Workers Union in New Jersey in the late 1930's and then assistant to the president of the state's C.I.O.
Three years later, after teaching mathematics at the university, Miss Peterson was named assistant dean of women.
He had been an assistant to Sir Thomas Beecham and was largely responsible for forming the Philharmonia Orchestra and Chorus.
Her death came after she was injured in a fall, said Paul de Fraine, personal assistant to the present duke.
That year, she joined Columbia's geology department as a research assistant to the eminent scientist Maurice Ewing.
She was previously an assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs in the administration of President Jimmy Carter.
''
        In college she directed and acted in theater productions, and she pursued those interests after graduation, going to work as an assistant in the New York production department of NBC.
She moved to Los Angeles to work as an assistant for Kate Smith's radio show and later for ''Family Theater,'' the radio program produced by the Rev.
But her vocal talent was overwhelming and she began serious training at 20, working privately with Hermann Weigert, a coach and assistant conductor at the Met.
Tom DeWolfe, a special assistant attorney general, told the jury that Mrs. D'Aquino had engaged in ''nefarious propagandistic broadcasts'' without being under duress.
She attended the University of Louisville for a year, but then was hired as a photo lab assistant at The Louisville Courier-Journal.
A few days later, she was offered a job she remembered as ''an assistant something,'' with the promise that in six months she could be an editor.
The job was ''bunny department assistant,'' although she was never a bunny, Ms. Rosenthal said.
Not satisfied, she transferred to answering phones at the Playboy mansion, and eventually Mr. Hefner asked her to be his assistant on cartoons, with the understanding that she might become cartoon editor in a year.
Her death was announced by Angela Savarese, her assistant, who said she died in her sleep.
She worked briefly translating English-language film dialogues, but after studying art and design in Rome, she became an assistant, in 1943, to the Fontana sisters, who operated the most successful Italian couture house of the time.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her personal assistant, Tammy Jagyur.
