Miss Martin also was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee.
From 1936 to 1946, she was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee in Washington and head of its women's division.
She was a teacher, magazine editor and judge's assistant before she became a lawyer.
In the mid-1940's, she joined the Duveen Brothers gallery, where she became assistant to the president, Edward Fowles, and remained there for 15 years.
Mrs. Hinshaw served as an assistant to the ministers at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, in charge of pastoral visitations, from 1958 to 1969, when she retired.
Previously, she had been assistant to the president of Harcum Junior College in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

       Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital.
Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital.

       Dr. Sarah Kestenbaum, a professor of social work at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a legislative assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, died of cancer Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
Dr. Sarah Kestenbaum, a professor of social work at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a legislative assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, died of cancer Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.

       Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Mrs. Freeman joined Norton in 1940 as assistant to Robert E. Farlow, head of production and art director.

       Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
She also was executive assistant on Gov.
Previously she had been assistant art director of the L. S. Ayres & Company department stores in Indianapolis and on the display staff of Rike's department store in Dayton, Ohio.
Two years later, she was assigned to the society beat, with a mandate from Clifton Daniel, then an assistant managing editor, to ''write about society as news and to treat it as sociology.
She was also assistant to Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman, the company's directors.
Miss Gray worked in Hollywood from 1941 to 1951, serving as assistant to Jack Cole at Columbia Studios, teaching movement to young actresses at Universal Studios, and dancing in films produced by Columbia, United Artists and Warner Brothers.
In the early 1960's she joined the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., as a research assistant.
Active in Adoption Issues
        After Yale, she served on a state committee to study workers' compensation laws and was an assistant corporation counsel of New York City before she was named a judge.
Mrs. Fowler was the membership chairwoman and assistant to the executive director of the Women's International League for Peace and Freedom, based in Philadelphia, from 1959 to 1972.
In 1944 she became principal of Washington Irving High School in Manhattan and in 1956, assistant superintendent of the city's high school division.
Before joining Calvin Klein, Ms. Walsh was an assistant buyer for Bloomingdale's, a coat buyer for Macy's and was on Macy's corporate staff in Hong Kong.
She was appointed a special assistant to the Human Rights Division in 1966, became assistant commissioner and was made deputy commissioner in 1972.
She was appointed a special assistant to the Human Rights Division in 1966, became assistant commissioner and was made deputy commissioner in 1972.
She was 78 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Miss Blood, who was a state legislator in the early 1940's, later served as an assistant to Clare Boothe Luce during Mrs. Luce's years in the House of Representatives, from 1943 to 1947.
Miss Blood also was assistant director of women's programs at The New York Times from 1946 to 1948.
''I had the privilege of working as a dancer and assistant with what I call the masters, people like Jerome Robbins, Danny Daniels, Don Saddler, Jack Cole.
She rose quickly to assistant editor and wrote satirical pieces about society that were later collected in a book, ''Stuffed Shirts.
Her first position was assistant to the executive director.
A year later, however, the engagement was broken, and in 1932, she married Michel Gusikoff, a composer and a former assistant conductor of the Pittsburgh Symphony.
      
Starting as a projectionist, she advanced to instructor, senior instructor and assistant department chairman.

       Dr. Florence Clothier Wislocki, a psychiatrist and former assistant to the president of Vassar College, died of a stroke Wednesday in the Charlton Memorial Hospital in Fall River, Mass.
She was 83 years old and lived in Little Compton, R.I.
        Dr. Florence Clothier Wislocki, a psychiatrist and former assistant to the president of Vassar College, died of a stroke Wednesday in the Charlton Memorial Hospital in Fall River, Mass.
From 1957 until 1969 she was assistant to two Vassar presidents, Sarah Gibson Blanding and Alan Simpson.
Before her retirement, she was assistant to Bob Criqui, the league's controller.
