She was an assistant prosecutor in Erie County before becoming a city judge in Buffalo in 1972.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that introduced her to the world of poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that introduced her to the world of poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
Ms. Cage arrived in 1947 and retired formally in 1985, working first as an assistant to Frances Hawkins, the business manager at Ballet Society.
''
        Miss Miner was born in Plainfield, N.J., and grew up in Oriskany Falls, N.Y. After graduating from Smith, she worked briefly with the Girl Scouts in Elmira, N.Y., then accepted a post at the Brooklyn garden as an educational assistant.
She served as an assistant state's attorney for Cook County and was one of a few women in the Illinois Legislature when she met her husband, then a fellow lawmaker.
She was appointed an assistant professor in biochemistry at the medical school in 1976 and became a full professor in 1991.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Her next stop was Harvard, where she worked as a research assistant as she earned a doctorate in biology from Radcliffe in 1954.
She remained at Harvard as a research assistant and biology lecturer.
She then was a research fellow, psychologist and assistant professor at Rockford College in Illinois.
She was principal assistant to Col. Maurice Buckmaster, director of the Special Operations Executive, who is said to have been the model for ''M.
''
        Hitler, perhaps, did not know about Buckmaster's assistant, Ms. Atkins.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
In 1971, she was appointed assistant professor at Berkeley.
After some years as an executive with CBS and then at WETA, a Public Broadcasting outlet in Washington, she returned to NBC in 1982 and went on to become assistant vice president for NBC News in Washington.
''
        Reilly, an infielder and pitcher on the Brakettes, finally heeded her teammates' advice at the age of 26 and enrolled at California State University, Los Angeles, said Kathy Pullek, assistant director of sports information at Central Connecticut State.
Before joining the Heckscher, she was director of exhibitions at Duke University, curator at the Museum of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and assistant director of the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.
One of her earliest design jobs was as an assistant to the Modernist designer Paul Rand at Esquire and Apparel Arts magazines.
She held a number of positions as assistant principal, principal and teachers' trainer before being appointed to the Board of Examiners, then practically a lifetime job.
For eight years, Ms. Moyes was the assistant to the actor and director Peter Ustinov.
From 1958 to 1962, she was an assistant editor for British Vogue and wrote the ''Shophound'' column for the magazine.

        Linda Grey, a top publishing executive who rose from editorial assistant to president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group, died on Aug. 30.
She got her start in publishing in 1970 as an editorial assistant at Coward McCann & Geoghegan.
Nevertheless, she left the show before it ended its run and returned to working with the Hollywood choreographer Jack Cole, whose assistant she had been in the early 1950's.
In 1943, she married Charles S. Lyon, who was a deputy chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials and later became a United States assistant attorney general.
'' But the show was ''lousy,'' she said in a 1958 interview, so she took refuge as the second assistant stage manager.
Born in Venezuela, she was formerly a journalist and film critic in Caracas and an assistant professor at the University of Buenos Aires.
in 1986 and a Ph.D. in Spanish-American literature in 1989 while working as a teaching assistant at the University of Maryland.
A series of administrative jobs, including assistant to the director at Vanguard Records, led to her  hiring by Nonesuch.
Mrs. Leighton-Porter continued modeling for ''Jane'' after the war, and when Mr. Pett left The Daily Mirror in 1948, the drawings were taken over by his assistant, Michael Hubbard.
