She was also on the board of the Smith College Museum of Art and on staff at the Yale Art Museum, where she was a curatorial assistant.
In 1961 she moved to the University of Texas, where she was an assistant professor until 1966.
In 1966, she was hired as an administrative assistant to the chief of the Washington bureau of The Times and eventually became a reporter specializing in cultural news in Washington.
Born Joan Paley in Far Rockaway, Queens, she graduated from Brooklyn College and began her career as an assistant to Stan Lee, the creator of ''Spider-Man'' and other comic books.
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University.
She was also a teaching assistant at the Hayden Planetarium in New York in 1971 and a researcher at the Maria Mitchell Observatory in Nantucket in 1969.
She became a production assistant on television variety shows.
Patricia Derian, who fought for integrated schools in Mississippi as a young mother and was an assistant secretary of state in the Carter administration, said in an interview, ''When she walked in a room, it was a little bit like having a battleship arrive.
She stayed to teach history, then became the assistant headmistress to Catherine Woodbridge, whom she later succeeded.
'' During her long career in classical music she also served as an assistant to Rudolf Serkin, Alexander Schneider and Ravi Shankar.
She worked for a bank and then as an assistant district attorney for Jefferson County, Colo., and as deputy district attorney for the City of Denver.
In 1965, Dr. Kübler-Ross became an assistant professor in psychiatry at the University of Chicago Medical School, where a group of theology students approached her for help in studying death.
Her father, Ray Grey, acted in Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies and later worked as an assistant director.
''
        She was the first assistant editor, under Thelma Schoonmaker, on Martin Scorsese's ''Last Temptation of Christ'' (1988) and received her first credit as editor on ''Iron & Silk'' (1990).
''Many people did not believe it was a real entity,'' said Dr. Mona Shangold, a former assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
She was assistant field director of the excavation from 1948 to 1960 and acting director from 1960 to 1965, and she remained closely involved with Samothrace for the rest of her career.
She received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1934, and for the next two years worked at the Brooklyn Museum as an assistant in charge of the Classical collection.
By then Mr. Frank was an assistant to Rudolf Serkin at the Marlboro Festival, in Vermont.
She practiced briefly at New York University, then returned to Columbia in 1946 and was named an assistant professor there five years later.
There, she met Rivera's assistant, Ben Shahn, who became her life companion.
She never had an assistant.
