
        Martha Barber Montgomery, assistant vice president for program evaluation at Drexel University in Philadelphia, died Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was chairman of the humanities and communications department from 1976 to 1985, and was assistant vice president for research and development before being assigned to her post in program evaluation.
Mrs. Lerner worked as an assistant to Senator Harrison A. Williams and Governors Robert Meyner and Brendan T. Byrne.
She also was assistant choreographer for the Broadway musicals "Sadie Thompson" (1944) and "Top Banana" (1951).
At her retirement she was the associate chief for research in the nursing service at the hospital and an assistant professor at the University of California at San Francisco.
When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?
She also worked as the executive assistant to the Principal of the Ramaz School, a Jewish day school on Manhattan's East Side.
In 1961 she was promoted to assistant manager, only the third woman in the bank's 151-year history to hold such a post.
By 1964 there were a dozen female assistant managers and she was chosen from them to study at the Stonier Graduate School of Banking at Rutgers University.
In 1965 she was one of four women promoted to assistant vice president at Citibank and in 1972 became a vice president.
A Start at Williamsburg
        Her museum career began in 1956 when she was hired as a research assistant at Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia.
Dr. Wedeen taught education courses at Brooklyn College since 1948 and was also assistant dean of students from 1966 to 1968.
Although her career was launched and revolved around her widely acclaimed beauty, Miss Colby became an author, a newspaper columnist, an advertising executive, chief assistant to Hollywood moguls and a host on the "Today" show -- as well as a model and film actress.
In 1947, after working for the Selznick organization, Miss Colby served as a $150,000-a-year executive assistant to the head of Paramount Pictures.
After working for a law firm and Citibank, she joined the foundation in 1969, where she progressed from research assistant to program associate, program officer, associate director and vice president.
During World War II, Miss Palmer was a Wave captain, serving as women's reserve assistant to the Navy's director of enlisted personnel.
In 1949, she became an administrative assistant at the Connecticut College School of Dance in New London, which presented the American Dance Festival, this country's leading summer festival of modern dance.
She was assigned the part by Rudolph Sieber, a young Czechoslovak production assistant.
In between, she worked in merchandising and advertising and as an editorial assistant at Glamour magazine.
A Former Dean
        Sister Margaret began her years in the administration at the College of New Rochelle as assistant registrar in 1941 and served as dean of the college from 1950 to 1957 and then as president until 1961.
She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
She joined Commentary about 1950 as an editorial assistant and eventually rose to managing editor.
In 1923, she became an assistant saleswoman in the showroom of a blouse manufacturer.
She also directed a major collection of historical material on women, served as Harvard's first female assistant dean and was a mentor to other female scholars.
She also served as a college administrator, first as an associate dean at Harvard's affiliated Radcliffe College from 1963 to 1970, then as an assistant dean at Harvard from 1970 to 1974.
She worked there until her retirement in 1990, advancing from secretary to editorial assistant to editor to fiction editor.
In 1987 she was named director of public affairs for Con Edison's Westchester customer service unit, and in 1990 she was named assistant to the chairman of Consolidated Edison.
She joined Albert Einstein as an assistant professor in the Department of Developmental Biology and Cancer in 1968 and became a full professor 10 years later.
Ms. Wasey was born in Chicago and began her career at the age of 17 in Paris as the only female assistant to the sculptor Paul Landowski.

        Enid Schechter, who served as the executive assistant to four Speakers of the New York State Assembly in the Legislature's New York City office, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Before her government work, she was an assistant to the president of London Records.

        Barbara Reach, a former mayoral assistant in New York City and a housing and city planning expert, died on Sunday at New York Hospital.
from Harvard Medical School in 1959, was assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the medical school and psychiatrist to the University Health Services.
After earning a doctorate in socio-medical science at Columbia University in 1970, she served two years as an assistant to the first vice president at New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation.

        Rebecca Grand, a former teacher and assistant principal in New York City public schools, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
During a 35-year career from 1937 to 1972, Miss Grand was a history teacher, guidance department chairman and an assistant principal of Samuel J. Tilden High School in Brooklyn.

        Mary Green, a dancer, an actress, a writer and a longtime assistant to Agnes de Mille, died on Dec. 16 at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City.
In 1935, she was appointed an assistant corporation counsel of New York City during the term of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia.
