There she became special assistant to the Secretary, working on housing and problems that affect the disabled and the elderly.
A mezzo-soprano who had performing aspirations early on, she sang small roles during her first five years at the company but gave up the stage in 1960 when she was appointed assistant manager.
She became assistant manager in 1960 and artistic administrator in 1975.
From the late 1930's through the early 50's, she worked mainly as her husband's assistant and brought up their four children, of which one son and two daughters survive.
In 1980, President Carter appointed Ms. Seidman Assistant Secretary for Trade in the United States Commerce Department, a post she held until 1981.
She studied there with the pioneering Sinologists Marcel Granet and Paul Pelliot and was Professor Granet's research assistant in the 1930's.
She joined The Times in 1961 as an assistant to Craig Claiborne, the food editor and restaurant reviewer.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
In time, Dr. Fosdick was eclipsed on the public stage by some of her  admiring young proteges, among them Ricard N. Perle, who became an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Elliott Abrams, who became an Assistant Secretary of State, but only, perhaps, because she preferred to work behind the scenes.
In time, Dr. Fosdick was eclipsed on the public stage by some of her  admiring young proteges, among them Ricard N. Perle, who became an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Elliott Abrams, who became an Assistant Secretary of State, but only, perhaps, because she preferred to work behind the scenes.
After completing internships in several Manhattan  museums, Ms. Yang worked for five years as an assistant curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo, organizing several exhibitions, including a survey of the work of Alfredo Jaar in 1992 and a group show titled ''The Final Frontier'' in 1993.
The cause of death was cancer, said Gene Policinski, a special assistant at the Freedom Forum, where Ms. Woodhull was senior vice president for communications.
She is survived by her daughter, of Hartford, who is a rehearsal assistant for the Hartford Ballet.
      
''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates.
Miss Biracree continued as an assistant to Graham for several years.
She worked at the Cleveland Museum of Art before going to the Brooklyn Museum of Art in 1936 as assistant curator of prints and drawings under Carl O. Schniewind.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a retired executive assistant district attorney of New York County.
She worked at the Modern on and off, beginning in 1966, in positions ranging from curatorial assistant in the department of painting and sculpture to senior exhibition assistant to assistant in the international circulating exhibitions program.
She worked at the Modern on and off, beginning in 1966, in positions ranging from curatorial assistant in the department of painting and sculpture to senior exhibition assistant to assistant in the international circulating exhibitions program.
She worked at the Modern on and off, beginning in 1966, in positions ranging from curatorial assistant in the department of painting and sculpture to senior exhibition assistant to assistant in the international circulating exhibitions program.
She served as assistant keeper of the costume collection at the London Museum, and later directed an excavation at Bredon Hill, an Iron Age fort in Worcestershire.
During the Eisenhower Administration, from 1955 to 1958, she served as assistant United States attorney for the Northern District of Illinois.
She left Hearst in 1937 and became assistant news director of WOR, making her one of the first women in radio to assign reporters and shape the news broadcast.
In his book ''The Go-Go Years,'' an account of Wall Street during the 1960's, the author John Brooks said Mrs. Talley was a ''New York housewife who had tired of full-time housewifery,'' when she took a job as an assistant analyst at the Dreyfus Corporation.
When Harry Chandler died in 1944, Norman Chandler took over as publisher, and four years later his wife was named his administrative assistant.
She began her career at Teachers College as an assistant professor and coordinator of the Special Education Child Study Center in 1974.
During a family visit to Washington when she was 13, President Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, a former Cleveland mayor, had a young assistant, Walter Lippmann, show her around.
He has been tried but acquitted several times, and Mrs. Good became his top assistant, helping him screen those seeking help to die and consoling their survivors.
In 1964 she was named senior vice president and assistant to the president at McCann-Erickson, and became the first woman to serve on the agency's board.
Toward the end of World War II, she was appointed instructor and then assistant professor of French at Syracuse University.
She was a research assistant at Harvard from 1933 to 1949, and an instructor at Wellesley College from 1938 to 1943.
She helped publicize two of the company's international best-sellers, ''Watership Down'' and ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull,'' and in 1973 was made an assistant vice president.
When the bureau was abolished in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for family planning and population.
During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
She moved to the parent company as assistant treasurer three years later.
After working as a theatrical secretary, Ms. Harvey became assistant to Alfred de Liagre Jr. She then moved to the Music Corporation of America.
She spent more than a decade as a businesswoman in Detroit that included working as assistant to the president of a manufacturer of cotton batting for auto upholstery.
Sid Davidoff, a lawyer and former administrative assistant to Mayor John V. Lindsay, agreed to take her case even though, he later recalled, she ''didn't have a dime, she was living by her wits.
In 1961, President Kennedy named her an Assistant Secretary of Labor and Director of the Women's Bureau, an agency that administered the labor laws concerning women.
Mr. Angell gave her a tryout and she went on to become his  assistant.
