After Mrs. Bunting-Smith stepped down as president of Radcliffe in 1972, she spent three years as special assistant to the president of Princeton University, William Bowen, working on coeducation there.
She soon became Mr. Shaw's assistant at the Collegiate Chorale, and in 1950 she founded the Tanglewood Alumni Chorus, which later performed as the New York Concert Choir and Orchestra.
She joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School as an instructor in pediatrics in 1969, rising to become an assistant professor of pediatrics and chief of the behavior unit in the Children's Service of the Massachusetts General Hospital.
''
        She advanced to the main branch in 1961 as assistant coordinator and storytelling expert and was named  coordinator of children's services in 1961.
The encounter was enough to draw Miss von Franz into the Jungian orbit, first as student, patient and research assistant, later as colleague and collaborator and eventually as successor at the C. G. Jung Institute in Zurich.
In Congress, ''she was first on almost everything, on everything that ever mattered,'' said Esther Newberg, Ms. Abzug's first administrative assistant and one of many staff members who quit but remained devoted.
For all of her railing against Democrats who went along to get along,  Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill named her one of his dozen assistant whips, and by most accounts she worked well with some of the crustiest fixtures in the House.
She was named an assistant professor at Marymount College in 1944.
Mrs. Cormier, who lived in her own house in Crowley, attended only by a part-time nursing assistant, until she entered the nursing home last September, was inevitably glib during the annual spate of birthday interviews.
Back in Miami after the war, she obtained a divorce and was reunited with her father at The Herald, becoming assistant editor, writing editorials and editing a literary column called ''The Galley.
After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mudd spent a decade as her husband's unpaid laboratory assistant, first at Harvard, later at the Rockefeller Institute in New York and then at the Henry Phipps Institute in Philadelphia, winning credit as co-author of 14 of his scientific papers.
Working for several hours a day with her longtime assistant, Junior Robinson, she was a demon for pruning, a necessity in such a small garden with narrow brick walks.

        Maxine S. Pfeffer, an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan whose prosecutions ranged from drug dealing to international art theft, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long battle with cancer.
Never one to be hampered by convention, Miss Smith went to work for the agriculture department of the Connecticut Agricultural College before she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago; became an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut (as the agricultural college became in 1938)  before she received a master's degree from Radcliffe College, and never did bother to get a doctorate, although she did complete postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics.
Later, after becoming an assistant professor in 1943 and spending three years with the O.P.A.
She remained an assistant professor, but her work as a teacher and consumer marketing specialist -- among other things turning out pamphlets and conducting radio and television programs stressing thrift -- was so impressive that when she retired in 1961, she was named professor emeritus.
When one of the Washington firm's partners, William H. Hastie, was named to the Court of Appeals in Philadelphia in 1950, he hired his former stenographer as administrative assistant, a position she held until she entered private practice a few years later.

        Dorothy Manners Haskell, who became the Hollywood columnist for the Hearst Corporation after 30 years as the assistant to its syndicated columnist Louella Parsons, died on Tuesday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 95.
She became Parsons' assistant in 1935.
She joined the faculty at Mount Holyoke College as an assistant professor in 1945, rose to professor in 1950 and headed the department of chemistry from 1960 to 1966.
Her death on Sept. 11 at her apartment in Manhattan -- at the age of 85, in her own bed, after a long, peaceful retirement and a distinguished career as an assistant professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work -- was a triumphant flick of her hand, almost six decades coming, to the German soldiers who had arrived in the small city of Kolomyja in eastern Poland (now Ukraine) on July 3, 1941, and tacked up posters that declared in three languages, ''Death to All Jews.

        Deidre S. Murphy, assistant managing editor for news at The Star-Ledger of Newark, died on Thursday at St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken.
Ms. Murphy, known as Dee, went to New York in 1988 to be an assistant city editor and was later deputy metro editor at New York Newsday, where she helped supervise the paper's coverage of a subway crash that killed five people, caused by a motorman who was drunk.
Instead, said Mr. Packard -- who was then a special assistant to the Ambassador -- she became widely respected, even esteemed.
''
        Ms. Crockett was born April 20, 1919, in Tucson, Ariz. Before joining the Wharton faculty in 1954, she was a mathematics instructor at the University of Arizona, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Illinois, a staff researcher for the Cowles Commission at the University of Chicago and an economist with the Commerce Department.
After all, after marrying James Donovan, a leather importer, and starting a family, Mrs. Donovan, a 1939 graduate of Rosemont College near Philadelphia, had willingly given up her job as an assistant Vogue beauty editor in New York and moved to Westport, Conn.
She received her bachelor of laws degree from Yale Law School in 1951 and subsequently became a research assistant to the tax expert Stanley S. Surrey at Harvard Law School.
A food expert by avocation, she was a news assistant and recipe tester in the style department of The New York Times for the last 10 years.
She joined AT&T in 1994 as assistant treasurer.
It is now operated by her nephew Christopher Jaeckel, who became her assistant in 1971.
After graduation, she worked as an all-purpose assistant to Kermit Bloomgarden, the producer.
In response, Ms. Hellman told the producer to give his assistant a raise, adding, ''She's right, and I don't think I can fix it.
In 1935 she went to work for the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration, later becoming its assistant director.
She became the museum's assistant director in 1949 and its associate director in charge of exhibitions, membership and special events in 1953.
