Earlier in her career, she was the founding dean of the College of Nursing at Brigham Young University in Provo, Utah, and was assistant professor of nursing at the University of Illinois in Chicago.
Mrs. Nickerson, a native of England, was a graduate of Oxford University and worked as a Times of London correspondent in Paris and assistant to Hillaire Belloc, the writer, before coming here.
She was a research assistant professor at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx and adjunct professor of biology at CUNY.
She was a guidance counselor and assistant and acting principal of Bayside High School, retiring in 1973.
Ms. Isaac, a native of Birmingham, Ala., began at the gallery as a secretary and soon became Mr. Fourcade's administrative assistant, handling the business accounts of most of the gallery's artists, including Willem de Kooning, Malcom Morley, John Chamberlain, Joan Mitchell and Catherine Murphy.
She was his chief assistant on many of his voyages of exploration in the late 20's and 30's, and she served with other expeditions of the New York Zoological Society, of which she was a fellow.

       Isabel Hoopes Grinnell, a former assistant curator in the department of Greek and Roman art at the Metropolitan Museum, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
Isabel Hoopes Grinnell, a former assistant curator in the department of Greek and Roman art at the Metropolitan Museum, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
During World War II, Mrs. Gurevich was assistant director of civil defense in the Bronx.
Joining Senator Moynihan's staff in 1977, she became a special assistant, handling liaison to Federal agencies and to state and local officials.
Joined City Opera in '66
        She joined the City Opera in 1966 as a rehearsal pianist, spending her summers as assistant conductor to Thomas Schippers at the Spoleto Festival in Italy.
She was appointed an assistant professor of elementary education in 1923, after having taught philosophy at Alfred University and psychology at the New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton.
In 1963 she became assistant scientific director for the Health Research Council of New York.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
Miss Knowles worked for the Museum of Modern Art for more than 30 years, serving as assistant to the director of education.
She was an administrative assistant to the editor in chief at the Doubleday Publishing Company for 10 years before she retired in 1960.

       Gertrude Joy Grimm, an assistant director of the Waves in World War II, died of cancer Thursday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 83 years old.
Gertrude Joy Grimm, an assistant director of the Waves in World War II, died of cancer Thursday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 83 years old.
In 1942, when the women's branch of the Navy, the Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service, was organized she became assistant director for personnel.
Conflicting reports about her life abroad say that she studied piano in Dresden, modeled in Paris and was a dressmaker's assistant in Algiers and an English teacher in Berlin.
Earlier, she had been assistant director and associate director of the school.
Mrs. Palmer, who in 1974 became the first woman to serve as chairwoman of the board of trustees of Long Island University, was an assistant professor of literature and fine arts at the university's Brookville campus.
Mrs. Overby's husband, Andrew N. Overby, an international banker who had been Assistant Secretary of the Treasury during the Eisenhower Adminstration, died in 1984.
After working as an assistant editor at Vogue (''I pinch-hit as a model''), she joined The New York Times as a reporter.
Also in attendance were Mrs. Nevelson's son, Mike Nevelson; her sister-in-law, Lillian Berliawsky, and her longtime assistant, Diana McKown.
She was an assistant professor at the State of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.

       Ruth Tendler, assistant director of the Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy, died of lung cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
Ruth Tendler, assistant director of the Lincoln Institute for Psychotherapy, died of lung cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital.

       Dr. Ruth Ellen Steinman Bloustein, a pediatrician and clinical assistant professor at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died yesterday at her home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 65 years old.
Dr. Ruth Ellen Steinman Bloustein, a pediatrician and clinical assistant professor at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died yesterday at her home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 65 years old.

       Dr. Ully V. Hirsch, assistant dean of Fordham University's College at Lincoln Center and director of its adult programs, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan after a long illness.
Dr. Ully V. Hirsch, assistant dean of Fordham University's College at Lincoln Center and director of its adult programs, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan after a long illness.
She supported her husband financially, eventually giving up her own painting to work as his studio assistant.
She had been on the legal staff of the Federal Securities and Exchange Commission and served as an assistant general counsel of the Atomic Energy Commission.

       Catherine L. Shea, executive assistant to the managing editor of The New York Times, died of colon cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.
Catherine L. Shea, executive assistant to the managing editor of The New York Times, died of colon cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.
She was assistant professor at the General Theological Seminary in Manhattan.
