Besides serving as an attending physician at Roosevelt, she was the chief of the Adult Orthopaedic  Foot Clinic of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center; a co-director of the Combined Foot and Ankle Fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery, and a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics at Columbia University's College of  Physicians and Surgeons.

        Alice Ehrenfeld Weil, the first American woman to hold the rank of Assistant  Secretary General at the United Nations, died on Wednesday at her home in New York.
As Assistant Secretary General for General Services from 1984 until her retirement in 1986, Mrs. Weil was the highest-ranking American woman to serve at the United Nations.
Mrs. Bernstein retired as director in 1977 and worked as a special assistant  to Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. for more than a year longer.
One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place:
        For decades it was in the chair next to Darryl F. Zanuck, the Fox studio chief, who relied so much on the judgment of the woman he called Bobby that he rarely made a major decision on anything from costumes to casting without consulting her first.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.
One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.
She helped prepare Thai materials for the armed  forces and taught the language in a special training program at Berkeley, an experience that led to her appointment as an assistant professor of Siamese and  linguistics in 1947.
She had been assistant to the president and director of business development  for the firm's New York/ New Jersey metropolitan district.
She worked as an assistant to Oliver Smith on "On the Town" in 1944.
"
        It is even harder to imagine that all of these plus more than a dozen others  were the creations of a diminutive dynamo from Baltimore and the man she kept at bay for seven years after taking a job as his assistant at a Chicago advertising agency.
Settling in Chicago, she failed to get a newspaper job but became an assistant to Mr. Hummert, a former St. Louis newspaperman who had become a renowned copywriter and a partner in the Chicago agency Blackett, Sample & Hummert.
He was some two decades older than she and a confirmed bachelor, but then he  had never met a woman quite like his captivating 22-year-old assistant with the  tinkling voice, who was such a fount of ideas and organized efficiency that she became a vice president just two years later.
Before then, she had been secretary and assistant treasurer.
She was an assistant city solicitor in Pittsburgh in the 1940's.
She then became an assistant to a member of the Board of Education and became involved with the decentralization plan that instituted the system of neighborhood school boards in the 1960's.
She was later appointed an assistant dean and associate professor of educational administration at New York University.
Originally a specialist in early Christianity, Dr. Corwin's intellectual curiosity about Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam and Shinto was stimulated by a course in world religions she taught as a young assistant professor.
A licensed pilot and second lieutenant in the Civil Air Patrol, she was later promoted to special assistant for women's aviation activities in the Office of General Aviation Affairs.
Her first job was as a research assistant under Paul Sachs, associate director of the Fogg.
She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969.
Only an assistant to Mrs. Zlatin escaped, managing to squeeze through an upstairs window and hide in the garden.
The assistant who had escaped from the farmhouse the day of the Izieu raid testified that as he hid outside, he saw Mr. Barbie among the Germans.
She began her career at the magazine in the mid-1930's as an editorial assistant.
Beginning in 1983, both were associated with Emory University, where she was an adjunct assistant professor of anthropology.
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
She worked as a production stage manager and assistant director for the Institute for Advanced Study of Theater Arts in New York City.
Later, as special assistant to the director of the State Department's office of German affairs, Mrs. Dulles was credited with ''working miracles,'' as one biographer put it.
In 1933, she joined the  Yale Clinic of Child Development, working as Dr. Gesell's research assistant.
She began her career in government in 1974 as a special assistant to the New York City Comptroller .

        Diane Margo Morales, special assistant for families and children to the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, died on Nov. 1 at New York Hospital.
Steichen hired her as his assistant, and in 1962 she became curator of photography, organizing, among other things, the inaugural show in the Modern's first photography-collection galleries, which opened in 1964.
From 1965 to 1969, she served as assistant director of the State Department's Office of Carribean Affairs before returning to Barbados as Ambassador, becoming the highest ranking woman in the Foreign Service.
In 1945, she was the primary assistant to Gen. Douglas MacArthur at the Tokyo headquarters of the Supreme Commander for the Allied Powers.
She was Bob Fosse's assistant on ''The Pajama Game,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''New Girl in Town,'' and was the dance captain for seven Broadway shows.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.
Mrs. Wilson joined Mount Sinai in 1962 as administrative assistant to the director of nurses.
At that time, Mrs. Wilson gave up her work as administrative assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and with her husband founded the Martha's Vineyard Little Theater, where they produced and directed plays.
Mrs. Wofford, a magna cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota in 1948, joined the staff of the college in 1985 as assistant to the president for  development.
An early marriage ended in divorce and in 1934 she married Rabbi Eisenstein, the assistant rabbi at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the Manhattan synagogue that her father headed.
Miss Barry, who was born in St. Louis and graduated from St. Louis University, started as an editorial assistant at the The New Yorker in 1967 before moving down the street to The Times in 1975.
