She graduated from Adelphi University and in the early 1960's began to work for Colbert Artists as an assistant to the company's founders, Henry and Ann Colbert.
She did some modeling and freelance reading for Warner Brothers in New York before getting a job in Hollywood as an assistant editor in the studio's story division.
He had just returned from living in Spain, and she was working at the time as an assistant art director.
She started her academic career as an instructor at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1957, rising to assistant professor of medicine in 1968.
When she died, she was an assistant professor at Mills College, in Oakland, where she taught fiction-writing to undergraduates and graduate students.
Her mother, 59, was an assistant professor and the chief librarian at Dowling College in Oakdale, N.Y.
        Ms. Davis was born in Durham, N.C., her family's longtime hometown.
Ms. Steinbeck was a replacement assistant stage manager, not stage manager.
      
She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director and 11 years as assistant to the director.
She was a research assistant in psychiatry at the University of Chicago from 1939 to 1940, then spent years in practice and joined the university's faculty in 1961.
After completing secondary school, Wendy joined the Manchester Repertory Theater, where she was a bit player and later an assistant stage manager.
She also served as Loyola's volleyball coach from 1984 to 1990 and as an assistant athletic director from 1993 to 1998.
Her first teacher was Sophia Brilliant-Liven, a Russian pianist who had been a teaching assistant to Anton Rubinstein.
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister, Ruth Daziel of Milford, Conn.
        Ms. Chase had just graduated from the College of Wooster in Ohio when she was hired as a research assistant by Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, a biologist who was investigating how viruses replicate.
In 1942, she received a call from Elizabeth Reynard, a Barnard professor who was to become assistant director of the Waves.
''
        On the Columbia faculty, Ms. Heilbrun rose through the ranks: assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, full professor with tenure in 1972, Avalon Professor in 1985.
Veronica Warren, her successor in that job and now an assistant principal in New Jersey, recalled on Thursday how tough Ms. Farnan's standards were: even remedial-reading students had to study eight Shakespeare plays in their four years of high school.
Le Corbeiller returned to the Met as an assistant curator in 1967, rising to full curator in 1991.
She rose from assistant to buyer for stockings, handbags and shoes.
in 1980 and became executive assistant to the chairman, John Shad.
She worked at KQED, the public television station in Los Angeles, before heading to New York, where she became an assistant in the office of Mayor John V. Lindsay before returning to California in 1973.
When Ms. Winant (pronounced WYE-nant) moved to New York from California after World War II to find work on Broadway, she was hired as a production assistant for ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and ''Death of a Salesman.
