When McGraw-Hill began publishing Petroleum Week magazine in 1955, she was named an assistant editor and then, a year later, foreign news editor.
A former assistant to W.E.B.
Phyllis Whitcomb was born in Boston on April 12, 1924, the oldest of three daughters of George Whitcomb, a printing and publishing salesman, and Marjorie Loring Whitcomb, who became Gen. Omar Bradley's administrative assistant during World War II.
After working as a research assistant at Johns Hopkins, she joined the Sloan-Kettering Institute, where she was chosen as head of the solid tumor program in 1949.
She was previously an assistant to Andrew J. Stein, then the City Council president.
She left in 1963, when her husband, an assistant dean at Columbia University and a church deacon, accepted a post at Robert College in Istanbul.
From 1980 to 1984 she was an assistant professor of surgery at Emory University School of Medicine and was on the staffs of Grady Memorial and Emory University Hospitals.
She continued her academic career at Cornell in 1984 when she returned to Memorial Sloan-Kettering as an assistant attending surgeon in the breast service of the medicine department.
In 1994, she married Harold Stuart, an assistant secretary of the Air Force in the Truman administration, who survives her.
      
She worked at the bank as an assistant to the cashier and vice president, Arthur Wilson.
A colleague, Jeffrey Friedlander, the first assistant corporation counsel, said that Ms. Spivack's formal expertise was tax law.
team to Pokey Chatman, who had spent the last 17 seasons with her as a player or as an assistant coach.
Mrs. Malkin was the administrative assistant, copy editor, proofreader, book critic and maker of coffee, which, for Mr. Malkin, had to be several parts cognac.
Ms. Kerr joined The Times in 1976 as a copy editor; she was later editor of the paper's Westchester Weekly section and an assistant metropolitan editor.
Justice Sussman grew up in Schenectady, N.Y. She graduated from Smith College in 1980 and received her law degree from Georgetown University's School of Law in 1983, then became an assistant prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office.
Born Betty Lee Hurewitz in Brooklyn, Ms. Hunt graduated from Erasmus Hall and began her career as an assistant to Dorothy Ross, a New York publicist for nightclubs like Spivy's Roof, Le Martinique and Le Ruban Bleu.
In October 1942, she was transferred to Maidanek and promoted to assistant warden.
