''
        She made her Broadway debut in 1943 as understudy and assistant stage manager for ''The Voice of the Turtle.
During that time, she became an assistant to Ailey, who sent her to stage his works for the Royal Danish Ballet, La Scala Ballet and other companies.
On occasion a prima donna, a description she never challenged (she once told an assistant ''There is room for only one prima donna around here, and that's me''), she was often impatient.
On occasion a prima donna, a description she never challenged (she once told an assistant ''There is room for only one prima donna around here, and that's me''), she was often impatient.
Her teacher was Galamian; two years later she became his assistant, both at Juilliard and at the summer camp he had established in 1944, Meadowmount.
She also became an assistant editor in chief.
She was 62 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mrs. Sawyer, a public relations specialist, was at Mrs. Reagan's side throughout the Reagan presidency, serving four years as the first lady's special assistant and four years as her press secretary.
She was also an assistant to Nelson Doubleday, the company's president, for eight years.
)
        She returned to the boarding school, and after graduation became an editorial assistant, or ''glorified errand girl,'' in her words, with the magazine Pictorial Review.
Her next job, which lasted 16 years, was with Good Housekeeping magazine, where she started as an assistant in the fashion department and left as fashion editor.
She joined Harper's as an assistant editor in 1957 and was appointed editor at the beginning of 1958.
She continued her piano studies there with Rosina Lhevine and became Lhevine's assistant.
In addition to dancing solo roles in classical and modern works, while on tour she was an assistant to the company's director, Sergei J. Denham.

        Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant.
In 1977, President Jimmy Carter appointed her assistant secretary of state for oceans and international, environmental and scientific affairs.
Derek Bok, the president of Harvard, made her his special assistant for Harvard's offshore programs.
For the last five years, she worked for Time magazine as assistant editor on the international edition.
That year she started her academic career as an assistant professor of history at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
She joined the network in 1983 as director of news information after serving as President Ronald Reagan's special assistant for communications.
She was a Congressional assistant in Washington in the early 1930's, then she took a paid assignment to shoot pictures of a tour of Palestine, Turkey and France.
Jack Valenti, a friend of Mrs. Mahoney, was a special assistant to the president in the Johnson administration.
She worked as a teaching assistant to Lucas Hoving at the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and studied in New York at the Laban/Bartenieff Institute.
