She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
She was the bureau's deputy chief from 1958 to 1964 and became assistant to the director of the Public Health Service in a reorganization in 1969.
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
Ms. Elion shared the Prize with Dr. Hitchings, who hired her as a $50-a-week assistant in 1944.
First, she worked as a laboratory assistant in biochemistry.
Aware that the mural would be sealed off the next day, the Rockefellers could be complacent, but only because they had not reckoned on  Miss Bloch, an unpaid Rivera assistant who seemed an unlikely foot soldier in his anti-capitalist cause.
In 1939, she married Sewell Tappan Tyng, a lawyer, author, head of a mining company and assistant to the New York City District Attorney, Thomas E. Dewey.
Following her graduation in 1970, Ms. Tilberis went to British Vogue as a fashion assistant and worked her way to the top, becoming editor in chief in 1987.
She was hired by Stanford as a research assistant after World War II, one of the few women there at the time.
She returned to the university as an assistant professor in 1946.
She also was an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University and associate attending psychiatrist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute from the 1950's until 1980.

        Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England.
Ms. Gruson, who lived in Tiverton, was an assistant director with Covent Garden in London and La Fenice in Venice, as well as with opera companies in New York, Hamburg, San Francisco, Seattle and Munich.
Her career started when a high school teacher and assistant track coach in Harvey, Ill., saw her running for a commuter train (the legend is that she caught it).
Mrs. Clurman, a native of Los Angeles, began her career in the publicity department of 20th Century Fox before moving to New York to work as an assistant to Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d.
John Cranko, who left the Royal Ballet in Britain to head the company in what was then West Germany, made her his assistant from the start.
Mr. Cranko named Ms. Woolliams assistant director in 1969, the year the Stuttgart Ballet made its highly acclaimed debut in New York.
She accompanied her first husband, John Franklin Campbell, a Foreign Service officer, to Ethiopia, where she became a special assistant to Emperor Haile Selassie and arranged a national exposition of Ethiopian crafts.

        Sandra B. O'Leary, an economic adviser in three White House Administrations and a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, died on Aug. 9 at her home in McLean, Va. She was 50.
Ms. O'Leary stayed on at the State Department as an economic adviser when the Clinton Administration took over in 1993, and in 1995 she became a deputy assistant Secretary of State for economic policy, serving until 1996.
For two years beginning in 1976, Mrs. Braden was the State Department's coordinator of consumer affairs and special assistant to the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs.
From 1946 to 1951, she was an assistant to Mr. Rockefeller, who was then in the middle of a succession of Federal posts he filled before becoming Governor of New York in 1959.
She went on to be a special assistant for public relations to  Oveta Culp Hobby, the Eisenhower Administration's Secretary of  Health, Education and Welfare.
Ms. Wolff was assistant commissioner in charge of the neighborhood development division of the New York City Department of Business Services, a job she had held for more than a decade.
Mr. Glatter, a deputy assistant commissioner in the business services department, said Ms. Wolff had directed the program, begun as a response to the damage inflicted on stores around the city in the looting that took place during the 1977 blackout.
In 1973 she joined the office of the registrar at the Museum of Modern Art and in 1976 became a curatorial assistant in the department of painting and sculpture.
She was also  the city's assistant commissioner of health for chronic and long-term care in the 1970's.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
Her first job there was as an assistant to Frances Hawkins, the business manager at Ballet Society.
''In that capacity,'' said Zina Mirsky, assistant dean for administration at the School of Nursing of the University of California at San Francisco, ''she established the role of nursing in the federal government -- a presence that still exists.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
