She attended the College of St. Theresa in Winona, Minn., but had to leave and seek work after two years when her father fell ill. She started to work in a Portland department store, rising from bookkeeper to advertising copywriter to assistant advertising manager.
She went to work for the antecedent of the Columbia company, the Arthur Judson concert-management concern, as a secretary in the late 1920's and eventually shifted to publicity as an assistant to Dorle Soria.

       Hannah Fryshdorf, the assistant executive director of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research in Manhattan, died of cancer Friday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Hannah Fryshdorf, the assistant executive director of the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research in Manhattan, died of cancer Friday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Dr. McIlveen, a 1938 graduate of the Medical College of Pennsylvania, worked at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center until her retirement in 1973 as an assistant clinical professor of pediatrics.

       Beatrice Swancutt Wright Fuerst, former assistant director of women's activities for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, died of natural causes Wednesday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Rhinebeck.
Beatrice Swancutt Wright Fuerst, former assistant director of women's activities for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, died of natural causes Wednesday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Rhinebeck.
Ms. Quinn, a 1976 graduate of St. John's, began her career in 1978 as the school's assistant sports-information director.
She became coordinator of the School and Theater Committee of the New York City Association of Teachers of English, and later was an assistant to the president of the City Board of Education.
Miss Guilfoyle worked in the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan and in the National Bureau of Casualty Underwriters, as a law assistant to Federal District Judge Mary H. Donlon and, from 1977 until her retirement in 1980, as a staff lawyer at the United States Court of International Trade.
Mrs. Porter was named an assistant secretary of the Standard Oil Company (New Jersey), now known as Exxon, in September 1945 and shared in the corporate administration of the company until her retirement in 1963.

       Anne M. Murphy, director of libraries at Fordham University, died of cancer yesterday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 62 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Anne M. Murphy, director of libraries at Fordham University, died of cancer yesterday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 62 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Miss Murphy joined Fordham in 1954 as an assistant librarian and was responsible for the circulation department, reserve desk, reference room and four science departmental libraries.
In 1939 she became an assistant editor of Vogue magazine, leaving nine years later to become the fashion editor of Life.
In 1973 she was the first woman on the faculty of arts and sciences to be appointed the Gross Taylor/Cornelia Pierce Williams Assistant Professor of Biology.

       Thelma Kineer Vint, an educator and former assistant dean of students at Hunter College, died Monday at the home of friends in Iselin, N.J., where she lived for the last two years.
Thelma Kineer Vint, an educator and former assistant dean of students at Hunter College, died Monday at the home of friends in Iselin, N.J., where she lived for the last two years.
She started her career as an assistant in a London publishing house, did intelligence work in the British Women's Auxiliary Air Force from 1939 to 1941, rising to sergeant, and was a specialist on Japan in London's Ministry of Information from 1941 to 1945.

       Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberties advocate and writing assistant to Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, her former husband, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Saturday after suffering a stroke.
Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberties advocate and writing assistant to Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, her former husband, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Saturday after suffering a stroke.
Miner became assistant deputy warden for program services.
Miner became assistant deputy warden for program services.
During her student years, she supported herself by playing piano recitals and became interested in conducting while working as an assistant to Paul Steindorff, the director of the San Francisco Opera.
Earlier she had been assistant director of the department of social work at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1950, she began a 15-year association with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet in New York, serving first as assistant to Antony Tudor, its director at the time; she was appointed ballet mistress in 1955.
After leaving the Met, she served as assistant ballet director of the Vienna State Opera for two years.

       Dr. Vivian Chang, an assistant Surgeon General in the United States Public Health Service, died in an automobile accident Sunday near Wilmington, Del.
Dr. Vivian Chang, an assistant Surgeon General in the United States Public Health Service, died in an automobile accident Sunday near Wilmington, Del.
At her death she was both an assistant surgeon general of the United States Public Health Service and regional health administrator for the Federal Department of Health and Human Services in New York City.
Until then, she regularly appeared at her office on the sixth floor of party headquarters, accompanied by her assistant and longtime friend, Irene Falcon.
In the 1940's, she was assistant city solicitor in Philadelphia.
In 1952 she left to become assistant medical director of the Department of Social Services, and in 1961 she was named public welfare medical director.
In 1966, she was appointed Assistant Chief of Naval Personnel and director of the Waves, whose name was an acronym that stood for Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service.
She had been an assistant principal and principal in schools in Astoria and Jackson Heights, Queens.
For four years before joining the foundation, she worked for Time Inc. as a researcher and as assistant director of corporate development.
She received a master's degree from the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, where she was an instructor and assistant to the dean in the School of Economics.
She was an assistant United States attorney and a hearing examiner in Family Court before joining the Parking Violations Bureau.
Mrs. Watson, a native of Columbia, S.C., retired earlier this year as special assistant for development to the president of the City University of New York Graduate Center.
Served on AIDS Panel
        Dr. Ma, who held a Ph.D. in microbiology from Jefferson University, was assistant professor of clinical pathology at the New York University School of Medicine at the time of her death.
From 1955 to 1975 she was an assistant to Jacques Barzun, the author and historian.
Dr. White taught at Harvard Medical School and was an assistant professor of medicine at Tufts.
She was an assistant news editor of People magazine at its inception in 1974.
