She immediately returned to CBS in ''The Ann Sothern Show'' as the assistant manager of a swanky New York hotel.
It was there that she met Dr. Homer A. Thompson, assistant director of the Agora excavation, whom she married that same year.
She joined the staff of the Boston museum in 1945 as assistant curator of prints and drawings, becoming curator in 1967.

        Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88.
She worked as a lecturer in creative writing at the University of California, Riverside, from 1980 to 1984 and as an assistant professor of English at Yale from 1984 to 1986.
She taught as an assistant to Graham at the Neighborhood Playhouse and at the Graham school from 1938 to 1958.
Mrs. Fabricant retired about 15 years ago, and she never achieved an academic rank higher than acting assistant professor.
But Janet Mar, Mrs. Crawford's personal assistant, insists that her boss was first with the inimitable combination of high-spirited marching, dancing and kicking that became an American tradition.
''
        In addition to her work at The Times, from 1962 to 1977, Ms. Shanahan was an assistant managing editor at The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Washington Star, and she was a reporter for The United Press, the Research Institute of America and The Journal of Commerce.
She was a speechwriter for the Treasury Department in the Kennedy administration and assistant secretary for public affairs in the Health, Education and Welfare Department under Jimmy Carter.
Nelson A. Rockefeller's special assistant for narcotics education programs.
Later she moved to Washington to work at the Office of Policy Analysis at the invitation of Donna E. Shalala, then an assistant secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
From 1972 to 1979 she worked as assistant curator and then curator at the California Historical Society in San Francisco.
