
        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
''I've always met more discrimination being a woman than being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.

        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.
Ms. Grant wrote ''Black Protest'' (Fawcett, 1968), a documentary analysis of black resistance from 1619 on.
On stage, with her black hair, gleaming eyes and broad smile, she projected an openness and naïveté that, coupled with her creamy voice, audiences adored.
''Imitation of Life'' was Universal's biggest success of the 1950's, and prompted the studio to reunite Ms. Dee and Turner in the garish crime thriller ''Portrait in Black.
She followed him when he taught at Black Mountain College in Ashville, N.C.; Brandeis University in Boston; and Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine.
This frequently sent him to the jungle in search of a rare black orchid whose serum gave him temporary respite.
In 2002, Dr. Hammond published a book on the history of black C.P.A.
While a student, she opened her own accounting firm in her basement, recruiting black businesses as clients.
Her husband, Donald Melvin Wylie, a mechanic for Yellow Cab, would cook late-night dinners for the group of ambitious young black men who worked for her during the tax season.
Her first business partner, Hiram Pittman, once described it as an ''Underground Railroad'' for aspiring black C.P.A.
A study by the National Association of Black Accountants found that in 1943 Ms. Washington became the first black woman to become a C.P.A.
A study by the National Association of Black Accountants found that in 1943 Ms. Washington became the first black woman to become a C.P.A.
and the 13th black C.P.A.
With Mr. Pittman and Lester McKeever, she founded Washington, Pittman & McKeever in 1968, still one of the largest black C.P.A.
In 1947 Ms. Phillips became the first black singer known to have appeared with the Metropolitan Opera Chorus, in what she recalled as an apparently accidental breaking of an unofficial color barrier.
The first black chorister to be granted a contract was Elinor Harper, who made her debut at the opera in 1962.
Mrs. Wein was a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, a charitable organization, and established the Joyce and George Wein Professorship Fund in African-American Studies at Boston University and the Alexander Family Endowed Scholarship Fund at Simmons.

        Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
Judge Motley was the first black woman to serve in the New York State Senate, as well as the first woman to be Manhattan borough president, a position that guaranteed her a voice in running the entire city under an earlier system of local government called the Board of Estimate.
''
        As a black woman practicing law in the South, she endured gawking and more than a few physical threats.
One of her first experiences with discrimination came at 15, when she was turned away from a public beach because she was black.
She read books dealing with black history and became president of the local N.A.A.C.P.
She decided to attend Fisk University, a black college in Nashville, partly because she had never been to the South.
She said her greatest professional satisfaction came with the reinstatement of 1,100 black children in Birmingham who had been expelled for taking part in street demonstrations in the spring of 1963.
work and handily defeated a Republican to become the first black woman elected to the State Senate.
''
        Correction:  October 5, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Constance Baker Motley, the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, misstated the given name of her surviving brother and the means by which she was named to fill a vacancy as Manhattan borough president.
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!
By promoting sales, raising awareness and adding to the literature, Ms. Parker helped bring more books with black children into the mainstream, he said.
Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children.
Her most recent title, ''Sienna's Scrapbook'' (Chronicle Books, 2005), portrays an young African-American girl and her family visiting black cultural and historical sites in the United States.
As a 29-year-old union field representative, she was often at Mr. Shanker's side in 1968 when he locked horns with an experimental, largely black community school district in Ocean Hill-Brownsville, Brooklyn, that tried to transfer 13 white, mostly Jewish teachers and administrators.
A double room with lunch now goes for $595 a night, and much of the revenue is used for the conservation of giraffes and other species, including the black rhinoceros and the African elephant.

        Vivian Malone Jones, who on a blisteringly hot June day in 1963 became one of two black students to enroll at the University of Alabama after first being barred at the door by the defiant governor, George C. Wallace, died yesterday in Atlanta.
On May 30, 1965, Ms. Jones became the first black to graduate from the University of Alabama in its 134 years of existence, earning a degree in business management with a B-plus average.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Alabama A&M, a predominantly black university, but it lost its accreditation.

        Rosa Parks, a black seamstress whose refusal to relinquish her seat to a white man on a city bus in Montgomery, Ala., almost 50 years ago grew into a mythic event that helped touch off the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at her home in Detroit.
'''
        Her arrest was the answer to prayers for the Women's Political Council, which was set up in 1946 in response to the mistreatment of black bus riders, and for E.D.
On Sunday, Dec. 4, the announcement was made from many black pulpits, and a front-page article in The Montgomery Advertiser, a black newspaper, further spread the word.
On Sunday, Dec. 4, the announcement was made from many black pulpits, and a front-page article in The Montgomery Advertiser, a black newspaper, further spread the word.
But most black commuters -- 40,000 people -- walked, some more than 20 miles.
At a church rally that night, blacks unanimously agreed to continue the boycott until these demands were met: that they be treated with courtesy, that black drivers be hired, and that seating in the middle of the bus go on a first-come basis.
It is a general-interest newspaper, not a black one.
      
When she was 16, Mrs. Tucker raised her voice from the back of a flatbed truck to protest a Philadelphia hotel's refusal to admit black athletes.
She went on to become the highest-ranking black woman in any state government when she served as secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the 1970's.
She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women.
Her first involvement in civil rights came when she registered black voters for a Philadelphia mayoral campaign in 1950.
In the 1960's, she campaigned for black candidates, served on the Pennsylvania Democratic Committee and earned a reputation as an excellent fund-raiser.
She was the first black and the first woman elected to the Philadelphia Zoning Board.
Using solid-colored fabrics appliquéd onto stark backgrounds, they depict bold, stylized silhouettes of black people.
Bond, who had trained as an academic and did not know how to quilt, embarked on the project after her husband was sent to northern Alabama to supervise the black workers at the dam sites there.
Ruth Elizabeth Clement was born in Louisville, Ky., on May 22, 1904, the fourth of seven children of a prominent black family.
Her mother, the former Emma Williams, was, in 1946, the first black woman to be named American Mother of the Year.
Bond later took a position with the T.V.A., becoming the highest-ranking black administrator there.
Many of the women were expert quilters, and she began designing pictorial quilts that celebrated black Americans' expanded opportunities under the New Deal.
Another shows a black fist seeming to rise straight from the earth.
''The contrast of black caps and gleaming white feathers, flashes of brightly colored bills and feet, the seemingly effortless and marvelously graceful flight produce a never-to-be-forgotten picture.
Later she created performances in which she would peel away layers of brightly colored dresses that she had made herself, until she was wearing only a black leotard or a rubber suit that made her appear nude.
Eclectic scholarly interests had prompted Ms. Cohen, A. J.Pischl and Sheppard Black in 1959 to found Dance Perspectives, a journal dedicated to monographs on various aspects of world dance.
