One of the de Menils' earlier ventures in Houston was to take a derelict movie house, the De Luxe Theater, in a neighborhood of mostly black residents and to turn it into a center for exhibitions of works by black artists through the ages.
One of the de Menils' earlier ventures in Houston was to take a derelict movie house, the De Luxe Theater, in a neighborhood of mostly black residents and to turn it into a center for exhibitions of works by black artists through the ages.
Starting in 1960, the de Menils financed a research project that culminated in a monumental publication called ''The Image of the Black in Western Art.
In the late 1960's, 20 black students sat in the Radcliffe administration offices seeking increased minority enrollment.
Madeleine M. Kunin of Vermont; the poets Anne Sexton and Sophie Cabot Black; the performance artist Anna Deavere Smith; the anthropologist Mary Catherine Bateson, and the geophysicist and astronaut Marcia McNutt.
Often she was cast as a damsel in distress, confidently awaiting rescue at the last minute by actors like Douglas Fairbanks, with whom she starred in ''The Black Pirate'' in 1926.
'' ''The Black Pirate'' was a turning point in her career, and was followed by ''The Stolen Bride,'' ''The Tender Hour,'' ''The Love Mart,'' ''The Yellow Lily,'' ''The Night Watch'' and more than 30 others.
Ms. Whitney runs a theater group called Pickney Productions, and pretty soon she had Mrs. Lollis telling her stories at schools and libraries and museums and parks and civic club meetings and African street festivals and black history celebrations all over New York and in Washington.

        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital.
Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it.
Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it.
The school had exacting standards and emphasized the study of black history and literature.
In 1935, she became the second black woman to graduate from Barnard; the first was Zora Neale Hurston.
''
        With the rise of the black power movement and the success of independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, interest in the Schomburg grew.
There were many politicians, Mrs. Hutson said, ''who had never seen a black woman up in front of them at the legislature.
Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      
Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      
In a sequence that became a familiar drill, Mrs. Burnham would be awakened by a midnight call from the sheriff's office, get out of bed, slip her black judicial robe over her nightgown and be ready, gavel in hand, when the latest felony suspect was brought in for arraignment.
She worked for the council in the 1970's, writing biographies of successful black women.
In 1941, she printed her first listing of books about black life.
While at the Harlem branch she helped build its James Weldon Johnson Collection of quality books about the black experience and in 1946 compiled a bibliography, ''Books About Negro Life for Children.
After her marriage in 1952, she taught English literature at Black Mountain College in North Carolina.
Accidentally in the darkroom, and independently of Man Ray, she discovered a way to solarize the negative instead of the print, giving the image black outlines created from the controlled use of light during printing.
One client was Willie McGee, a black Mississippian convicted of raping a white woman and sentenced to death.
Harlem Textile Works is New York State's only fabric design workshop offering art education and job opportunities -- including internships and apprenticeships -- mainly to black and Hispanic students.
In 1943, when she was 18, she gave a concert at Orchestra Hall in Chicago, the first black performer to do so.
Black Irish shawls and scarlet flannel petticoats were also adapted for more urban tastes.
''
        Although none won literary acclaim, a number of her books, including ''The Black Candle,'' and ''The Velvet Gown,'' were made into television movies, and Mrs. Cookson, an Officer of the British Empire since 1985, was made a Dame, the equivalent of a Knight, in 1993.
Ms. Jones was an iconic figure, and an important historic link in a path-breaking generation of black American artists.
She was influential as a teacher, not only for her exacting standards and the encouragement she gave students, but as an example of persistence in a climate unfavorable to black and women artists.
There she met the sculptor Meta Vaux Warrick Fuller, one of the first artists to use black and African subjects positively, who encouraged her ambitions.
It was the first of several appearances at the Corcoran and in  other group shows, though Ms. Jones  said that early on she asked white friends to deliver her paintings to exhibitions, after having had an award rescinded when it was discovered that she was black.
The work has become an emblem of black American self-identity and is on view in the exhibition ''Rhapsodies in Black: Art of the Harlem Renaissance'' at the Corcoran Gallery, where a small memorial show of the artist's work has been organized.
The work has become an emblem of black American self-identity and is on view in the exhibition ''Rhapsodies in Black: Art of the Harlem Renaissance'' at the Corcoran Gallery, where a small memorial show of the artist's work has been organized.
There she interviewed contemporary artists as part of a  project sponsored by Howard University titled ''The Black Visual Artists,'' for which she also documented the work of artists in the Caribbean and the United States.
She instructed generations of black artists, among them the contemporary sculptor Martha Jackson-Jarvis and the painter and collagist David C. Driskell, and some of whom, like Mr. Driskell, are also  teachers.
And on Broadway in 1984 she originated the title role of a domineering, manipulative blues singer in August Wilson's ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' earning a Tony nomination.
As a teen-ager, she sang in church and community choirs and appeared on a radio show aimed at black audiences, ''Parisian Tailor's Colored Kiddie Hour.
Jasmine Addams,'' a 1971 musical based on Carson McCullers's ''Member of the Wedding''; the wicked witch in ''The Wiz,'' and John Lithgow's black Polish landlady in ''Division Street,'' a 1980 farce by Steve Tesich.
In a 1984 interview, following her acclaimed opening in ''Ma Rainey's Black Bottom,'' Ms. Merritt said: ''I don't regret never being a big star.
Her second, ''The  Wedding,'' about the aspirations and anxieties of black people living on Martha's Vineyard, appeared in 1995.
Critics praised her storytelling and her pioneering descriptions of  conflict within the black middle class.
Her father, born a slave, built a fruit and vegetable business that lifted the family into the slim ranks of Boston's black upper middle class.
In 1932, she and 20 other black Americans including Langston Hughes, were invited to visit the Soviet Union to work on a proposed movie about racism in America.
The memory of how she learned she could not was still painful decades later: the white doctor telling her briskly, ''There are already enough black people in the world.
In 1934, she founded Challenge, a quarterly magazine intended as a showcase for younger black writers and ''to recapture in the mid-30's the literary vitality of the Harlem Renaissance, which had not survived the Depression.
In this semiautobiographical tale, the strong-willed, light-skinned Cleo Judson -- modeled on Miss West's mother -- tries to remake her darker-skinned  daughter, and breaks up her own  marriage to a former slave who had made himself ''the Black Banana King.
'' The book satirizes upper-crust black Bostonians.
''
        Set in the black community on Martha's Vineyard during the 1950's, the novel is a gently ironic story of a beautiful, blond, privileged young black woman, Shelby Coles, who is torn about her planned marriage to a white jazz musician.
''
        Set in the black community on Martha's Vineyard during the 1950's, the novel is a gently ironic story of a beautiful, blond, privileged young black woman, Shelby Coles, who is torn about her planned marriage to a white jazz musician.
''It shows a world that most people have rarely seen, a world where black  families are all highly educated, very successful, living in Martha's  Vineyard,'' Miss Winfrey said.
'' In the 1960's and 70's, Miss West was not active in the civil rights movement and found radicals like the Black Panthers discomfiting.
''I'm not a black with a  chip on my shoulder.

        Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philadelphia.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
When she did, in 1959, on an interim appointment to the old Philadelphia Municipal Court, she came up for election two months later and won handily, becoming the first black woman in the country to win election to a court of record.
In 1988, she received an interim appointment to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, making her the first black woman in the country to be a judge on a state's highest court, a position she held for a year, until she turned 70, the court's mandatory retirement age, and returned to the bench in Philadelphia.
In one of her more celebrated cases, while assigned to juvenile court in 1965, within 24 hours after a white sailor from Georgia was severely beaten while trying to defend a 16-year-old white girl from being raped at a subway station by eight black gang members, Judge Stout had tried, convicted and sentenced seven of the thugs to long prison terms and placed the eighth on probation.
She might have grown up poor, but her parents were both teachers, and Judge Stout, who credited her mother with instilling her lifelong habit of hard work, learned to read at 3, entered the third grade at 6 and started college at 16, first at a black school in nearby Missouri and later at the University of Iowa before returning to Oklahoma as a music teacher.
Brearley had made social history by welcoming Jewish students as early as the 1880's, but Miss Mitchell promptly advanced its commitment to social diversity by recruiting its first black students, an effort aided by a Rockefeller Foundation grant to provide scholarships for needy minority students.
She dictated letters from the porch of her home in Forest Hills Gardens and ran meetings by telephone from her ranch in the Black Hills of Wyoming.
Or that she had been dismissed from her next job, as publicity director of a segregated Washington hotel, after letting black Oberlin alumni attend a banquet there.
Speaking of the scores of films she made, she once said: ''I watch these old films in black and white, and suddenly the door opens and there I am.
Several times, Mother Cleusa met with President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who once said that he was born ''with one foot in the kitchen,'' an expression suggesting he was part black.
A decade later she began working with plastic, and in 1968 she created a multicolored plastic floor with ribbons of black and gold for the Architectural League of New York.
''
        Another of her best-remembered film roles was her starring part, with Alec Guinness, in the much-applauded black comedy ''Kind Hearts and Coronets'' (1949).
He said she had celebrated her 78th birthday a little more than a week ago, and that one of the last things she had done was to write a check to support a local black theater, something she had done most of her career.
''
        But she spoke firmly and often about about her desire to fight black stereotypes on television and even left the cast of ''Good Times'' for a while, saying at the time that she resented the image presented by the buffoonish character of her son in the show.
In the show she played the matriarch of a struggling black family in Chicago.
It was the honey smell of the fuzz-buzz flowers of thorn trees in  the sun, and the smell of open drains and urine, of coconut oil on shining black human hair, of mustard cooking oil and the blue smoke from cow dung used as fuel; it was a smell redolent of the sun, more alive and vivid than anything in the West.

        Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago.
In 1942, she became the first black writer to win the Yale Series of Younger Poets competition, edited by Stephen Vincent Benet, for her poem ''For My People'' from a compilation by the same name.
Dr. Alexander later became a professor at Jackson State University, where she founded the Institute for the Study of the History, Life and Culture of Black People in 1968.
''I don't know anybody who has captured the heart and soul of black people any more than she did,'' Alferdteen Harrison, who became the director of the institute when Dr. Alexander stepped down, said.
She met Mr. Cunningham and his collaborator John Cage in 1952 at Black Mountain College, where she was studying dance with Katherine Litz and music with Lou Harrison.
