Emmett was killed for supposedly whistling at a white woman, an act that in the Jim Crow South could mean a lynching for a black man.
''
        But her piano playing also revealed her classical training more clearly than most jazz pianists', and her singing -- at times rough and raw, at other times sweet and pure -- owed an unmistakable debt to black gospel music.
Though she was best known as an interpreter of other people's music, she eloquently expressed her feelings about racism and black pride in those years in a number of memorable songs she wrote herself.
''Young, Gifted and Black,'' written with the keyboardist Weldon Irvine Jr., became something of an anthem, recorded by Aretha Franklin and many others.
Her interest in contemporary folk art took her to the University of Mississippi, where she wrote her master's thesis on Theora Hamblett, a little-known visionary folk painter, and became deeply involved with black quilt-makers.
An earlier circuit for drag performers had been geared to white people, and black performers had sometimes whitened their faces to fit in.
''
        Amber St. Clare, the heroine of Ms. Winsor's 972-page work, runs through lovers from a highwayman named Black Jack Mallard to King Charles II at a pace that led a reviewer to recommend using an adding machine to keep track.

        Janet Collins, prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House in the early 1950's and one of a very few black women to become prominent in American classical ballet, died on Wednesday in Fort Worth.
But she was best known as the exquisitely beautiful dancer who was the first black artist to perform at the Metropolitan, four years before Marian Anderson sang there.
''
        It was not until two decades after she left the Met, however, that she was to receive major attention again in New York when, in 1974, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater paid homage to her and Pearl Primus as pioneering black women in dance.
She received her first dance training at a Catholic community center and went on to study primarily with Carmelita Maracci, one of the few ballet teachers who accepted black students, and with Lester Horton and Adolph Bolm.
Correction:  June 7, 2003, Saturday  An obituary last Saturday about Janet Collins, a former prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House, misstated the precedent for black artists there.
''Those black eyes that shone like agates,'' she wrote.
Shirley Bulah was 8 when her parents, Fred and Sarah, grew tired of driving her two miles to a black school in Hockessin, Del., a suburb of Wilmington.
They won, and for the first time, a segregated white public school was ordered by an American court to admit black children.
Shirley was adopted by the Bulahs after Sarah Bulah read in the Wilmington newspapers in 1945 about an abandoned 10-month-old baby, according to Richard Kluger in his book, ''Simple Justice: The History of Brown v. Board of Education and Black America's Struggle for Equality'' (Knopf, 1976).
Mrs. Bulah went to Louis L. Redding, a lawyer for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the first black admitted to the Delaware bar.
Like Josephine Baker and Mabel Mercer, Miss Welch was a black woman born at the beginning of the 20th century who made an exceptional singing career outside of the United States.
''I walked on in black satin and wore high patent-leather shoes with red heels,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1980.
She succeeded in her quiet campaign to recruit black officers, and helped forestall a proposal for segregated platoons.

        Althea Gibson, the first black player to win Wimbledon and the United States national tennis championship and a pre-eminent figure in women's tennis, died yesterday in East Orange, N.J. She was 76.
In 1950 she became the first black to compete in the United States nationals.
She had grown up far removed from the two genteel worlds of tennis: the white country club set and the network of black doctors, lawyers and other professionals who pursued tennis on private courts of their own.
Gibson owed much of her success to that very network of black tennis enthusiasts and to a geographic coincidence.
supervisor, bought her two rackets and introduced her to friends at the Cosmopolitan Tennis Club, a predominantly black club that played on courts on 149th Street just a few blocks away but a world removed from the neighborhood she had known.
In 1942 she won her first tournament, the New York State girls' championship, sponsored by the American Tennis Association, which had been organized in 1916 by black players as an alternative to the United States Lawn Tennis Association.
These men, both physicians and leaders of a cadre of black enthusiasts determined to crack the racial barriers of mainstream tennis, saw Gibson's potential and became her sponsors.
In 1949, a year after Dr. Benjamin Weir had become the first black to play in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event -- the 1948 National Indoor Championships -- Gibson took her first steps beyond the world of the black tennis circuit, making it to the semifinals of the Eastern Indoor Championships and then to the semifinals of the national championships.
In 1949, a year after Dr. Benjamin Weir had become the first black to play in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event -- the 1948 National Indoor Championships -- Gibson took her first steps beyond the world of the black tennis circuit, making it to the semifinals of the Eastern Indoor Championships and then to the semifinals of the national championships.
On Aug. 28, 1950, three years after Jackie Robinson had broken the color barrier in major league baseball, Gibson became the first black player to compete in the national tennis championship.
She told friends and supporters, ''This victory belongs to you,'' but she chaffed at efforts to make her a symbol of black achievement.
In the early 1960's she became the first black player to compete on the women's golf tour, but she never won a tournament.
When another black woman, Zina Garrison, made it to the Wimbledon final in 1990 before losing to Martina Navratilova, Gibson was there to cheer her on, but she soon receded from the limelight once again with health and financial problems.
Correction:  October 2, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Althea Gibson, the first black competitor in the United State tennis nationals and the winner of five Grand Slam titles, gave an incorrect surname for the first black player in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event.
Correction:  October 2, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Althea Gibson, the first black competitor in the United State tennis nationals and the winner of five Grand Slam titles, gave an incorrect surname for the first black player in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event.

        Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan.
They told friends and acquaintances that the black girl who visited them at their Hollywood home was their adopted daughter, who lived with a black family for most of the year.
They told friends and acquaintances that the black girl who visited them at their Hollywood home was their adopted daughter, who lived with a black family for most of the year.
The truth was that Ms. Cross was the child of an affair Mrs. Storch had had with Jimmy Cross, a black song-and-dance man who was Stump in the well-known performing team Stump and Stumpy.
Mrs. Storch asked two friends, a middle-class black couple in Atlantic City, to raise June.
They said they had sent the girl to live with black friends of theirs, which was true.
''It was yellow,'' she said, and it had black velvet ribbons on the sleeve.
Many Nationalist soldiers were reduced to begging for food because they went unpaid, yet American diplomats discovered that military supplies sent from the United States to China sometimes appeared on the black market soon after arrival.
chapter declared that ''de facto segregation'' existed in the schools, citing a report that 13 schools were more than 90 percent black and significantly lacking in money.
''
        Despite a victory in the September primary, she lost the election by 12,000 votes to Kevin H. White, another first-time mayoral candidate of Irish descent who snatched up last-minute votes in the black neighborhoods of Roxbury and Mattapan.
He was sent to a punishment battalion but escaped to a refuge in the Black Forest, where the Bielenbergs awaited the end of hostilities.
''All my life, it seems, I have talked about how people can't be bad just because they're black, or Jewish or women,'' Dr. Konopka told The Minneapolis Star Tribune in an interview for an article published in 2000.
She was also a former trustee of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.
