" Her other film role was in "The Black Widow" (1954).
"
        As the director of the creative arts program of the New York State division of human rights in the 60's, she focused attention on discrimination and the lack of roles for black actors in film and television.
These included the Black Cat.
Company officials said a Black Cat motion picture is being prepared for production in Los Angeles by Motion PIcture Corporation of America.

        Beatrice Card Fulcher, a retired educator with the Protestant Council of New York and the National Council of Churches, died last Sunday at Highland Farms, a retirement community near Black Mountain, N.C. She was 89.
Mrs. Boyle described her experiences as a white Southern woman coming to understand the problems of many black Americans in her book "The Desegregated Heart" (1962).
After writing columns for The Amsterdam News and The Queens Voice, she worked in the news and public-affairs department at CBS-TV and on the production staff of the PBS series "Black Journal.
Black of Keswick, Va.; 15 grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren.
      
She was photographed wearing a miniskirt; she was escorted to lunch and dinner and various social gatherings by prominent bachelors, including Frank Sinatra, Marlon Brando and Mike Nichols; she toured the Seville Fair on horseback in 1966 and, in a crimson jacket and a rakish broad-brimmed black hat, tossed down a glass of sherry.
On his return to New York, he spoke with Edward Warburg, the art patron, who was assisting the founders of the Black Mountain College in North Carolina, a progressive school of the arts.
From 1933 to 1939, she was an assistant professor of art at Black Mountain.
She was born on the Pine Ridge Reservation in the Badlands of South Dakota and received her undergraduate education at Bacone College in Muskogee, Okla. She studied education at Black Hills State College in Spearfish, S.D., graduating with honors, and took graduate courses at universities in the Midwest.

        Fredi Washington, one of the first black actresses to gain recognition for her work on stage and in film, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn., where she lived.
While performing at the Club Alabam in Manhattan, she was noticed by the producer Lee Shubert, who recommended her for the co-starring role opposite Paul Robeson in the play "Black Boy" (she played the role under the stage name Edith Warren).
At the end of the run, with no serious productions for black actors in view, she turned to dancing and toured Europe with her dance partner, Al Moiret.
Her film work included roles in "The Emperor Jones," "Black and Tan Fantasy," "Drums in the Night" and "One Mile From Heaven.
In 1958 she and other members of the Ward Singers started their own group, the Stars of Faith, and in 1961 they appeared on Broadway in "Black Nativity," a gospel musical by Langston Hughes.
'Power and Imagination'
        That production was a black version of the 1946 Menotti work.
She was the first black woman to take a white role on Broadway.
"
        In 1960, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her as the only black member of the United States delegation to the 15th General Assembly of the United Nations.
Studying Black Music
        Starting early in her career, Dr. George lectured on the cultural contributions of blacks.
In 1935 she began her research on black music and started a lecture series on human relations.
She worked in painting and collage throughout her life, but in the late 1960's she also began making the large metal sculptures, usually painted black, for which she is best known.
Alice Childress, in her short, brilliant study of a 13-year-old black heroin user, achieves this feat in a masterly way.
" With Mr. Woodard, she wrote musicals including "Young Martin Luther King," "Sea Island Song," "Gullah" and "Moms (A Praise Play for a Black Comedienne)," about Jackie (Moms) Mabley.
Once described as a cross between Laurie Anderson and Little Richard, Ms. Vance appeared in feature films and in 1985 became the first black woman to join the regular cast of "Saturday Night Live.
She was not happy about her Hollywood career, except for "Monsieur Verdoux," Charlie Chaplin's controversial 1947 black comedy about a Parisian Bluebeard who marries and kills for money.
In 1954, she introduced the first courses in literature produced by black Americans at the college.

        Pearl Primus, a pioneering dancer, choreographer and teacher whose anthropological work exposed Americans to the realities of black life in America and to the richness of African and Caribbean dance, died on Saturday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74.
Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
But Miss Primus was equally celebrated for her depiction of American life and of the injustices inflicted on black Americans, particularly in the American South.
The man was Paul Robeson, one of many black cultural figures with whom Miss Primus would become friendly over the years.
"
        Miss Primus continued to perform until 1980, after which she was the director of the Cora P. Maloney College, a black studies school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was Five-College Professor of Ethnic Studies at schools in Massachusetts in the 1980's.
She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching.
She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching.
"She became the benchmark for little black girls to aspire.
"
        She was voted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame, the Helms Hall of Fame, the Women's Sports Foundation Hall of Fame and the Black Athletes Hall of Fame.
The troupe was formed by a wealthy Chicago woman, Caroline Dudley, who had backed other shows featuring black artists.

        Charlotte Moton Hubbard, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs from 1964 to 1970, making her the top-ranking black woman in the Johnson Administration at the time, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md.
In her State Department post, she worked at developing programs intended to eliminate discrimination against black soldiers during the Vietnam War.
She and her firm helped establish standards to protect officers from harassment, and to shield women, black and Hispanic officers from discrimination within their agencies.
