
        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii.
When she was named the first black and the first woman to be president of the University of Houston, there were few other women in charge of colleges that were neither historically black nor all female, a situation that still exists.
When she was named the first black and the first woman to be president of the University of Houston, there were few other women in charge of colleges that were neither historically black nor all female, a situation that still exists.
When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?

        Mary Childs Black, an art historian, folk art expert, former museum director and writer, died yesterday at her home in Germantown, N.Y. She was 69 years old.
Mrs. Black's greatest contribution to American folk art scholarship was her identification of the unsigned paintings of known American 18th- and 19th-century artists, attributions she based largely on social history.
Mrs. Black organized more than 100 exhibitions seen in the United States, Britain or Israel.
Mrs. Black protested the dismissal and was widely supported in the museum world.
After a complaint was filed with Federal and state agencies contending that the society had violated sex- and age-discrimination laws, the society settled out of court, awarding Mrs. Black a sum equal to the back pay and vacation owed to her, and restoring her full pension.
At her death, Mrs. Black was working on an exhibition of Colonial American painters to be presented at the New-York Historical Society, said Barbara Knowles Debs, the director and president.
A Childhood Interest
        Mrs. Black often said her interest in folk art stemmed from seeing Erastus Salisbury Field's 19th-century portraits of her ancestors in her grandparents' home when she was a child in Pittsfield, Mass., where she was born.
Mrs. Black graduated from the Women's College of the University of North Carolina at Greensboro in 1943, did graduate work at Catholic University in Washington and earned a master's degree in art history at George Washington University in 1952.
She is survived by a daughter, Merrill Black of New Durham, N.H., and a grandson.
      
When the open black Cadillac carrying her coffin appeared, they applauded, threw flowers and called her name.

        Joyce Macwatty Black, called "the ultimate volunteer" for her nearly 40 years as an officer of more than 75 charitable organizations and government panels, died on Tuesday at her summer home in Nantucket, Mass.
As a leader in many causes, Mrs. Black became an expert on volunteerism and served as a consultant and coordinator of volunteer activities at local, state and Federal levels.
Mrs. Black served as the co-chairwoman of New York City's Voluntary Action Council under Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins.
'Born Into a Good Life'
        Born in Englewood, N.J., Mrs. Black grew up in in Ridgewood, N.J.
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
"
        She was the first black woman elected to the Georgia Legislature, where she served in the General Assembly from 1966 to 1984.
As a legislator, Mrs. Hamilton was instrumental in expanding black representation in Atlanta's City Council.
In 1973 the charter amended the citywide Council elections by adding 12 district seats, enabling heavily black areas to elect black candidates.
In 1973 the charter amended the citywide Council elections by adding 12 district seats, enabling heavily black areas to elect black candidates.
Mrs. Hamilton also promoted voter registration and fought for more aid to black schools, and she worked to end segregation across the South as the associate director of the Southern Regional Council and as a leader in the Highlander Folk School, a training institute.
She taught there and also worked on a Federal survey of black workers and on a college integration program.
The success of their effort was evident at her funeral there yesterday, where Muslims from Pakistan and Morocco prayed shoulder to shoulder with American black converts.
It was Dr. Comer's recounting of his mother's life in "Maggie's American Dream: The Life and Times of a Black Family," published by New American Library in 1988, that brought her to the nation's attention.

        Audre Lorde, a black feminist writer who became the poet laureate of New York State in 1991, died on Tuesday at her home on St. Croix.
Ms. Neill, a former dietitian, founded the boutique four years ago to showcase fashion and art by young black men and women.
Over 60 Character Roles
        Her other Off Broadway credits included "Red Roses for Me," "The Girl on the Via Flaminia," "The Sign of Jonah," "The Knight From Olmedo" and "The Night Is Black Bottles.
Her many honors included the Essence Award this year, given to her by Essence, a magazine for black women.
Her later stage roles included a fiery lion tamer in a 1946 revival of the drama "He Who Gets Slapped" and, in London, an eccentric mother in a 1961 black comedy, "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad.
Mrs. Rollock was former president of the New York Black Librarians Caucas and a past president of the children's divisions of the American Library Association and the New York Library Association.
She is the author of two books, "Black Authors and Illustrators of Children's Books," published in 1992 by Garland Publishing, and "Public Library Services for Children," published in 1988 by Library Professional Publications.
She also edited the 1974, 1979 and 1984 editions of "The Black Experience in Children's Literature," a bibliography, published by the New York Public Library.
