But few could exemplify her pathos and fragility as she threw her head back and plunged a hand into a long black glove.

        A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan.
Walker became a legend in the early 20th century by rising from poverty to become a millionaire, the first black American woman to do so.
After graduation, she got a master's degree in library science from Columbia University, where she was the only black person in her year of the program, said one daughter, the writer Jill Nelson.
From 1969 to 1996, she was a librarian at the City College of New York, where she compiled ''Black Spectrum: Bibliography of Black Studies Holdings in Cohen Library.

        Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., said her son, the architect Charles Gwathmey.
Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C.
Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C.
''It was understood by all of us who auditioned that the girl could be anything -- oriental, black, anything -- just a human being.
''I was the first black female -- no, make that black, period -- to make a national TV commercial, on camera, with lines,'' she said, referring to a pitch for the detergent All in the early 1960's.
''I was the first black female -- no, make that black, period -- to make a national TV commercial, on camera, with lines,'' she said, referring to a pitch for the detergent All in the early 1960's.
''You know, 'But honey, there ain't any black actresses.
She was born in Orange, N.J., and grew up in Potters Crossing, a black section of Edison Township, N.J.
        She was one of five children.
She was Miss Transit and Miss Black New Jersey and Miss Press Photographer.
Her last work, produced after she underwent a radical mastectomy, was a series of nude self-portraits titled ''The Amazon's New Clothes,'' two of which are in the exhibition ''Committed to the Image: Contemporary Black Photographers,'' now at the Brooklyn Museum of Art.

        Maude Russell Rutherford, a singer and dancer in the glory days of black theater in the 1920's who always said she was the one who really introduced the Charleston on Broadway, died on March 8 at her home in Atlantic City.
''I used to kick 32 times across the stage, and my legs would hit my nose,'' Ms. Rutherford told Jean-Claude Baker, who was reared by Josephine Baker and who is a student of black entertainment.
''
        Ms. Rutherford was born in Texas to a black mother, Margaret Lee, and a white father, William McCann.
As a teenager working as a ticket taker, Ms. Rutherford met Sam Russell, a star of the black theater with the comedy team Bilo and Ashes.

        Josephine Premice, an actress nominated for Tony Awards for her performances in the musical ''Jamaica'' and ''A Hand Is on the Gate,'' an evening of black poetry, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.

        Carolyn R. Payton, a psychologist who was the first black and the first woman to head the Peace Corps, died on April 11 at her home in Washington.
I'd like to tap the great reservoir of black interest in Africa, for example.
Ms. Tanneyhill had a leading part for decades in the league's efforts to increase job opportunities for black Americans.
She led yearly campaigns to encourage black youngsters to get education and training.

        Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.
She wears a baggy black blazer over a white T-shirt and cuffed blue jeans.
''
        In June 1998, after earlier success in dismantling a drug operation at the Castle Hotel at 106th Street and Central Park West, she was assigned to take on the Black Top gang, named for the color of the caps on their crack vials.
Black Top worked out of two connected apartment houses at 12-14 and 16-18 Old Broadway, which is between 125th and 126th Streets.
Last Nov. 2, nearly 140 officers converged on the Black Top stronghold, making 24 arrests.
At 13, she was singing in a slinky black dress at the Dixie in Manayunk, Pa., and at 15 was performing in Jimmy Durante's Silver Slipper Club in New York.
Truman Capote gave what could only be called a coming-out party for her, the Black and White Ball at the Plaza in New York, which was not only  the social event of the 1966 season, but also a masked ball of such glamour that it is considered one of the legendary parties of the 20th century.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Borgenicht is survived by her sister, Shirley Black Cash of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Westport, Conn.; three daughters from her first marriage, Jan Schwartz of Los Gatos, Calif., Berta B. Kerr of Wilmington, Del., and Lois Borgenicht of Baltimore; a stepdaughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen of New York City; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Welty made one notable exception to her rule against direct crusading when Medgar Evers, the black civil rights leader, was shot to death by a sniper in Jackson in 1963.

        Caroline R. Jones, who broke race and sex barriers in advertising to become one of the most prominent black women among agency executives, died on June 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
The résumé of Ms. Jones, a copywriter, was dotted with firsts, because in many instances her promotion at an agency made her the first black woman to hold a post.
In many cases, the clients were making their initial forays into marketing to black consumers through her and her agencies.
In 1968, she helped form Zebra Associates, unusual for that era because it was a full-service agency with black principals.
She helped found the Black Creative Group and Mingo, Jones, Guilmenot, later Mingo-Jones Advertising and now the Chisholm-Mingo Group.
At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market.
For many years, she was a moderator and host of radio and television programs under the titles ''Focus on the Black Woman'' and ''In the Black: Keys to Success.
For many years, she was a moderator and host of radio and television programs under the titles ''Focus on the Black Woman'' and ''In the Black: Keys to Success.
Many remain in print, including one that has taught young readers about black history in New England for half a century.
Among the latter was ''Prudence Crandall'' (Aladdin, 1955), about a teacher who defied Connecticut law in 1833 when she opened a private girls' school that accepted black and white pupils as equals.
Ms. Stanley, who later admitted to being tone deaf, even managed a deftly comic rendition of ''That Old Black Magic.
Instead of a savage beast, she found a genteel nature she described as ''terribly black tie.
She later described the repeated shuffle she performed in this solo as ''the effort that just living might seem to mean to black people.
With its audience full of black ties and evening gowns, the show had been a highlight of the high society calendar.
In 1951 she returned to Broadway to appear opposite the young Richard Burton in ''Legend of Lovers,''  Kitty Black's adaptation of a play by  Jean Anouilh.
In 1963 she moved to New York and walked into an open audition for Martin B. Duberman's ''In White America,'' a dramatic overview of the black American experience from life aboard 18th-century slave ships to the 20th-century crusade for civil rights.
In particular he cited her portrayal of the teenage black girl who was the first to integrate Central High in Little Rock, Ark.
Person, her musical partner of more than 30 years, Ms. Jones toured the country, still playing often to primarily black audiences, but also by the late 90's appearing twice a year at the Village Vanguard in Manhattan and at international jazz festivals; she was an evergreen presence in the New York jazz world, and kept up her concert schedule until two weeks before her death.
''
        What Ms. Donovan possessed was an eye for talent and a nose for news, a combination that, with her inevitable pearls and outsized black glasses, set her apart from her fashion sisters.
She had a vision of an elderly man with long white hair, wearing a black gown.
The work they did was ''hard-wired'' programming, laboriously setting switches and cables inside the 30-ton black behemoth of a machine.
According to her, without the 15 percent tax increase, Nassau, the black sheep of the state's counties for receiving a $45 million bailout to protect its bonds from junk bond status (''Embarrassing!
From tiny strands of hair she made magic: the classic Scottish flies like the Jock Scott, Silver Doctor and Durham Ranger; American favorites like the Green Butt and Woolly Hugger; and the fly named after her, the Megan Boyd, a nifty blue and black number famous for attracting salmon at the height of summer, when the water is low, hot and dead.
