She was among 50 black women included in ''Women in Courage,'' a touring photography exhibit to commemorate Black History Month.
She was among 50 black women included in ''Women in Courage,'' a touring photography exhibit to commemorate Black History Month.
Born in Des Moines, Iowa, she was reared in Driscoll, N.D. She studied journalism, she once said, ''not knowing black journalists couldn't get jobs,'' and earned a degree at Morningside College in Sioux City, Iowa.
In 1968, she wrote a novel, ''The Black Ship,'' with her late husband, Paul.
Worked in Teacher Campaign
        She began her teaching career at a black public school on John's Island and, in 1918, accepted a teaching post at Avery.
That year, she was instrumental in getting about 20,000 signatures on a petition to have black teachers hired by the Charleston County School District.
Mrs. Evans began to get wide recognition and by the 1970's, after more than 30 years of solitary work, she became one of the best known of black American folk artists.

       Mura Dehn, a Russian-born dancer and choreographer who became known as a film maker and a specialist in American black dance, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mura Dehn, a Russian-born dancer and choreographer who became known as a film maker and a specialist in American black dance, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Dehn, who directed a company of black dancers until 1973, was considered a pioneer in documenting the various styles of black social dance.
Miss Dehn, who directed a company of black dancers until 1973, was considered a pioneer in documenting the various styles of black social dance.
Last November, Joseph Papp's Film at the Public series presented ''The Spirit Moves,'' Miss Dehn's highly praised five-hour film about the evolution of black dance styles.
In her New York dance debut in 1932, Miss Dehn choreographed a work, ''The Wise and Foolish Virgins,'' that used a chanting black chorus.
The troupe evolved into the Traditional Jazz Dance Company, which was made up of black entertainers and which toured internationally.
The soprano, who is black, said she came to South Africa to bring ''a message of love and to spread goodwill.
von Trapp in simple black, and the youthful sisters garbed in black and white Austrain folk costumes enlivened with red ribbons.
von Trapp in simple black, and the youthful sisters garbed in black and white Austrain folk costumes enlivened with red ribbons.
von Trapp in simple black, and the youthful sisters garbed in black and white Austrian folk costumes enlivened with red ribbons.
von Trapp in simple black, and the youthful sisters garbed in black and white Austrian folk costumes enlivened with red ribbons.

       Lucille Edwards Chance, a lawyer and the second black woman admitted to the New York bar, died in her home yesterday after a long illness.
Lucille Edwards Chance, a lawyer and the second black woman admitted to the New York bar, died in her home yesterday after a long illness.
Chance, who was admitted to the New York bar after Ruth Whitehead Whaley, the first black woman to join, retired in 1980.
She married Mr. Kirby in 1938 and later she and his band became the stars of a weekly NBC radio network series, ''Flow Gently Sweet Rhythm,'' a precedent-setting event for black performers.
'' The Telling Moment
        At a cocktail party held by Leonard Bernstein for the Black Panthers in 1970, when a Panther field marshal stridently outlined his tenets before a small group that included Mr. Bernstein, principal conductor of the New York Philharmonic, Miss Curtis caught the telling moment:
        '' 'If business won't give us full employment, then we must take the means of production and put them in the hands of the people.
'' 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' he said to strangers, his pin-stripe black suit not yet a shambles from the failing air-conditioning, his PT boat tie clip neatly in place.
Her performance in ''Cover Girl,'' with Gene Kelly in 1944, earned Miss Hayworth the attention of Life magazine, which printed a photograph of her, posed seductively in black lace, that became famous around the world as an American servicemen's pinup.
In it, she wore a clinging black satin strapless gown and, while coyly peeling off long black gloves, sang a mildly suggestive song called ''Put the Blame on Mame.
In it, she wore a clinging black satin strapless gown and, while coyly peeling off long black gloves, sang a mildly suggestive song called ''Put the Blame on Mame.
'' 'The White Girl'
        Her first novel, ''The White Girl,'' published in 1929, was about a black woman who leaves the South for Chicago and poses as a white.
She was 76 years old and lived in Wilton, Conn.
        Mrs. Jessup, the widow of John Jessup, former chief editorial writer at Life magazine, helped enroll black voters in the South in the 1960's.

       Natalie Hinderas, one of the first black artists to establish an important career in classical music and a pianist who played with most of the major American orchestras, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Philadelphia.
Natalie Hinderas, one of the first black artists to establish an important career in classical music and a pianist who played with most of the major American orchestras, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Philadelphia.
Throughout her career, Ms. Hinderas promoted black performers and composers, among them R. Nathaniel Dett, William Grant Still, John W. Work and George Walker, whose works she recorded.
The Polish-born Miss Negri was a startlingly beautiful woman, with skin as delicately white as fine porcelain, jet black hair and flashing dark-green eyes.
She is survived by two brothers, John, of West Brighton, S.I., and Thomas, of Manchester, Vt., and four sisters, Margaret Van Name of Manhattan, Anne Heine of Jamesburg, N.J., Helen, of Stapleton, S.I.,, and Katherine Ryan of Black Mountain, N.C.
      
''
        Miss Attaway was the first director of the New York Players Guild, a black repertory theater company formed in New York in 1945.
