''
        Famous for her special material -- songs like ''(I Ain't Gonna Be No) Topsy,'' an assertion of black pride that was ahead of its time -- and famous for her irreverent interpolations into familiar lyrics, Ms. Barnes loved to poke fun at the songs of the day.
The 18-carat pocket watch that she said was her father's had been found in a purser's black leather portmanteau during a dive in 1987.
He was a black man who was so outraged at being denied higher education by the Spanish that after graduating first in his class at the University of Michigan medical school in 1882 -- and even then allowed to practice in Puerto Rico only after the intervention of the American consul in San Juan -- that he became a leader of the autonomy movement.
In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black choreographers who later became major modern dance artists, among them Kei Takei, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar and Bill T. Jones.

        Evelyn Payne Davis, a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women and a former vice president at the Children's Television Workshop, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
In the early 1970's, Mrs. Davis also helped found the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, which urged black women to become involved in politics and community affairs.
In the early 1970's, Mrs. Davis also helped found the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, which urged black women to become involved in politics and community affairs.
The coalition's projects included helping young black women establish personal networks and holding voter registration drives on 125th Street in Harlem, said Mary Burke Washington, a co-founder of the coalition and a former chairwoman of the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board.
With her uninhibited, note-bending vocal wail, she also helped introduce the rhythm-and-blues-influenced style known as ''blue-eyed soul,'' so named because it was popularized by white singers imitating black role models.
Preschoolers were taught by people in gold and black fake-fur bee costumes to Do-Bee a milk drinker and Don't-Bee a spoilsport.
Half a century after ''The Street,'' was first published by Houghton-Mifflin, Mrs. Petry's creations, Ludie Johnson and her 8-year-old son Bub, are still regarded as among the more indelible characters of black literature.
A native of Old Saybrook, where her father, Peter Lane, had opened a pharmacy in 1902, she grew up in one of the few black families in the white resort.

        Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn.
Miss Moore, whose real name was Audley Moore, was a hero to many residents of Harlem, where she worked with Marcus Garvey, the Jamaican-born black nationalist leader, and his Back-to-Africa movement.
Howard Dodson, the head of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, said in 1995 that her career constituted ''a link between the best elements of the nationalist and radical left political traditions in Harlem over the past five, six decades.
Beginning in the 1960's, Miss Moore was among black leaders demanding reparations from the United States Government for the sufferings of blacks under slavery.
''
        In 1989, Miss Moore and more than 40 other prominent black women were honored at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, in Washington, where ''I Dream a World,'' an exhibition of photographs of them by Brian Lanker, was on display.
The other honors she received included one of the company's Adolph Caesar awards in 1987 and two of the annual Audelco Awards, which honor achievement in black theater: a best actress award in 1978 for ''Do Lord Remember Me,'' and a best director award for 1983 for ''Hospice.
By January 1962, when they opened the intimate supper club at 890 Second Avenue, between 47th and 48th Streets, Miss Dimitri had long achieved popularity in Europe and had made her mark in the theater in United States and as an attraction at clubs like Le Ruban Bleu in Manhattan, Old New Orleans in Washington, the Black Orchid in Chicago, the Moulin Rouge in Boston and the Ritz Carlton in Montreal.
Prior to that, President Richard M. Nixon had appointed her to the Justice Department as Deputy Solicitor General -- the first woman and the first black person to hold so high a position in the Solicitor General's office.
In the early 1970's Ebony magazine named her one of the 100 most influential black Americans.
While she was the first woman to hold so high a position in the Solicitor General's office, she was not the highest-ranking black staff member.
She grew many varieties of orchids, put black and white swans in the estate's ponds and bought 30 to 40 monkeys for its trees.
Soon, she said, a man in a black coat strode up, took one look at the bloody remains, said, ''He's dead,'' then whirled on his heel and left.
The documentary, shown at the New York Film Festival, was a 105-minute interview with a gay black male prostitute.
That year Mother Teresa visited South Africa, which was still under apartheid rule, to set up a hostel in a black township.
They deleted the passages that showed that the novel's black protagonist, Bigger Thomas, was sexually attracted to the white woman he ended up smothering.
Miss Gold's money was crucial since visas and passports could be bought on the flourishing Marseilles black market.
A slim woman with short hair and strikingly dark eyes who always appeared on stage dressed in black, Barbara belonged to the tradition of French-language singers like Jacques Brel, Georges Brassens and Leo Ferre for whom music was to a large measure a vehicle for poetry, sometimes humorous, more often nostalgic or even tragic.
Her reconfigured district sent Shirley Chisholm to Congress as Brooklyn's first black Representative.
During her tenure, the district's ethnic composition changed markedly, leading state legislators to reapportion the borough to acknowledge Bedford-Stuyvesant's growing black constituency.
In 1948 the couple moved to the United States, where Ms. Levertov studied and was influenced by such modernist poets as Williams, Wallace Stevens and Ezra Pound, and also continued her artistic relationship with Mr. Creeley, Robert Duncan and other Black Mountain poets.
I fall
        wherever men send me to fall --
        but I prefer flesh, so smooth, so dense:
        I decorate it in black, and seek the bone.
      
