She wrote a poetry book in prison and emerged in a somber black outfit, quoting Bible verses.
An authority on black American literature of the 19th and 20th centuries, Professor McKay specialized in the study of fiction, autobiography and, especially, women's writing.
She was known in particular for the Norton Anthology of African American Literature, of which she was a general editor with Henry Louis Gates Jr.
        ''She was the central figure in the establishing of black women's studies as a presence in academic and intellectual life,'' Professor Werner said in a telephone interview yesterday.
The anthology, published in 1997, was widely credited with codifying the black American literary canon for the first time.
At more than 2,600 pages, the anthology spans black literature from the earliest Negro spirituals to late-20th-century writers like Gloria Naylor, Terry McMillan and Walter Mosley.
As she and her contemporaries discovered during their student years, it was nearly impossible to study literature by black writers, male or female, in a university classroom in the late 1960's.
Black literature courses were few and far between.
''
        If black male writers were largely absent from the curriculum, black female writers were even more so.
''
        If black male writers were largely absent from the curriculum, black female writers were even more so.
It quickly became a thriving community with schools, churches, an orphanage and one of the nation's first black newspapers, The Freedman's Torchlight.
Such expressions of pride mattered to Ms. Maynard, whose oft-stated mission was nurturing a sense of identity among black children by concretely linking them to their history.
In an interview with The Times in 1991, she recalled them discussing a newspaper story about the lynching of a pregnant black woman.
She drew covers for Crisis, the publication of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, as well as comic book treatments of black history.
She graduated first in her high school class of 17 in 1945 and attended Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, where, two years earlier, her older sister, Edythe, had been the first black to enroll.
The 350 guests, big-city folks from Atlanta and rural neighbors from Alabama, made it the biggest wedding, white or black, the area had ever seen.
Her sister was the first to receive a scholarship under a program set up in 1945 to recruit minority students, not the first black to enroll.
      
'' The going rate, she said, was $5 for black men, $10 for white.
He turned out to be a volunteer for the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, which had come to Greenwood to register black voters.
''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.
''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.
The Appiahs are said to have been the inspiration, along with another African-British couple, Seretse Khama and Ruth Williams, for the 1967 film ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' which dealt with a California couple's reaction to their daughter's engagement to a black doctor.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
''I'm black, I'm solitary, I've always been an outsider,'' The Los Angeles Times quoted Ms. Butler as saying in 1998.
Set in time periods ranging from the historical past to the distant future, Ms. Butler's books were known for their controlled economy of language and for their strong, believable protagonists, many of them black women.
One of Ms. Butler's best-known novels, ''Kindred'' (Doubleday, 1979), told the story of a modern-day black woman who must travel back to the antebellum South to save the life of a white, slaveholding ancestor and, in so doing, save her own.
So I wanted to write a novel that would make others feel the history: the pain and fear that black people have had to live through in order to endure.
''The only black people you found were occasional characters or characters who were so feeble-witted that they couldn't manage anything, anyway.
Her other work includes an experimental novel, ''Seeking Air'' (Black Sparrow Press, 1978); ''Dürer in the Window'' (Roof Books, 2003), a collection of poetry, essays and art criticism; and several books done in collaboration with visual artists.
      
There she lived in a modest three-bedroom house with her mother, Oree, and rose at dawn, made herself black coffee and went upstairs to write.

        Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville.
In May 1954, Ms. Braden and her husband, Carl, both white Kentuckians active in progressive politics, bought a house in a segregated Louisville suburb on behalf of a black associate, Andrew Wade IV, and his family.

        Edythe Gaines, a prominent educator who in the 1960's and 70's was one of the highest ranking black officials in the New York City public school system, died on March 23 in Hartford.
Ms. Morgan, a professor of law at New York Law School, developed key arguments in the school financing suit, in which she represented the Legislature's black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic caucus as an unpaid litigator, beginning in 1995.
The author of ''Witness in Philadelphia,'' published in 1977 by the Louisiana State University Press, she repeatedly spoke out against the Ku Klux Klan and other forces oppressing the black population of east central Mississippi.

        Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Washington.

        Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Washington.
And though she had never seen a ballet dancer who was black, she was intent on studying to become one.
In 1933, she founded her own school in Boston; it was later directed by a student of hers, Elma Lewis, who became another influential teacher of black dancers.
There, the two of them founded the Jones-Haywood School of Ballet, with the mission of enabling black students to train in classical dance.
Ms. Fortune, who became the lead dancer with the Capitol Ballet, is believed to have been the first black ballerina to compete in an international ballet competition, in Varna, Bulgaria.
Ms. Maguire specialized in nonfiction, with particular attention to the work of leading black intellectuals, including Henry Louis Gates Jr., Cornel West, John McWhorter and Kwame Anthony Appiah.
''
        Propaganda and Poetry
        In London she landed a job with the Foreign Office in a secret division that disseminated black propaganda, a brand of disinformation she described as ''detailed truth with believable lies.
Spark's work in a variety of guises, from the unseen and unforgiving hand in ''Memento Mori'' (1959) to the hypocrisy of self-righteously pious characters like the couple in the short story ''The Black Madonna.
The book won the James Tait Black Memorial prize.
With it, she became the first black writer to win South Africa's premier literary prize, the CNA Award.
She later helped establish the Urban Foundation, which pressed the government to let blacks own their houses, and she was a longtime adviser of the Zamani Soweto Sisters Council, the umbrella body for women's self-help groups; the first president of the Black Consumer Union; and the general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.

        Katherine Dunham, the dancer, choreographer, teacher and anthropologist whose pioneering work introduced much of the black heritage in dance to the stage, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
By creating popular and glamorous revues based on African and Caribbean folklore, Miss Dunham acquainted audiences, both on Broadway and around the world, with the historical roots of black dance.
In the late 1930's she founded the nation's first self-supporting black modern-dance troupe, one that visited more than 50 countries on six continents.
As a member of the human rights committee of the United Federation of Teachers in the early 1960's, Ms. Becker joined a group of teachers who spent two summers in Virginia teaching black students during the desegregation struggles.

        Dorothea Towles Church, the first successful black model in Paris, who discovered personal liberation on the runways of Christian Dior and Elsa Schiaparelli in the 1950's, died on July 7 in Manhattan.
'' ''I was the only black model in Europe and I just thought I was an international person.
''
        Her easy acceptance in Paris was reported back home in black publications, in articles about the designers she knew and how she once dyed her hair platinum at Dior's request.
This particular ruse endeared her to young black women with dreams of careers in fashion.
But there were few roles for black actors, and Ms. Church described herself as more commercially minded.
She thought she could succeed in modeling, and enrolled in the Dorothy Farrier Charm and Modeling School as its first black student.
She then found jobs on the West Coast in fashion shows and magazines that catered to black audiences, and a husband, a much older dentist who spoiled her.
In 1954, she returned to America by ship, because she had so much luggage, and began a tour of black colleges with her collection.
She staged fashion shows and fund-raisers for more than 200 branches of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a college sorority established by black women.
''I feel that my going all over America with my show had a great influence on American black women dressing differently and feeling good about themselves,'' Ms. Church said in ''Black and Beautiful.
' ''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Dorothea T. Church, the first successful black model in Paris, gave an outdated date for the opening of an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, ''Black Style Now,'' in which she will be featured.
Ms. Bennett won a British Council Scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London in 1945 and was the first black student there.
Ms. Bennett worked with Alma John, a well-known black broadcaster, and sang folk songs at the Village Vanguard in Greenwich Village.

        Cora T. Walker, a prominent New York lawyer who nearly 60 years ago became one of the first black women to practice law in the state, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
From 1976 until her retirement in 1999, she was the senior partner in Walker & Bailey, one of the city's few black law firms, which she established with her son.
For much of her career, Ms. Walker was active in the National Bar Association, a historically black organization.
Begun in 1988, the conference helps black lawyers cultivate relationships with corporate clients.
In addition to her son Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, she is survived by another son, Bruce E. Bailey, a physician, of Norwich, Conn.; a sister, Danetta Black, formerly of White Plains; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Gray Adams was defeated by a ratio of 30 to 1 in the Democratic primary, in part because Mississippi had effectively disenfranchised black voters.
''Crap Game'' (1936), perhaps Ms. Ruellan's best-known painting, depicts a group of black men in Charleston, S.C., engaged in an avid game of dice.
But the muted palette and the stark emptiness of the background convey the straitened circumstances of black life in the Depression-era South.
She appointed the first black regent to the University of Texas and installed the first blacks and women on the state's legendary police force, the Texas Rangers.
A glamorous figure with high cheekbones, a black curl of eyeliner and an ever-present cigarette, she believed that she had the right to ask or say anything, and did so in writings translated into more than 20 languages.
It shows Pollock crouching over a canvas with paint cupped in his right hand, demonstrating his technique for applying an unbroken stream of black enamel, a cigarette dangling from his mouth.
''It was groundbreaking back then in that it was a black man hugging a white woman,'' Ms. Burrrows said.
''
        Ms. Brown sustained a career for six decades: first as a bright, bluesy singer who was called ''the girl with a tear in her voice'' and then, after some lean years, as the embodiment of an earthy, indomitable black woman.
Ms. Brown was the best-selling black female performer of the early 1950s, even though, in that segregated era, many of her songs were picked up and redone by white singers, like Patti Page and Georgia Gibbs, in tamer versions that became pop hits.
'' Though essentially a novelty tune, it was also a bold stroke at a time when black and white musicians were still not commonly heard side by side.
Turned out in a crisp black dress and ostrich-feathered hat, she sang an insinuating ''Sweet Georgia Brown'' and a breakneck ''Tea for Two,'' both with a playful mastery.
Along with writers like Terry McMillan, Ms. Campbell was part of the first wave of black novelists who made the lives of upwardly mobile black people a routine subject for popular fiction.
Along with writers like Terry McMillan, Ms. Campbell was part of the first wave of black novelists who made the lives of upwardly mobile black people a routine subject for popular fiction.
Throughout her work, Ms. Campbell sought to counter prevailing stereotypes of black people as socially and economically marginal.
Rooted in the story of Emmett Till, the book tells of a black Chicago youth killed by a white man in Mississippi in 1955.
''
        Ms. Campbell's other novels, all published by G. P. Putnam's Sons, are ''Brothers and Sisters'' (1994), written in the wake of the Los Angeles riots of 1992; ''Singing in the Comeback Choir'' (1998), about a black television producer feeling cut off from her roots; and ''What You Owe Me'' (2001), about the friendship between two women, one African-American, the other a Jewish Holocaust survivor, in the 1940's.
In an interview with The New York Times in 1995, she described her motivation for writing ''Brothers and Sisters,'' the story of the friendship between a black banker and her white colleague.
Dr. Reid said that the study followed primarily black patients, tracking their nutrition, growth and development, and became an important means for comparing the severity of the disease in patients over time.
Ms. Dykeman was also known for ''Neither Black Nor White'' (Rinehart, 1957), an account of Southern race relations written with her husband, James R. Stokely Jr.
''
        ''Neither Black Nor White'' won a Sidney Hillman Award as the best book of 1957 on world peace, race relations or civil liberties.
''
        Born and raised in Arkansas, Ms. Tompkins was heir to the long tradition of black Southern quilting, a form of folk art whose best-known practitioners include the women of Gee's Bend, Ala. Their work, vibrant geometric quilts made from whatever scraps came to hand, became famous after it was shown at the Whitney in 2002 and 2003.
Like many white singers of the period, Ms. Gibbs, who recorded her biggest hits for the Mercury label, was known in particular for her covers, often with bowdlerized lyrics, of R&B songs by black artists.
