Miss Delany and her younger sister, Dr. A. Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, were always celebrated in Harlem, where they lived and flourished from 1916 to 1957, after leaving their native Raleigh, N.C.
        Dr. Delany, who received her doctorate in dental surgery from Columbia in 1923, was the second black woman licensed to practice dentistry in New York State.
She never saw herself as black -- that did not describe her color, she used to say -- nor did she care for the term African-American.
Her first job was working for the black school system in Wake County, N.C., teaching subjects like sanitation, how to can food and how to care for newborn infants.
After years of teaching at predominantly black grade schools, Miss Delany wanted to teach high-school level domestic science, as home economics was then called.
Also sharing the Prize was Sir James Black of Britain, who discovered two classes of drugs, beta blockers, for high blood pressure and heart disease, and H-2 antagonists, for ulcers.
''
        In 1955 Mrs. Durr and her husband helped a black civil rights leader, E. D. Nixon, bail Mrs.
Parks, a black seamstress active in the N.A.A.C.P., out of jail in Montgomery, Ala., said Dr. Patricia Sullivan, a historian and fellow at the W. E. B.
Miss Murdoch's first novel was published in 1954 and in a career that lasted for more than four decades, her fiction received many honors, including the Booker Prize for ''The Sea, the Sea,'' the Whitbread Literary Award for Fiction for ''The Sacred and Profane Love Machine'' and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for ''The Black Prince.
Miss Murdoch's first novel was published in 1954 and in a career that lasted for more than four decades, her fiction received many honors, including the Booker Prize for ''The Sea, the Sea,'' the Whitbread Literary Award for Fiction for ''The Sacred and Profane Love Machine'' and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for ''The Black Prince.
''A Severed Head'' (1961) was a black farce about infidelity, incest and violence.
'' Dressed in black with her head covered, Ms. Garth alternated between twitches and aimless swaying, driven, it seemed, by the sound of a metronome.
Judge Lowe was the second black woman appointed to the Federal judiciary, according to The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education.
At the time, there were 400 Federal trial judges, 15 of whom were black and 5 of whom were female.
She received a bachelor's degree in 1952  from Hunter College, a law degree with honors in 1954 from Brooklyn Law School, where she was president of her class and the first black editor in chief of the law review, and a master's degree in 1955 from Columbia Law School.
She left with ''A Boy's Life,'' by Tobias Wolfe and ''The Story of Little Babaji,'' a version of ''Little Black Sambo'' that restores much of the original 1899 text.

        Elizabeth Huckaby, who as a vice principal shepherded nine black students through the tumultuous integration of Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died on March 18 in Little Rock.
As she remembered it, ''I had never known any black well, except those in household employ.
''
        Soon, she would be trying to shield the first black students at Central High from intimidation by white students.
President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent the 101st Airborne Division to Little Rock and placed the Arkansas guardsmen under Federal control to insure the black students' admission in the face of mob action.
Melba Pattillo Beals, in her memoir, ''Warriors Don't Cry'' (Pocket Books, 1994), recalled what happened as she and other black students were about to retreat:
        ''Vice Principal Huckaby made her presence known at the bottom of the stairs.
''
        The best-remembered image of the Little Rock events is a photograph showing a white girl, her face contorted in rage, screaming at Elizabeth Eckford, a black girl entering the school.
''
        Eight of the nine black students remained through the school year, and at commencement ceremonies on May 27, 1958, Ernest Green became the first black graduate of Central High.
''
        Eight of the nine black students remained through the school year, and at commencement ceremonies on May 27, 1958, Ernest Green became the first black graduate of Central High.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
''I was deeply influenced by black singers from the early 1960's,'' she said.

        Harriet M. Waddy, one of the two highest-ranking black officers in the Women's Army Corps in World War II and its wartime adviser on racial issues, died on Feb. 21 in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 94.
In April 1943, First Officer Harriet West, as Harriet Waddy was then known, made a radio broadcast on behalf of the Army, urging black women to get into uniform.
''
        The 6,500 black women who joined the Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, created in 1942, and the organization that succeeded it a year later, the Women's Army Corps, joined an institution in which segregation was the official policy.
Major West and Maj. Charity Adams, who commanded the only unit of black Wacs sent overseas in World War II, were the only two black women to attain the rank of major in the wartime WAC.
Major West and Maj. Charity Adams, who commanded the only unit of black Wacs sent overseas in World War II, were the only two black women to attain the rank of major in the wartime WAC.
''
        Major West's composure must have been sorely tested when she was dispatched to the South to hear the grievances of black Wacs.
She said that military service would give black women a chance to ''show their ability'' and be ''of future benefit to the whole race.
In a concession to American tastes, Mrs. Chu included recipes for chop suey, chow mein and other Chinese-American hybrids, but then pressed on to offer more authentic fare like string beans in bean curd sauce and lobster with black bean sauce, as well as challenging banquet dishes like shark fins with Chinese cabbage.
The first issue under Ms. Tilberis's direction, September 1992, had a stunning cover shot by Patrick Demarchelier of the model Linda Evangelista in a stark black dress against a white background with no other headline on the cover than ''Enter the Era of Elegance.
An exception was this year's February cover of Madonna, also photographed by Mr. Demarchelier, in striking black and red.
The cause was cancer, said Francine E. Cheeks, a spokeswoman for the American Friends Service Committee in Philadelphia, a Quaker organization that supported Ms. Carter and many other black families in the civil rights struggle of the 1960's.
In the fall of 1965, just after the Carters had enrolled 7 of their 13 children in local white schools, the owner of the plantation told them to withdraw the children, saying they would receive a better education in a black school.
''
        Public schools throughout Mississippi were desegregated by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but the state enacted what it called a freedom-of-choice law and used it to intimidate blacks into remaining at inferior black schools.
From 1965 to 1968, the Carters were the only black family to keep their children in the county's schools.
Eventually, eight of the Carter's children graduated from what had been all-white schools in Sunflower County; five older children graduated from local black schools.
For years she was not only the sole black but also the lone woman in a house she called a ''men's club'' some years ago.
In 1970, she solicited an op-ed article from Mr. Wilkins, a prominent black intellectual and policy analyst, about the Gridiron Dinner.
She gave her birth year as 1920, however by 1933 she was already appearing with the Four Black Cats, a nightclub variety act.
She quickly became a familiar face as a lead in low-budget, independently produced black films like ''Keep Punching'' (1939), which starred the boxing champion Henry Armstrong; ''Big Timers'' (circa 1945), which featured Moms Mabley and Stepin Fetchit, and ''Dirty Gerty From Harlem U.S.A.'' (1946), which was directed by Spencer Williams Jr., who later portrayed Andy in the ''Amos 'n' Andy'' television series.
''
        The former actor and award-winning filmmaker and producer William Greaves said that Ms. Everett  ''was a true legend of black film and theater, one of the top stars of the 40's race movies.
''
        Her arresting looks may not have benefited her career as a Hollywood player at a time when black actresses were rarely portrayed as glamorous, but they served her well as a model and singer.
But she maintained a keen interest in black film and entertainment.
She was a member of the Negro Actors' Guild and often lectured and participated on panels and in seminars sponsored by the International Agency for Minority Artists Affairs, which promotes black films.
      
Dance Black America (1984) was produced with the Brooklyn Academy of Music and filmed for public television.
And her editorial decisions -- like putting a black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, a first in the women's magazine industry -- sometimes caused a stir in magazine circles.
When she wanted to feature the black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, the issue was debated at every level of the company, all the way up to the president.
In 1940 Ms. Forrest, who was white, broke precedent to record a single (''I Don't Stand a Ghost of a Chance With You'') with the black band leader Lionel Hampton.
Her one-woman drama, ''Letters From a New England Negro,'' was performed at the National Black Theater Festival in 1991 and at the Chicago International Theater Festival in 1992.
''I was just captivated by their language, their speech and their character because I always liked the way black people talk,'' she said.
Usually dressed in black, she often wore her hair slicked back in a bun, and she favored simple clothing designers like Prada and Yohji Yamamoto.
Writing of a scene in the movie when painfully complacent Atlantans hear themselves chastised for inaction in the civil rights battles, Ms. Sibley said, ''It was an Atlanta attitude at the time, and many Atlantans took it like Miss Daisy, listening and looking at the empty chair beside her where her black servant and best friend, Hoke, should have been sitting if her courage had matched her good will.
After graduating from Berkeley in 1923 with a degree in economics, she taught at Hampton Institute in Virginia, which had a black student body but a predominantly white and paternalistic administration.
In 1932, after helping found a Harlem branch of the Friends of the Soviet Union, she became a leading organizer of a trip to the Soviet Union by 22 black intellectuals, journalists and writers who were to make a Soviet-sponsored movie called ''Black and White,'' about white supremacy in America.
After returning to the United States, she organized a march to Washington to speak out on the ''Scottsboro Boys'' -- nine black youths wrongly convicted of raping two white women in Scottsboro, Ala. She later traveled to Spain on behalf of the Republican cause in the Spanish Civil War.

        M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where she had lived since 1984.
In 1945 she married Albert William Levi Jr., her second husband and a social scientist who was invited that year to join the faculty of the experimental Black Mountain College, near Asheville, N.C. Black Mountain was a short-lived laboratory for innovative teaching and art whose faculty and students included Josef and Anni Albers, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, David Tudor, Robert Rauschenberg and Charles Olson.
In 1945 she married Albert William Levi Jr., her second husband and a social scientist who was invited that year to join the faculty of the experimental Black Mountain College, near Asheville, N.C. Black Mountain was a short-lived laboratory for innovative teaching and art whose faculty and students included Josef and Anni Albers, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, David Tudor, Robert Rauschenberg and Charles Olson.
At Black Mountain Ms. Richards taught writing, produced and, when necessary, translated plays by Cocteau, Satie and Yeats.
In 1954 Ms. Richards, Tudor and Cage, along with Paul Williams, an architect, and Karen Karnes, a potter, who had both also been at Black Mountain, established a commune called the Land near Stony Point, N.Y. Ms. Richards lived there for a decade, working in a studio with Ms. Karnes; they developed a form of flame-proof clay that enabled them to make ceramic cookware.
And always, her collection included black dolls, which are now highly sought by collectors, because so few were made before the 20th century.
One rarity, described in the sale catalogue as ''a black Bru pressed-bisque-head bebe doll,'' was valued at $18,000.
There were a pair of papier-mache dolls, named Lillian and Leo, made by Leo Moss, a black handyman who lived in Atlanta in the 19th century.
When she auditioned for a part in ''Champion,'' she thought she would be right for the role of the fighter's gold-digging floozy and accordingly wore a tight-fitting black dress and heavy makeup when she swivel-hipped into Stanley Kramer's office.
In his memoir ''Paris in the Fifties,'' the American journalist and author Stanley Karnow, who was briefly married to Mrs. Sarraute's eldest daughter, Claude, paints a portrait of the writer as ''a lean, severe-looking woman with a hawk nose, piercing black eyes and combed-back ebony hair.
Ms. Rodrigues performed in the black clothes of mourning, with her head thrown back and her face like a mask of tragedy, singing in a voice that was at once tearful and fierce.
When the family moved to Paris, Tex., she befriended an elderly black guitar player who taught her the blues and became a major influence on her style.
Many of her hits were even more in the rhythm-and-blues than in the pop market, and many fans didn't know whether she was black or white.

        Daisy Bates, a civil rights leader who in 1957 led the fight to admit nine black students to Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., died yesterday at a hospital there.
But she nurtured the nine black children who faced vicious insults and physical intimidation.
She began by taking black children to white schools to be registered.
At Central High, 75 black students initially registered, a number that was ultimately reduced to 9 chosen by school authorities.
''
        The first day of school, the black  students were turned away with bayonets at the schoolhouse door.
Mrs. Blunden, who was awarded a MacArthur Foundation grant in 1994, was also a major and much-honored proponent of the contributions of black choreographers and performers to American modern dance.
''You could call what I do black dance because I'm a black-dance person.
What I do is from a black perspective.
'' Dayton Contemporary Dance Company would later become the first black dance troupe to acquire a Cunningham work, ''Channels/Inserts.
In the case of the murders of about a dozen black children in Atlanta in 1979-80, she gave the police 42 names of possible killers, and none of the names were Wayne or Williams.
