Ms. Winde received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut in 1972, and won an Audelco Award for Excellence in Black Theater three years ago.
In 1997, she received a Living Legend Award from the National Black Theater.
Ms. Lewis, considered a doyenne of black culture in Boston, was a no-nonsense mentor to generations of young dance, opera and theater students at the Elma Lewis School of Fine Arts, which she founded in 1950 in a Roxbury apartment before moving it permanently to a former synagogue and school in the same area.
The black man is oppressed, and I can't imagine a man brave enough to oppress me.
Her passion was stoked by a childhood incident in which a white bus driver dragged her crying from the back of the bus where she sat with her black baby sitter.
Ms. Axton and her brother, James Stewart, founders of the label, were white; most of their hitmakers were black; and the label's studio band, Booker T. and the MG's, was mixed.
She wrote of ''the black velvet oblivion I dream about.
Ms. Schwarz and her sister, who were white, taught black students at a time when some white residents of Dayton frowned upon such classes.
Her songs had the sentimentality of teenage pop, but in her vocals Ms. Yuro borrowed the bluesy intensity of black jazz singers like Dinah Washington and Nancy Wilson.
Though recorded when she was barely out of her teens, she sang it with a strength and finesse that earned her a reputation as a soul powerhouse; her voice was often mistaken for that of a black woman or a man.
From 1981-83, she founded parallel programs for children with cancer at Baragwanath Hospital in the township of Soweto, the largest black hospital in South Africa at the time, and at a white hospital, Johannesburg General.
Embraced by black nurses, the Soweto program continued for some years.
In 1965, a black child attended a previously all-white school.
In 1936, Winson Gates married Cleo Hudson, whose family owned 500 acres in Harmony, a center of black property owners since Reconstruction.
In 1976, she mobilized the newly powerful black vote to at last pave the streets of Harmony.
Ms. Capers was an experienced but little-known character actress when she was cast as Lena Younger, the matriarch of the struggling working-class black family in ''Raisin,'' a musical that opened in the fall of 1973, based on Lorraine Hansberry's play.

        Dorothy Van Engle, a 1930's star of several films of the pioneer black filmmaker Oscar Micheaux, died here on Monday, her family said.
From the 1920's until mid-century, there was a vital industry of movies made by black filmmakers for black audiences.
From the 1920's until mid-century, there was a vital industry of movies made by black filmmakers for black audiences.
At the time, these were virtually the only films in which black characters were given leading roles.
Ms. Fassie's tempestuous life and her changing fashions in music and clothing earned her the nickname ''the black Madonna of the townships,'' but she was far less solvent and far more impetuous than the American Madonna.
She went into rehabilitation, but was defiant in interviews about her crack use and her bisexuality, then largely taboo subjects among black South Africans.
''
        Ms. Fassie, who was named for the American singer Brenda Lee, grew up in a two-bedroom house in Langa, a black township outside Cape Town.
In 1981, Ms. Sanford became the first black woman to win an Emmy for best actress in a comedy series.
Part of the challenge is to keep the black squares symmetrical, a tradition started by Mrs. Farrar because she thought they looked pretty that way.
Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children.
In 1955, Ross Hunter cast her in ''All That Heaven Allows'' (with Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson), followed by ''The Restless Years'' and ''Portrait in Black.
''
        Her books (she was a medievalist in her academic days) are not yet unpacked, but the Oriental carpet and artwork -- including a Klimt-inspired portrait of Ms. Mirrer's ''inner spirit'' by a Dominican artist, Jorge Severino, who painted her as a white-gowned and regal black woman -- lend a rich ambience.
With full panache intact at 51 -- her black skirt is short, her patent heels are high, her blue Hermès scarf is, like that 600-pound granite gargoyle on a corner pedestal, a gift from colleagues at the City University of New York, where she was executive vice chancellor -- Ms. Mirrer is an avowed fan of blockbusters on a national scale.
Her husband, in fact, often said that one of his earliest duties was dyeing water with beef extract so that it could pass for red wine on black and white television -- the producers could afford real Burgundy only for the stew, not for the star's glass.
She had a short-lived gallery, Black and Herron, in SoHo in 1995, and with Mr. Walczak started Eyewash in Williamsburg in 1997..
        Ms. Herron is survived by a son, Erik, of New York City; by her parents, Robert and Sophie Herron, of Augusta, Ga.; by a sister, Theresa, of New York City; and by four brothers: Anthony and Vincent, both of Augusta; Robert, of Fairfield, Iowa; and Jimmy, of Oakland, Calif.
      
After the Weather Girls, Ms. Wash sang, often anonymously, for C and C Music Factory, Black Box and other groups, and Ms. Armstead moved to Germany to found a new Weather Girls group with her daughter Dynell Rhodes, who survives Ms. Armstead, along with six other children and several grandchildren.
      
The book brims with criticism of the United States for making Iraqi civilians bear the brunt of the violence in their efforts to overthrow Saddam Hussein, while depicting the grim resignation and black humor Iraqis used to survive under his violent rule.
Ms. Leigh and the good-looking boy from the Bronx were the perfect embodiment of the young Hollywood of the 1950's, as they starred together in four films, including  ''The Black Shield of Falworth'' (1954) as a medieval lady and her would-be knight suitor.
At a time when nearly all artists showing in New York galleries were white, she represented several black artists, most notably Jacob Lawrence, but also Raymond Saunders, Richard Hunt and Walter Williams, a little-known painter whose work she showed in her first gallery, which was in Atlantic City.
She also represented the estate of Horace Pippin, a black folk artist, and worked on an important traveling exhibition of his work in 1977 that was organized by the Phillips Collection in Washington.
Ms. Rudge is on her cellphone, trying to find black cabbage for Tuscan chefs who consider it an absolute must for a thick peasant soup to be served in the Grill Room at the World Financial Center.
Parks's own views were very much those of a liberal Democrat, and she went so far as to give up limousines for bicycles, cheerfully waving to her husband as he went by in his big black car.
In a 1965 Saturday Review of Literature article, ''The All-White World of Children's Books,'' she criticized the near absence of black characters in children's books.
Ms. Sontag was 17 and looked even younger, clad habitually in blue jeans, her black hair spilling down her back.
She was the founding director of the Norsam Gallery in New York, which dealt chiefly with local black artists.
She changed her palette from series to series, using pale colors one year, and black, white or gray the next.
