
        Dorothy Maynor, a highly regarded soprano recitalist who founded the Harlem School of the Arts, died on Monday at the Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. She was 85 and lived in Kennett Square, Pa.
        Miss Maynor, whose career helped open the way for black artists like Marian Anderson and Leontyne Price, possessed a voice that the New Grove Dictionary of  American Music describes as "a soaring, belllike soprano capable of exquisite musical effects, supported by a sincere and ardent temperament.
Although she committed more than 100 operatic roles to memory, she never appeared on an opera stage; there were no such opportunities for a black artist  in the late 1930's and the 1940's, when she was in her prime.
(Miss Anderson, the first black singer to appear at the Metropolitan Opera, did not make her debut there until 1955.
She often performed at benefits to aid the  war effort and black causes.
In 1952, by special permission of the Daughters of the American Revolution, she appeared as a soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra at Constitution Hall in the first commercial appearance there by a black artist since Miss Anderson had been barred from performing at the hall in  1939.
In 1975, she became the first black member of the Metropolitan Opera board.
At a party in 1949, at which she was the host, the present Queen, who was then Princess Elizabeth, arrived dressed as an Edwardian parlor maid, Prince Philip as a waiter and Princess Margaret as a can-can girl, replete with lace panties and black stockings.
Her first collection, "Tales From Bective Bridge," won the James Tate Black Memorial Prize in 1942 and helped establish her career.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
Of particular concern was the chapter entitled "Bad Tuesday," in which Mary Poppins and her charges travel to exotic corners of the world, meeting, among other characters, a black  woman on a South Sea island who holds a "pickaninny" on her lap, speaks in an American Southern dialect and offers everyone watermelon.
She is survived by her husband of 50 years and co-worker, Thomas Keehn; a daughter, Deborah Keehn Black of Manhattan; five sons, Jonathan, of Grass Valley, Calif., David, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Benjamin, of Holliston, Mass., Adam, of Queens and Burkina Faso, and Joel, of Peekskill, N.Y.; a brother, William McKee, of Lafayette, Calif.; two sisters, Beatrice Watson, of Barstow, Calif., and Margaret Seder, of Stonington, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
As the only white member of the Primus troupe, Ms. de Leon frequently had to get meals and restroom keys surreptitiously for Primus's black dancers when the company toured in the South.
Adoring fans nicknamed Miss Toumanova "the black pearl of the Russian ballet.
When, as a member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, Miss Toumanova was cast in the virtuosic Black Swan pas de deux from "Swan Lake," she and her mother would minutely inspect the stage to choose the spot at which the ballerina would perform a notoriously difficult series of whipping turns known as fouettes.
Grace Robert, an American dance historian, said of the Black Swan in her "Borzoi Book of Ballets" (1946): "Tamara Toumanova is at her exciting best in this tour de force, its vertiginous turns and sustained balances exactly suiting her temperament and forceful technique.
The group was an outgrowth of a volunteer organization, Black Citizens for Fair  Media, that focused on the employment practices of broadcasters and their portrayal of blacks on television.
An elaborate one, she replied, with "six black horses with plumes and one of those marvelous  jobs of embalming that take 20 years off.
Ms. Applewhaite, who is black and was hired by Mrs. Zorbaugh in 1964 for the  radio section of CBS's law department, said: "When she hired me, I don't think there was another black attorney at any of the networks.
Ms. Applewhaite, who is black and was hired by Mrs. Zorbaugh in 1964 for the  radio section of CBS's law department, said: "When she hired me, I don't think there was another black attorney at any of the networks.
Ms. Bearden was an energetic supporter of fledgling black choreographers and small modern-dance companies and produced their work in a series, Broadway Dance Festival, in 1975 and 1976.
Her own modern-dance company, founded in 1976 as the Chamber Dance Group, presented simple stage productions for dances by black choreographers who included Walter Rutledge, Gary DeLoatch, Walter Raines, William Scott and Roumel Reaux.

        Vivian Robinson, the founder of the Audience Development Committee (Audelco) and the annual Audelco Awards, which honors achievement in black theater, died on Sept. 16 at North General Hospital in Harlem.
In 1973, she created Audelco ''to generate recognition, understanding and awareness of the arts in black communities and to build new audiences for nonprofit theaters and dance companies.
Under Miss Robinson's direction, Audelco has also sponsored a series of Black Theater Festivals.
She was born in Borissovo, on the Black Sea in Bulgaria, on July 10, 1913.

        Marion Durham Cuyjet, a pioneering teacher of black dancers, died on Oct. 22 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
''She looked Caucasian and rented studio space that landlords would not rent to a person they thought was black,'' Ms. Jamison wrote.
''She broke the color barrier and was constantly evicted once black children were discovered on the premises; she had to move her school seven times.
Mrs. Cuyjet created dances for public events in the city, and in the late 1950's was the principal choreographer for the annual Christmas Cotillion sponsored by Heritage House, a leading black cultural organization in Philadelphia.
''
        Never mind that Mr. Knutson, who had once worked on her father's farm in North Dakota, had not shared a bedroom with his wife for years or that he had regularly beaten her so badly during her visits to Minnesota, as their son later recalled it, that she had to wear dark glasses to hide her black eyes from her fellow members of Congress.
''
        In an interview at the offices of the Vincent Astor Foundation on Park Avenue, Mrs. Astor, dressed in a black Valentino suit, wide-brimmed black hat and strands of pearls, said that during 1997 she would decide how to give away the rest of the money.
''
        In an interview at the offices of the Vincent Astor Foundation on Park Avenue, Mrs. Astor, dressed in a black Valentino suit, wide-brimmed black hat and strands of pearls, said that during 1997 she would decide how to give away the rest of the money.
''You must talk to me about dinner parties,'' Ms. Railey said, standing at Alexis Gregory's dinner party on Dec. 2, clutching a black pocketbook with a big white clock on top.
''You must talk to me about dinner parties,'' Ms. Railey said, standing at Alexis Gregory's dinner party on Dec. 2, clutching a black pocketbook with a big white clock on top.

        Barbara Jordan, the black Congresswoman and scholar who stirred the nation with her Churchillian denunciations of the Watergate abuses of President Richard M. Nixon, died today in her home state of Texas at the age of 59.
Ms. Jordan, the first black elected to Congress from Texas after Reconstruction, retired from the House in 1979 after three terms to teach political ethics at the university's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, never losing her potent talent for public speaking even from the confines of a wheelchair.
"
        Ms. Jordan was one of American politics' pioneer black women.
In 1966, she was elected as the first black state Senator in Texas, and went on to be the first woman and first black elected to Congress from Texas.
In 1966, she was elected as the first black state Senator in Texas, and went on to be the first woman and first black elected to Congress from Texas.
In 1976, she was the first black woman to deliver a keynote address at the Democratic National Convention, riveting her audience on national television as she spoke magisterially from the stage at New York's Madison Square Garden.
"She proved that black is beautiful before we knew what it meant," Mr. Johnson said of her.
He told her that the only good jobs for black women were in  teaching music or in performing, and asked her what she intended to do if she could not play the piano.
"
        As a Congressional newcomer, Ms. Jordan served notice that she had received 80 percent of the vote and would therefore have far broader interests than the Black Caucus agenda, and would hardly be a "female chauvinist.
But she succeeded when state legislative  districts were finally redrawn and she became the first black of either sex to be elected to the Texas Senate since 1883.
"
        Her mother, Maureen, the Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava, is a flamboyant figure in London who, according to one newspaper account, gave a black eye to Sir Oswald Mosley, the English Fascist, after he made a pass at her in Antibes.
