One of the first black women to work on 125th Street, she had to march on picket lines in the 1930's to win her first job, washing glasses at a dime-store lunch counter.
Among them were "A Case of Rape" (1974), "The Legend of Lizzie Borden" (1975) and "Black Widow Murders: The Blanche Taylor Moore Story" (1993).
The dresses were nearly always in the somber black and navy blue she preferred and wore almost exclusively.
For most of her life, her reddish brown hair was cut into a straight bob, her face was chalky white and her lipstick the color of black currants.

        Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis.
Miss Church was the last survivor of a family of black Tennesseans who were prominent in business and Republican politics when few Southern blacks were active in either business or the party.
Her grandfather, Robert R. Sr., founded Memphis's first black bank and was believed to be the first black millionaire in the South.
Her grandfather, Robert R. Sr., founded Memphis's first black bank and was believed to be the first black millionaire in the South.
On the surface, her life was little different from those of other black women of her era in southern Alabama.
Their clients were generally so poor that even Mrs. Logan, who delivered virtually every child born in the predominantly black Mobile suburb of Prichard from 1931 to 1984, had to supplement her income by working as a maid.
Bessie Delany often marveled that the nation would be interested in what two elderly black women had to say.
Annie Elizabeth Delany was born on Sept. 3, 1891, in Raleigh, N.C., the third child of a former slave who became the country's first black Episcopal bishop.
She graduated from Columbia University in 1923 and became the second black woman to work as a dentist in New York.
Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children.
But they might miss the people who Ruth Simmons believes are the most important -- those responsible for her becoming the first black president of one of the country's most elite women's colleges.
To Henry Louis Gates, the appointment of a black woman to the top job at Smith is "a major event in the history of American letters.
"
        After graduation from high school, she went to Dillard University, a historically black institution in New Orleans, where she majored in Romance languages.
"
        Her brother Wilford Stubblefield, who is 16 years older, was working at an oil refinery in Houston as a janitor, the only job open to a black man at the refinery in those days.
"
        Of Smith's 2,800 students, 86 are black.
There are 15 black faculty members -- out of 300.
One goals, Dr. Simmons said, is to interest more black women in Smith.
Tigress Osborne, a black senior, said she returned to Smith last spring after taking some time off.
"One of my friends said, 'You won't believe what's happened: we have a black president!
"There's a moment when you think if Smith picked a black woman, how black is she?
"There's a moment when you think if Smith picked a black woman, how black is she?
She also has a good handle on how to be not just the black president, on how not to cater to just black students.
She also has a good handle on how to be not just the black president, on how not to cater to just black students.
"In the original version, she enters, sings her few insinuating lines, then leaves, like a black cat crossing the stage.
The same year, she made a daring escape from Athens to London that involved dying her hair black to match a fake passport and hiding out in a cramped bordello while her husband, Costas Loundras, tapped around their Athens flat in her high-heeled shoes to trick the guards into believing that she was still under their arrest.

        Ada Lois Sipuel Fisher, the black honors graduate who needed a backhanded assist from the Supreme Court in 1948 to win admission to the University of Oklahoma law school, died on Wednesday at her home in Oklahoma City.
By the time Mrs. Fisher applied to the University of Oklahoma law school on  Jan. 14, 1946, the Supreme Court had long held that under the separate-but-equal doctrine, states that sponsored law schools for white students were required to  supply similar training for qualified black students.
Since Oklahoma had no law school for black students, it seemed obvious that the white law school would be required to admit the eminently qualified Mrs. Fisher.
An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.
But Oklahoma argued that the state planned to open a black law school someday and kept Mrs. Fisher at bay for more than two years, until January 1948, when the Supreme Court rejected the state's arguments and ordered it to provide her with a legal education.
The court did not specifically order her admission to the university law school, and when Oklahoma tried to satisfy the court by instantly creating a black law school exclusively for Mrs. Fisher, the court turned down her follow-up appeal in February 1948.
The court said her original petition had not  addressed the issue of whether the creation of a separate law school for black students would fulfill the state's obligations under the 14th Amendment.
With dozens of other black college graduates pressing for admission to Oklahoma  graduate schools, the state swiftly backed down.
Cast in "The Great White Hope" at the Arena Stage in Washington, she decided to forgo that play, and paid the Arena the equivalent of two weeks' salary so she could return to New York to join the new black theater  company.
" Her movies included "Klute," "The Omega Man," "Hickey and Boggs," "The New Centurions," "Uptown Saturday Night" and "Wrong Is Right" (in which she played the first black woman to become Vice President of the United States).
She was 82, and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        As a pioneering woman in the male-dominated world of rhythm-and-blues, Mrs. Greenberg was, by her own later account, a triple anomaly: "a white woman who was in a black business and who couldn't carry a tune.

        Minnie Lee Langley, an early and persistent leader in the effort to have the  State of Florida compensate survivors of a white mob's rampage in the black settlement of Rosewood, Fla., in 1923, died on Saturday at a hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 83 and lived in Jacksonville.
A white mob, looking for a black man accused of assaulting a white woman, was responsible for a week of burning and shooting that left at least six Rosewood residents dead and the hamlet in ruins.

        Dorothy Porter Wesley, a librarian who played the primary role in building Howard University's collection of books and other materials for the study of black history and culture, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., at the home  of her daughter, where she had moved recently from Washington.
Mrs. Wesley retired in 1973 as the curator of the Moorland-Spingarn Research  Center, a center for research involving documents about black history and kindred fields.
The centeris one of the world's largest repositories of materials for studying black history and culture, its current director, Dr. Thomas C. Battle,  said yesterday.
Her 1971 book, "Early Negro Writings 1760-1837" was republished this fall, by Black Classic Press, with her name given as Dorothy Porter.
She married Charles Harris Wesley, an authority on black history and former professor and dean at Howard, in 1979.
But Ms. McQueen, who devoted her later years to serving the African-American  community, said she also felt it necessary to acknowledge the history of black slavery in the United States.
She defined herself at the time through her commitment to the "black family," she said.
" The new show moved Archie Bunker's black neighbors, the Jeffersons, from a blue-collar Queens neighborhood to a luxury apartment house in Manhattan.
The character played by Ms. Roker, Helen Willis, was a black woman with a white husband, Tom (Franklin Cover), television's first interracial couple.

        Toni Cade Bambara, a writer and documentary film maker who was celebrated for her intricate use of Black English in fiction, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia.
In the early 1970's, Ms. Bambara was a major contributor to the emerging genre of contemporary black women's literature, along with the writers Toni Morrison and Alice Walker and others.
Many of her stories focused on men and women living in black neighborhoods in big cities or small Southern towns -- as  one reviewer put it, "young women and men who formed their political convictions in the fury of the 60's and find themselves gasping for air in the torpor of the 70's, manicurists, singers and students struggling to trim the rhetoric of their wishes to the smaller, tighter fit of reality.
She would frequently weave black dialects into her prose, creating a unique, complex language that was widely admired by critics.
"Toni Cade Bambara tells me more about being black through her quiet, proud,  silly, tender, hip, acute, loving stories than any amount of literary polemicizing could hope to do," Mr. Bryan wrote in the review.
Louis Massiah, a friend and colleague in Philadelphia, said that as a child, Ms. Bambara would often visit a Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, where she was inspired by two black poets: Gwendolyn Brooks, whose photograph hung there, and Langston Hughes, who she said would often come and talk to children there.
Mr. Massiah said that during her tenure at the center, she helped start the careers of several black women film makers.
The school emphasizes reading and extensive instruction in black history and culture.
He retired in 1990 as the dean of black pastors in the United States.
Mrs. Sweeney is survived by her children, Edward Jr., of Black Forest, Colo.; Philip, of Amherst, Mass.
The next year, she worked for the Resettlement Administration (renamed the Farm Security Administration) in Appalachia and the Ozarks, recording black American music in chain-gang road camps.

        Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.

        Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
She was head of the university's black studies program from 1974 to 1979.
Her book "Black Women, Feminism and Black Liberation" (Third World Press, 1985) described the conflict that black women face over the issues of feminism and racism.
Her book "Black Women, Feminism and Black Liberation" (Third World Press, 1985) described the conflict that black women face over the issues of feminism and racism.
Her book "Black Women, Feminism and Black Liberation" (Third World Press, 1985) described the conflict that black women face over the issues of feminism and racism.
"We had Reba McEntire, George Strait, Clint Black and Vince Gill.
"The Changelings" dealt with racial tensions in a changing city neighborhood and the friendship between two teen-age girls, one black, one white.
Ms. Hawkins also was a co-writer of "A Guide to the Black Apple" and a writer for the Children's Television Workshop.
"
        Within months of her retirement, she joined several friends in founding an organization quickly dubbed the Gray Panthers, a name derived from the radical Black Panthers.
