The Army first permitted black members of the Wacs to serve overseas in the winter of 1945, when it created the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, an all-black unit,  and assigned some 850 African-American women to it.
She was among 39 black women in the corps's first training class, at Fort Des Moines, Iowa, and became one of its first black officers.
She was among 39 black women in the corps's first training class, at Fort Des Moines, Iowa, and became one of its first black officers.
''
        The members of the 6888th postal unit were the first black women many Britons in Birmingham had ever seen, and they shattered stereotypes.
The Smithsonian Institution has included her in its listing of the historically most important black women.
She wore one black stocking and one brown, with black shoes twice as long as her feet.
She wore one black stocking and one brown, with black shoes twice as long as her feet.
C. Higgins, the Great''; the book also received a Newbery award, the first to a black writer.
At the time the few children's books about black people were mainly ''problem'' novels, which threw into sharp relief issues like segregation and poverty.
Ms. Hamilton forsook gritty urban drama for a pastoral tale of enchantment whose characters happened to be black.
Many of her recent books were devoted to the black oral tradition; she combed dusty archives for early manuscripts with long-forgotten songs, riddles and stories.
The fruits of her travels included ''The People Could Fly,'' which retells slaves' traditional tales in an accessible vernacular, without the ugly misspellings historically used to render black dialect.
''
        The book's carefully worded subtitle, ''American Black Folktales,'' was itself a political statement, Ms. Hamilton later recalled.
''They're American first and black second.
''
        To many people, Princess Margaret was the black sheep of her generation of royals.
''Rosetta created nontraditional casting before the phrase itself was created,'' The New York Beacon, a newspaper with a largely black readership, said in 1997.
Her paternal grandfather played the organ for five churches in the West Indies, and her father was one of the first black plumbers and electricians licensed by New York State.
''There were 125 of us, all black Japanese.
When Mrs. Roosevelt visited Buckingham Palace in 1942, she found a bathtub painted with a black line above which water was not supposed to rise; food that was close to inedible (and severely rationed) and rooms that were so cold that the women wore fur coats and blankets indoors.
During the civil rights movement, Mattel created Barbie's first black friend, ''Colored Francie.
Miles still managed a full life in her hometown, Black River Falls, Wis., where she lived with her son, Cole, 9, and his father, Larry Schultz.
In an interview with The New York Times Magazine in 1972, Miss White said she did not own a little black dress.
Subsequently, she and David Esbjornson directed ''New Music,'' a trilogy by Reynolds Price, and she also presented plays by black and female authors.

        June Jordan, who came of age as a poet when the voices of black female writers were just beginning to be heard, died on June 14 at her home in Berkeley, Calif.
        She was 65.
Like the careers of Audre Lord and Alice Walker, Ms. Jordan's was forged by the black arts movement of the 60's and 70's.
'' In ''Poem About Police Violence,'' she wrote about the so-called accidental death of a black man in police custody: ''Tell me something/ what you think would happen if/ everytime they kill a black boy/ then we kill a cop/ everytime they kill a black man/ then we kill a cop/ you think the accident rate would lower/ subsequently?
'' In ''Poem About Police Violence,'' she wrote about the so-called accidental death of a black man in police custody: ''Tell me something/ what you think would happen if/ everytime they kill a black boy/ then we kill a cop/ everytime they kill a black man/ then we kill a cop/ you think the accident rate would lower/ subsequently?
'' In ''Poem About Police Violence,'' she wrote about the so-called accidental death of a black man in police custody: ''Tell me something/ what you think would happen if/ everytime they kill a black boy/ then we kill a cop/ everytime they kill a black man/ then we kill a cop/ you think the accident rate would lower/ subsequently?
''
        After the family moved to Brooklyn, Ms. Jordan became the only black student at Midwood High School.
Correction:  June 27, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the poet June Jordan on June 18 misspelled the surname of a poet whose career, like Ms. Jordan's, was forged by the black arts movement of the 60's and 70's.
Ms. Preiskel, who grew up in Washington and graduated from Wellesley College in 1945, was the second black woman to graduate from Yale Law School, in 1947.
The salvage operation employed black and white women, unusual at the time, and permitted women to work flexible hours, which was also unusual.
''
        Among the other plays Ms. Littlewood edited into dramatic shape was ''A Taste of Honey,'' about a white Lancashire girl who becomes pregnant after an affair with a black sailor.
The Reinharts' joint activities included the highly praised Balanchine Festival two years ago at the Kennedy Center and ''Free to Dance,'' a documentary film for public television about black dance for which the Reinharts just won an Emmy Award as its executive producers.
She established a national touring program for the Dayton Contemporary Dance Theater's revivals of rarely performed classics by black choreographers.
Page was a veteran of the black circuit of theaters and nightclubs.
Offstage, she was an advocate for equal opportunities and better pay for black performers.
      
In the days after the disaster, Little Germany's doorways were draped in black, and on June 18, 1904, the neighborhood saw 156 funerals.

        Eileen Jackson Southern, a scholar of Renaissance and African-American music and the first black woman to be appointed a tenured full professor at Harvard University, died on Sunday at her home in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 82.
''The Music of Black Americans: A History'' (1971) is in its third edition (Norton, 1997).
She also compiled the ''Biographical Dictionary of Afro-American and African Musicians'' (Greenwood, 1982) and ''The Music of Black Americans'' (Norton, third edition, 1997).
In 1973, with her husband, Prof. Joseph Southern, she founded Black Perspectives in Music, the first musicological journal on the study of black music.
In 1973, with her husband, Prof. Joseph Southern, she founded Black Perspectives in Music, the first musicological journal on the study of black music.
She traced the evolution of black choruses from church singing groups, and a startling number of black orchestras like the Negro Philharmonic Society of New Orleans.
She traced the evolution of black choruses from church singing groups, and a startling number of black orchestras like the Negro Philharmonic Society of New Orleans.
In the early 1900's, black and white audiences flocked to Carnegie Hall to hear the Clef Club Symphony Orchestra under its conductor James Reese Europe play music by black composers like Harry T. Burleigh and Samuel Coleridge-Taylor.
In the early 1900's, black and white audiences flocked to Carnegie Hall to hear the Clef Club Symphony Orchestra under its conductor James Reese Europe play music by black composers like Harry T. Burleigh and Samuel Coleridge-Taylor.
Encouraged by her parents, whose home was a haven for black musicians, she studied piano and made her first concert appearance at age 7.
'' Faced with racial discrimination, she started teaching at traditionally black colleges in Texas and Louisiana.
''Like him, I went to Harvard because it was a great opportunity for me as a black female scholar, and I accepted the reality of racial and sex discrimination,'' she wrote.
''
        The diving board was a plank with no spring, and, Riggin said, ''the water was black and icy cold.
Dr. Noble wrote ''The Negro Woman as College Graduate,'' published in 1956, and a history of African-American women, ''Beautiful, Also, Are the Souls of My Black Sisters,'' published in 1978.
She toured with the Harlem Globetrotters, and in 1951 became the first black woman in the country to host her own television variety show.
A black woman in a business often dominated by white men, Ms. Carroll's career included several theatrical milestones and a consistent sense of activity and ambition.
As a director, she was not only the first black woman to direct on Broadway -- the musical revue ''Don't Bother Me I Can't Cope,'' in 1972 -- but she also brought her best-known show, the gospel-infused ''Your Arms Too Short to Box With God,'' to Broadway on three separate occasions.
Ms. Carroll was also the founder and artistic director of the Urban Arts Corps, a New York-based training and producing organization devoted to supporting black and Hispanic theater and actors.
It was during the 1960's and 70's, the height the national black theater movement, that Ms. Carroll's talents came into full bloom.
Ms. Carroll's direction was nominated for a Tony, making her the first black woman ever to win that nomination.
Throughout her life, Ms. Carroll was an eloquent speaker about the challenges of being black and female.
Mrs. Hancock was the product of a multiracial, multi-ethnic family and grew up black.
In 1994, Simon & Schuster published ''The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White,'' a portrait of life in the black bourgeoisie drawn by her daughter, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip.
In 1994, Simon & Schuster published ''The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White,'' a portrait of life in the black bourgeoisie drawn by her daughter, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip.
Mrs. Hancock, born Margaret Morris in Washington and trained as a teacher, married a black minister and became a dedicated ''voluntary Negro.
In the 1900 census, Margaret Morris's family was classified as mulatto; it split only later into white and black branches.
