
       Florence Knapp, a retired teacher who was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's oldest person, died Monday at the Dock Terrace nursing home here.
Florence Knapp, a retired teacher who was recognized by the Guinness Book of World Records as the world's oldest person, died Monday at the Dock Terrace nursing home here.
Her book ''Spanish Dancing,'' published in 1948, was considered by many to be the definitive text on Spanish dance.
She also wrote book reviews, and served on juries that judged children's books.
She contributed to several Nancy Drew mysteries, compiled a book of games from around the world, published many magazine articles and wrote a number of biographies geared to children, including a 1967 work on President Kennedy.
She was director of publications for the Boys Clubs of America for 20 years, and was an active member of Pen and Brush and the Women's National Book Association.
The book is to be completed by a colleague, Walter James Miller, a poet and professor at New York University.
She left the museum staff in 1932 but continued to work on a book, ''Greek Temples,'' a study of the 25 most important temples, which was published by the museum in 1943 and reissued in 1975.
Mrs. Noble wrote ''The Nature of the Beast,'' a book on animal behavior based on research by her husband, Dr. G. Kingsley Noble, a curator at the American Museum of Natural History who died in 1940.
Mrs. Shattuck, a lawyer with the Boston firm of Palmer & Dodge, had been working on a book about the rights of Native Americans.
In her autobiographical book, ''Dawns and Dusks,'' she related how a librarian in Rockland, Me., asked her what she would be when she grew up.
In her autobiographical book, ''Dawns and Dusks,'' she related how a librarian in Rockland, Me., asked her what she would be when she grew up.
In her autobiographical book, ''Dawns and Dusks,'' she related how a librarian in Rockland asked her what she would be when she grew up.
In his book ''Two-Bit Culture: The Paperbacking of America,'' Kenneth C. Davis described her as ''the doyenne of women paperback editors.
She also bought the reprint rights to ''Life After Death'' by Dr. Raymond A. Moody Jr., a book of case studies of near-death experiences that has sold more than a million copies in paperback.
For a time she was an editor with the Doubleday book clubs, before joining Bantam just four years after its founding.
After her travel book ''The Flavor of Holland'' was published in 1928, she produced books regularly.
''She loved Helen Keller dearly,'' said Mrs. Walter's daughter, Evelyn D. Tonner of Margate, Fla. She added that her mother had promised Miss Keller and Polly Thompson that she would never write a book about her experiences as a companion, a promise she honored.
Her first book was ''The Moffats,'' written in 1941 and an instant hit.
Won a Newbery Medal
        Mrs. Estes won several literary prizes, the most prestigous being a John Newbery Medal for the most distinguished children's book, in 1952 for ''Ginger Pye.
''
        She was once asked by The New York Times Book Review what she was trying to say to children.
She wrote four books published by McGraw-Hill, including ''Wednesday's Children,'' a 1964 book that helped bring about enactment of legislation in New Jersey dealing with child abuse.
With Love and Breath
        Her book, ''No Bad Dogs, The Woodhouse Way,'' was a bestseller in 1982.
With a colleague, Sarah Montgomery, a professor of economics at Mount Holyoke, she was also working on a book, ''The Art Complex,'' dealing with the economic organization of the art world.
Among them were ''The Complete Book of Desserts'' (Doubleday, 1963) and ''Delectable Desserts'' (Little Brown, 1962).
'' Breeder of Yorkshire Terriers
        Other books by Ms. Seranne, published mostly in the 1950's and 60's, included ''Ann Seranne's Good Food and How to Cook It''; ''Good Food Without Meat''; ''The Blender Cookbook''; ''Your Home Freezer''; ''The Complete Book of Home Preserving''; ''The Art of Egg Cookery''; ''The Best of Near Eastern Cookery,'' and ''The Sandwich Book.
'' Breeder of Yorkshire Terriers
        Other books by Ms. Seranne, published mostly in the 1950's and 60's, included ''Ann Seranne's Good Food and How to Cook It''; ''Good Food Without Meat''; ''The Blender Cookbook''; ''Your Home Freezer''; ''The Complete Book of Home Preserving''; ''The Art of Egg Cookery''; ''The Best of Near Eastern Cookery,'' and ''The Sandwich Book.
She wrote her own life story in the book ''Woman and Top Manager,'' frequently worked 12-hour days, but refused to work weekends in order to spend the time with her husband, Lionello Cantoni, a mathematics professor.

       Ursula Nordstrom, the former publisher and editor in chief of juvenile books at Harper & Row, and an innovative force in children's book publishing, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at the New Milford (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 78 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Conn.
        Ursula Nordstrom, the former publisher and editor in chief of juvenile books at Harper & Row, and an innovative force in children's book publishing, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at the New Milford (Conn.) Hospital.
White's first children's book, ''Stuart Little.
''I was overwhelmed,'' she wrote in an article in The New York Times Book Review in 1974.
''With her incomparable editorial genius, Ursula Nordstrom transformed the American children's book into a genuine art form,'' Mr. Sendak said yesterday.
''
        Miss Nordstrom also risked writing her own book, ''The Secret Language,'' about life in a girl's boarding school that must have resembled those she attended.
It became an American Library Association Notable Children's Book of 1960.
She became head of the children's book department in 1940 and in 1960 became the publishing company's first female vice president.
Her books have won many awards, including three Newbury Medals for literature and two Caldecott Medals for illustration, the most important children's book awards.
She was dismissed in 1953 and she discovered years later, through the Privacy Act, that she had been blacklisted as a security risk because her name had been found in the address book of a convicted spy.
Professor Hertzberg wrote several books, including ''The Search for an American Indian Identity: Modern Pan-Indian Movements,'' (Syracuse University Press, 1971) and was a co-author of a book on the United Nations with her husband, Sidney, who died in 1984.
The book went on to sell nearly 2 million copies in paperback.
Gilbert Millstein, writing in The New York Times Book Review, said about ''A World Full of Strangers'': ''It is soap opera - in this case, Jewish soap opera - and the audience for soap opera, in print or on televsion, Jewish or not, runs into the millions.
''
        ''The Last Princess,'' which was her final book, was published last April and will be brought out in paperback next spring.
''We know of no other book she was working on,'' said a spokesman for G. P. Putnam's Sons, which published her last three novels, all of them best sellers.
Miss Graham, who also served as a war correspondent in Europe in World War II and who at various times had her own Hollywood-based radio and television shows, is probably best remembered for her love affair with F. Scott Fitzgerald, whose last unhappy years she described in her first book, ''Beloved Infidel,'' published in 1958.
That book concentrated on the Pygmalion and Galatea aspect of the relationship between the novelist and Miss Graham, in which he created a ''college of one'' for her, drawing up lists of books she read to complete ''the education of a woman,'' as her book was subtitled.
That book concentrated on the Pygmalion and Galatea aspect of the relationship between the novelist and Miss Graham, in which he created a ''college of one'' for her, drawing up lists of books she read to complete ''the education of a woman,'' as her book was subtitled.
Paulette C. Kaufmann, director of children's book marketing at William Morrow & Company, the publisher of Greenwillow, said that hundreds of bookstores and libraries were given mailboxes in which children were invited to submit birthday wishes.
It was while teaching third grade at the Dalton School that she published her first book, in 1961.
Her first Amelia Bedelia book was published two years later.

       Flora Rheta Schreiber, the author of ''Sybil,'' a best-selling book about a woman with multiple personalities, and ''Shoemaker,'' a portrait of a Philadelphia murderer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
Flora Rheta Schreiber, the author of ''Sybil,'' a best-selling book about a woman with multiple personalities, and ''Shoemaker,'' a portrait of a Philadelphia murderer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
The book became a best seller and was turned into a two-part NBC television movie in 1976.
She interviewed him in jail in 1976, saying that a book about the murderer would show that ''it's even more important to prevent the development of psychosis that leads to crime than to get tough with criminals after the event.
''
        Like ''Sybil,'' the new book by Miss Schreiber provoked considerable controversy.

       Lucille Ogle, a creator of the Little Golden Books, a popular children's book series, died of heart failure Saturday in Lourdes Nursing Home in Pontiac, Mich. She was 84 years old.
Lucille Ogle, a creator of the Little Golden Books, a popular children's book series, died of heart failure Saturday in Lourdes Nursing Home in Pontiac, Mich. She was 84 years old.
She wrote ''The Golden Picture Dictionary'' and edited the best-selling Golden Book Encyclopedia.
''
        After she married, Miss Kahane transformed her dining room into a library for Mr. Grauer's book collection.
Book for Children
        Miss Kahane was a fellow and former treasurer of the American Institute of Interior Designers, a former president of the Decorators Club and an honorary life member of the American Society of Interior Designers.
She wrote a book for children, ''There's a Decorator in Your Doll House,'' published by Atheneum in 1968.
