Ms. Bliven, who had been contributing to The New Yorker since the late 1950's and became a staff writer in 1961, wrote feature articles and ''Talk of the Town'' items, but she is best remembered as a perceptive and prolific book critic.
Among her later landscapes was a series done for a 1964 book, ''Greece,'' with a text by Henry Miller.
''She had no mother and no father, and that was of course very nice because there was no one to tell her to go to bed just when she was having the most fun, and no one who could make her take cod liver oil when she much preferred caramel candy,'' the book begins.

        Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Munro Leaf -- a friend who was the creator of ''The Story of Ferdinand,'' the classic children's book about the bull who preferred smelling flowers to fighting other bulls -- recommended her to Crowell, where she started as a general editor.
Ms. Riley was entrusted with creating the publishing house's children's book department, and she built it into one of the best.
For many years Ms. Riley also did volunteer work for the Grolier Club, Unicef, the Hroswitha Society of book collectors, and the Pierpont Morgan Library, where she served on the board for 24 years.
''Inge Morath possesses the priceless quality of making the world look as though it had been discovered only this morning and she was present with her lens to record its bright freshness,'' Harrison E. Salisbury wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the couple's book ''In Russia'' (Viking, 1969).
''Inge Morath possesses the priceless quality of making the world look as though it had been discovered only this morning and she was present with her lens to record its bright freshness,'' Harrison E. Salisbury wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the couple's book ''In Russia'' (Viking, 1969).
In an essay in The New York Times concerning their book ''In the Country'' (Viking, 1977), Mr. Miller suggested such collaborations allowed the two to play with notions of time.
But Ms. Phillips's film career was dwarfed by her angry 1991 book about Hollywood and what Ms. Phillips viewed as the mendacity, selfishness, greed and hypocrisy of the town.
One producer described the book as ''the longest suicide note in history.
'' The index listing of her name at the end of her book seemed to sum up her personal life: ''depressions of .
''
        As Ms. Phillips said in an interview several days before she died: ''I knew that if this book was going to be commercially viable, I would have to spill my guts.
''
        To critics who termed the book cruel, she replied: ''We all have our standards.
'' She added, ''Nothing I did in my book is as mean as any of the people I wrote about.
In 2000 she helped Matt Drudge, the internet commentator, write his book ''Drudge Manifesto.
Ms. Phillips recalled that she began writing her book because she was running out of money and felt a deep grievance against many in Hollywood.
The book took several years to write and 14 months for Random House lawyers to clear.
''
        The book was criticized because Ms. Phillips recalled conversations from years before without the benefit of notes; she replied that she had a photographic memory.
A harsher criticism was that the book discussed physical flaws of numerous people.
Her first book led Morton's, a popular movie industry hangout, to tell Ms. Phillips that she was unwelcome.
A selection of her recipes came together in a book, ''Nela's Cookbook,'' published by Knopf in 1983.
At her death, Ms. Barker was working on a book about de Mille's choreography.
Mrs. Kempner and her husband, Alan H., gave money and time to the Kempner Rare Book Library at Columbia University.
''She would travel the world to lecture; there was a time in England where every hepatologist had been through her unit,'' said Dr. Dooley, who was Dr. Sherlock's co-author on the last three editions of her book.
As she told the writer Michael Gross for his book ''Model: The Ugly Business of Beautiful Women'' (Morrow, 1995), she moved into a Methodist rooming house for women, for $13.50 a week, and signed with Harry Conover's agency.
She won a National Book Award in 1975 for her novel ''M.
C. Higgins, the Great''; the book also received a Newbery award, the first to a black writer.
Ms. Hamilton's first book, ''Zeely,'' appeared in 1967.
''
        The book's carefully worded subtitle, ''American Black Folktales,'' was itself a political statement, Ms. Hamilton later recalled.
She also wrote many book reviews, primarily on books about Asia, for The Times.
Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      
Nancy Sorel, in her book ''The Women Who Wrote the War,'' called Mrs. Fadiman's career ''a real-life movie.
The book is still in print.
and the book reviewer for The New Yorker.
Richard Gere, the actor and a Buddhist, helped get the book printed and wrote a preface.
When not acting, Ms. Stuart read to children in the public schools of New York as part of a program called Book PALS (Performing Artists for Literacy in Schools), a program of the Screen Actors Guild Foundation to encourage children to read for pleasure.
She wrote her first book when she was 43, began to appear regularly on a television show when she was 46 and got her own program on educational television when she was 48.
When originally published, the book presented a rare -- and harrowing -- account of prison life in Nazi Germany from a woman's point of view.
Shunning pathos and psychological interpretations, the book sketches the lives of two women hiding a Polish Jew from the Nazis.
She started writing while teaching grade school; her first book, ''Rings of Glass,'' a coming-of-age novel, was published in Berlin in 1941.
A second edition of her book was blocked; she was under Schreibverbot, an edict forbidding her to write.
In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis recounts a story of Ms. Farrell's first performances with the powerhouse tenor Franco Corelli in ''La Forza del Destino'' in Philadelphia.
''With Galamian there was almost no room for give and take because he had a particular system that he applied to everybody,'' Mr. Perlman told Barbara Lourie Sand, the author of ''Teaching Genius: Dorothy DeLay and the Making of a Musician,'' a book about Miss DeLay, published in 2000.
Set in Maine, the book focuses on the friendship of a fatherless teenager and a reclusive, disfigured teacher who tutors him for the entrance exam to a private school where he hopes to escape from a troubled home life; it is implied that he has a homosexual encounter with his mentor.
Mrs. Mydans was the author of three novels and co-author of a nonfiction book.
But Ms. Boreman testified about the dangers of pornography before Congress, courts and city councils in the 1980's, and became a poster child for feminists like Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to her 1986 book with Mike McGrady, ''Out of Bondage.

        Barbara Grizzuti Harrison, who emerged as a popular, prolific writer of keenly observed nonfiction with a 1978 book about the dozen years she spent as a Jehovah's Witness, died on Wednesday at a hospice in Manhattan.
In The New York Times Book Review, Vivian Gornick said ''Visions of Glory'' was ''quite well written, contains a mass of absorbing information, and the personality of its author is extremely appealing.
''
        Her first book, ''Unlearning the Lie: Sexism in School'' (Liveright, 1969), grew out of the children's experiences with efforts to quell sexism at what was then the Woodward Park School in Brooklyn.
''
        Her other books included ''Italian Days'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1989), an impressionistic and literary travel book about Italy that won the American Book Award, and a novel, ''Foreign Bodies'' (Doubleday, 1984).
''
        Her other books included ''Italian Days'' (Weidenfeld & Nicolson, 1989), an impressionistic and literary travel book about Italy that won the American Book Award, and a novel, ''Foreign Bodies'' (Doubleday, 1984).
Her fascination with India began at 15, when she read a book by the poet Rabindranath Tagore, then some books on yoga.
After the war, she returned to India and wrote her first book, believed to be the first book on yoga written by a Westerner to be published in India.
After the war, she returned to India and wrote her first book, believed to be the first book on yoga written by a Westerner to be published in India.
On weekends I sang for the people,'' she told Mr. Heilbut in his 1971 book, ''The Gospel Sound: Good News and Bad Times.

        Betty Shapian, a veteran book publicist on the West Coast, died last Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived.
''It seems so obvious now, but back in the 70's most New Yorkers who controlled book promotion thought the West Coast was like Antarctica,'' said Stuart Applebaum, a spokesman for Random House Inc.
As given in the book ''Harper's Bazaar: 100 Years of the American Female'' (Random House, 1967), they were: ''authority, awareness, wit, spirit, surprise, curiosity, intelligence, timing, food for thought, vitality, balance and youth.
She generally got $125 a book, plus Christmas bonuses, and signed away all rights to royalties and personal recognition.
She then went to New York City, where she met Edward Stratemeyer, a book packager who employed a stable of anonymous writers called the Stratemeyer Syndicate to produce series of fiction books, which he would sell to publishers.
Among the series his book factory produced were the ''Bobbsey Twins,'' ''Tom Swift'' and the ''Hardy Boys.
She was then offered a chance to write the first Nancy Drew book.
Partly autobiographical, the book is about a woman who learns of her husband's wide-ranging infidelities only as he is dying in a hospital.
Reviewing the memoir in The New York Times Book Review, Margo Jefferson wrote that ''dispassionate compassion is a very moving quality, and it marks 'Mommy Dressing' from beginning to end.
The book caused a sensation in 1970, when Americans were still struggling to comprehend the social upheavals set in motion by the women's movement.
In her 1961 book, ''The Life and Death of Great American Cities,'' Jane Jacobs noted the courage of the position taken by Mrs. Hayes and her allies: ''They advocated eliminating the existing road, that is, closing the park to all automobile traffic -- but at the same time, not widening the perimeter roads either.
Correction:  May 15, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Shirley Hayes, who successfully fought a road through Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village, reversed two words in the title of a book by the urban planning critic Jane Jacobs, which praised her.
' '' she later told Nan Robertson, a former Times reporter, who described the incident in a 1992 book, ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men, and The New York Times'' (Random House).
Mr. Rosenthal, Miss Lewis learned later, was infuriated to find her quoted in the book.
''The salient fact about Europe remains the nation-state,'' she wrote in her book ''Europe'' in 1992.
Mrs. Spoerri organized or worked on more than 30 exhibitions of Wölfli's work and edited or contributed to numerous Wölfli publications, including (with Dieter Schwarz) a two-volume version of his 2,970-page autobiography, ''From the Cradle to the Grave,'' and (with Max Wechsler) ''Geographical Book No.
Her 1999 book, ''Art, Culture and Cuisine: Ancient and Medieval Gastronomy'' (University of Chicago), explored connections between food and art from prehistory through the late Gothic period.
''No other individual's views had such an impact on children's books then or now,'' said Roger Sutton, the editor of The Horn Book magazine and one of her many protégés.
In 1963 the psychologically incisive picture book ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' by Maurice Sendak, was controversial in the way it depicted a child's temper tantrum.
'' Her 1970 review of Mr. Sendak's ''In the Night Kitchen'' serenely sailed past little Mickey's brief nudity, which so disturbed other reviewers, and described the book as an ''engaging fantasy.
She taught at the Library School from 1972 to 1986 and served on all the important library and children's book committees, including those for the Newbery and Caldecott Awards.
In her book of essays, ''Civil Wars'' (Scribner's, 1996), Ms. Jordan wrote of the difficulties of an interracial marriage.
Two years later she published a children's book, ''Who Look at Me?
The book's title is from a poem she read last year in a speech at Barnard.
The book won the Newbery Medal in 1965.
The book's authenticity came from the author's own experience.
In 1950 she married the author Selden Rodman, who helped her publish her first book, ''Market Day for Ti André,'' (1952).
But in Nat Hentoff's book ''The Jazz Life,'' Ms. Monk made revealing comments in discussing her and her husband's clashing sense of home décor.
' '' she later told Nan Robertson, a former Times reporter, who described the incident in a book, ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men, and The New York Times'' (Random House, 1992).
Mr. Rosenthal, Miss Lewis learned later, was infuriated to find her quoted in the book.
''The salient fact about Europe remains the nation-state,'' she wrote in her book ''Europe'' in 1992.
''
        The book, published by Dial Press in 1996, was praised by critics for its painful honestly in describing the grip of addiction and the difficulty of overcoming it.
'' The book remained on The New York Times best-seller list for several weeks in both hardcover and paperback editions.
In her next book, she found a healthier relationship.
Her columns, were collected in 1994 in the book ''Alice K.'s Guide to Life: One Woman's Quest for Survival, Sanity and the Perfect New Shoes'' (Dutton/Plume).
She had recently completed work on a book about women's appetites.
Lois Browne, in the book ''Girls of Summer: In Their Own League'' (HarperCollins, 1992), said she was ''a pretty freckle-faced blond gypsy'' for whom nothing was too outrageous, including swan dives into mud puddles.
She bedeviled the chaperones with stunts like smearing Limburger cheese on light bulbs in their rooms, according to the Browne book.
For a time, she dated a gangster who drove a bulletproof Packard to her road games and offered to buy her a palomino horse, before suddenly disappearing, the book said.

        Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93.
Ms. Slobodkina took her responsibility as a children's book author seriously.
Ms. Thomas, who would go on to write best sellers like ''The Hidden Life of Dogs,'' wrote a well-received book on the Bushmen, ''The Harmless People'' (Knopf, 1958).
Mrs. Marshall published her first book, ''!Kung of Nyae Nyae,'' in 1975 (Harvard University Press), and her second, ''Nyae Nyae !Kung Belief and Rites,'' three years ago (Peabody Museum Press).
She also wrote a book about the history of the Metropolitan Opera.
Edith H. Walton wrote in her review of ''Whistle Stop'' in The New York Times Book Review: ''Because this is a very unusual book, and a strongly individual one, I am conscious that I have not really succeeded in conveying its flavor.
Edith H. Walton wrote in her review of ''Whistle Stop'' in The New York Times Book Review: ''Because this is a very unusual book, and a strongly individual one, I am conscious that I have not really succeeded in conveying its flavor.
''
        Orville Prescott, in a 1942 review in The New York Times of ''Night Shift,'' Ms. Wolff's second book, called her feel for the American language phenomenal.
''A book is a friend,'' she used to say.
General semantics, a branch of linguistics founded by Alfred Korzybski in the 1930's and popularized by S. I. Hayakawa in his book ''Language in Action'' (1941), theorizes that words are abstractions that draw attention away from the particularity of the things they represent.
In Ms. Cleary's memoir, ''My Own Two Feet,'' she wrote how in 1941 Ms. Hawkins hired her to work during the Christmas rush at Sather Gate Book Shop in Berkeley, Calif. She described Ms. Hawkins, then the manager of children's books at the store, as ''a rapid, omnivorous reader with a retentive memory, a love of books and a passion for persuading others to read them.
'' That first job -- and Ms. Hawkins's encouragement -- led to Ms. Cleary's first book contract, she wrote.
She also served for seven years as a children's book specialist at the University of California Press.
She also created a coloring book that tells the story of a moon trip in which she met cows, Indians and anthropomorphic cashews.
''
        In ''Joan's Book,'' her autobiography, published in 1994, she described herself as ''plain, moody, often amusing sometimes.
The book ''A Child's Parent Dies: Studies in Childhood Bereavement,'' which she worked on with the psychoanalyst Dr. Anna Freud in the 1970's, challenged the idea that children who lose a parent do not need the same attention that adults do.
The work won the American Medical Writers Association Book Award in 1975.
Mrs. Furman's book ''Toddlers and Their Mothers'' describes her findings from a 1980's research project on the importance of the mother-child relationship, particularly in the second and third years of life.
The obituary also misstated the role of the psychoanalyst Anna Freud in Mrs. Furman's book ''A Child's Parent Dies: Studies in Childhood Bereavement.
But she had nothing against personal appearances and was on a publicity tour to promote her new book when she died.
The book, ''The Amish Cook: Recipes and Recollections From an Old Order Amish Family,'' is to be published in November by Ten Speed Press of Berkeley, Calif.
Ms. Hilton wrote ''Dances of Court and Theater'' (Princeton Book Company, 1981), and with Donald Waxman wrote ''Dance Pageant''(E. C. Schirmer, 1992), an anthology of Renaissance and Baroque keyboard music.
It was published as ''The Buxheim Organ Book'' (Institute of Mediaeval Music, 1963).
''When the book of rules arrived, it was in French and sent us to the dictionary to discover what a 'coup de pied à la lune' was.
Unable to practice psychotherapy overseas, she began writing her first book, ''The Maze,'' an autobiographical novel about her marriage to Berryman (Simon & Schuster, 1975).
''Her sense of bewilderment and anguish is beautifully communicated,'' Joyce Carol Oates wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''and it is impossible to read 'The Maze' without being deeply and permanently moved.
Her last book, in 1994, was ''Late Love: A Celebration of Marriage After 50,'' (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin).
She wrote about royals and political figures into her 90's, publishing her last book, a brief history called ''Queen Victoria,'' in 1999.
Most recently, she was a visitor in historical studies at the institute, finishing a book about the Venetian diarist Marino Sanudo.

        Carole Kismaric, an innovative editor and book packager who helped start the Time-Life Photography Series and for 10 years was editorial director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books, died yesterday at her home in New York.
While at Aperture, from 1976 to 1985, Ms. Kismaric was a force in changing the face of photography book publishing.
After leaving Aperture in 1986, Ms. Kismaric struck out on her own and produced an exhibition and book, ''Forced Out: The Agony of the Refugee in Our Time'' (1989), under the auspices of the J. M. Kaplan Fund and Human Rights Watch.
Ms. Kismaric was married to Charles Mikolaycak, a children' book illustrator.
At the outset of the book, which she wrote with Christopher Morgan, she said she had initially tried ''to exorcise the Vietnam War from my mind and heart.
''
        She dedicated her book in part to ''all of the unknown women who served forgotten in their wars.
'' That experience led her to write her own book in 1992, ''American Daughter Gone to War.
Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
The book, written with Randolph Langenbach and published in 1978, was reissued in 1995.
The cause was lung cancer, said Lisa Grossman Thomas, her daughter and co-author of ''Lobscouse and Spotted Dog,'' a companion book to Mr. O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series of 18 nautical novels set during the Napoleonic Wars.
Their book, wrote Marjorie Kaufman in The New York Times, ''is not your mother's cookbook.
Inspired by Rachel Carson's book ''Silent Spring,'' Ms. Straus turned her attention to the environmental movement when she learned of plans to build hundreds of homes along the Marin County coast as well as a resort at Tomales Bay.
She worked in the communications department of Fordham University, was an editor at the United Nations, a writer-editor at Commonweal and a book reviewer for a number of publications, including The New York Times, Vogue, Town & Country and Harper's Bazaar.

        Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven.
Ms. Fisher was first recognized nationally in 1933, when her book ''The Coffee-Pot Face'' became a selection of the Junior Literary Guild.
'' In 1980 X. J. Kennedy wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Fisher's ''Out in the Dark and Daylight'' (Harper) demonstrated that she ''is a true poet, no mere light versifier.
''
        In the book, Ms. Grealy described how she underwent surgery at 9 for what seemed to be a dental cyst, but which led to a diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma, a rare and virulent cancer.
As a result of publishing her book, Ms. Grealy saw her life in a different way.
The book, which sold well, was published internationally and widely adopted in high school and college curriculums.
In 2000 she published a second book, ''As Seen on TV,'' a collection of essays about her family and her experiences.
      
