It occurred to Ms. Plummer, who had been an outstanding student in the late 1970's when she returned as an adult to complete her education at the Richard Arnold Community School in Savannah, that if these children were given a basic book like a dictionary, it would help stimulate their interest in learning and could change their lives.
Borrowing a slogan from the United Negro College Fund, she painstakingly wrote in each book, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste.
A shrewd businesswoman, Ms. Plummer persuaded one dictionary publisher to sell her a number of copies of the $5.95 book for just 65 cents each.
'' Little critical attention was paid to the program, whose dances Don McDonagh describes as ''impressionism but with muscles'' in his book ''Martha Graham, A Biography.
Her first book was ''War Diary,''  published in 1928 in Shanghai.
Dr. Laughlin recalled that, in writing the book, Miss Hsieh accompanied soldiers of the Chinese Nationalist army in 1926 and 1927, when it was trying to bring warlords in the eastern half of China under control and while she was a ''girl soldier'' with propaganda training.
In 1940 her book ''Girl Rebel: The Autobiography of Hsieh Pingying'' was published in the United States.
Diary entries about her experiences appeared in newspapers and in another book.
Shortly after earning her Ph.D. at 65, Ms. Rae wrote her first book, ''Edith Wharton's New York Quartet,'' a work of literary criticism about the writer, who with Eudora Welty served as Ms. Rae's inspiration.
The book was published in 1984.
She said the book was ''deliberately written as an obscene, shocking, scandalous, naughty, wanton, fleshy, sensual, lecherous, lustful and scarlet version'' of her life.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that introduced her to the world of poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
It is likely that Kirstein met Ms. Cage at the Gotham Book Mart, where he is said to have invited her to work with Ballet Society, a precursor to City Ballet.
In addition to writing about botanical topics for publications like the Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society in England, she wrote a 95-page children's book called ''The Adventure Book of Growing Plants.
In addition to writing about botanical topics for publications like the Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society in England, she wrote a 95-page children's book called ''The Adventure Book of Growing Plants.
Peter G. Rowe, a Harvard professor of architecture, wrote about her work in his book ''Modernity and Housing.
She told the oral historian Studs Terkel, who profiled her in his 1995 book ''Coming of Age,'' that she intended to live until the year 2000.
It was the era when Rachel Carson was warning that pesticides and the eradication of habitats were threatening the earth with a silent spring with no song birds, but more than that book or her friend's arm-twisting, it was bird-watching (specifically, observing a brown creeper grubbing in the woods) that sparked her deep involvement with Audubon.
In her third book, ''Speaking With Strangers'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1998), she talked about pushing herself to travel, after the end of her marriage to Robert Lescher, a literary agent.
''
        In 1982 France awarded the Prix Femina to this book, a dark tale about the disappearance of two teenage girls from an isolated English-speaking community in Quebec's Gaspe peninsula in the 1930's.
Her introduction to the 1980 reprint of Davis's Rural Residences, the first American pattern book of architectural house plans, was hailed by the Journal of Architectural Historians as ''a herculean task'' prepared by ''a scholar known to every historian of American architecture.
''We were all rooting for her to get her book, the definitive study on Davis, done,'' said Richard Jenrette, the financier and collector of 19th-century American houses.
(A crucial clue in ''The Shortest Way to Hades'' is embedded in Book XI of ''The Odyssey.
Newgate Callendar, in The New York Times Book Review, praised her for writing ''in a kind of English that has not been around since the days of Oscar Wilde.
Miss Cooney received many honorary degrees and won numerous awards in addition to the Caldecotts, including the American Book Award for ''Miss Rumphius'' in 1983.
How many children will realize that every flower and grass in the book grew in Chaucer's time in England?
Years later, the idea coalesced to combine her snapshots and professional work in a picture book.
The book evokes a lost world where stars lived lives that were breathtakingly glamorous, but still somehow life-sized.
''These photographs bring back memories of a time and a place that have long since faded,'' Ms. Howard wrote in the book's introduction.
''I was his coverup while he was on a two-week toot with a girlfriend behind my stepmother's back,'' she said in the book.
That resulted in another picture book, ''Travels With Cole Porter,'' published in 1991.
She co-edited ''Tongues of Angels, Tongues of Man: A Book of Sermons'' (Doubleday, 1999).
In the 1980's she was on the editorial staff of the Book-of-the-Month Club, and her articles appeared in The New York Times Book Review, Partisan Review, Parnassus and New Republic, among others.
Ms. Ingalls's first published work, ''A Book of Legends'' (1941), was prose.
As Lincoln Kirstein noted in his book ''Movement and Metaphor,'' Ms. Reed was an excellent comedian but also a classical dancer.
For 11 years she was director of educational materials for the American Heart Association before becoming the founding editor of Scholastic's Lucky Book Club in 1961.
In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.
Her dissertation was published as a book by Adrienne Monnier, the Paris bookseller who stood at the center of French literary life in the period between the two world wars.
Her first book, ''The Finer Things of Life'' (1951), a collection culled mostly from works that appeared in The New Yorker, earned praise from critics.
The book was lauded in a review by the cabaret singer Bobby Short in The New York Times Book Review.
The book was lauded in a review by the cabaret singer Bobby Short in The New York Times Book Review.
He said Mrs. Hart ''took on the herculean task of compiling Larry Hart's historic works a decade ago'' for her other book, ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty,'' which Mr. Short said was ''an admirable effort on its own, but, as it turns out, it was merely the tip of the iceberg.
''
        Mrs. Hart edited ''Thou Swell, Thou Witty'' (Da Capo, 1976) and wrote a memoir included in the book.
''
        To keep her fertile mind active, Ms. Trahey also gave lectures to professional women's organizations and wrote scores of magazine articles, novels, humorous pamphlets, a play and a self-help book called ''Jane Trahey on Women & Power: Who's Got It.
Mrs. Jones complained to a superior officer, and persuaded him to reassign them to other duties, according to a book about the 6888th Battalion, ''To Serve My Country, To Serve My Race,'' (New York University Press, 1996) by Brenda L. Moore.
Basil E. Frankweiler'' won the Newbery Medal the next year, while ''Jennifer, Hecate, Macbeth, William McKinley, and Me, Elizabeth'' was named a Newbery Honor book.
She edited two Caldecott Medal books, ''May I Bring a Friend?,'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, illustrated by Beni Montresor, and ''A Story, a Story,'' by Gail E. Haley, as well as Ursula K. LeGuin's ''Farthest Shore,'' which won a National Book Award.
When Mr. Linder was stricken with Alzheimer's disease, Ms. Isaksson wrote ''The Book About E,'' a memoir about caring for him.
When George F. Kennan, the diplomat and historian, was looking for material one day on a 19th century convert to Christianity, she led him not only to the entry in the library's precious Russian-Jewish encyclopedia but also to a scarce book in Yiddish about Jewish apostates.
''This is the sort of book that Dina knew off the top of her head,'' said Zachary Baker, who succeeded Ms. Abramowicz as YIVO's head librarian and now is curator of Judaica at Stanford University's library.
Her friend Esther Hautzig, a Manhattan book editor and writer who grew up in Vilna, said of her, ''No computer on earth can store the information she had in her brain because she lived through it.
In his tribute in ''The World of Our Fathers,'' the classic work about the immigrant Jews of New York,  Mr. Howe thanked YIVO for making the book possible, ''especially its indefatigable and splendid librarian, Dina Abramowicz.
Her 1981 anthology, ''Gladly Learn and Teach: Poems of the School Experience,'' was selected as an Ambassador of Honor Book by English-Speaking Union Books-Across-the-Sea.
She has appeared in The Guinness Book of Records as the world's best-selling author, breaking records for 18 years.

        Emily W. ReedEmily W. Reed, who in 1959 enraged Alabama segregationists by allowing a book about a fuzzy white rabbit marrying a fuzzy black rabbit onto the shelves of the state's central library, died on May 19 at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md.
In Ms. Reed's case, the book in question was ''The Rabbits' Wedding,'' written and illustrated by Garth Williams and published by Harper & Brothers in 1958.
The book, which described a moonlit wedding attended by all the animals of the forest, was intended for children 3 to 7 years of age.
The book was attacked by The Montgomery Home News, a publication of the Montgomery, Ala., chapter of the White Citizens Council, on the ground that it promoted racial integration.
In response, Ms. Reed, who was the director of the Alabama Public Library Service Division, which lent books to local libraries throughout the state, ordered the book to be put on the agency's reserve shelves.
This meant that local librarians visiting Montgomery could get the book by requesting it, but could not find it on the open shelves.
Harpers issued a statement from Mr. Williams saying the book had ''no political significance.
''
        Ms. Reed said at the time that she liked the book and that her action was not tantamount to banning it.
In an interview with The New York Times, she said that some local libraries in Alabama continued to put the book on their open shelves but that the state agency had some difficulty with it.
State Senator E. O. Eddins of Marengo County, who led the fight against Mr. Williams's book, said Ms. Reed had refused to answer when he asked her if she believed in racial integration.
The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998, defeating works by authors Philip Roth and Don DeLillo.
The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998, defeating works by authors Philip Roth and Don DeLillo.
The book was written to entertain her dying husband, Desmond Fitzgerald.
Ms. Fitzgerald published her first book, a biography of the Victorian artist Edward Burne-Jones, in 1975.
Her final book, ''The Means of Escape,'' a story collection, is to be published next fall by Counterpoint.

        Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif.
In 1968, Lucille Ball and Henry Fonda starred in the film ''Yours, Mine and Ours,'' based on Mrs. Beardsley's 1964 book, ''Who Gets the Drumstick?
When the Beardleys were first married, they lived in a two-story, four-bedroom house in Carmel, Calif. Later, using proceeds from the book and movie, they added a floor, five bedrooms and five bathrooms.
The result was their 1940 book ''The Chemical Composition of Foods,'' which is known as the dietitian's bible and is now about to be published in its sixth edition.

        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
''Illusions'' was the first book design to be copyrighted in its entirety.
She frequently lectured on book design at publishers' seminars.
When it was reissued in 1994, Scripps Howard News Service called it ''the perfect Halloween book'' for ''school-agers who are just beginning to read.
Her book ''Science Fun With Toy Boats and Planes'' (1986) was praised by The Christian Science Monitor, which said: ''For the young physicist, there is a wealth of information in this little book.
Her book ''Science Fun With Toy Boats and Planes'' (1986) was praised by The Christian Science Monitor, which said: ''For the young physicist, there is a wealth of information in this little book.
In addition to writing many articles and book chapters, she was the author of ''Arkansas Government and Politics: Do the People Rule?
Mrs. Spingarn's latest book, ''The New Cancer Survivors: Living with Grace, Fighting with Spirit,'' was published this year.
Mrs. Robbins also wrote about a dozen cookbooks, including ''25 Vegetables Anyone Can Grow'' (Crowell, 1942) and ''How to Cook Well'' (Crowell, 1946), and she collaborated on ''The Dione Lucas Meat and Poultry Cook Book'' (Little Brown, 1955).
An anonymous reviewer for The New York Times said of the meat and poultry book: ''This probably is the cookbook of the year.
In his 1972 book, ''The Making of a Black Revolutionary,'' James Forman wrote a personal inscription in the copy he gave Dr. Martin.
After the war she became a freelance journalist and soon published her first book, a collection of fables.
Her first book published here was ''Mirrors for Small Beasts'' (Noonday Press) in 1960.
Her most recent book, a trio of short satirical novels under the title ''Demons and Divas,'' was published earlier this year.
Published in 1980, the book was the joint handiwork of four preppies in their mid-20's who were all Ivy League college graduates: Jonathan Roberts, Lisa Birnbach, Carol McD.
A tongue-in-cheek guidebook to ''living the elite and proper life of Prep,'' the book was true enough and funny enough to reach the top of what was then called The New York Times's trade paperback best-seller list of Jan. 4, 1981, for the second successive week and remain on the list for 65 weeks all told.
Another best-selling book ushered into print by Ms. Kovalchick was ''The Dieter's Guide to Weight Loss During Sex'' (1978), by Richard Smith.
'' After the book's release, mother and daughter did not speak to each other for months.
''
        Lindsay Waters, the Harvard University Press's executive editor for the humanities, said of Frau Ritzerfeld's passing, ''This is the end of an era, as anyone who ever attended the Frankfurt Book Fair will be more than happy to testify.
After leaving Conde Nast in 1977 she designed exhibitions, catalogs and a documentary book for the Guild Hall in East Hampton, which also mounted an exhibition of her editorial layouts.
As The New York Times Book Review commented, Ms. Moyes handles ''indecorous events'' with ''a minimum of violence and fuss.
Ms. Moyes, a cat fanatic who was deeply involved a project to control the breeding of feral cats in the Virgin Islands, also wrote ''After All, They're Only Cats'' in 1973 and ''How to Talk to Your Cat'' in 1991, which the crime columnist for The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio, called ''an affectionate little book about cat behavior.
Ms. Moyes, a cat fanatic who was deeply involved a project to control the breeding of feral cats in the Virgin Islands, also wrote ''After All, They're Only Cats'' in 1973 and ''How to Talk to Your Cat'' in 1991, which the crime columnist for The New York Times Book Review, Marilyn Stasio, called ''an affectionate little book about cat behavior.
Inspired by John Howard Griffin's 1961 book ''Black Like Me,'' in which the author darkened his skin to pass as black, Ms. Halsell took pills that were used to alleviate pigmentation problems, supplemented by extensive tanning sessions, to cross the color barrier.
She wrote about this in her 1969 book, ''Soul Sister,'' in which she described the anonymity and degradation of being a black domestic in a world of white employers, one of whom tried to rape her.
The book sold more than one million paperback copies and was translated into six languages.
In his late teens, Mr. Hall emigrated to Ontario, where he worked as a missionary, teacher and midwife among the Ojibwa Indians, according to his book about his experiences, ''Me Papoose Sitter'' (Crowell, 1955).
''
        But ''there is not a word of reproach for me in her book,'' Mr. Nicolson marveled.
It also increased her practice and earned her a book contract.
A second book, ''When Am I Going to Be Happy?
She left that position in 1992 to start her own short-lived imprint for the company, Linda Grey Books, which published just one book, ''It Doesn't Take a Hero: The Autobiography of General Norman H.
During the Depression, she wrote a popular how-to book, ''More House for Your Money'' (Morrow).
Ms. Yates reveled in the spotlight, posing naked in the stuffy Reform Club for Penthouse magazine and compiling a book of photographs called ''Rock Stars in Their Underpants,'' which Andy Warhol called ''the greatest work of art in the last decade.
In the 1964 Walt Disney movie starring Julie Andrews, the time period and decor were pushed back from the 1930's of the book illustrations to a plush Edwardian era, but Ms. Andrews's costume and bearing stayed true to Miss Shepard's drawings (with her feet back to the fifth position), and Miss Shepard received a payment from the filmmakers.
Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alaska.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
The first new book is to be published this spring: ''Mr.
Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alaska.
During a long hospitalization, Dr. Milton continued work on her latest book, ''The Camera as Weapon and Voyeur: Photography of the Holocaust as Memorial Evidence,'' which Dr. Friedlander said he plans to complete.
Ms. Bullaty wrote about her mentor in a 1978 book, ''Sudek.
Her first cookbook, ''The Cuisine of the Sun'' (Biscuit Books, 1976), was applauded by the food critic Mimi Sheraton in The New York Times Book Review.
The book ''stays within the boundaries of Provence, concentrating on the author's native city, Nice,'' Ms. Sheraton wrote.
''
        In working on that book, Mrs. Johnston recalled last year, ''I wrote a sort of cookbook about my experiences, and I realized food was the key to so much -- a way of observing pleasures and economic trends in society.
Mrs. Johnston's book ''The French Family Feast'' (1988) was about home cooking and family dining traditions.
The volumes were published in the 90's -- first separately, then as a single book.
'' She performed the one-woman work at Lincoln Center, which commissioned it, at the Kennedy Center and the ANTA Playhouse in Los Angeles before turning it into a book in 1979.
After his death in 1972, Mrs. Dyk took transcripts of taped conversations and other research and wrote ''Left Handed,'' a continuation of the first book.
Dr. Rotker-Martinez wrote several books, both in Spanish and in English, as well as book chapters, articles, professional papers and reviews.
A revised and updated version of her book ''The American Chronicles of Jose Marti: Journalism and Modernity in Spanish America'' was published this year by University Press of New England.
''Miss Brooks has a command over both the colloquial and the more austere rhythms,'' the critic Rolfe Humphries wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the poems in ''A Street in Bronzeville.
''Full of insight and wisdom and pity, technically dazzling,'' Phyllis McGinley wrote in The Times Book Review.
You'll have a book published one day.
''In the Mecca'' was nominated for a National Book Award.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
Mrs. Gresser, who was born in 1906 in Detroit, taught herself to play chess using a book a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939.
''I know you like a book, ya little tramp,'' Sterling Hayden said to her in the 1956 film ''The Killing,'' directed by Stanley Kubrick.
A review in The New York Times called it ''a very good book,'' adding that ''like Solzhenitsyn, Ilona Karmel has succeeded in writing about life in the prison camps'' as ''plausible, possible human experience.

        Eloise Jarvis McGraw, author of ''The Moorchild,'' a 1996 Newbery Honor book, and other novels for children, died on Thursday in Portland, Ore. She was 84 and lived in Oswego Lake, Ore.
        Mrs. McGraw began writing at the age of 8, shortly after her family moved from Houston, where she was born, to Oklahoma City.
''
        In fact, she once got a check from her husband to buy herself a mink jacket and returned home in triumph with a precious Elizabethan book.
      
''Miss Brooks has a command over both the colloquial and the more austere rhythms,'' the critic Rolfe Humphries wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the poems in ''A Street in Bronzeville.
''Full of insight and wisdom and pity, technically dazzling,'' Phyllis McGinley wrote in The Times Book Review.
You'll have a book published one day.
''In the Mecca'' was nominated for a National Book Award.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
By 1948, Ms. Wilkens had started a concomitant career as a writer with the book ''Here's Looking at You: The Modern Slant on Smartness for the Junior Miss.
The family talked to her while the community barred The Compass's white reporter, Ms. Cooke told Kay Mills in an interview for a 1988 book, ''A Place in the News: From the Women's Pages to the Front Page.
