Her book "Vietnam to America" (Westview Press, 1977), was a serious look at the plight of Vietnamese refugees.
She wrote, with Lincoln Kirstein, "The Classic Ballet: Basic Technique and Terminology," a 1952 book that has become a standard text.
In 1962, her book "The Greater Hunger" was published by Appleton-Century Press, and in 1986 "This Is the Way My Garden Grows," was published by W. W. Norton.
Correction:  February 22, 1991, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Gwendolen Carter, a scholar on Africa, misidentified a book she wrote about apartheid.
Dr. Landes's best-known book was "The City of Women," published in 1947 by Macmillan, in which she reported on life around the Brazilian seaport of Bahia, in which women played the dominant roles in a society of descendants of African slaves.
" and in Mr. DeVries's book "The Blood of the Lamb.
She wrote the book "Transformations," a memoir of the Humphrey-Weidman era, and was the subject of a 1989 collection of essays, "Eleanor King: 60 Years in American Dance.

        Juliette T. Benton, a lecturer on books and plays who headed the Wednesday Book Group in New York for more than half a century, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She wrote book reviews for The Litchfield County Times in Connecticut until shortly before her death.

        Nona Balakian, a literary critic, essayist and a former editor on the staff of The New York Times Sunday Book Review, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
An authority on 20th-century European and American literature, Ms. Balakian encouraged such authors as Eudora Welty, Anais Nin, Joyce Carol Oates, Carson McCullers, Reynolds Price, Kurt Vonnegut and others to do work for The Times Sunday Book Review.
A second edition of the book is now in preparation.
She was a founding member and first secretary of the National Book Critics Circle and she had served on the Pulitzer Prize committees for non-fiction and poetry.
She joined the staff of The Times Book Review that year, and remained a staff member for 43 years, until she retired in 1987.
She was co-author, with Wilhelm Ehmann, of the book "Voice Building for Choirs," and a co-founder of the Westfaelische Kantorei, a professional choir.
Among them were Frances Steloff, founder of the Gotham Book Mart, whose $1,000 loan made the initial 1926 concert possible, Miss Cornell, Bethsabee de Rothschild, Lila Acheson Wallace and, most recently, Halston.
'Mythic Quality' to Writing
        In quick succession there followed "Felicity" (1987) a farce, and "The Grotto" (1989), whose writing was praised by John Mortimer in The New York Times Book Review for its "energy, good humor and mythic quality.
Mrs. Jastrow was 82 when her first book, "A Time to Remember: Growing Up in New York Before the Great War," was published in 1979 by W. W. Norton.
"
        Reviewing "A Time to Remember" in The New York Times Book Review, Caroline Seebohm wrote: "This kind of document grows more and more precious with the years.
Her writings included the book "The Art of Young Children.
Bland wrote in The New York Times Book Review that it was important "for us art teachers to provide the opportunity for children to express their ideas and feelings with confidence that they will be accepted and respected.
Her writings included the book "The Art of Young Children.
Ms. Koehn's first book, "Mischling, Second Degree," described her experiences as a child of part-Jewish parentage growing up in Berlin under the Nazis and in evacuation camps during World War II.
The book was published in six countries outside the United States, including Britain, France and West Germany.
It received the Boston Globe Hornbook Award, the Jane Addams Peace Foundation Award for nonfiction and the Lewis Carroll Shelf Award as a book recommended for young readers.
"Her death has been wrongly reported so many times, including recently in the book 'The Making of the African Queen' by Katharine Hepburn," Mr. Woodruff said.
In addition to her son Christopher, book critic for The New York Times, she is survived by two other sons, Carl, a graphic artist and painter, and Alexander, a sound engineer, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sarnoff wrote "The Ultimate Spa Book" (Warner Books, 1990), as well as articles for travel magazines.
Mrs. Hearst, who left the newspaper business in 1956, wrote "The Horses of San Simeon," (San Simeon Press, 1985), a book about breeding and raising horses.
" In 1977, "Jack and the Wonder Beans," a book she illustrated, was cited by The New York Times as one of the 10 best children's books of the year.
"
        Miss Tomes began illustrating children's books in 1963 with Barbera Wersba's book "The Brave Balloon of Benjamin Buckley.
After observing two barnyard hens, she wrote a children's book, "Flossie and Bossie: A Moral Tale.
By the 1970's they lived apart, and a Chinese book published last year asserted that Ms. Jiang had to request permission from the party Central Committee's Work Office to see her husband.
" The book combined her inside knowledge with a popular style, making her information useful to professionals and at the same time accessible to the public.
In her second book, "If War Comes to the American Home," published in 1941 on the eve of America's entry into World War II, she drew on the experience of World War I to tell families how they might be affected in a war economy.
Posthumous Book Planned
        In 1975 she published "Sylvia Porter's Money Book: How to Earn It, Spend It, Save It, Invest It, Borrow It and Use It to Better Your Life.
Posthumous Book Planned
        In 1975 she published "Sylvia Porter's Money Book: How to Earn It, Spend It, Save It, Invest It, Borrow It and Use It to Better Your Life.
Her most recent book, "Sylvia Porter's Your Finances in the 1990's," appeared last year, and her last book, "Planning Your Retirement," is to be published in September.
Her most recent book, "Sylvia Porter's Your Finances in the 1990's," appeared last year, and her last book, "Planning Your Retirement," is to be published in September.
Miss Suckley was the co-author of a children's book about Fala and took part in producing two short films depicting the dog's life in the limelight.
She began to write when her children were small and drew on her knowledge of the Quileute Indians for her first book, "The Indian Canoe Maker," published in 1960 by Caxton Press.
A forthcoming book, "Jayhawker," the story of a young abolitionist during the Civil War, is to be published by Morrow Junior Books in October.
She wrote a 1984 book, "Whodunit: a Biblio-Bio-Anecdotal Memoir of Federic Dannay," profiling the writer who, with a cousin, collaborated under the pseudonym Ellery Queen.
She detailed her research in a book, "The Psychology of Literacy," for which she received the Melville J. Herskovitz Award from the African Studies Association in 1982.
Mrs. Lutzker wrote a book on the first group of women to get M.D.
She was also the editor of "Women and the Law" (Clark-Boardman, 1984), which was cited by the Association of American Publishers as the best law book of that year.
She continued to write and arrange songs, and published a book, "Interpreting Popular Music at the Keyboard.
Her best-known book is "Under a Green Roof" which was published in 1960 by J.B. Lippincott of Philadelphia and New York in 1960.
"
        The writer Arthur Sainer, in the book "Contemporary Dramatists," described Ms. Bovasso as "a kind of mad mathematician, marshalling people and events into lunatic propositions and hallucinatory equations.
She also contributed to scholarly journals both in this country and in Germany and had just completed the editing of a book, "Episcopal Woman," to be published next year by the Oxford University Press in New York.
Her best-known book was El Monte, published in 1954.
It is considered the seminal book on santeria, the melange of Roman Catholic and African religious practices that developed in the Caribbean countries and that remains current.
The book became a best seller, and Mrs. Stone used the Vance name for some of her later books, including "Reprisal" (1942) and "Winter Meeting," (1946).
She was a close friend and early supporter of the author James Baldwin, and his book "Another Country" is dedicated to her.
In the last three years, Mrs. Kaye devoted most of her time to writing a book about her life with Mr. Kaye, "Fine and Danny," for Alfred A. Knopf.
The book describes a white family fleeing civil war with the help of their black servant, July, who takes them to his village.
"
        Writing for The New York Times Book Review, Fred J. Cook described "McCarthy and McCarthyism" as "excellent, solidly researched.
"
        Mrs. Feuerlicht's 1977 book on the trial and executions of Nicola Sacco and Bartolomeo Vanzetti was praised in The New York Times by John Leonard as "the most comprehensive and persuasive account of the case we have," although he faulted the author for her tendency to "pontificate.
It was during this time that Natalia Ginzburg published her first book, "The Road to the City," using the pseudonym Alessandra Torninparte in order to circumvent laws restricting the activities of Jews.
In a preface to the book, Miss Ginzburg wrote: "Possibly some people may not be pleased to find themselves described in the book under their own names.
In a preface to the book, Miss Ginzburg wrote: "Possibly some people may not be pleased to find themselves described in the book under their own names.
Taking Sides in an Adoption
        Miss Ginzburg's last book created an uproar.
"When I write something I usually think it is very important and that I am a very fine writer," she wrote in an essay for The New York Times Book Review in 1986.
"
        Friends said she was the inspiration for the Holly Golightly character in Truman Capote's book "Breakfast at Tiffany's.
"
        Her own first book, "How to Marry a Millionaire" (Putnam, 1951), became a hit movie starring Marilyn Monroe.
Her latest book, "Food and Friends: A Memoir With Recipes," was written with Suzy Patterson and published in August by Viking.
"The book changed people's attitudes totally, toward cooking as a real worthwhile pursuit," said Nach Waxman, owner of Kitchen Arts and Letters, a culinary bookshop in New York.
In her New York photographs, many of which were collected in the book "Changing New York" (1939), Miss Abbott also provided an invaluable historical record of the physical appearance of the city at a time when it was undergoing rapid transformation.
In 1982 her life and work were summed up in a book, "Berenice Abbott: American Photographer," by Mr. O'Neal.
