''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
Ms. Freeman's first book, ''Fight Against Fears,'' recounted her own experience as a psychoanalysis patient who struggled to overcome her shy, whispery voice and social fears.
Published in 1951, the book was in print for 47 years.
In 1997, however, the book was reprinted by Bulfinch Press and received admiring reviews as an oddity.
''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
The magazine Jazz Times named her biography ''Straight, No Chaser: The Life and Genius of Thelonious Monk'' (1997), one of the top jazz books of the year
        Her many books for children included at least six musical surveys along the lines of her 1998 book for young adults, ''Deep Down in Music: The Art of the Great Jazz Bassists.
Her son said that because the Depression wiped out her family's savings, she broke off her education to spend a year writing advertising copy for a department store, Abraham & Straus, and handling orders for the Book of the Month Club.
The book was praised by John Dos Passos, and it became a best seller.
Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.
''Star Man's Son'' was the relatively late start of Ms. Norton's science fiction career; until then, she had mainly been a novelist writing juvenile historical fiction and adventure stories, under the pen name Andre Norton, chosen because her readers were thought to be exclusively boys
        At the time, the market for science-fiction was largely confined to magazines, but with the growth of the genre in book form after 1950, Ms. Norton took the field by storm.
At Collingwood High School she wrote for the school newspaper and during her senior year produced her first novel, which, reworked, became her second published book, ''Ralestone Luck'' (Appleton, 1938).
Taking a job at the Cleveland Public Library, she was assigned to the children's book section, allowing her to become expert in the literature.
One, ''Escape Through the Pyrenees,'' which was first published in West Germany in 1985, won that country's award for the political book of the year.
''Literally right after they succeeded, every doctor interested in the field marched through Norfolk,'' said Sherry Sontag, the author of a coming book, ''One in a Million: A History of I.V.F.
She followed the book with ''Planting Noah's Garden: Further Adventures in Backyard Ecology'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1997) and ''Noah's Children: Restoring the Ecology of Childhood'' (North Point Press, 2001), a meditation on the role the natural environment plays in childhood development.
The books were subtitled ''An Open Family Book for Parents and Children Together'' (Walker & Company).
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
Reviewing ''The Summer House'' in The New York Times Book Review in 1994, Francine Prose wrote, ''Its quick humor, prickly ironies and lack of portentous self-importance may mislead casual readers into overlooking its true heft, its provocative and disturbing shrewdness.
In The Spectator, Peter Ackroyd praised the book for ''its wit: the relentlessness of domestic life, the knives only just sheathed in time.
In 1984, the book was made into an NBC-TV movie, with a de-glamorized Farrah Fawcett as the star.
Six weeks before her death, she appeared in Washington to promote a book of which she was co-editor, ''Toward an Evangelical Public Policy: Political Strategies for the Health of the Nation.
Reviewing ''Heartbreak'' in The New York Times Book Review, Laura Miller wrote: ''Dworkin is one of the few remaining specimens of pure countercultural Romanticism: fierce, melodramatic and utterly convinced that all truth can be found in her own roiling, untempered emotions.
''
        With her first book, ''Woman Hating'' (Dutton, 1974), Ms. Dworkin drew the lines in what she saw as a pitched battle against men's historical domination of women.
She served as a consultant to members of United Nations commissions on El Salvador and published a book on the subject, ''Peace Without Justice: Obstacles to Building the Rule of Law in El Salvador,'' in 2000.
At the studio she was handed a book of names and urged to choose a new one.
'' The show, a musical version of the Book of Esther starring Ms. Lux, her husband and son, came to Broadway in a Yiddish-English production in 1968.
After graduating, she returned to New York City, going to work in the book department of Macy's.
Through her job, Ms. Benedict became involved in the Book and Magazine Guild, a trade union.
Reviewing her memoir, ''Happy Days,'' in The New York Times Book Review, Delia Ephron called it ''heartbreaking,'' adding: ''There is no physical cruelty in this tale, just the awesome power of withheld love.
It was published as a two-volume book, ''Alpine Vegetation of the Indian Peaks Area'' (Cramer, Vaduz; 1979), and remains the definitive work on the subject, according to her adviser, Patrick Webber, now of Michigan State University.
'' Her book of recipes and happenings, ''R.S.V.P.
In 2002, Dr. Hammond published a book on the history of black C.P.A.
''
        Dame Cicely's first book, ''Care of the Dying,'' was published in 1960.

        Judith Rossner, a novelist who used crisp, piercing prose to tell of women pushed to often grotesque extremes, most famously in her 1975 book ''Looking for Mr. Goodbar,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
''Many of her novels offer a clinical dissection of America's failed marriages and of a culture that has not permitted women to have a life apart from their children and husband,'' said the reference book Contemporary Novelists.
The book was based loosely on the 1973 murder of a young schoolteacher in New York who frequented singles bars and could be read as a particularly harrowing caution for the sexually adventurous.
John Leonard in The New York Times called ''Attachments'' an ''ambitious, disturbing novel by a best-selling author who might have written a trashy book, but decided instead to mess up our minds.
It read: ''I want to write a book about a schoolteacher who's murdered picking up someone when she's cruising a singles bar.
Christopher Hawtree, writing in The Guardian of London in 1990, described the book's bleak theme: ''Some of the raunchiest sex scenes ever written lead to a despair that makes death almost inevitable, perhaps even sought.

        Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1 at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Malkin, who signed her many book reviews in the magazine with just her initials, was known to generations of rare-book dealers and collectors simply as Mam.
Mrs. Malkin was the administrative assistant, copy editor, proofreader, book critic and maker of coffee, which, for Mr. Malkin, had to be several parts cognac.
Thick, digest-sized and printed on very cheap paper, AB offered trade news, gossip and articles about book collecting.
The university is also the distributor of a book she wrote with several colleagues, ''Dancing by the Book: A Catalogue of Books, 1531-1804, in the Collection of Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin.
The university is also the distributor of a book she wrote with several colleagues, ''Dancing by the Book: A Catalogue of Books, 1531-1804, in the Collection of Mary Ann O'Brian Malkin.
'' Published privately in 2003, the book can be obtained in very clean copies, with hard covers (no dust jacket) and many handsome illustrations.
      
Motley's style could be deceptive, often challenging a witness to get away with one lie after another without challenging them,'' she wrote in her book ''In My Place,'' published in 1992.
Ms. Settle, who was a National Book Award winner and the author of the novels known as ''The Beulah Quintet,'' explained her research process in an introduction to ''O Beulah Land,'' the first in an interconnected five-book saga that spanned three centuries, from Cromwell's England to what Ms. Settle called ''the feudal coal culture'' of West Virginia, her native state.
To inform her book, she wrote, it was necessary to ''let the past become a present, let it fall beyond intelligence into reliving, which is true sensuous recall, where dreams come from with all their fears and future hopes of things long past.
The other books are ''Know Nothing'' (1960), ''Prisons'' (written in 1973, years after ''O Beulah Land,'' but labeled Book I because the action takes place earlier in history) and ''The Killing Ground'' (1982).
In 1978, she received the National Book Award for ''Blood Tie,'' the story of American and British expatriates in Turkey.
Nine years later her first book was published.
Her son said it was not yet clear whether the book was in shape for publication.
The first words of the first verse of the Book of John are ''In the beginning was the word.
Children's picture books featuring or including minority children were largely absent before the 1960's, when the first few were published and authors and other advocates began criticizing what they viewed as prejudice in the publishing industry, said Leonard S. Marcus, a book reviewer for Parenting magazine.
In 1998 she established Kids Cultural Books, a nonprofit organization that holds book festivals around the country to bring multicultural books and their authors together with children.
Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children.
In a particularly imaginative stroke, the Leslie-Melvilles named a warthog that lived on their property Cronkite, after Walter Cronkite, the CBS news anchor, and wrote a book about the animal.
Parks's arrest was the precipitating factor rather than the cause of the protest,'' Dr. King wrote in his 1958 book, ''Stride Toward Freedom.
Ziegfeld himself contributed this to the book jacket: ''I wish every young girl who has aspirations to go on stage could read this honest and delightful story by one of the most charming of my own Follies Girls.
'' She had told a long-ago admirer to buy her the book rather than the diamond bracelet or fur wrap he offered.
In 1998, she expanded it into a book, ''Children Learn What They Live: Parenting to Inspire Values,'' written with Rachel Harris.
The book has more than 3 million copies in print worldwide and has been translated into 18 languages, according to its publisher, Workman Publishing.
With her second husband, Mrs. Nolte wrote a book, ''Wake Up in Bed, Together!
As the dance historian Margaret Lloyd wrote in ''The Borzoi Book of Modern Dance,'' ''Sybil Shearer is a perfectionist who likes to believe that perfection is humanly attainable.

        Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan.
She was persuaded to put the characters into a book by a friend, the novelist and memoirist Paula Fox, with whom she had previously collaborated on a television play.
''
        Jonathan Kozol, in The Times Book Review, called it a ''rare little novel'' that deserved ''considerable praise and admiration.
After some reluctance, Miss Kellogg did and finished the book in five months, working before and after her shifts at the hospital.
      
Essentially commissioned by the movie producer Jerry Wald, Ms. Jaffe was a 25-year-old former associate editor in publishing when she sat down to write a book that Mr. Wald could turn into a blockbuster feature like ''Kitty Foyle: The Natural History of a Woman,'' a 1940 film that won Ginger Rogers an Academy Award for playing a plucky working girl who finds love, heartache, an unwanted pregnancy and, finally, romantic redemption.
As Martin Levin of The New York Times wrote in a review of the book: ''Before very many coffee breaks one is a stretcher case, one is pregnant and the third is off to Las Vegas with a notorious lounge lizard.
''
        The synergy of its canny packaging as a book written expressly for Hollywood production was equally shocking at the time.
Within two weeks of publication, the book was on the New York Times best-seller list, where it stayed for five months.
Joan Crawford made a special appearance as Amanda Farrow, an ill-tempered book editor who, the film makes pointedly clear, has sacrificed personal happiness for professional glory.
Her last book was ''The Room-Mating Season,'' published in 2003.
Reviewing the book in The Times, Rosabeth Moss Kanter called it a ''gripping account,'' adding that Ms. Hays ''has a novelist's flair for conveying her characters' thoughts and evoking the sights and sounds of her settings.

        Leona Nevler, a prominent book editor who 50 years ago helped secure the publication of a first novel set in an imaginary town called Peyton Place, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
The book had far too much steam for Lippincott, as Ms. Nevler knew.
Her husband suggested she write a book about horses.
She edited other work, especially travel books for young people, before writing her first book, ''One Little Drum'' (Follet Publishing Company, 1958).
After it ceased publication in 1976, the Dance Perspectives Foundation, which she had established, continued to award an annual prize for the best dance book of the year.
