Her attitude toward New York was reflected in the title she chose for a book on the city: "New York: The Wonderful Catastrophe.
"Be natural and easy with your baby," Dr. Whipple wrote in her 1944 book "Our American Babies.
In her revised pamphlet, as in her book and in a syndicated weekly newspaper column on child care, she promoted a nurturing, down-to-earth way with children even as she showed her awareness of common family problems.
"
        The book on drugs was published in 1971 and advocated a more lenient approach to prosecution of marijuana-related crimes because, she argued, criminal sanctions had not stemmed the spread of drug use.
She collaborated with Ruth Slenczynska, a pianist, on "Music at Your Fingertips" (1961), a book of practical advice for young musicians.
Her most recent book, "Thieves' World: The Threat of the New Global Network of Organized Crime" (1994, Simon & Schuster), was praised by Stephen Handelman, of the Harriman Institute of Advanced Soviet Studies at Columbia University, as making "a significant contribution to post-cold-war debate" by affirming "that the growing interdependence among nation-states and financial institutions has made it easier for crime syndicates to cooperate across national boundaries.
"
        In an earlier book, "Octopus: the Long Reach of the International Sicilian Mafia" (1990), she examined the Sicilian Mafia and charged gangster-chieftains based in Palermo with creating a multinational empire with the United States as its longtime main target.
In her 1984 book "The Time of the Assassins," Mrs. Sterling examined the attempt by a Turk, Mehmet Ali Agca, to kill Pope John Paul II in 1981.
"
        She also attracted wide attention with her 1981 book "The Terror Network," which traced connections among terrorist groups around the globe.
William Abrahams, who edited the book for Holt, Rinehart & Winston, said that while she was writing it, the Italian Government posted a guard at her house to protect her.
"
        Mrs. Sterling's first book was "The Masaryk Case" (1969), about Jan Masaryk, the Czechoslovak Foreign Minister who was reported to have leaped to his death in 1948 from a window of his Prague apartment.
So Mrs. Sterling, keeping Italy as her base, began writing her Masaryk book.
Study there and later in Tiberias inspired her third book, "The Find of a Lifetime: Sir Arthur Evans and the Discovery of Knossos" (Viking, 1980).
Until days before her death, she was working on her latest book, "Risking Health for Love," with her co-author, Jane Hyman, that examines the health risks of choices that women make, covering breast implants, sexually transmitted diseases and domestic violence.
The group later formed the Boston Women's Health Book Collective.
In 1971 they changed the name to "Our Bodies, Ourselves" and the book inspired a grass-roots, consumer-advocacy movement, becoming a bible to a generation of young women.
In college dormitories and apartments across the country groups of female baby-boomers, hungry for the kind of information their mothers did not always have, gathered to discuss the book.
The book was attacked as pornographic by the Moral Majority and other conservative groups and it was banned from some schools.
She became known in the United States with the appearance of her book "The Chinese Garden" (1978), which was richly embellished by her own photography.
"
        The book was reissued in paperback by St. Martin's Press in 1986 and remains in print.
"
        In The New York Times Book Review, the novelist Sheila Ballantyne, reviewing "Anger," Ms. Sarton's 1982 novel, wrote: "It is clear that May Sarton's best work, whatever its form, will endure well beyond the influence of particular reviews or current tastes.
To support her art, she wrote book reviews and taught creative writing.
" Although she never had the full recognition attained by many of her peers, and never won a Pulitzer Prize or a National Book Award, her work generally received favorable reviews and she had a loyal readership.
The book was by Morey Bernstein, the amateur hypnotist who had elicited the recollections in Pueblo, Colo.
The book triggered an interest in reincarnation and the use of hypnosis to regress a subject to early childhood, and perhaps beyond.
The notion that the book was an out-and-out hoax never gained much credence for several reasons.
She insisted that her real name not be used in the book, which called her Ruth Simmons, and then shunned virtually every opportunity to cash in on the Bridey Murphy phenomenon.
"As soon as I met her, I knew there was a book in her," Professor Clark said yesterday, recalling that she had taped 100 hours of Mrs. Logan's recollections before editing them into what became "Motherwit: An Alabama Midwife's Story" (Dutton, 1989).
The book, still in print as a Plume paperback, was widely praised both for its vivid accounts of Mrs. Logan's life told in her distinctive vernacular and for her unflinchingly optimistic spirit in the face of pervasive adversity.
"Motherwit" made Mrs. Logan something of a folk hero, and two years ago she was represented along with Simone de Beauvoir, Anne Frank, Maya Angelou, Lillian Hellman, Joan Didion and other feminist luminaries in "The Norton Book of Women's Lives" (Norton, 1993).
The Hobbys eventually acquired ownership of The Post and she worked as a book reviewer, copy editor and editorial writer.
"
        In 1958, when she was sent on a national promotional tour for "Reading Skills," a groundbreaking book on remedial reading written in collaboration with Marjorie Westcott Barrows of Jordan High, Mrs. Wood began asking everywhere, "Do you know anyone who can read fast?
"
        "The Maple Sugar Book," which she wrote with her husband and which was published by Schocken in 1950, told not only of the art and history of sugaring but also of the practical details of sugar making.
Nearing wrote alone were "Wise Words on the Good Life" (Schocken, 1983) and "Simple Food for the Good Life" (Stillpoint, 1983), which she described as "an anti-cooking book that advocates fresh raw foods and minimal cooking.
Her book "Mao Zedong Killed My Husband" was a best-seller in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southeast Asia.

        Annie Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, the younger of the two sisters whose wisdom and triumphs have been celebrated in a best-selling book and in the Broadway play "Having Our Say," died yesterday at her home in Mt.
They were co-authors of a second book, "The Delany Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom" (Kodansha America, 1994) which has sold 160,000 copies.
They were co-authors of a second book, "The Delany Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom" (Kodansha America, 1994) which has sold 160,000 copies.
Her 1972 book, "The French Communists," was hailed in The New York Times Book review by an American historian of France, Robert O. Paxton of Columbia University, as "the most probing single work on the French Communist Party, and perhaps on any Western Communist party.
Her 1972 book, "The French Communists," was hailed in The New York Times Book review by an American historian of France, Robert O. Paxton of Columbia University, as "the most probing single work on the French Communist Party, and perhaps on any Western Communist party.
At home, her mother dedicated each night of the week to some educational project: one night the children would present oral book reports or speak on assigned topics (like birds, flowers or geography).
In an interview with Studs Terkel for his most recent book, "Coming of Age" (New Press, 1995), she recalled how she and four of her unarmed lieutenants once stalled the police.
Ms. Vlachos chronicled her career and the adventure of her escape in her book "The House Arrest" (Gambit, 1970).
The book was translated into 23 languages, sold 1.3 million copies, won a French literary prize -- the Prix Goncourt -- and was made into the film "Madame Rosa.
"
        Revelations about the novel's authorship embarrassed connoisseurs of literature who had failed to realize that Mr. Gary had written the book.
Within months after an obscure house named Taplinger brought out "Sun Signs," in 1968, it had become the first book on astrology to make The New York Times Best-Seller List.
" (Little Brown, 1980), a photo-documentary of a class in baby care taught at a boys' school in New York won an American Book Award in 1981 for children's hardcover non-fiction.
The association also compiled the Dance Film and Video Guide, an exhaustive catalogue of films on popular, concert, ethnic and historic dance that is published by Dance Horizons and the Princeton Book Company.
Indeed, even Miss Young's most ardent admirers (and her admirers, from Anais  Nin and Djuna Barnes to John Gardner, Anne Tyler and a prolific band of feminists, tend to be ardent) concede that the book, variously described as "a mammoth epic," "a massive fable" and "a work of stunning magnitude and beauty" (not to mention "hallucinatory," "ethereal" and "utterly stupefying"), is rather much to take in a single season.
It is a reflection of the book's decidedly mixed reception that while the daily review in The New York Times dismissed it with a sneer, Miss Young's friend, William Goyen, turned a Times Sunday review into a page-long paean.
She wrote her first poems when she was 6, joined the Authors League at 11, published her first poem at Indiana University when she was 19, won first prize in a literary  contest at Butler University when she was 20 and published her first book of poems, "Prismatic Ground," at 28, in 1937, a year after receiving a master's in  Elizabethan and Jacobean literature from the University of Chicago.
Thirty years later the book  is yet to be published, but Victoria Wilson, an editor at Knopf, said yesterday  the "astonishing" work needs just a little more pruning.
William Doyle, in The New York Times Book Review, called it "an extremely readable account of their lives together, and an easy and attractive introduction to Napoleon and his private life" despite a number of errors of fact, date and sequence.
Previously, Ms. Bregman was president of Bask Press, a book packager and literary agency she founded in 1983, and a former senior editor at Warner Juvenile Books and at Bantam Doubleday Dell.
Her 1971 book, "Early Negro Writings 1760-1837" was republished this fall, by Black Classic Press, with her name given as Dorothy Porter.
At the time, it was called the Moorland Foundation because it consisted chiefly  of a books donated by Dr. Jesse Moorland, a Howard trustee; in 1946 the book collection of Arthur B. Spingarn was added to it.

        Connie Boucher, a pioneer in licensing cartoon characters who provided the inspiration for "Happiness Is a Warm Puppy," a best-selling 1962 book about Snoopy, the "Peanuts" comic strip character, died on Dec. 20 in San Francisco of complications after heart surgery.
With her husband, Jim Young, she created a Winnie-the-Pooh coloring book, using a character that was in the public domain.
The book sold 50,000 copies.
"She proposed the date book in 1961, and now everyone is doing them.
"Connie said that maybe this could become a good book, and I said I didn't know  if I could think of any more of those ideas.
That day, after she left, I wrote virtually all the ideas in 'Happiness Is a Warm Puppy' and it was the best-selling book the next year.
"
        The book spent 45 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, reaching No.
In her book, "Da Kine Talk, from Pidgin to Standard English in Hawaii," she  contended that the language had evolved into a distinct regional dialect and could no longer be considered in its pidgin stage, the period when Asian immigrants learned a modicum of basic English from plantation bosses.
      
Mrs. Kuhn's many writings included a volume of memoirs, "Assigned to Adventure" (1938), which Augusta Tucker, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "the story of an unafraid woman who has seen a lot of the world as a newspaper reporter" and added that it "has pace, it has interest, it has color, and the woman who wrote it has sense: a quality not consistently present  in the kiss-and-tell books of some of the male correspondents.".
The book "Cosa: The Lamps," which she wrote with Dr. Norma Goldman of Wayne State University, was issued last fall as part of the American Academy series through the University of Michigan Press.
In 1986, on the 50th anniversary of the sale of Margaret Mitchell's novel to the movies, Mrs. Barrett recalled that when she told Mr. Selznick she thought the book was "absolutely wonderful," he replied, "A Civil War story won't go.
She then created a family of dolls, which were used as characters in her first book, "Tell Me Some More," which was published in 1961.
She wrote the text for the photographer Ylla's "I'll Show You Cats" (1964), an award-winning children's book.
"We categorically reject the misjudgments, mischaracterizations, insinuations and outright falsehoods about our family relationships portrayed in the book," they wrote.
Contrary to the malicious portrayal in this book, they were devoted and caring parents who lavished affection and attention on all of us.
According to Ms. Kearns's book, she was also given a lobotomy upon orders of her father.
"We categorically reject the misjudgments, mischaracterizations, insinuations and outright falsehoods about our family relationships portrayed in the book," they wrote.
Contrary to the malicious portrayal in this book, they were devoted and caring parents who lavished affection and attention on all of us.
According to Ms. Kearns's book, she was also given a lobotomy upon orders of her father.
She also wrote, with Lex Creamer Jr., the travel book "Another World: Central America" (1970).
Manet's account book showed that the 1881 view of a garden was first sold for 2,000 francs to the Paris dealer Durand-Ruel, who sold it a year later to a Paris stockbroker for 2,500 francs and bought it back 10 years later for 6,000 francs.
"
        The book, however, was widely praised for its objectivity.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Benedict Nightingale described it as "almost frighteningly judicious," adding that Mrs. Tynan "somehow manages to fulfill, perhaps even surpass, the obligations of a good biographer.
She published a book about that disease 30 years ago, "Always a Woman: What Every Woman Should Know About Breast Cancer," the first by someone outside the medical profession.
In the 1970's, she resumed writing travel pieces and humor, including her last book, "How to Be a Jewish Grandmother" (1979).
Her first book, "Strangers on a Train," was published in 1950 after being rejected by six publishers.
In her 1975 short stories "The Animal-Lovers Book of Beastly Murder," the people were killed by animals.
Her first book, "Strangers on a Train," was published in 1950 after being rejected by six publishers.
In her 1975 short stories "The Animal-Lovers Book of Beastly Murder," the people were killed by animals.
Dr. Futas took up her duties at the university in Kingston, R.I., in 1986 and during the next decade helped to train a generation of reference and children's book librarians.
Teachers, according to the book, call on boys more, make more substantive comments on their work, and praise and goad them more.
Her book "Black Women, Feminism and Black Liberation" (Third World Press, 1985) described the conflict that black women face over the issues of feminism and racism.
She was a strong environmentalist and also led a drive to send book mobiles to rural Kentucky.
For 26 years, until 1968, she was the editor of the book review section.
"
        According to her book, she had many love affairs, including one in her 70's with a student in his 20's.
Miss Kuhn did not identify him, but Christina Long, who helped her with the book, said the man, now in his 40's, was at the recent birthday gala.
She often worked in summer stock, appearing in productions of musicals like "Annie Get Your Gun" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and in comedies like "Tovarich" and "Bell, Book and Candle.
John Mueller, in The New York Times Book Review, found Miss Rogers's book short on insight and discreet to the point that "one does not get a terribly rich feel for her personality.
John Mueller, in The New York Times Book Review, found Miss Rogers's book short on insight and discreet to the point that "one does not get a terribly rich feel for her personality.
Mrs. Goldman was the president of the sisterhood of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue and the chairwoman of the book and author series of UJA-Federation of New York.
"
        Her latest book was "Endangered Spaces, Enduring Places: Change, Identity and Survival in Rural America" (Westview, 1991).
