Because Leon Uris's ''Mila 18'' posed the possibility of confusion, a title change for the Heller book was in order.

        Elizabeth Meyer Lorentz, a movie scriptwriter and author of a book on networking, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 87 and lived in Rye, N.Y.
She elaborated on her approach in a book, ''Psychiatric Music Therapy: Origins and Development.
''
        Robert Bogdan, a sociologist at Syracuse University who wrote the 1998 book ''Freak Show: Presenting Human Oddities for Amusement and Profit,'' said that Miss Pushnik came along during the transition between the old it's-all-right-to-stare attitude and a newer view that people with deformities should be looked at, if at all, as medical case studies.
''I had read Shwartzman's book on the reaction of tumors to bacteria, and had prepared 13 pages of questions based on it,'' Mrs. Nauts recalled.
Dr. Adler interpreted Adlerian theories in a book first published in 1938, ''Guiding Human Misfits: A Practical Application of Individual Psychology.
(''Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus,'' which came out in 1921, was Wittgenstein's only book published in his lifetime.
The book is viewed as a classic by philosophers.
A. J. Ayer, in his book ''Wittgenstein,'' wrote, ''I can think of no one but Elizabeth Anscombe who has made an original contribution to philosophy on the basis of Wittgenstein's teaching.
Miss Anscombe and Mr. Geach also produced a book together, ''Three Philosophers''; he wrote on Aquinas and Frege, she on Aristotle.
''
        ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' the team's first book in a best-selling series on what to expect from pregnancy, babies and toddlers, was released by the Workman Publishing Company in 1984.
''It was quietly marvelous, sort of like Mozart,'' said Peter Workman,  the publishing house president, of the book's success.
In 1999, Good Housekeeping magazine reported that a survey showed that 93 percent of expectant or nursing mothers who had read any book about pregnancy had read it.
Now as common as bibs at baby showers, the book provided common-sense answers to the questions of mothers-to-be.
)
        Mrs. Eisenberg said the book responded to a fragmented society in which people often live far from relatives who could reassure them about pregnancy.
''
        The first ''what to expect'' book emerged from the 1984 pregnancy of Mrs. Murkoff, Mrs. Eisenberg's younger daughter and a writer who was dismayed that she could find few books about pregnancy that were not excessively didactic and authoritarian -- not to mention full of incomprehensible medical terms.
They delivered their book proposal to the publisher hours before Mrs. Murkoff gave birth to a daughter, Emma.
They delivered the book the day Mrs. Hathaway felt the first kick from the fetus that was to be her daughter Rachel.
The success of the first book led the three to answer readers' pleas for help after birth.
The foundation is printing a basic pregnancy book written at a lower literacy level for disadvantaged women.
'' Emma, whose imminent birth inspired the first book, is 17.
      

        Phyllis S. Levy, a prominent Good Housekeeping book editor who in her early publishing career helped discover Ken Kesey, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
The book delivered a simple message: either civilization or growth must end.
The book stated that continued population and industrial growth would exhaust the world's minerals and steep the planet in lethal levels of pollution.
Their thesis was sharply disputed at the time, but the book sold nine million copies and was translated into 28 languages.
''
        Based partly on new computer simulations, the book warned that unless human activity changed, humans would ''overshoot'' the carrying capacity of the planet in decades.
''
        Gloria Serrari Pinney, a professor of classical archaeology and art at Harvard who was an admirer but never a colleague of Dr. Vermeule, added, ''Her book on Greece in the Bronze Age was for many years a standard in the field.

        Miné Okubo, a Japanese-American artist who recorded in 2,000 drawings and a book what she saw and felt as an internee in American detention camps for Japanese and Japanese-Americans during World War II, died on Feb. 10 in Manhattan.
''Nothing had been prepared or planned for this rushed and forced evacuation,'' she wrote in 1983 in a new edition of her book, ''Citizen 13660'' (University of Washington Press), which originally appeared in 1946.
The book was named for the number Miss Okubo was given as an internee.
''
        She wrote in 1983 that the book had begun ''as a special group of drawings made to tell the story of camp life for my many friends who faithfully sent letters and packages to let us know we were not forgotten.
''
        A review in The New York Times Book Review in 1946 said: ''In a remarkably objective and vivid and even humorous account,'' Miss Okubo told the whole story of her internment ''in dramatic and detailed drawings and brief text.

        Dare Wright, a photographer and children's book author whose best-known work is ''The Lonely Doll,'' died on Jan. 25.
The first book never lost favor, especially with young girls, and in 1998 Houghton Mifflin reissued it.
''
        Anne Morrow Lindbergh scored an immense literary success in midlife with her 1955 book ''Gift From the Sea'' ( Pantheon), which was a philosophical meditation on women's lives in this century.
In the book's first 20 years in print, more than five million copies were sold in hard-cover and paperback editions.
The Wind,'' had ''caught the poetry of flight in a web of words as no other book on flying has yet contrived to do.
The respect for Mrs. Lindbergh also survived bitter controversy over her 1940 book ''The Wave of the Future,'' a short, hazy manifesto, written while World War II raged in Europe.
''
        In later years, Walter S. Ross wrote in his 1967 biography ''The Last Hero: Charles A. Lindbergh'' that the book ''took so astral a view of the world that it made the crimes of the Nazis seem to bulk no larger than the inadequacies'' of the democracies.
'' Some friends said they thought Mrs. Lindbergh had written the book at least partly to please her husband, who at that time was an ardent advocate of the United States' staying out of the war.
Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her book that years later her mother told her: ''If only he had listened to me.
Her first book, ''North to the Orient'' (Harcourt Brace), which became a best seller in 1935, was an account of one of their aerial voyages.
Reeve's baby was known as Jonny, and she wrote in her book: ''Jonny too died in the night, and I, like my mother before me, was apart from my son during his last moments.
After he died, Miss Evans wrote a book, ''Salute to Sandy.

        Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Ms. Roth, a television producer, contracted multiple sclerosis 30 years ago and died of complications of the disease, her husband, Michael Tompane, said.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
The book offered practical advice to make visiting the parks as pleasant as possible for disabled people -- advice that Ms. Roth and Mr. Tompane pointed out was also relevant to older people and for parents visiting with children.
After writing their book, they worked with the National Park Foundation to improve accessibility at 175 places in more than 100 national parks.
She was the author of 12 books of poetry and essays, including her last book, published in 1996, ''The Third and Only Way: Reflections on Staying Alive.
And to interviewers, Mrs. Bevington professed delight with the censure of her book, which described how her mother divorced her father for carrying on with younger female parishioners.
She was the author, with Rachel Bernstein, of ''Ordinary People, Extraordinary Lives'' (New York University Press, 2000), a book of photographs and oral histories of working New Yorkers that grew out of an exhibition of the same name at the Museum of the City of New York.
Hammer, a historian who wrote an influential book about Indochina and Vietnam before the Vietnam War, died on Jan. 28 in New York City.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
'' The book wove together ''dozens of classified government cables detailing the manipulations of men who held a Kipling-like faith that Vietnam was theirs for the shaping.
In 1983 she published her highly acclaimed book on African culture, ''The Mask of Spring Water,'' and suddenly returned to choreography in 1989 by creating two solos on television.
''I sure don't remember how much I got,'' she said in an interview in the book.
''The Tafoya daughters were told that it was rude to interrupt with questions, so they missed much of the conversation,'' the Blairs said in their book.
In ''Come Dance With Me,'' an autobiography published in 1957, she noted that she was married in 1935, but not once in the book did she mention her husband's name: Dr. Arthur Connell, a physician who died in 1987.
She also published a book, ''There's a Hole in My Sidewalk: The Romance of Self-Discovery,'' which includes a poem, ''Autobiography in Five Short Chapters,'' that is used by many 12-step groups (although Ms. Nelson, who was brought up as a  Mormon, never drank or smoked).
''
        Whether set in the city or the country, Mrs. Clymer's stories were grounded in reality, despite a children's book industry enthralled with fantasy.
One book, ''Hamburgers -- and Ice Cream for Dessert'' (1975), about a boy searching for food on a desert island, was inspired by her son, Adam, who for a time as a child would eat for dinner only hamburgers, mashed potatoes and peas, and ice cream.
The series was exhibited at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, and ''Hollis Sigler's Breast Cancer Journal,'' a book of related essays by Ms. Sigler, Susan M. Love and James Yood, was published by Hudson Hills Press in 1999.
Mrs. MacFarquhar did not publish books, but worked on a book about former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan.
The writer could not conduct interviews for the book because of deteriorating eyesight.

        Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J.
Interviewed by the author Betty Friedan for her 1993 book ''The Fountain of Age,'' Dr. Davidoff is quoted as saying, ''The older you get, the more you get to be like yourself.
As a prose writer, Ms. McCorkle published fiction in Mademoiselle, Cosmopolitan and ''The O. Henry Book of Prize Short Stories,'' and nonfiction in The New York Times Magazine and American Heritage.
As a prose writer, Ms. McCorkle published fiction in Mademoiselle, Cosmopolitan and ''The O. Henry Book of Prize Short Stories,'' and nonfiction in The New York Times Magazine and American Heritage.
Dr. Thompson wrote more than 50 scholarly papers and books on her excavation work, including the book ''An Ancient Shopping Center: The Athenian Agora,'' published in 1971.
The book, an encyclopedic review of how tests are constructed, validated and interpreted, received wide acclaim for its lucidity and depth of analysis.
In 1977, she brought to the Boston museum a large exhibition of the drawings and book illustrations of Beatrix Potter, the creator of Peter Rabbit, and in collaboration with the Boston park system embellished the show with a small zoo in the museum's courtyard.
''The affinity with jazz which has determined my life was not inherited,'' she told the writer Sally Placksin in the book ''Jazzwomen.

        Jennifer Moyer, president of Moyer Bell Ltd., book publishers, died on June 10 at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 52.
But in a second book, ''Family Secrets: the Dionne Quintuplets' Autobiography,'' published in 1994, the three surviving quintuplets said that he had sexually abused them, an accusation that their other siblings denied.
''So her husband gave her a book on mandrakes that piqued her interest.
A book of the hundreds of letters exchanged between her and O'Keeffe, with commentary, will be published posthumously, Mr. Hart said.
Nora Ephron, in her review of the best-selling memoir in The New York Times Book Review, wrote of Mrs. Graham, ''The story of her journey from daughter to wife to widow to woman parallels to a surprising degree the history of women in this century.
In the 1970's, she acknowledged in her book, she hired and dismissed top executives at Newsweek, the newspaper division and the Washington Post Company too frequently.
She was plagued by health problems and had been confined for some time to her home, where she had lived since high school and where she wrote most of her stories, novels, essays, memoirs and book reviews.
'' She also received the National Book Critics Circle Award, the American Book Award, several O. Henry Awards and the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
'' She also received the National Book Critics Circle Award, the American Book Award, several O. Henry Awards and the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
'' The book's stark, often grim black-and-white photographs revealed that Miss Welty's long-admired sense of observation was not limited to the ear.
Her first hardcover book was a 1941 short-story collection, ''A Curtain of Green,'' with an introduction by Katherine Anne Porter, who had encouraged her early on.
''
        During World War II, Miss Welty was briefly on the staff of The New York Times Book Review and sometimes contributed reviews under the pseudonym Michael Ravenna.
But she returned to Jackson during the 1950's, when her mother and brothers fell seriously ill. For almost 15 years, from the mid-50's to the late 60's, she published just a few short stories, some book reviews and a children's book, ''The Shoe Bird'' (1964).
But she returned to Jackson during the 1950's, when her mother and brothers fell seriously ill. For almost 15 years, from the mid-50's to the late 60's, she published just a few short stories, some book reviews and a children's book, ''The Shoe Bird'' (1964).
Fiction of Family Life
        That book, as well as the short novel ''The Ponder Heart'' (1954) and her longest one, ''Losing Battles'' (1970), are examples of Miss Welty's preoccupation with family life.
Besides her books, she wrote numerous magazine articles and book reviews.
Her book ''Aline'' was a biography of Aline Bernstein, a scenic and costume designer of the 1920's and 1930's (Harper, 1972).
In 1990, a book of her work, ''Skyshades,'' appeared with an introduction by Calvin Tomkins.
Until 1997, she worked as a book conservator in the San Francisco Public Library, a job that enabled her to study traditional type fonts, which became central to her work.
In 1950, she published, with Dr. Robert Russell Race, ''Blood Groups in Man,'' a reference book for nearly 30 years.
Her stories were collected in a book, ''Close Encounters,'' published in 1997 by Outloud Books.
Her first Moomin book to be translated into English, under the title ''Comet in Moominland,'' was published in Swedish in 1945.
It is about the Moomins' efforts to protect themselves from a comet, and it was called ''a gentle, offbeat fantasy'' by The Horn Book, a Boston-based journal of reviews and essays about children's books.
Publishers Weekly said the book ''Moominland Midwinter,'' about one Moomin's roving while others hibernate, would ''hook readers of all ages.
)
        When Ms. Jansson's ''Moominsummer Madness,'' in which the Moomins are threatened by floodwaters, came out in the United States in 1961, Pamela Marsh wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Ms. Jansson had created ''an entirely new world full of cheery dauntless little creatures.
Tove Jansson spent her childhood in Helsinki and went on to study book design in Stockholm and painting in Helsinki, Paris and Florence.
Ms. Yates published her first book in 1938 and wrote more than 50 others into the mid-1990's.
She taught at several French conservatories and wrote a three-volume book that became the standard text for the instrument: ''Technique de l'Onde Electronique Type Martenot'' (Leduc, 1987).
Ms. Hearne, who trained animals and their owners at Silver Trails: The Animal Inn, turned her childhood love of dogs and horses into a life's work and the foundation of a philosophy of human and animal relations and communication that was articulated in her best-known book, ''Adam's Task: Calling Animals by Name'' (Knopf, 1986).
''
        Yi-Fu Tuan, in a review of ''Adam's Task'' in The New York Times Book Review, wrote that Ms. Hearne went ''out of her way to test her reader's credulity.
'' He cited the book's example of a pit bull named Belle, who, he wrote, was ''capable of sizing people up 'not as bite prospects, but as problems in moral philosophy and metaphysics.
It was she who suggested to the Baroness Maria von Trapp that she write a book about her family's experiences.
The resulting book inspired the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ''The Sound of Music.
One was Vincent la Selva and the New York Grand Opera, which recently completed a complete cycle of Verdi's operas in Central Park, an achievement for which Ms. Williamson helped get them a citation in the  Guinness Book of World Records.
'' In her 1989 book, ''First Father, First Daughter,'' (Little, Brown & Company), Ms. Reagan recalled, ''I went out on so many auditions I began to think of changing my middle name to Rejection.
Ms. Reagan's book revealed that she had been the victim of domestic  violence in her first marriage, in 1960, to John Filippone, a Washington policeman.
''
        Larry Speakes, a White House spokesman in the Reagan administration, noted in his book ''Speaking Out,'' that the president's aides, including Secretary of State George P. Shultz, were afraid of Ms. Reagan, known to many as Big Mo.
In ''Running Time: Films of the Cold War'' (1982, Dial Press), her second book, she analyzed the effect of this fervor on Hollywood movie-making in the 1950's.
In her next book, ''Previous Convictions: A Journey Through the 1950's'' (1995, Rutgers University Press), she dug deeper into the period.
''
        She landed a job writing book reviews for The New Statesman.
Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review.
Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review.
She left The Times in 1975 and for the next seven years worked as a freelancer, writing for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation, The Progressive and Esquire, among other publications, and winning a Guggenheim fellowship, 1975-76, and a National Endowment for the Arts grant, 1978.
Ms. Payer's critically praised book, ''Medicine and Culture: Varieties of Treatment in the United States, England, West Germany and France,'' was first published by Holt in 1988.
The book grew from her work as a reporter in Europe writing on health and medical matters.
She contributed to a book, ''Questions Patients Most Often Ask Their Doctors'' (Bantam, 1983), and was the author of ''How to Avoid a Hysterectomy'' (Pantheon, 1987).
''Germaine Brée's remarkable study is not likely to be surpassed for many years,'' Henri Peyre wrote in The New York Times Book Review at the time.
''Germaine Brée's remarkable study is not likely to be surpassed for many years,'' Henri Peyre wrote in The New York Times Book Review at the time.
Among them were ''I Lost It at the Movies'' (1965); ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang'' (1968); ''Going Steady'' (1970); ''Deeper Into Movies'' (1973), a 1974 National Book Award winner; ''Reeling'' (1976); ''When the Lights Go Down'' (1980); ''Hooked'' (1989); ''Movie Love'' (1991); and ''For Keeps'' (1994).
She was 46 when her essays in Partisan Review led to an offer to publish her first book, ''I Lost It at the Movies,'' a collection of her articles and broadcasts, which became a best seller.
In 1996 she published a book, ''Dear Bruno,'' based on a letter she had sent to a 12-year-old who had cancer.
Mrs. Olson wrote ''Hell to Pay'' (Regnery, 1999), a highly critical book about Mrs. Clinton, and recently finished a sequel, ''Final Days,'' about the Clintons' last weeks in the White House.
'' She was working on her third book, ''Bloody Networks,'' at her death.
In her book ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men and The New York Times'' (Random House, 1992),  Ms. Robertson described Ms. Shanahan's reaction.
The book won an award from the International Association of Culinary Professionals.
Ms. Tropp's other book was ''The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking: Techniques and Recipes'' (1982, Morrow).
When their book came out, it carried endorsements on the back cover from Nora Ephron, Anthony Perkins, Rex Reed and Neil Simon.
''
        Correction:  November 13, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Mildred Newman, a New York psychotherapist and author, misstated the title of a best-selling book of which she was co-author.
Anne Malcolm, writing in the The New York Times Book Review last year, said the chronicles, although not widely known nearly 40 years after the first volume appeared, ''are almost certainly destined to be counted among the classics of popular fiction.
The book was accepted with the proviso that it be cut, and ''The Game of Kings,'' the opening book of ''The Lymond Chronicles,'' was published by Putnam in 1961.
The book was accepted with the proviso that it be cut, and ''The Game of Kings,'' the opening book of ''The Lymond Chronicles,'' was published by Putnam in 1961.
An idea of the complexity of Mrs. Dunnett's books can be seen in the list of characters, which, in ''Niccolò Rising,'' 1986, the first book in that series, takes up four pages peppered with historical kings, their mistresses, Medicis and merchants as well as invented characters.
Her book ''Ancient Ways: Reclaiming Pagan Traditions'' (Llewellyn, 1991) told how pagan cultures celebrated holidays, and it sold more than 40,000 copies.
In her book ''Reading in Detail: Aesthetics and the Feminine'' (Methuen, 1987), she argued that men, in taking the universal view, have historically tended to de-emphasize the importance of details.
She wrote the text for a book of her husband's photographs of Giacometti, published in 1987, four years after his death.
