She later wrote an account of the expedition in her book ''The Naked Mountain,'' published by Putnam in 1933.
Another book, ''The Power of the Impossible,'' is scheduled for release this year.
The book, published in 1942, was popular despite a review from Orville Prescott, then the critic for The New York Times, who wrote: ''There is a noticeable trace of mild humor to 'Our Hearts Were Young and Gay,' but it is very mild indeed, about as tasty as junket or cornstarch pudding.
The book, which dealt with the legendary visit of Balkis, the Queen of Sheba, to King Solomon, was assessed in The New York Times Book Review as ''a gay, amusing, witty, sophisticated and exceptionally shrewd novel'' casting an unorthodox light on the meeting between the virgin Queen and the imposing monarch.
The book, which dealt with the legendary visit of Balkis, the Queen of Sheba, to King Solomon, was assessed in The New York Times Book Review as ''a gay, amusing, witty, sophisticated and exceptionally shrewd novel'' casting an unorthodox light on the meeting between the virgin Queen and the imposing monarch.
Her first book, ''Your School, Your Children,'' published in 1944, was an impassioned plea for schools to propagandize democratic values instead of remaining neutral in the war of ideas.
Golda Meir Biography
        In the 1940's Miss Syrkin made the first of many trips to Palestine - later Israel - to interview survivors of the Holocaust and to gather material for her 1947 book, ''Blessed Is the Match: The Story of Jewish Resistance,'' which chronicled the uprising in the Warsaw ghetto and other revolts against the Nazis.
It was Mrs. Tuchman's fourth book, ''The Guns of August,'' a study of the background and beginning of World War I, that made her a celebrity after it came out in 1962, winning reviewers' salutes, a durable niche on best-seller lists and her first Pulitzer Prize.
'' Latest Book a Best Seller
        Her most recent book, ''The First Salute,'' sets the American Revolution in international perspective.
'' Latest Book a Best Seller
        Her most recent book, ''The First Salute,'' sets the American Revolution in international perspective.
An early contribution was a review of a French historian's book about Japan.
''
        In London, she put together a short book, ''The Lost British Policy,'' about British policy toward Spain and the Western Mediterranean.
''After the war, when my husband came home, we had two more children, and domesticity for a while prevailed,'' she wrote later, ''combined with beginning the work I had always wanted to do, which was writing a book.
Writing in The New York Times, Samuel Flagg Bemis, the Yale diplomatic historian, said the value and importance of the book lay in Mrs. Tuchman's ''brilliant use of well known materials, her sureness of insight and her competent grasp of a complicated chapter of diplomatic history.
'' 'The Guns of August'
        Attempting something that might have seemed a bit beyond her reach, Mrs. Tuchman took up a far broader and more important topic in her next book, which was ''The Guns of August.
''
        Though the book was largely about arms and men, it was also about aspirations and ideals.
'' The book, he said, was ''lucid, fair, critical and witty.
'' Emphasized Human Qualities
        The book's emphasis on the human qualities of the leaders of the time helped make it popular with the public, and it served as the basis for a 1964 documentary film, produced by Nathan Kroll, with the same title.
The quarter-century preceding World War I was the subject of Mrs. Tuchman's next book, ''The Proud Tower,'' which came out in 1966.
But he said the book did ''not come up to the high level of 'The Guns of August.
'A Distant Mirror'
        Another book about Asia, ''Notes From China,'' a slim volume about a six-week trip Mrs. Tuchman had taken, appeared in 1972.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Eric Cochrane, a professor of history at the University of Chicago, said, ''This book abounds in the same elements that have made her previous books masterpieces of popular scholarship: vivid battle scenes, scenes from daily life, brilliant portraits.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Eric Cochrane, a professor of history at the University of Chicago, said, ''This book abounds in the same elements that have made her previous books masterpieces of popular scholarship: vivid battle scenes, scenes from daily life, brilliant portraits.
In ''The March of Folly: From Troy to Vietnam,'' a 1984 book, Mrs. Tuchman scrutinized the Trojans' decision to admit the Greek horse into their city, the refusal of six Renaissance Popes to arrest church corruption in advance of the Protestant Reformation, British misrule under King George III and America's mishandling of the Vietnam conflict.
Miss Enters wrote three volumes of autobiography - ''First Person Plural,'' ''Silly Girl'' and ''Artist's Life'' - a novel, ''Among the Daughters'' (1956), and a book about her work, ''On Mime,'' published in 1966.
R. K. Merton's 1968 book, ''On the Shoulders of Giants: the Bea Wright Story,'' published by Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, was based on her case.
Correction:  March 22, 1989, Wednesday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary on Saturday about Beatrice S. W. Fuerst misidentified a book about her battle against polio.
A 1965 book entitled ''On the Shoulders of Giants: A Shandean Postscript,'' written by Robert K. Merton and published by Harcourt Brace, is an unrelated scholarly work.
      
'', a book published in 1934 about American young people, and a memoir, ''A Political Virgin,'' published in 1938.
Her prizes include the Robert Boardman award of the Painters and Sculptors Society of New Jersey, the American Institute of Graphic Arts Exhibition award and the Outstanding Children's Book Illustration award for ''Little Girl and Her Mother'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regnier.
Miss Steloff founded the Gotham Book Mart in 1920 and, over the years, turned it into an international literary haven.
Although Miss Steloff sold the Gotham in 1967 to Andreas Brown, another book lover, she continued to live in an apartment on the third floor, above the store, and remained as a working consultant.
''Sylvia Beach took care of his book wants at Shakespeare & Company in Paris,'' she said.
''There were some days during the Depression when we didn't sell a single book.
'' An Interest in the Mystical
        ''I am not the great brilliant person to decide about how good a book is,'' she said once.
Along with its fame and reputation, the Gotham was also a very carefully operated book business.
'The Gentle Side'
        Vigorous and energetic, Miss Hall made three trips to China while in her 80's and continued reading at least one book a week.
The book, an illustrated history of the United States, was a compilation of writing by Americans like Thoreau and Jefferson.
But Congress refused to appropriate money for the United States Information Agency to purchase the book for its libraries abroad after a House appropriations subcommittee objected to the work on the basis of pictures that showed a rural schoolhouse and a plain-looking schoolteacher.
''Is Congress to pass on every book, to censor every publication?
''
        The foreword to the book was written by Charles A. Lindbergh, and the introduction was by Louis Bromfield.
Mrs. Kornfeld, who wrote the book before she was married, waived her royalties.
Miss Ryerson studied art with Robert Henri and Charles Hawthorne, and edited Mr. Henri's ''Art Spirit,'' a book on the philosophy of art.
In 1933 she wrote ''No Nice Girl Swears'' (St. Martin's Press), a sassy book of etiquette that immediately became a best seller.
It took years of foreign correspondence and the publishing in 1943 of her favorite book, ''Blind Date with Mars,'' (Doubleday Doran) about a journey through the Far East, before the furor cooled off.
Last year, Mrs. Pirone wrote a book about her father, ''My Dad, the Babe,'' which was co-authored by Chris Martens and published on the 40th anniversary of her father's death, Aug. 16, 1988.
Besides her standard ''Never mind,'' Miss Radner coined the catch phrase for the scatterbrained Roseanne Roseannadanna, ''It's always something,'' which became the title of a book she wrote detailing her fight with ovarian cancer.

       Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
''
        ''Margot not only revivified the American picture book, but was one of the very few who helped elevate it to an art form,'' said Maurice Sendak, the children's book author and illustrator.
''
        ''Margot not only revivified the American picture book, but was one of the very few who helped elevate it to an art form,'' said Maurice Sendak, the children's book author and illustrator.
'' Won the Caldecott Medal
        ''I consider her the consummate illustrator for children's literature,'' said William Steig, the childrens' book author and illustrator, and a magazine artist for The New Yorker.
''
        In 1974, for ''Duffy and the Devil,'' Ms. Zemach won the Caldecott Medal, the most prestigious American award for children's book illustration, sponsored by the American Library Association.
She was twice selected as the American nominee for the Hans Christian Andersen Medal for illustration, the most prestigious international children's book award.
Their first book, ''Small Boy Is Listening,'' published under the double byline of Margot and Harve Zemach appeared in 1959.
At the time of her death Ms. Zemach was working on a picture book of ''Mother Goose'' nursery rhymes.
After she left Life magazine, Mrs. Kirkland wrote a book about Claire McCardell, her favorite designer, and contributed articles to the RAM Report, a monthly trade journal.
In her book, ''Christine Jorgensen: A Personal Biography,'' published in 1967, Miss Jorgensen said she had a normal, happy childhood but on growing up became frustrated by feelings that she was a woman trapped in a man's body.
''
        Mrs. Weston wrote 10 novels; more than 30 short stories, most of which appeared in The New Yorker magazine; two nonfiction books - on Ceylon and Afghanistan, respectively - and a children's book.
''
        Harold H. Watts, quoted in the 1972 book ''Contemporary Novelists,'' concluded that ''her novels are designed to be read with a glass of sherry in the hand, preferably in the company of persons as basically sensible as the ideal reader of Miss Tracy's work.
In his 1973 book about WQXR, ''Rebel in Radio,'' he hailed her comments on foreign news and cultural events.
Spock's Baby & Child Care'' (E. P. Dutton), which was published in 1946 by Duell, Sloan & Pearce as ''The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care.
'' The book has sold more than 34 million copies in 31 languages.
Ms. Duenewald, as she was known professionally, spent her career in children's book publishing.
In 1968, she published a book about her experiences entitled ''Noah's Ark.
She published her first book ''Stop Dieting!
Her other books include ''The Teen-Age Diet Book'' (Julian Messner, 1957).
Mrs. Tanner's book, ''On Becoming Human,'' published by Cambridge Press in 1981, reconstructed early social behavior from field studies of primates and of human food-gathering societies, as well as from fossil and archeological data.
In the book Mrs. Tanner developed , a theory of human origins that focused on the role of female food-gatherers in evolution.
Miss Williams wrote many essays and articles on Haitian dance and also a book, ''Haiti Dance.

       An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 73 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June in her family, published her first book of poems at 22 under the title ''June's Verses.
Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June in her family, published her first book of poems at 22 under the title ''June's Verses.
In the book, she wrote that although New York was the least beloved of cities, it was the most desired.
In a book of her favorite photographs and sketches edited by Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and published by Doubleday in 1980, she continued her penchant for aphorisms.
The book, ''Men, Money & Magic: The Story of Dorothy Schiff,'' by Jeffrey Potter, was published by Coward, McCann & Geoghegan in 1976.
Much of the book is devoted to her relationships with her husbands and male friends, including President Franklin D. Roosevelt, who persuaded her to build a home near his in Hyde Park, N.Y.
Mrs. Schiff came to regret what she called ''that awful book.
Miss Honeycutt was co-author with James A. Kinney, a veterinarian, of ''How to Raise a Dog in the City, In the Suburbs,'' a highly praised book with drawings by James Thurber.

       Margaret B. Parkinson, a book and magazine editor, died of pancreatic cancer Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Margaret B. Parkinson, a book and magazine editor, died of pancreatic cancer Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
I just bought a wonderful book for you,' '' she quoted Mr. Warner as saying.
''
        It was never a secret that Miss Davis was temperamental, opinionated and often difficult to get along with, but in 1985 a scandalous book about her, by her own daughter, shocked her critics as well as her fans.
''
        One of her books, ''Cry of the People,'' received the Sidney Hillman Foundation book award in 1981 and was cited by The New York Times Book Review as one of the most notable nonfiction books of 1980.
''
        One of her books, ''Cry of the People,'' received the Sidney Hillman Foundation book award in 1981 and was cited by The New York Times Book Review as one of the most notable nonfiction books of 1980.
Her most recent book was ''Women Over Forty: Visions and Realities.
She had celebrated public skirmishes with Philip Rahv, Diana Trilling and Lillian Hellman; issued vitriolic pronouncements on Watergate and the Vietnam War, and became known for the ferocity of her book and theater reviews.
She was nominated for a National Book Award in 1979 for her translation of ''The Horse of Pride'' by Pierre-Jakez Helias.

       Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. She was 84 years old.
Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. She was 84 years old.
Mrs. Cash, who was known professionally as Ellen Lewis Buell, ended her 32-year career as a member of the Sunday book review staff in July 1963, retiring to the Cash family farm in Wildwood, Ga., south of Chattanooga.
After being hired for The Book Review at The Times, she served as a clerk and secretary, listed new books, answered readers' queries and tried her hand at reviews.
She also wrote the text for a book of drawings from a hospital bed by her husband, Vittorio Scarpati, an artist who died of AIDS in September.
Dr. Farrar helped shape the debate over improving public education with her writings, particularly her best-known work, ''The Shopping Mall High School,'' a book she wrote with Arthur G. Powell and David K. Cohen in 1985.
When the City Bar Association honored her last year at an annual dinner, she noted dryly, ''I'd rather be reading a book.
Dr. Ma was co-editor with Dr. David Armstrong of the book, ''Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome and Infections of Homosexual Men,'' published by Yorke Medical Books in 1984.
She was educated in the New York City public schools and in the early 1950's joined the children's book publishers William R. Scott.
'' Her latest book, ''Just My Size,'' is scheduled to be published in 1990 by Harper & Row.
Her book, he added, was largely responsible for rescuing the five almost-forgotten architects - Bernard Maybeck, Irving Gill, R. M. Schindler and Charles and Henry Greene - from obscurity.
That book led the critic John Ciardi to declare: ''May Swenson is not a promise, but a fact.
