Ms. Kushner gained national recognition in 1975, when she wrote about her battle with breast cancer in a book, ''Why Me?
She led classes, workshops and monthly meetings for librarians in book reviewing, storytelling and book collections.
She led classes, workshops and monthly meetings for librarians in book reviewing, storytelling and book collections.
Author of a Dozen Books
        Tall, blond and with blue eyes, she gave beauty advice to women in more than a dozen books, including ''Make Your Name in Modeling and Television,'' ''Finishing Touches,'' ''Look Your Best,'' ''Between Us Girls'' and ''Candy Jones' Complete Book of Beauty and Fashion.
In a 1986 book, ''His Way: The Unauthorized Biography of Frank Sinatra,'' Kitty Kelley attributed the following quotation to the actress:
        ''You start with love, or what you think is love, and then comes the work.
Miss van Praagh was the author of ''How I Became a Dancer'' and, with Peter Brinson, of the influential book ''The Art of Choreography'' (1963).
After her family moved to her father's native town of Van Hornesville, she wrote and published her first book, ''At Midnight on the 31st of March'' (1938), in blank verse.

       Mary O'Neill, a children's book author, died of heart failure on Jan. 2 in Yuma (Ariz.) Regional Medical Center.
Mary O'Neill, a children's book author, died of heart failure on Jan. 2 in Yuma (Ariz.) Regional Medical Center.
The book was used as a supplementary text in schools in the United States and abroad.
'' J. H. Plumb, in The New York Times Book Review, called her work ''incomparable'' in making ''one of the dullest forms of literature a brilliant work of art.
Robert Pinskey, in The New York Times Book Review, lauded her ''clean and unpretentious prose style, her aristocratic disdain for cant and her frank worldiness.
She won awards from the National Book Critics Circle, the English Speaking Union and Hunter College, where, her brother said, she was to begin teaching a writing course today.
In 1977 she collected letters sent by her mother from India, where Lillian Carter served in the Peace Corps, for a book, ''Away From Home: Letters to My Family.
She also wrote a number of books, the most recent of which was ''Jane Grigson's Book of British Cookery'' (Atheneum, 1985).
Others included ''Food with the Famous'' (Atheneum, 1980); ''Jane Grigson's Vegetable Book'' (Atheneum, 1979); ''The Mushroom Feast'' (Knopf, 1975), and ''The Art of Charcuterie'' (Knopf, 1967).
Two Sisters, One Lover
        Her next book was ''The Echoing Grove,'' about the relationship between two sisters and the man who is the husband of one and the lover of the other.
With shifts of time and approach, the same incidents in the book are seen through the eyes of different people.
The book was written after the bitter breakup of Miss Lehmann's love affair with the poet Cecil Day Lewis, and critics said it carried clear traces of that time in her life.

       Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
Helen Hoke, who wrote nearly 100 children's books and set up and ran children's book divisions in five publishing companies, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.
''
        In the late 1930's, Ms. Hoke inaugurated and managed children's book departments at several publishing houses, including Henry Holt, Reynal & Hitchcock and Julian Messer.
Jean Vestal of Franklin Watts said one of Ms. Hoke's contributions to children's book publishing was her early support of the Bologna International Children's Book Fair in Italy, which has become an important element in the industry.
Jean Vestal of Franklin Watts said one of Ms. Hoke's contributions to children's book publishing was her early support of the Bologna International Children's Book Fair in Italy, which has become an important element in the industry.
It was her 32d book and her first nonfiction work.
Ms. Hoke was also executive director of the Julia Ellsworth Ford Foundation, which conducted annual children's book competitions.
It was a Book of the Month Club selection in 1953.
She developed another of her stories, ''The Horse Called Pete,'' into a children's book in 1948, the first of 28 books for young people.
A memorial service will be held on May 5 in the Celeste Bartos Forum of the library, and a book fund in her name will be established for the Berg Collection.
      
But in 1976, in a book titled ''A Man Called Intrepid: The Secret War,'' William Stevenson disclosed that she had helped Britain by identifying high-level Nazi sympathizers in Stockholm and by providing introductions and carrying messages for British agents.
The critic, Brooks Atkinson, wrote that ''Kiss Me, Kate,'' had ''the best musical comedy book of the year.

       Jill Ireland, the British-born movie actress who chronicled her long battle against breast cancer in a best-selling book, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Malibu, Calif. She was 54 years old.
Jill Ireland, the British-born movie actress who chronicled her long battle against breast cancer in a best-selling book, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Malibu, Calif. She was 54 years old.
Ms. Ireland, the wife of the actor Charles Bronson, told the story of her diagnosis, mastectomy, chemotherapy and self-discovery in her 1987 book, ''Life Wish.
'' In The New York Times Book Review, Alison Friesinger praised the book for its ''wonderfully human details'' and said that it was ''constantly enlivened by Ms. Ireland's grace and fortitude.
'' In The New York Times Book Review, Alison Friesinger praised the book for its ''wonderfully human details'' and said that it was ''constantly enlivened by Ms. Ireland's grace and fortitude.
''
        Coping With Adversity
        Ms. Ireland also wrote of coping with adversity in her 1989 book, ''Life Lines.
At the time of her death she was writing a third book, called ''Life Times.
Her first book, ''The Children of Green Knowe,'' was praised in The New Yorker in 1955 as ''an uncommon tale with a gratifying blend of the eerie, the sinister and the familiar.
''The book encapsulates the best qualities of her work,'' said The Times of London, which went on to list ''a crystal-clear style of storytelling, a respect for the innocence and intelligence of the young reader, a serious treatment of supernatural phenomena, a regard for all natural life and a belief that a man-centered conception of the world is false and crippling.
''
        The Entertaining Insight
        In the introduction to her first book, ''The Fashion Makers,'' published in 1978, when designers were achieving the star status of athletes and entertainers, Mrs. Walz described her approach.
Her most recent book, ''The Stone Speaks: The Memoir of a Personal Transformation,'' was published in 1987.
Translated Into Chinese
        Her book, ''Teaching Elementary Science Through Investigation and Colloquium,'' first published in 1971, was translated into Chinese, and more than 30,000 copies have been distributed to educators in China.
In 1948, her book ''Nursing for the Future'' recommended that professional schools of nursing be established at universities and that clinical nursing specialties be developed.
' ''
        ''She had always wanted to write a book,'' Mr. Burns said, adding that their father had been a storyteller and that Ms. Burns had been taking copious notes of his tales, some of which inspired ''Cold Sassy Tree.
Martha Dodd came to public attention in 1939 when her first book, ''Through Embassy Eyes,'' was published.
Then in her 20's, she was at first favorably impressed by the new leaders of Nazi Germany but her later disillusionment was reflected in her book.
In 1984, Westminster Press published her book ''Self and Family.
The book dealt with the pressures on young families that affect decisions about child care, as well as guidelines for choosing alternative care.
Her 1980 article for The New York Times Magazine on Raoul Wallenberg, the Swedish diplomat who saved hundreds of Hungarian Jews from the Nazis in the 1940's and who later disappeared behind the Iron Curtain, led to a book, ''Raoul Wallenberg: The Man in the Iron Web.
'' The book, he continued, ''is guaranteed to shock you into awareness of its author as an original thinker.
She was also a co-author of ''Uncoupling: The Art of Coming Apart'' (1972), a book about divorce.
In ''Theodora Goes Wild,'' she played a prim New Englander who writes a daring book and tries to live up to it.In several other farces, including ''The Awful Truth'' and ''My Favorite Wife,'' she and Cary Grant chased each other around with lively wit and dizzying backtalk.
In ''Theodora Goes Wild,'' she played a prim New Englander who writes a suggestive book and struggles to live up - or down - to it.
She was a colleague of Ann Carrol Moore, the founder of the New York Children's Library System, and was a regular contributor to The New York Herald Tribune's children's book column started by Mrs. Moore.
Mrs. Mowrer's first book, ''Journalist's Wife,'' appeared in 1937 and was promptly banned in Germany by the Nazis.
Her last book, published in 1961, was ''The Indomitable John Scott: Citizen of Long Island,'' a biography of a 17th-century Colonial adventurer.
'' She appeared on Broadway in 1972 in ''The Little Black Book.
''
        Among her books are ''Flippy's Flashlight'' a children's book published by Dutton in 1958.
Her research on human aggression is the subject of a new book, ''The Balance of Deaths'' (University of Arizona Press).
" She said she derived the name of her book dealership, Booknoll Farm, "from the fact that in 1950 I moved the horses and sheep out of the old barn and converted it to make room for me and my 13,000 books on gardening.
In her book Miss Martin recalled that Weatherford was famous for its watermelons.
" As she recalled in her book, "A man reclining on a couch said, very mildly, 'Carry on, on all fours.
Bella Spewack, co-author of the book with her husband, Sam Spewack, asked Miss Martin if she had ever been on the New York stage.
Emmy Nominations and a Prize
        "Plain Speaking," Mrs. Sobieski's 1976 adaptation of Merle Miller's book about Harry S. Truman, won Emmy nominations for best script and best program, and a best-actor award for Ed Flanders.
A First Book at 37
        The daughter of a celebrated English author, artist and naturalist, Ernest Thompson Seton, and an American writer of travel books, Grace Gallatin, Miss Seton did not produce her first successful book until she was 37 years old.
A First Book at 37
        The daughter of a celebrated English author, artist and naturalist, Ernest Thompson Seton, and an American writer of travel books, Grace Gallatin, Miss Seton did not produce her first successful book until she was 37 years old.
A Gothic tale set along the Hudson River in the 1840's, it was serialized by the Ladies' Home Journal, selected by the Dollar Book Club, translated into nine languages and made into a film starring Vincent Price as a feudal overlord who tyrannizes his tenant farmers, kills his wife and takes up with a distant relative, played by Gene Tierney.

        Lucy S. Dawidowicz, a scholar of Jewish life and history whose book "The War Against the Jews" is widely regarded as a pioneering study of the Nazi genocide, died early Wednesday in Manhattan.
Evidence Over Passion
        "The War Against the Jews" (Holt, Rinehart & Winston) was called "a work of high scholarship and profound moral import" by Irving Howe, in his review in The New York Times Book Review.
Defended Role of Jews
        In her book "The Holocaust and the Historians," Mrs. Davidowicz is critical of a number of historians and commentators -- Bruno Bettelheim, Hannah Arendt and Raul Hilberg are among those she mentions -- who described the European Jews during the war as passive, cowardly or, in the case of the Judenrat, set up by the Nazis as self-governing boards in the ghettos, even collaborationist.
She was a contributing editor of Publishers Weekly, a book critic and columnist for Mademoiselle and Cosmopolitan magazines, and a writer of reviews and articles for The New York Times Book Review and other publications.
She was a contributing editor of Publishers Weekly, a book critic and columnist for Mademoiselle and Cosmopolitan magazines, and a writer of reviews and articles for The New York Times Book Review and other publications.
As movie offers dwindled, Miss Bennett turned to the stage and made successful national tours in such plays as "Susan and God," "Bell, Book and Candle," "Once More With Feeling," "The Pleasure of His Company" and "Never Too Late.
In 1946 she published a book "The Road to Wimbledon.
That same year, a children's book she wrote and illustrated, "The Wonderful Poodle," was published.
Her last book, a joint venture with her daughter, an illustrator of children's books, is titled "The Last Princess: Kaiulani of Hawaii.

        Gwen Harold Terasaki, whose book "Bridge to the Sun," about her life as the wife of a Japanese diplomat during World War II in Japan, became a best seller and a movie, died on Saturday after a brief illness.
