'' The book was a response to research into the Type A personality so often associated with hard-driving men.
In another book, ''The Disease to Please,'' she described a destructive propensity that drives people, usually women, to serve others to the detriment of their own well-being.
In the introduction to ''The September 11 Syndrome,'' published four months after the 2001 attacks, she described the premise of the book as helping readers turn ''our collective emotional adversity'' into their own psychological victories.
The book prescribed steps to control feelings of helplessness and anxiety awakened by terrorism.
Although her earliest works examined alcoholism, depression and destructive relationships, her most recent book, ''Who's Pulling Your Strings?
''There are two reasons why I'm doing this book,'' she said in an interview in the reference work Contemporary Authors.
In her review for The New York Times in September 1991, Janet Maslin characterized the book as a ''stunningly uneventful 823-page holding action.
''
        It engineers at least a temporary reconciliation with Rhett, with Scarlett even cooking breakfast for him, but such touches led many reviewers to say the characters seemed to have mellowed in ways never suggested by the original book.
'' It was derived from the Oxford Companion to New Zealand Literature (Oxford University Press), as reprinted on the New Zealand Book Council's web site, www.bookcouncil.org.nz.
      
Her most famous book, ''The Wolves of Willoughby Chase,'' illustrated by Pat Marriott, appeared in 1962 and became an evergreen.
Charles Schlesinger, an agent at Brandt & Hochman, said the book sold many thousands of copies every year in English and various translations; it is still in print in the 1987 Delacorte edition.
Mr. Schlesinger said that what is apparently her final book, ''The Witch of Clatteringshaws,'' is scheduled for publication by Delacorte next January.
A best seller, that book was also made into a successful movie in 1996, starring Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn and Bette Midler.
''
        According to ''The Complete Book of the Summer Olympics,'' by David Wallechinsky, the Olympic team doctor had reported that she was suffering from acute alcoholism, but Holm denied it.
Mrs. Schecter's 1982 book, ''Women and Male Violence: The Visions and Struggles of the Battered Women's Movement,'' a history and analysis of early efforts against domestic violence, is considered a groundbreaking work.
The book was intended as a resource for abused women.
She goes into this more in her book, ''Closing the Leadership Gap: Why Women Can and Must Help Run the World,'' due out next month from Viking Press.
Ms. Gamarekian told some details to the historian Robert Dallek when he was researching his book, ''An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963.
She started the book in 1964, but it had barely reached three chapters, when a diagnosis of cancer stopped her.
'' She said she ''just let the book take over and write itself.
Her death was reported by Marian Horosko, who is writing a book about her.
(Angelica Garnett, the daughter of Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell, Virginia Woolf's sister, published a well-reviewed book about her Bloomsbury childhood, ''Deceived by Kindness,'' in 1985.
She appeared on television to publicize his first book, ''Understanding the Female Orgasm'' (Basic, 1973), which, among other correlations, linked women's sexual responsiveness to their enjoyment of food.
Mrs. Beck brought an august intellectual heritage, an elephantine memory and bristling energy to refining, enlarging and, sometimes, subtracting from a reference book that few libraries are without.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1981, James Atlas compared the 15th edition of Bartlett's to the 10th anniversary issue of Rolling Stone.
In the preface she was cited for her ''highly competent and critical service'' but not singled out as the book's editor.
During the preparation of that book, she wrote memo after memo, some of which made the case for keeping some of Shakespeare's most famous passages.
She thus became the obvious choice to edit the next edition of the book, the 14th, which was published in 1968.
She read the entire book and could not find the lines.
The obituary also misstated the timing of the book's inclusion of the quotation ''E.T., phone home.
''True crime is the hottest game in town,'' J. Anthony Lukas wrote in The New York Times Book Review about the two books, both published in 1985.
Marc Schreuder testified against his mother, saying she must be stopped, according to Mr. Coleman's book.
The article also misstated the title of a book about the case by Jonathan Coleman.
She was co-author of an underground book, ''Memory,'' which chronicled Stalin's terror, and she was a leading contributor to the underground publication Chronicle of Current Events.
Her death followed a fall in front of her house in Point Lookout, N.Y., in November from which she never recovered, said Mary Henderson, who is writing a book about her.
A graduate of Boston's elite Girls' Latin School and Emmanuel College, Ms. McGrory got her start as secretary to the book editor of The Boston Herald Traveler.
She also wrote book reviews and the kind of features she called ''dog stories,'' but she was ''crazy'' about newspapering and felt stymied, Ms. McGrory said in an oral history for the Washington Press Club Foundation.
She moved to The Washington Star as a book reviewer in 1947.

        Kamala Markandaya, the novelist who helped forge the image of India for American readers in schools and book clubs from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on May 16 at her home in London.
Ms. Markandaya is best known for her first book, ''Nectar in a Sieve,'' which introduced millions of readers to rural life in an industrialized India through the eyes a peasant woman named Rukmani.
''The more they did to us, the meaner we got,'' she said in an interview for John Dittmer's 1994 book, ''Local People: The Struggle for Civil Rights in Mississippi.
This family history was reported in the book, ''Mississippi Harmony, Memoirs of a Freedom Fighter'' (Macmillan, 2002), written by Mrs. Hudson and Constance Curry.
In 1937, Mrs. Hudson and her sister Dovie began a habit of going to the courthouse and trying to register ''for the heck of it,'' she wrote in the book.
''With that action, Courtenay-Latimer became the point person and den mother for all who were to study the fish,'' said Dr. Keith S. Thomson, professor emeritus of natural history at Oxford University and author of the book ''Living Fossil: The Story of the Coelacanth'' (1991).
Mr. Breslin's book, ''I Want to Thank My Brain for Remembering Me'' (Little, Brown and Company, 1996), was about his successful operation for a brain aneurysm.
Ms. Breslin's book, ''Not Exactly What I Had in Mind: An Incurable Love Story'' (Random House, 1997), was about coping with regular and painful blood transfusions while also growing into a marriage and career.
She recovered and was able to write her book and, in 2000, help her husband establish an Internet venture, HauteDecor.com, a virtual interior design center that foundered, like many other Web ventures of the time.
She became an associate editor there before moving to Charles Scribner's Sons, then followed Mrs. Hirschman to the children's book department at Macmillan.

        Paula Danziger, who established herself as a writer of popular fiction for young readers with her first book, ''The Cat Ate My Gymsuit,'' died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan.
After being injured in two automobile accidents, she decided not to postpone her ambition any longer and wrote her first book.
The book led to two hugely popular series of Amber Brown adventures, the original for middle school students and a later one for early readers.
A book she wrote in 1955 with the actress Gertrude Berg, ''The Molly Goldberg Cookbook,'' based on Ms. Berg's famous television character, was reissued most recently in 1999.
Her first book, as editor, was ''The Complete Round-the-World Cookbook,'' featuring recipes gathered by Pan American Airways (Doubleday, 1954, revised 1973).
Correction:  August 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Myra Waldo, an author of travel guides and cookbooks, gave an incomplete title for a book she wrote with the actress Gertrude Berg.
Correction:  July 19, 2004, Monday  An obituary of the radical feminist and writer Corinne Grad Coleman on July 11 misstated her connection to the book ''Daring to Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967-1975,'' by Alice Echols (University of Minnesota Press, 1989).
While Ms. Coleman was interviewed and quoted for the book, her own writing does not appear in it.
      
The Washington Post, The Los Angeles Times and book publishers like Dell, Random House and Simon & Schuster also printed puzzles she constructed.
The puzzle was built around Lewis Carroll's 1872 book, ''Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There,'' and required potential solvers to think backward.
Helene Hovanec, the author of a book on crossword puzzle constructors called ''Creative Cruciverbalists'' (Morrow, 1988), said that Mrs. Hansen taught Sunday school for 12 years and noticed, when she quit, that her friends were addicted to the Sunday puzzle.
''
        Correction:  July 16, 2004, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Frances Hansen, a constructor of crossword puzzles, misstated part of the solution to a 1964 puzzle she designed around Lewis Carroll's book ''Through the Looking-Glass.
The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art added two Ringl & Pit prints to its collection in 1983 and in 1987 reproduced them in the book, ''Photography: A Facet of Modernism.
She became the first editor of Scholastic's Arrow Book Club, a series of inexpensive editions for pupils in the fourth through sixth grades, and the Lucky Book Club, a similar program for younger readers.
She became the first editor of Scholastic's Arrow Book Club, a series of inexpensive editions for pupils in the fourth through sixth grades, and the Lucky Book Club, a similar program for younger readers.
Correction:  August 5, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Lilian Moore, a children's author, misstated her role with Scholastic's Lucky Book Club for younger pupils.
(Ms. Moore was, however, the first editor of the company's Arrow Book Club, for pupils in Grades 4 to 6.
Her nonfiction book on the war, 'Winners & Losers' (Random House, 1977), won a National Book Award in 1978 but she described it as 'too huge and somewhat messy.
Her nonfiction book on the war, 'Winners & Losers' (Random House, 1977), won a National Book Award in 1978 but she described it as 'too huge and somewhat messy.
''
        Another book in 1985, ''Some American Men,'' published by Simon & Schuster, ranged further into the souls of her countrymen and their afflictions in sports and love as well as in war.
''The book provoked hostility among friends, and others felt it was anti-Israel, but Ms. Emerson insisted this was not the reason for writing it,'' she explained later, in the obituary she left behind.
Correction:  August 30, 2004, Monday  An obituary of the chef and cookbook author Leslie Revsin on Aug. 13 misstated the title of her first book.
''I was jealous,'' said Mr. Pépin, who met Mrs. Child in 1960 and saw the book in manuscript.
''It was just the kind of book I would have liked to do.
''
        The introduction showed Mrs. Child at her most direct: ''This is a book for the servantless American cook who can be unconcerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time schedules, children's meals, the parent-chauffeur-den mother syndrome or anything else which might interfere with the enjoyment of producing something wonderful to eat.
'' The book, she wrote, could well be titled ''French Cooking From the American Supermarket.
''
        As revolutionary as the book was, it might have only gathered cobwebs in bookstores alongside ''Escoffier's Guide Culinaire'' if not for Mrs. Child's way with a whisk on camera.
Invited onto a book show on WGBH to talk about ''Mastering,'' she chose to whip up an omelet, beating the eggs in a giant copper bowl.
While Mrs. Child has been credited with inspiring a boom in French restaurants, an explosion of fancy food markets and even the arrival of the Food Network, she insisted her original book and program benefited from ''a concatenation of factors'' in the early 1960's.
She was awarded a George Foster Peabody Award in 1965, the National Book Award for ''Julia Child and More Company'' in 1980 and the Légion d'Honneur from the French government in 2000.
Lucy Moorhead in her 1979 book, ''Entertaining in Washington,'' called Mrs. Alsop ''glue,'' because she listened intently to loquacious bigwigs, often a key to a good dinner party.
Her work ranged from popular novels to searingly political works like ''Massacre in Mexico'' (Viking, 1975), by the French-born Mexican journalist Elena Poniatowska, whose book is a reconstructive collage of the night of Oct. 2, 1968, when the Mexican army fired on a crowd of unarmed students and other protesters.
Her best-known book was ''Manet and the Modern Tradition'' (Yale, 1977), which won the Charles Rufus Morey Award for art history scholarship.
Her dissertation on the Renaissance sculptor Jacopo della Quercia was published as a book in 1965.
At the time of her death, Professor Goffen was working on a book about women in the Renaissance and the Last Judgment as painted by artists from Giotto to Michelangelo.
By early 1958, the book had sold 810,000 copies in France and more than a million in the United States and had been translated into 20 languages.
In ''Et Toute Ma Sympathie,'' a 1993 book made up largely of reflections, she included a poem in which she called herself ''this bizarre woman, childish and messed up.
The book begins with what has come to be seen as a vintage Sagan sentence: ''A strange melancholy pervades me, to which I hesitate to give the grave and beautiful name of sorrow.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1983, Nora Johnson praised ''the grace and freshness of her early novels, those slender tales of love between aged children and middle-aged burnouts that seemed so remarkable when they began appearing in the 50's,'' observing that Ms. Sagan ''seemed to know everything then.
She wrote a book about the artist, ''Peter Voulkos: A Dialogue With Clay'' .
Although both a ceramist and a painter, Ms. Radi was best known for her book ''Baghdad Diaries,'' a vivid account of the texture of daily life during the first gulf war and its aftermath, when she found shelter from the bombing in the family orchard in a well-to-do neighborhood.
''
        After the book was reissued last year in the wake of the second gulf war, Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review in The New York Times that ''the opening sections of these diaries give the reader a tactile and highly personal sense of how the allied bombing of Baghdad in 1991 affected ordinary Iraqi civilians.
The book brims with criticism of the United States for making Iraqi civilians bear the brunt of the violence in their efforts to overthrow Saddam Hussein, while depicting the grim resignation and black humor Iraqis used to survive under his violent rule.
''
        After her book's publication Ms. Radi, uncertain of the reaction from the government, chose to live in exile in Beirut, following something of a family tradition.
Reviewing ''Ants on the Melon'' in The New York Times Book Review, Brad Leithauser wrote, ''Given how much darkness the book contains -- meditations on the atom bomb, her husband's death, a drowned girl, the literal dark of blindness -- it casts a surprisingly bright afterglow.
Reviewing ''Ants on the Melon'' in The New York Times Book Review, Brad Leithauser wrote, ''Given how much darkness the book contains -- meditations on the atom bomb, her husband's death, a drowned girl, the literal dark of blindness -- it casts a surprisingly bright afterglow.
Dr. Lehmann's many books include ''The Pedimental Sculptures of the Hieron in Samothrace'' (1962) and ''Samothrace III: The Hieron,'' which was awarded the Alice Davis Hitchcock Book Award of the Society of Architectural Historians in 1969.
Mrs. Hill's account was the subject of a book by John G. Fuller, ''The Interrupted Journey: Two Lost Hours 'Aboard a Flying Saucer''' (Dial, 1966).
By 1978, according to Dr. Walker's book, the A.C.L.U.
According to Dr. Walker's book, ''Contributions rose from less than $300,000 in 1977 to over $3 million in 1988.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Mary Cantwell described how Ms. Gee ''had to survive a crooked contractor, a plague of city inspectors, hours in the Bowery's restaurant supply stores and an inundation of Seven Sisters graduates and dropouts all looking to be doing 'something' that would bring them closer to the arts.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Mary Cantwell described how Ms. Gee ''had to survive a crooked contractor, a plague of city inspectors, hours in the Bowery's restaurant supply stores and an inundation of Seven Sisters graduates and dropouts all looking to be doing 'something' that would bring them closer to the arts.

        Iris Chang, a journalist whose best-selling book, ''The Rape of Nanking,'' a chronicle of the atrocities committed in that city by occupying Japanese forces, helped break a six-decade-long international silence on the subject, committed suicide on Tuesday near Los Gatos, Calif. She was 36 and lived in San Jose.
The book documented the events in Nanking (now Nanjing) during the second Sino-Japanese War, in the years leading up to World War II.
Ms. Chang's book was the first full-length nonfiction account of the event.
Reviewing ''The Rape of Nanking'' in The New York Times Book Review, Orville Schell called it an ''important new book,'' adding that Ms. Chang ''recounts the grisly massacre with understandable outrage.
Reviewing ''The Rape of Nanking'' in The New York Times Book Review, Orville Schell called it an ''important new book,'' adding that Ms. Chang ''recounts the grisly massacre with understandable outrage.
The book drew wide international attention.
She published her first book, ''Thread of the Silkworm'' (Basic Books, 1995), when she was just 27.
At the time of her death, she was researching a book on American soldiers who served in tank units on the Bataan peninsula before World War II, many of whom were captured and imprisoned by the Japanese.
She joined the company in 1999, the year Book 3, ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban,'' appeared.
It was the first book in the series to be published in the United States and Britain in the same year.
With that book, the Potter public-relations machine began to hum with a level of intensity and inventiveness rarely seen in children's publishing.
In an unheard-of measure for a children's title, Book 4, ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,'' was tightly embargoed before its publication in 2000.
Last year, to herald the publication of Book 5, ''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix,'' the first copy, inscribed by the author, was delivered by armored car to the New York Public Library.
An editor of children's books for Random House, she preferred Dr. Seuss and Little Bear and asserted in a book review in The New York Times that children ''can hear the rhythm of beautifully turned phrases and follow the suspense of a good story line.
By the time she left, in 1979, she had established herself as a model for many others looking for a career in children's book publishing.
'' By the end of the 1960's, she had done more than two dozen book from American publishers like Houghton, Scholastic, Bobbs-Merrill and LittleBrown.
Some of her recent books were about dinosaurs, and four are currently in print: ''Before the Dinosaurs'' (1996), illustrated by Michael Rothman; ''The Dino Quiz Book'' (1995), illustrated by Nate Evans; ''Let's Go Dinosaur Tracking!
'' about a baby snowshoe rabbit, which The New Yorker called ''a poetic book.
'' (1953), republished 20 years later as ''The Rabbit's World,'' was named a Caldecott Honor Book.
'' In 1946 the dance historian Grace Robert praised that interpretation in ''The Borzoi Book of Ballets,'' writing that ''Markova's deerlike shyness in the first scene, her tragic, controlled despair, the exquisite movement of her hand as she wakes up in the tomb scene, all are unforgettable in their subtlety.
One of her most famous works, however, was not a book, but an essay, ''Notes on Camp,'' published in 1964 and still widely read.
Her most recent book, published last year, was ''Regarding the Pain of Others,'' a long essay on the imagery of war and disaster.
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
'' That book's title essay, in which she argued that art should be experienced viscerally rather than cerebrally, helped cement her reputation as a champion of style over content.
''
        That book, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism in 1978, explored the role of the photographic image, and the act of picture-taking in contemporary culture.
''
        That book, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism in 1978, explored the role of the photographic image, and the act of picture-taking in contemporary culture.
''
        The Washington Post Book World called ''On Photography'' ''a brilliant analysis,'' adding that it '' merely describes a phenomenon we take as much for granted as water from the tap, and how that phenomenon has changed us -- a remarkable enough achievement, when you think about it.
Though very much a novel of ideas -- it explored, among other things, notions of aesthetics and the psychology of obsessive collecting -- the book was also a big, old-fashioned historical romance.
The book spent two months on The New York Times best-seller list.
Though ''In America'' received a National Book Award, critical reception was mixed.
As the longtime aide-de-camp of the composer and producer Jule Styne, she assisted in the fabled 1952 rebirth of ''Pal Joey,'' easing the tension between the composer, Richard Rodgers, and the book writer, John O'Hara.
They celebrated his achievements in their book ''The Nureyev Image'' (1976).
Her first book in nine years, it includes nearly half of the poems published in her previous eight volumes, starting with ''Valentines to the Wide World'' in 1959.
To readers unfamiliar with her work, ''Selected Poems'' presented a generous and judicious sampling of a long and successful career, Brian Henry wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
''
        Mr. Henry wrote that he considered Ms. Van Duyn's first three books to be her best, especially ''To See, To Take,'' her second, which won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1971.
'')
        Correction:  December 23, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the poet Mona Van Duyn on Dec. 4 misstated the first line of a couplet from her poem ''Sonnet for Minimalists'' and misidentified the first book in which it appeared.
'' The sonnet was first published in book form in ''Near Changes'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1990), not in ''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems'' (Atheneum, 1982).
      
The lectures were collected into a book in 1992, ''Writings,'' which established her as a moral thinker as well as an artist.
She described what she learned in ''Care for the Caretaker,'' an advice book published in 1999.
