Mrs. Smith observed in her book that Mr. Paley's ''peccadillos weren't the only symptom of trouble ahead.
In the book ''More Than Social Studies'' (Prentice-Hall, 1957) she coined the term ''social educator,'' whose classroom becomes ''a particular setting in which children can experience democratic living.
''
        She also wrote a highly regarded travel book in 1979, ''Travels With Myself and Another,'' that was an often humorous recounting of some of her more uncomfortable jaunts to remote corners of the globe, some  with Hemingway, whom she referred to only as Unwilling Companion.
''
        She also ran the magazine's book department for many years, while continuing to write.

        Chessy Rayner, a decorator, fashion icon, editor and author of ''New York: Trends and Traditions,'' a recently published book about significant Manhattan interiors, died on Thursday night at Sloan-Kettering Medical Center in New York.
Dr. Howell acknowledged authorship of the book a few years later.
''
        Dr. Howell also contributed to Working Mother magazine and to ''Our Bodies, Ourselves: A Book by and for Women'' from the Boston Women's Book Collective, whose 25th anniversary update was published by Touchstone in 1996.
''
        Dr. Howell also contributed to Working Mother magazine and to ''Our Bodies, Ourselves: A Book by and for Women'' from the Boston Women's Book Collective, whose 25th anniversary update was published by Touchstone in 1996.
Their responses reminded her of her own painful journey to become a doctor, she said, and she decided to use them as the basis for what became her book for Feminist Press.
Based on her experiences there, she wrote another book, ''Healing at Home: A Guide to Health Care for Children'' (Beacon Press, 1978) She returned to the Boston area to practice pediatrics and psychotherapy.
Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      

        Irene Kampen, who saw her sometimes strife-torn life as such a sitcom that it took Lucille Ball to portray it on television, died on Monday in Oceanside, Calif. She was 75 and the author of the book that inspired ''The Lucy Show.
And when she turned them into a book, ''Life Without George,'' in 1961, she had a new career.
The book came out just as Lucille Ball, whose divorce from Desi Arnaz had undercut the premise of her famous ''I Love Lucy'' television series, was casting around for a new format as a working mother.
The success of the book and of the television series, which ran from 1962 to 1968, helped persuade Mrs. Kampen to continue mining her life for comedy.

        Lily Harmon, an artist who worked in portraiture, assemblage and book illustration, and whose third husband was the collector Joseph H. Hirshhorn, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
One of her more important scholarly contributions was a 1972 book, ''The Function of Documents in Islamic Law.

        Anne Sayre, a short story writer turned scientific sleuth who helped establish the important role played by the British crystallographer Rosalind Franklin in the discovery of the structure of DNA, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Bridgewater, N.J. She was 74 and the author of the 1975 book ''Rosalind Franklin and DNA.
Until Mrs. Sayre's book was published by Norton in 1975, Rosalind Franklin had been little more than a footnote to the history of the discovery of the double helix, the form taken by deoxyribonucleic acid, the stuff of heredity.
In his 1968 best-selling book ''The Double Helix,'' Dr. Watson acknowledged that he had seen a diffraction X-ray photograph of the DNA molecule taken by Dr. Franklin, but he left it unclear just what role the photograph had played in the discovery a few weeks later of the DNA structure.
It might yet have remained a mystery if within months of the book's publication, the world's crystallographers had not held their triennial meeting on Long Island, at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, practically next door to the Sayres' longtime home in the North Shore village of Head of the Harbor.
At the urging of the crystallographers familiar with her work as a short story writer, Mrs. Sayre agreed to do a book on the subject.
After years of research, including a stint in England, she produced the 1975 book.
Indeed, in Mrs. Sayre's book, Dr. Crick went so far as to suggest that Dr. Franklin was just weeks away from making the DNA discovery herself when her unscrupulous associate Dr. Wilkins showed the photograph to Dr. Watson without her permission.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Sayre's book has been widely cited in feminist circles for helping to expose rampant sexism in science.
Before her 1975 book on Rosalind Franklin, Mrs. Sayre had written just one other book, a well-received 1957 book for teen-agers, ''Never Call Retreat,'' about a Quaker family living in the South during Reconstruction.
Before her 1975 book on Rosalind Franklin, Mrs. Sayre had written just one other book, a well-received 1957 book for teen-agers, ''Never Call Retreat,'' about a Quaker family living in the South during Reconstruction.
Before her 1975 book on Rosalind Franklin, Mrs. Sayre had written just one other book, a well-received 1957 book for teen-agers, ''Never Call Retreat,'' about a Quaker family living in the South during Reconstruction.
Working on the Rosalind Franklin book helped prompt Mrs. Sayre to redress an old feminist complaint of her own.
Editor's Note:  July 8, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on March 18 about Anne Sayre, an author, described a book she wrote in 1975 about the role of Rosalind Franklin, a British biologist, in the discovery of the structure of DNA 45 years ago.
She photographed Washington during her spare time, producing images that, in their loneliness, mystery and sadness, predated Robert Frank's book, ''The Americans,'' by more than a decade.
These images were compiled in a 1979 book, ''A Mysterious Presence: Macrophotography of Plants.
Before her death, she was preparing a book of her work, to be published next year by the Smithsonian Institution Press.
She recently finished a 10-year labor of love: writing and assembling a book, ''Lucky Corner, the Biography of Congressman Alfred E. Santangelo and the Rise of Italian-Americans in Politics.
Over the years she also reviewed children's books for The New York Times and was a  judge of its Book Review's list of best-illustrated books.
Her book ''Raphael's Bible: A Study of the Vatican Logge'' was published by Pennsylvania State University in 1983 and her articles appeared regularly in periodicals like the Art Bulletin, the Burlington Magazine and Master Drawings.
David Grafton, the author of the 1992 book ''The Sisters: The Lives and Times of the Fabulous Cushing Sisters'' (Villard Books), wrote that Katherine Cushing once told a gossip columnist that she expected her girls ''to marry into the highest level of European nobility or into America's moneyed aristocracy.
In his book, Mr. Grafton quoted a friend of hers as saying, ''The Jock Whitneys are just about as 'down-to-earth' as any people can be with a quarter of a billion dollars.
Paris in the 1920's and 30's was home to modernists like Henri, who saw photography as the medium to revolutionize visual language in everything from photojournalism and commercial advertising to fashion and book illustration.
One of her more important scholarly contributions was her 1972 book, ''The Function of Documents in Islamic Law.
She wrote a book, ''Gender Gap,'' with her old friend Mim Kelber.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
Mrs. Meilleur, who had a birth certificate and other proofs of age that qualified her for the oldest living person listing in the Guinness Book of World Records, was 117 when she died on Thursday afternoon at a nursing home in North Bay, Ontario.
As Mr. Whiteside tells the story in his book, ''Ramblin' Rose,'' Ms. Maddox, whose original given name was Roselea, and five of her siblings were taken by their parents in 1933 from Big Wills Valley, Ala., where they were sharecroppers, to Glendale, Calif., in a harrowing 2,000-mile trip, hitching rides and jumping boxcars.
Her photographs appeared in Rolling Stone and other rock magazines, and in 1992 she published several hundred of them as a book, ''Linda McCartney's Sixties: Portrait of an Era.
Although she took some stunning pictures of the Beatles at work, she left most of them unpublished until she assembled her ''Sixties'' book.
In 1979, she came out of retirement, performing at clubs including the Waldorf-Astoria's Starlight Roof and the Rainbow Room in New York City, and she made ''The Helen Ward Song Book'' (Lyricon) in 1981.
Her dissertation spelled out her idea of team nursing, and it was published as a book by Teachers College Press under the title ''Nursing Team Organization and Functioning.

        Diana Epstein, a onetime New York book editor whose prosaic need to replace some plastic (ugh!
The book became a best-seller and transformed public perception of the wetlands, which were then considered by most people to be useless swamps that should be drained and developed for farming and housing.
The novelist John Hersey, reviewing the book for The New York Herald Tribune, called it ''a remarkable almost poem'' and said that in the years to come, it would remain ''unique in any company.
''
        Mrs. Douglas began her book simply: ''There are no other Everglades in the world.
But in her book she made her case with a rare blend of science, local lore and history, and shimmering writing: ''The clear burning light of the sun pours daylong into the saw grass and is lost there, soaked up, never given back.
''
        In 1947, the year her book was published, she also helped lead the campaign to have the central core of the Everglades preserved as Everglades National Park.
Among Mrs. Douglas's other works were ''The Key to Paris,'' a book for young readers published in 1961, and a play, ''The Gallows Gate,'' in 1928.
She served on the editorial board of the University of Miami Press and for a time wrote book reviews.
Mrs. Maxwell, the author of the 1961 book ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice,'' had spent the last decades of her life in largely vain efforts to interest drug companies in her discoveries.
'' More adventure story than medical manual, the book, revised in 1975 and in 1990 (Citadel Press), nevertheless described a host of plants she said the Indians used to prevent tooth decay, painlessly extract teeth, dissolve kidney stones, heal burns and cure or prevent scores of other maladies.
She attracted widespread attention in 1942 with ''Vic-Wells: A Ballet Progress,'' a book appraising the company now known as the Royal Ballet.
Only the third woman to be named to the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania's medical school, Dr. Mudd, who later became the first woman to become a full professor there, taught the first course at an American medical school dealing with sexuality, a speciality that led her to help edit Alfred Kinsey's book on female sexuality and to work closely with the Masters and Johnson clinic in St. Louis, to which she contributed thousands of case histories from her own practice.
In 1990, she was co-author of a book, ''Growing Older, Staying Young,'' with Dick Kleiner.
In 1990, she was co-author of a book, ''Growing Older, Staying Young,'' with Dick Kleiner.
She persisted, and the dissertation she turned in was essentially the same book she and a statistician, Sandra Baxter, published in 1980.
One reason for the delay between the dissertation and the book was that after her husband died in 1970, she concentrated on her teaching at Eastern Michigan while stepping up her political activities, unsuccessfully running for several offices, including a House seat.
''
        She edited and wrote the introduction for the book ''Poems of Ambrose Bierce'' (1995, Nebraska), which the literary journal American Notes and Queries, or ANQ, called ''a provocative volume'' that ''should spark further interest in Bierce.
Her first book, an autobiographical novel called ''Kate Hannigan,'' was published in 1950, when she was 44, and Mrs. Cookson was on her way.
Until her book, billed as ''a conversation with William Baldwin,'' a  South Carolina novelist, was published by Algonquin Books last year, Mrs. Whaley's fame had been largely local, but well established.
A woman so attuned to the subtleties of nature that she was forever commenting on the weather and could become ecstatic over the feel of a gentle breeze on the back of her neck, Mrs. Whaley, if her book can be trusted, seemed comfortable speaking in epigrams.
In October, Algonquin is bringing out a second Whaley collaboration with Mr. Baldwin, a book of recipes and family stories, ''Mrs.

        Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris.
''
        In a country whose vaunted cuisine has been largely the province of men, the title of that book, Miss Mathiot's first, has a certain ring of defiance, and no wonder.
If she couldn't do anything else, at least she could cook, and if anybody doubted her, it wasn't the generations of French homemakers who turned her book into the bible of the French kitchen.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
Her book, which included 2,000 recipes covering the canon of French cuisine from lobster bisque to crepe suzette, was an immediate sensation and paved the way for sequels, among them books on bread, pastry and even camping-trips cooking.
By 1942, Mrs. Lipman had published her first book, ''American Primitive Painting'' (Oxford University Press), which remains a standard reference work.
He and Mr. Crouse had collaborated on the book for ''Anything Goes'' and other musicals, before they began writing their adaptation of the Clarence Day stories.
They were on mass-market paperback best-seller lists for years in the United States, Britain and other countries, and, since the first book appeared in 1973, they have never been out of print.
The librarian gave her the wrong book, the ''Propheties de M.
He produced several almanacs and a book of rhymed prophecies called ''Centuries,'' which has stayed in print through 300 editions.
Her first book appeared in 1965 and became an immediate hit, as did the other two.
In her 1975 book, ''Does She .

        Kay Thompson, an entertainer who became the author of the hugely successful book ''Eloise,'' about a bratty child living at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, died on Thursday.
'' The routine became a book after Ms. Thompson began performing in 1954 in a one-woman show at the Plaza.
While she was appearing in the hotel's Persian Room, she was introduced to an artist, Hilary Knight, and he became the illustrator of ''Eloise,'' which was subtitled ''A Book for Precocious Grown Ups.
'' Ms. Thompson wrote the book during a three-month break from performing.
Betty Harragan's book ''Games Mother Never Taught You: Corporate Gamesmanship for Women'' was published in 1977 by Rawson Associates; since then, more than one million copies have been published in paperback by Warner Books.
The book is used in college undergraduate courses and business schools and was the basis for a television film of the same name starring Loretta Swit and Sam Waterston, broadcast by CBS in 1982 and 1985.
Another book by Ms. Harragan, ''Knowing the Score: Play-by-Play Directions for Women on the Job,'' was published by St. Martin's Press in 1983.
'' The book satirizes upper-crust black Bostonians.
)
        Starting in 1992, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, then a book editor for Doubleday, had visited the cottage once a week in the summers to work on the long-stalled novel with Miss  West.
The book has been the basis for three Disney films.
In the Mexico City daily Reforma, the writer Carlos Fuentes called Ms. Garro's first book, ''Recollections of Things to Come,'' ''one of the most important Mexican novels of the 20th century.
In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.
His book was first published in 1936 and took America by storm with its simple, upbeat message.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
The books dealt with serious themes in such detail that it is little wonder that Mrs. Irwin's children, who appear in various guises throughout the series, would want the world to know that their mother did not draw on their experiences in exploring problems like teen-age suicide (''So Long at the Fair''), alcoholism (''Can't Hear You Listening'') or racism (''Kim/Kimi''), let alone incest, the breakthrough subject of the 1985 Hadley Irwin book, ''Abby, My Love.
The last Hadley Irwin book, ''Sarah With an H,'' which dealt with anti-Semitism, was published after Ms. Hadley's death at 60 in 1995.
''
        Ms. Hochberg, who believed that knowledge was control, read every article, book and on-line file she could find about breast cancer.
According to David Wallechinsky's ''The Complete Book of the Summer Olympics,'' Griffith Joyner began racing as a 7-year-old, but stopped temporarily in 1979, when she withdrew from California State-Northridge to help support her family.
''
        As Mrs. Rosenberg made clear in her book, ''To Tell at Last'' (University of Illinois Press), it did not take too many aktions in the increasingly depopulated Kolomyja ghetto for it to become apparent that the Nazi regime intended to kill each and every Jew in Poland -- including those, like Mrs. Rosenberg and Dr. Rosenbloom, who had documents identifying them as essential workers at a clothing factory.
As a ground-zero account of life on the run, Mrs. Rosenberg's book is filled with crosscuts between cities and a dizzying array of hurried apartment changes, narrow escapes and ruthless shakedowns by police officers, greedy landlords and freelance extortionists.
Mrs. Rosenberg said that she originally wrote her book in 1948 as a way to deal with the paralyzing guilt she felt as a Holocaust survivor, and that she published it to satisfy her brother Romek's last request that she stay alive to tell the story of the Kolomyja ghetto to the world.
She was active in the American Federation of Art, where she served as traveling exhibitions chairwoman, started a newsletter and sponsored a book on films about art.
Claudia L. Johnson, a professor of English at Princeton University, called the book ''one of this generation's most important studies of 18th-century fiction.
Mr. Edey, the co-author of the book ''Lucy: The Beginnings of Mankind'' (1981), which won a National Book Award, died in 1992.
Mr. Edey, the co-author of the book ''Lucy: The Beginnings of Mankind'' (1981), which won a National Book Award, died in 1992.
With a co-author, Chuck Conconi, she wrote ''The Washington Sting,'' a book about an undercover police fencing operation she had covered in the early 1970's.
In 1952 Mrs. Aicher-Scholl published a book describing White Rose's nonviolent resistance to the Third Reich and its brutal repression by the Nazis.
The book's lack of pretension and its description of ordinary Germans lent it power.
''
        The book and subsequent writing by Mrs. Aicher-Scholl influenced many Germans who grew up after the war, reinforcing what was already a deep revulsion against the militarism that had brought the country to catastrophe and moral disgrace.
She also became a crack wing-shot with a Parker 20-gauge shotgun and wrote a book called ''Is She Coming, Too?
She moved to Reader's Digest in 1968 and worked there until her retirement in 1996, the last 10 years as worldwide director of book rights.
In 1981 she and Eric Johnson wrote a widely praised book, ''The Family Book About Sexuality,'' which was published in five languages.
In 1981 she and Eric Johnson wrote a widely praised book, ''The Family Book About Sexuality,'' which was published in five languages.
At the time of her death, Ms. Baer was working with the dance historian Lynn Garafola on ''The Ballets Russes and Its World,'' a book to be published by Yale University Press.
Fearing trouble from the Peronistas, Ms. Main researched the book clandestinely in Argentina and published it under the pseudonym Maria Flores.
The success of the Andrew Lloyd Webber musical ''Evita'' in the 1970's and the appearance of the movie version in 1996 revived interest in Ms. Main's book, and it was republished several times in the United States and Britain.
But she published only one more book, ''The Girl Who Was Never Queen,'' a historical novel, in 1962.
At college, she majored in English literature, a parallel interest that had no doubt been sharpened when her father and uncle produced a little book, ''How to Operate a Lathe,'' in 1930 that sold 1.5 million copies in 78 countries.
''If I Had Wheels or Love: Collected Poems of Vassar Miller,'' was published in 1990, drawing on her previous 10 volumes, including her first book of poems, ''Adam's Footprint,'' published in 1956, ''Onions and Roses'' (1968), ''If I Could Sleep Deeply Enough'' (1974) and ''Struggling to Swim on Concrete'' (1984).
''
        In writing about Ms. Godden's  book ''Cromartie v. the God Shiva: Acting Through the Government of India,'' published last year, Bill Vourvoulias wrote in Newsday, ''One of the delights of reading a Rumer Godden novel is the magnetic pull of the exotic settings, affecting readers and characters alike.
The book told of a family of Dutch dolls owned by two girls in London.
''There are several things children  will not put up with in a book,'' she once observed.
She took acting classes and eventually, in 1978, won a Drama Desk Award for her performance as the teacher in the original Broadway production of ''Working,'' which was adapted from Studs Terkel's book.
A boom in autograph collecting in the 1960's brought her more competition, but Miss Benjamin, whose oft-revised 1946 book, ''Autographs: A Key to Collecting,'' has been regarded as a standard in the field, remained a figure to be reckoned with.
The best-selling novel, The New York Times Book Review wrote, ''chronicled the triumph of a free spirit over many kinds of bondage.
''
        The novel was at the center of a heated dispute in 1977, when Dr. Alexander sued the author Alex Haley, alleging that his book ''Roots'' infringed on her copyright for ''Jubilee.
''Her body often had the look of one part being in balance, and the rest extremely off,'' Mr. Cunningham wrote of her in David Vaughan's book ''Merce Cunningham: Fifty Years,'' in a description of Ms. Farber in his 1960 ''Crises,'' created in part for her odd talents.
Decades later, Dr. Mead, by then known worldwide for her work in anthropology, wrote the introduction for Dr. Abel's book ''Culture and Psychotherapy'' (College and University Press, 1975), written with Rhoda Metraux.
When she was 88, she collaborated on a new version of her 1975 book, this time called ''Psychotherapy and Culture'' (University of New Mexico Press, 1987), with Dr.
'' She recommended that the composer, Sherman Edwards, work with Peter Stone (not her client) as a book writer.
