In a new book, ''The Story of Barbara,'' Mrs. Fryer wrote of her daughter's condition, which might have had a different outcome with the alternative treatments for schizophrenia emerging then.
The book is to be published by Rivercross Publishing later this year.
An earlier book was ''Kathy: A Mother's True Story of a Young Girl's Fight to Regain Health'' (Dutton, 1956).
Mrs. Fryer published a second book in 1994, ''Till Death Do Us Part,'' on life with her husband, Dr. Douglas Fryer, a pioneer in industrial psychology and a prolific author, whom she married in 1934.
Although some Kenyans denounced it as an apologia for colonial rule, the book was widely praised for its rich sense of humor, its affectionate personal portraits and its gentle evocation of life in a singular place.
In 1935, Mrs. Huxley published her first book, a biography of Lord Delamere, a white settler who revolutionized large-scale farming in Kenya.
The book, ''White Man's Country: Lord Delamere and the Making of Kenya,'' was widely regarded as an authoritative account of colonial eastern Africa.
Her last book, a biography of Scott's son, the naturalist Peter Scott, was written when she was 83.
But as her own 1983 book, ''Autobiography of a Spy,'' makes explicit, her wartime romance with Allen Dulles, the American spymaster who laid the groundwork for the Central Intelligence Agency with his brilliant successes in Switzerland in World War II, was as torrid as they come.
In 1991 she edited ''Memoirs of an American Artist: The Sculptor Richard W. Bock,'' a book about her father.
Besides editing Axis, Ms. Piper edited a book of essays, ''The Painter's Object,'' and wrote a biography of Frances Hodgkins for the Penguin Modern Painters series.
Stefan Kanfer, a writer on cultural topics, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1992: ''The real summa of tabloid sensitivity is not found on earth but in the supernovas.
It was meant as a companion to a book Mr. Hurd had illustrated decades earlier, Gertrude Stein's ''The Earth Is Round,'' published in 1938.
Mrs. Hurd's first solo writing effort, ''Hurry Hurry,'' was published in 1938 by W.R. Scott, a pioneer modern children's book publisher.
The titles there included ''Johnny Lion's Book,'' ''Come and Have Fun,'' ''Stop Stop'' and ''No Funny Business.
In the introduction to his last book, Mr. Niebuhr said he could no longer tell where his ideas left off and hers began.
In addition to her letters, Miss Panter-Downes took on occasional other assignments for The New Yorker, including one, about an English settlement in India, that led to a book, ''Ooty Preserved: A Victorian Hill Station in India,'' published in 1967.
'' Her ''Large Type Cook Book'' and ''New Natural Foods Cook Book'' were forerunners in their respective fields, as was her ''International Meatless Cook Book.
'' Her ''Large Type Cook Book'' and ''New Natural Foods Cook Book'' were forerunners in their respective fields, as was her ''International Meatless Cook Book.
'' Her ''Large Type Cook Book'' and ''New Natural Foods Cook Book'' were forerunners in their respective fields, as was her ''International Meatless Cook Book.
'' Four of her books received James Beard Food and Beverage Book Awards.
In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.
In 1930, her first book, ''Seductio ad Absurdum: The Principles and Practices of Seduction -- A Beginner's Handbook,'' was published.
Ms. Hahn described her wartime romance in her 1944 book, ''China to Me: A Partial Autobiography.
The first of her five books, ''The General Says No: Britain's Exclusion from Europe'' (1963) was praised in a review in The New York Times Book Review by Drew Middleton, then The Times's Paris bureau chief.
He said the book ''abounds in clear analyses of complicated situations and in sharp, enduring pictures of persons and situations.
''She looked fabulous, almost breathtaking,'' he wrote in his book ''Life of the Party.
His daughter Brooke Hayward even suggested in her book, ''Haywire,'' that her last stepmother absconded with a string of pearls her mother had left to her.
'' The book sold 600,000 copies.
The book, an account of her work at the Stage Door Canteen in Times Square, was the beginning of a lifelong preoccupation with the subject of race.
In the book, Ms. Halsey wrote that a need for a cheap labor supply and a fear of blacks' sexuality were at the heart of racism.
Margaret Mead called the book ''straightforward, courageous and delightful.
In addition she was involved with a six-part mini-series of Sandburg's ''Lincoln,'' and with the award-winning PBS film ''Carl Sandburg -- Echoes and Silences,'' as well as the book ''Carl Sandburg: A Biography'' by Penelope Niven, another client.

        Lael Tucker Wertenbaker, a journalist and author best known for ''Death of a Man,'' her harrowing book about her husband's death, died  on Monday at her home in Keene, N.H. She was 87.
''
        She said shortly before her death that the book had had the effect she had hoped, easing some of the taboos about dying that existed in the 1950's.
Mrs. Wertenbaker wrote 16 other books, both fiction and nonfiction, among them ''The Eye of the Lion,'' a novel based on the life of Mata Hari, published by Little, Brown in 1964, and ''To Mend the Heart,'' a book about cardiac surgery, published by Viking in 1980.
According to David Margolick, a former reporter for The New York Times who chronicled the case in his book ''Undue Influence,'' Surrogate Lambert badgered and belittled Mrs. Johnson and her lawyers, provoking her to settle the case before it went to a jury.
According to David Margolick, a former reporter for The New York Times who chronicled the case in his book ''Undue Influence,'' Surrogate Lambert badgered and belittled Mrs. Johnson and her lawyers, provoking her to settle the case before it went to a jury.
Ms. Maillart's book, a straightforward, workmanlike account of exactly what she saw, was written for the ages.
She called the resulting book ''The Cruel Way: Two Women and a Ford in Afghanistan.
''There isn't a book in the library that somebody hasn't tried to censor,'' Ms. Udow said.
Up to the book's publication in 1970, Ms. Hanff was a relatively unheralded freelance writer whose work centered mainly on television screenplays and children's books.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote: ''Here is a charmer: a 19th-century book in a 20th-century world.
Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote: ''Here is a charmer: a 19th-century book in a 20th-century world.
) In 1987 the book was made into a feature film starring Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins.
The book's success finally gave Ms. Hanff the wherewithal to travel to England, where she visited the boarded-up bookshop and met Mr. Doel's widow, Nora, a journey documented in ''The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street'' (1973).
These notes became the basis of her 1973 book, the first full-length biography of the photographer, ''Alfred Stieglitz: An American Seer''.
With the publication of her first book, ''Sex and the Teenage Girl,'' in 1972, Ms. Botwin became a respected authority on the sexual attitudes and proclivities of young women.
Ms. Botwin's book ''The Love Crisis: Hit and Run Lovers, Jugglers, Sexual Stingies, Kinkies and Other Typical Men Today'' has been described as a field guide for dealing with the contemporary male and was the precursor to such 1990's best sellers as ''Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus.
''
        Ms. Botwin said the book was based on the personal pain she experienced after her first marriage ended in divorce.
''
        Her most recent book, ''Tempted Women: The Passions, Perils and Agonies of Female Infidelity,'' published in 1994 by William Morrow, was viewed by experts on sex and sexuality as one of the most comprehensive surveys since Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey's studies in 1953.
The book was a sequel to ''Men Who Can't Be Faithful,'' which sparked heated debate on the talk show circuit after it was reported that 60 to 75 percent of American men cheated at least once in their married lives.
At the time of her death, Ms. Botwin, who was diagnosed with cancer in October 1994, was preparing to write a book on the disease and her battle to overcome it, according to Mr. Koplowitz.
But whether she was ''almost 17,'' in January 1918, as she put it in her her book ''Lady Lawyer,'' or 20, as a contemporaneous newspaper article reported, Miss Frooks, who received a gold medal from President Woodrow Wilson that month, was surely one of the last living Americans to have had a formal audience with Wilson in his White House office (and seen the evangelist Billy Sunday clap him on the back with such gusto that the President's top hat went flying.
''
        Mrs. Petry, who had written the book while her husband was in the service in World War II, was not quite prepared for the stir it created when it was published to both critical and popular acclaim.
At her death she was writing a book on her life and the work she undertook with her husband, who died in 1990.
Studs Terkel devoted a chapter to her in his 1996 book ''Coming of Age.
Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book Magazine, a leading review journal of children's literature published in Boston.
In all, her association with Horn Book spanned four decades, her last review, of Sharon Creech's ''Chasing Redbird,'' appearing in the current issue.
Her association with Horn Book began years before.
Mrs. Heins's husband, Paul, an English professor, author and translator of the Brothers Grimm, was editor of Horn Book from 1967 to 1974.
Mr. Hamilton later published a substantially rewritten book called ''In Search of J. D.
She titled the book ''Notes on an Undirected Life.
On rainy days, she would devour every library book she could lay her hands on.
Her book ''Right From the Start'' (1978), analyzed gender issues as they relate to social justice and child development.
Her most recent book, ''Listening to Silences'' (1994), was a collection of essays.
She was a contributor to ''Our Bodies, Our Selves: A Book By and For Women'' (Simon & Schuster).
She also was a founding editor and book review editor of the Far Eastern Quarterly, later renamed the Journal for Asian Studies.
In his book ''The Go-Go Years,'' an account of Wall Street during the 1960's, the author John Brooks said Mrs. Talley was a ''New York housewife who had tired of full-time housewifery,'' when she took a job as an assistant analyst at the Dreyfus Corporation.
''My father-in-law started a paperback book company; my father started two businesses on Wall Street, and my grandfather started two businesses in Hoboken.
Robert Bishop, an art dealer and collector and later the director of the American Museum of Folk Art (in Manhattan), is credited with discovering Miss O'Kelley, a story he recounted in 1989 in the introduction to the book ''Mattie Lou O'Kelley: Folk Artist.
These included the Double-Language Books for Doubleday, Fast Books and Look-and-Do Activity Books for Rand McNally and paperbacks for the Scholastic Book Series.
She wrote a number of books for young readers, using the pen name Alex Rider, and reviewed books for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation and other publications.
In later years she was a consultant for Unesco's multilingual books and was a founder of the Society of Children's Book Writers.
''She was a critical figure in the modernization of Los Angeles,'' said David Halberstam, whose book, ''The Powers That Be,'' chronicled the newspaper's rise under Mrs. Chandler's husband and son.
Jean-Marie Robine, a public health researcher who is one of the authors of a book about Mrs. Calment, said she had been in good health, though almost blind and deaf, as recently as a month ago.
Philip Littlemore of the Guinness Book of World Records in London said the oldest known person whose date of birth was as well documented as Mrs. Calment's was Lucy Askew, a British woman who turned 104 last Sept. 8.
''The doctor called me every name in the book,'' Mrs. Good recalled later.
But her strongest indictment came in her book, a blunt and graphic account, which she wrote in longhand on sheets of lined paper and which has been published in the Philippines and Japan.
Eliot Fremont-Smith, in a review for The Times, said the book conveyed ''a remarkably clear picture of how The Times, as an entity, works -- how the news comes in and what happens to it, in both routine and crisis situations.
With her sister, Nona Balakian, a literary critic and an editor at The New York Times Book Review, she was part of a literary circle that included the playwright William Saroyan and the diarist Anais Nin.
''
        Christopher Hitchens, a columnist for Vanity Fair and The Nation, voiced particularly strong criticism of her in a 1995 book, ''The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice'' (Verso).
''
        The Philadelphia Inquirer's review of the book carried the headline, ''A Salvo of Cheap Shots Fired at a Contemporary Saint.
''
        In the United States, her views were of such wide interest that ''The Simple Path,'' a book of her thoughts, experiences and beliefs compiled by Lucinda Vardey, was a best seller for 12 weeks in 1995 and 1996.
One of her biographers, Eileen Egan, reported in a 1985 book, ''Such a Vision of the Street: Mother Teresa -- the Spirit and the Work,'' that a Red Cross official who helped her observed later: ''What stunned everyone was her energy.
She was also editor of the book ''Oceanography,'' a compendium of marine science published in 1961 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She left Macmillan in 1976 to start her own agency, Connie Clausen & Associates, which was a pioneer in the so-called beauty book, beginning with a series of best sellers by the photographer Francesco Scavullo.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
) Left unfinished at the time of her death was a sequel to this book.
The Shrine of the Book was later established at the Israel Museum to display the scrolls.
She was also responsible for developing what had been a house newsletter into Hadassah Magazine, and she assembled and arranged publication of the book, ''Great Ages and Ideas of the Jewish People.
Aside from the fact that Betsy was an uncommonly independent young heroine, a bustle-era girl who took her own ambitious career plans for granted, the books have exerted a special appeal because unlike Nancy Drew, who was blond, perfect and 18 forever, Betsy and her friends grew older in each successive book.
When the first book, ''Betsy-Tacy,'' covering Betsy's meeting with Tacy at age 5, was published in 1940, Mrs. Kirchner was 9.
The last book, ''Betsy's Wedding,'' was published in 1955, a year after her marriage to Englebert Kirchner, a German-born writer.
)
        Settling in Greenwich Village as her parents had done a generation earlier, Mrs. Kirchner held a series of jobs in journalism, contributing to a book on civil rights for Newsfront Publishers, working as a freelance book editor, and ending her career as a senior writer for the magazine Medical Economics.
)
        Settling in Greenwich Village as her parents had done a generation earlier, Mrs. Kirchner held a series of jobs in journalism, contributing to a book on civil rights for Newsfront Publishers, working as a freelance book editor, and ending her career as a senior writer for the magazine Medical Economics.
Mrs. Dick was the author of a book about Mr. Stevenson, ''Volunteers and the Making of Presidents,'' published by Dodd, Mead Inc. She was a trustee of the Menninger Foundation, an advocacy group for the mentally ill; the Children's Home and Aid Society of Illinois, and the Newberry Library in Chicago.
She was best known for her book, ''Explorer of the Universe: A Biography of George Ellery Hale.
It was her insistence that her daughter complete the book she had long planned that helped induce Mrs.
Parks to combine her mother's recollections with her own in what became ''Backstairs,'' and two other books written with Miss Leighton: ''It was Fun Working in the White House,'' a children's book, and ''The Roosevelts: A Family in Turmoil,'' published in 1973.
Parks had also seen ''White House Chef,'' a book Miss Leighton had written with a former chef in the Eisenhower White House.
The book, which was on The New York Times best-seller list for 26 weeks, so alarmed the incoming First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy, that she ordered all White House domestic employees to sign a pledge not to write about their White House experiences.
)
        For all the furor it created in the White House, the Parks book was comparatively tame, providing a wealth of charming and intimate gossip about the various First Families she served but no serious scandal.
As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
The last book to receive her professional attention, which was characterized by devotion to her authors, profound intelligence, sensitivity and scholarship and mastery of subject, as well as attention to detail and, above all, passion, was Richard Ellmann's biography ''Oscar Wilde,'' published by Knopf in 1987.
Aileen Ward, whose biography of John Keats won a National Book Award, said she was impressed that Ms.

        Marguerite Henry, the author of the children's book classic ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' one of some four dozen books that introduced young readers to animals in the great outdoors, died on Wednesday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, near San Diego.
After moving to the farm in 1939, she readily took to country ways and showed it in her first book for children, ''Auno and Tauno: A Story of Finland'' (1940).
Among the many film and television adaptations that kept her writing alive for new audiences were ''Brighty of the Grand Canyon'' (1967), ''Justin Morgan Had a Horse'' (1972), ''Peter Lundy and the Medicine Hat Stallion'' (1977), ''Story of a Book'' (1980) and, most recently, her 1948 classic, the adventure tale about a white Arabian horse, ''King of the Wind'' (1990).
By then the book that inspired it had sold well over a million copies.
She also wrote ''A Book for Grandmothers'' (1977).
Her book, ''Shylock on the Stage'' (Western Reserve University, 1960), traced the way the moneylender in ''The Merchant of Venice'' was played by great actors, including Charles Macklin in 1741, Edmund Kean in 1814, Edwin Booth in 1861 and Henry Irving in 1879.
Her more than 50 papers, monographs, book chapters and books reflected her research on international migrations, including forced migrations and refugee policies.
Her recent research was foreshadowed in an earlier book, ''Guests Come to Stay: The Effects of European Labor Migration on Sending and Receiving Countries'' (1985).
One of the few times she made a public comment came after the publication of a book, ''Walt Disney: Hollywood's Dark Prince'' (1993), by Marc Eliot.
The book depicted Walt Disney as a political reactionary, anti-Semite and a Hollywood informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
I am distressed to learn of a new book about Walt that actually invents incidents that never happened.
She was, as in the title of her first book of essays, ''The Poet in the World.
In the same year, she published ''The Sorrow Dance,'' a book of poems whose sorrow included the war and also the death of the poet's sister.
When Ms. Levertov's 11th collection of verse, ''The Freeing of the Dust,'' was published in 1975, the poet David Ignatow wrote in The New York Times Book Review that ''by nearly unanimous agreement Levertov was well on her way to becoming one of our leading poets'' with ''her forceful and compassionate presentations of urban lives'' and ''the beauty and sensuousness of her nature poems.
''
        That book ''and the paperback collection of the Watergate transcripts are my two favorite books.
Charles McGrath, a friend and colleague at The New Yorker who is now editor of The New York Times Book Review, said: ''Her thing was high, intellectual comedy.
Mrs. Simmons wrote 35 books and many pamphlets on herbs, including ''Saints in My Garden,'' ''The Witches Brew,'' ''The Gold Wreath Book'' and ''A Merry Christmas Herbal.
