The book, with annotations and an introduction by Ms. Eisenberger, is to be issued by Pendragon Press in 2003.
''God, how the French love rules,'' she noted in one book, ''The Rumor of the World.
'' In the same book, she concluded: ''Youth is short.
'' The book became a best seller and then a movie in 1960, with David Niven and Doris Day.
Phyllis Theroux, writing about ''How I Got to Be Perfect'' in The New York Times Sunday Book Review, noted that ''beneath her cleverness lies a sizable literary talent'' waiting to be aired.
At the time of her death, she was writing a book, ''Death of Innocence,'' which is to be published this fall by Random House.
''
        In addition to writing the current book, with Chris Benson, a Chicago lawyer and author, on her son's case, Mrs. Mobley is also featured in a new documentary, ''The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till,'' by Keith Beauchamp.
Mary McCarthy, in her 1970 book ''The Writing on the Wall and Other Literary Essays,'' devoted a chapter to Ms. Wittig's first novel, ''L'Opoponax'' (Simon & Schuster, 1966).
Ms. McCarthy called it ''the book I've argued for -- and about -- most of this year.
But in the United States she is probably best known among feminist scholars, according to Contemporary Authors, a reference book.
Lambda Book Report suggested in 1990 that she was the most discussed but least read of all contemporary lesbian authors.
Naomi Bliven in The New Yorker called that book ''a charming feat of virtuosity,'' and Virgilia Peterson in The New York Times Book Review said that Ms. Wittig had ''made what can only be called a brilliant re-entry into childhood.
Naomi Bliven in The New Yorker called that book ''a charming feat of virtuosity,'' and Virgilia Peterson in The New York Times Book Review said that Ms. Wittig had ''made what can only be called a brilliant re-entry into childhood.
Sally Beauman in The Times Book Review called it ''perhaps the first epic celebration of women ever written.
''The book itself turns out to be, sadly, oddly, at times almost maddeningly, quite dull,'' wrote Roger Sale in The New York Review of Books.
She wrote a book about the role of cats in Islamic literature and another, ''The Mystery of Numbers'' (Oxford University Press, 1993), that compared numerical symbolism in various cultures.
''
        In 1995 Ms. Schimmel was awarded the Peace Prize of the German Book Trade, an award also given to Albert Schweitzer, Martin Buber and Vaclav Havel.
In Derek Wilson's book ''Rothschild: the Wealth and Power of a Dynasty,'' the baron said his wife was more Rothschild than the Rothschilds.
Part of her role, according to the Morton book, was organizing the vast art purchases her husband made.
Christopher Ogden, in his book ''Life of the Party: The Biography of Pamela Digby Churchill Hayward Harriman,'' told of the evening in 1954, when the baroness was seated at a dinner next to the Duke of Windsor.
''
        When initial shows at Ford's did not draw big audiences, Mrs. Hewitt began to book shows herself.
Ms. Davis traveled with a circus to do research for the book.
Mrs. Wilson was the president and general manager of the Macmillan Publishing Co. Children's Book Group from 1988 to 1994.
Under her leadership, the book group's distinguished children's hardcover imprints -- Macmillan, the Bradbury Press, Margaret K. McElderry Books, Atheneum, Four Winds Press and Scribner's and two paperback lines, Aladdin and Collier -- were integrated into one profitable organization with shared service departments, an innovation for the time.
Though men have long dressed as women for many reasons, the modern institution of the Harlem ball began around 1960, said Marcel LaBeija, who is writing a book on the subject.
Ms. Cooke pointed out that the ''preposterously long and sumptuously naughty book'' appeared 12 years before Grace Metalious's Peyton Place and 22 years before Jacqueline Susann's ''Valley of the Dolls.
Though mild by today's standards, the book's raciness drew readers by the thousands, selling 100,000 copies the first week after it was published.
MacMillan, the publisher, promoted the book with unusual vigor, hoping to emulate its 1936 success with ''Gone With the Wind.
'' It was helped immeasurably when the Hays Office, the morality board for the movie industry, condemned the book even before a movie deal was signed; it became a hit in 1947 with Linda Darnell as Amber and Cornel Wilde as her truest love.
The decision by a Massachusetts appeals court judge to reverse the initial ban was less valuable in a commercial sense: he said the book put him to sleep.
Her book ''Hypnosis and Behavioral Medicine,'' written with Dr. Daniel P. Brown and published in 1987, presented research supporting those methods in treating allergies, asthma, migraines and hypertension.
Her final book, ''Changes in the Therapist'' (2000), also written with Dr. Kahn, looked at the impact that patients can have on their therapists.
In his book ''Cover Girls and Supermodels, 1945-1965'' (Marion Boyars, 1996), the French journalist Jean-Noël Liaut said Miss Parker had escaped the unhappy outcomes of other stellar models.
The book, which was well received, grew out of a 10-part series in The Globe on war crimes in those countries.
She wrote a memoir, ''Among My Klediments,'' in 1979, and a book of autobiographical vignettes, ''From the Heart,'' in 1987.
Shirley was adopted by the Bulahs after Sarah Bulah read in the Wilmington newspapers in 1945 about an abandoned 10-month-old baby, according to Richard Kluger in his book, ''Simple Justice: The History of Brown v. Board of Education and Black America's Struggle for Equality'' (Knopf, 1976).
She was editor in chief of Mysterious Press and senior editor at Warner Books, which are both imprints of the AOL Time Warner Book Group.
Freed to make Dr. Kay Scarpetta, a fictional medical examiner, the chief character in the book that Ms. Cornwell was writing.
The book, ''Postmortem,'' had been rejected by several publishing houses, but it was a success with the public when it came out in 1990.
Although admittedly sketchy rather than a comprehensive memoir, the book captured the qualities that endeared Miss Hepburn to audiences: a conversational tone, a no-nonsense attitude and disarming candor.
She wrote about it in her first book, published in 1987, whose title captures the direct, colloquial style of her writing: ''The Making of the African Queen: Or, How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind'' (Knopf).

        Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95.
Ms. Fowler's book, ''Standing Room Only'' (Dodd, Mead) was published the same year the movie was released.
Lucy Greenbaum in The New York Times Book Review called Ms. Fowler's account ''a tight, terse tale of war drama where each swell of a wave is matched by the surge of a human emotion.
''
        The Saturday Review of Literature called the book ''almost unbearable reading at times,'' but said that its directness and vividness made it impossible to put down.
''
        In her book, Ms. Fowler, who had both American and British citizenship, said the family moved back to England when she was 12.
''
        Ms. Fowler, as a result, always thought she was the inspiration for Alfred Hitchcock's 1944 movie, although her book was a published a month after the release of ''Lifeboat.
For many years, Ms. Fowler worked as an editor for book and magazine publishers.
At her death, Ms. Belle was working on a documentary on Stanley Williams, a teacher at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet, and had an option to film the book ''Passionate Nomad'' by Jane Fletcher Geniesse, a biography of the explorer Freya Stark.
As well as a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1995, the novel won the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Governor General's Award for fiction, and was shortlisted for a Booker Prize.
It also prompted her first book, ''Learning by Doing: An Illustrated Handbook for Parents and Teachers of Children Who Learn Slowly'' (Mafex, 1971; Ideal Publications, 1977).
''
        In an interview with The New York Times shortly after the book's publication, she said: ''I married Saroyan the second time because I couldn't believe how terrible it was the first time.
A recent book, ''Gus and Gertie and the Missing Pearl'' (2001), for children 6 to 9, was praised in The New York Times Book Review as ''an easy-to-read comic adventure with a large cast of characters.
A recent book, ''Gus and Gertie and the Missing Pearl'' (2001), for children 6 to 9, was praised in The New York Times Book Review as ''an easy-to-read comic adventure with a large cast of characters.
'' Her first book to appear in the United States was ''The Pythoness and Other Poems'' in 1952.
The book, which showed her knack for poetry in a disciplined form, was followed by the intensely personal verses of ''The Human Climate: New Poems'' (Contemporary Poetry, 1953), and ''The Animal Inside'' (Ohio University Press, 1966), which widened her range and touched on subjects of love and death.
Correction:  August 2, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the poet Josephine Jacobsen on July 12 misstated the name of the publisher of her book ''Distances.
At her death she was working on a book about choreography.
But the family prospered, becoming rich from interests in cement, barges and timber, and that allowed Lady Eccles to indulge her passion for book collecting.
Lady Eccles described in an essay first published in The Vassar Alumnae Magazine in 1960 how she and Mr. Hyde were drawn to book collecting when they visited a rare book exhibition in Detroit and realized for the first time that books of this kind were not all locked up in libraries but available for purchase.
Lady Eccles described in an essay first published in The Vassar Alumnae Magazine in 1960 how she and Mr. Hyde were drawn to book collecting when they visited a rare book exhibition in Detroit and realized for the first time that books of this kind were not all locked up in libraries but available for purchase.
Through it all, she was always impeccably dressed, always a gracious hostess, and always intellectually vigorous, contributing book reviews to The Times of London, the Evening Standard, and the Spectator, among other publications, and answering frankly and unflinchingly when interviewers and historians made pilgrimages to Paris to ask her about the old days.
''Since we can't talk about real estate, Burt watches TV and I read a book,'' she said.
After the deal is done, ''it's almost like coming to the end of a great book.
The book's most recent edition was the eighth, in 1995.

        Marilyn E. Marlow, a literary agent who represented and championed many outstanding children's book writers and illustrators, especially those who wrote for teenage readers, died on Aug. 25 at the home of her niece Meg McCabe in Katonah, N.Y. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
Her first Sudan book, ''Last of the Nuba,'' published in the United States in 1974, won her recognition as a photographer and to some extent rehabilitated her as an artist.
''
        In the book she was able to give her version of her life.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, John Simon said the memoir did not contain ''a single unspellbinding page.
But he concluded, ''The book must, in the main, be true; it is far too weird for fiction.
In his book on the civil rights movement, ''The Children'' (Random House, 1998), David Halberstam called Mrs. Foster ''one of the heroes of the Selma group.
Taylor Branch, in his book ''Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years 1963-65'' (Simon & Schuster, 1998), said her first nighttime class to teach literacy for the voting test drew one student, a man in his 70's.
''
        Published in 1962 and still in print, the book describes the winter night when she was 14 and Fairbanks caught fire, prompting her father and other men to burn the town's bacon supply as fuel to keep the steam-powered water pump running; her late-winter dogsled trips over thawing rivers; how in 1924 she became the first woman to graduate from the University of Alaska; and her marriage later that year, in a 3 a.m. sunrise ceremony, to Olaus Murie, a biologist for the Biological Survey, the forerunner of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
In 1990, the Wendy Marx Foundation for Organ Donor Awareness was established by the Marx siblings and the Olympic sprinter Carl Lewis, with whom Mr. Marx was cooperating on a book.
Among other educational activities, the foundation published a book by Mr. Marx, a 1986 Pulitzer Prize-winner, called ''It Gets Dark Sometimes: My Sister's Fight to Live and Save Lives'' (Jam Publishing, 2000).
Professor Heilbrun, who had written of taking her own life in a 1997 book, ''The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty,'' committed suicide, said her son, Robert.
Some critics complained that satiric wit and clever talk filled half a book before the victim fell dead, and that some of it sounded like an imitation of Oscar Wilde or George Bernard Shaw.
She wrote numerous book reviews and essays for Hers, a former column in The Times.
Her 1973 book, ''Toward a Recognition of Androgyny: Aspects of Male and Female in Literature,'' brought her to prominence in the academic feminist movement.
Ms. Heilbrun drew on her long interest in biography and autobiography for her 1988 book, ''Writing a Woman's Life,'' her first best seller, which focused on women writing about themselves and other women.
In magazine articles, a recent book and interviews on ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' and other television programs, Dr. Glass examined how the emotional intimacy of the workplace and the Internet had led even people in successful marriages to slip into emotionally intense relationships that could easily lead to affairs.
''
        At the time of her death, Dr. Glass was beginning a more academic study to follow up her first book, ''Not 'Just Friends' '' (Free Press, 2003).
Dr. Whiting developed a particular interest in the development of gender roles, a subject she covered in her 1988 book, ''Children of Different Worlds: The Formation of Social Behavior,'' written with Dr. Carolyn P. Edwards.
Her book on the lives of Kenyan women, ''Ngecha: A Kenyan Community in a Time of Rapid Social Change,'' also written with Dr. Edwards, is to be published later this year.
In a book about jazz personalities, ''Barney, Bradley, and Max'' (Oxford, 1989), the jazz critic Whitney Balliett suggested that Mrs. Marcus's talent and experience elevated her into a higher league than the normal run of resort acts.
Her films in the 1950's included ''Starlift,'' ''Holiday for Sinners,'' ''A Woman's Devotion'' and ''Bell, Book and Candle,'' in which she was the strait-laced fiancée who loses James Stewart.

        Dorothy J. Farnan, a high school English teacher whose friendship with the poet W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, enabled her to write ''Auden in Love,'' a book about their life together, died on Oct. 23 in her Manhattan apartment.
''
        The book progresses from the time when the poet, then 32, met Mr. Kallman, a brilliant college student of 18, and traces the peaks and valleys of their relationship, including an exchange of wedding rings and Auden's murderous rage when he was first betrayed by his mercurial lover.
The book oozes gossip, and some reviewers criticized this quality, including Julian Symons, writing in The Times Literary Supplement in London in 1985.
Nevertheless, Mr. Symons said the book was an important addition to what he termed ''the Auden biographical corpus.
The book's most memorable theme is Auden's determination to remain faithful to Mr. Kallman, even support him financially, as the younger man broke his heart again and again.
Ms. Farnan fell in love with Mr. Kallman's father, Eddie, and married him -- ''somewhat illegally,'' she wrote in her book -- in 1948.
''
        In her book, Ms. Farnan mentioned that she was only heeding Auden's advice: ''They don't need a paid teacher to learn to read Hemingway,'' he had told her.
Correction:  November 17, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Dorothy Farnan, a New York City teacher who wrote ''Auden in Love,'' a book about W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, misstated the year in which she became chairman of the English department at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a runaway success and a Book of the Month Club selection as ''Ride Out the Dark'' (Norton, 1971).
Her book, ''The Past Is Myself,'' published in 1968, was a runaway success and a Book of the Month Club selection as ''Ride Out the Dark'' (Norton, 1971).
They lived quietly without dwelling on their wartime experiences until asked to help with a book about Mr. Trott.
After her child-rearing hiatus, during which she wrote a book on American and European snuffboxes, Mrs.
'' Embarking on a writing career relatively late in life, she was the author of books on gardening and a children's book, ''Tiny Green Thumbs.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
'' Embarking on a writing career relatively late in life, she was the author of books on gardening and a children's book, ''Tiny Green Thumbs.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
Her first and best-known book, ''Torregreca: Life, Death, Miracles'' (1969, Little, Brown), was reprinted by Steerforth Press last year, eliciting a new round of favorable reviews.
'' The book, published in 1966, was one of the first in-depth examinations of the lives of troubled teenage girls.
''The Duchess Misbehaves,'' a musical comedy for which she wrote the book and lyrics, ran for three performances at the Adelphi Theater in Manhattan in 1946.
'' It was her next role, in the controversial melodrama ''Peyton Place,'' based on the Grace Metalious book of the same name about the torrid lives led behind closed doors by the residents of a picturesque New England town, that made her a star in 1957.
