Her agency also represented authors like Richard Rhodes, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 as well as a 1987 National Book Award for ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' and David Garrow, whose ''Bearing the Cross'' won a Pulitzer in 1987.
A reason she wrote her book, she  said, was that her career was stalled: ''It become totally untenable to me that after acting for 25 years -- I've played Juliet, Cleopatra and Anne Frank -- there I was, sitting in Hollywood, just waiting for somebody to want me.
'' In the book, she criticized her father for being preoccupied with his acting classes and she criticized her mother for being overly supervisory about her daughter's work.
She was also close to some of her father's students, especially Marilyn Monroe, whom she wrote about in ''Bittersweet'' and in her 1992 book, ''Marilyn and Me, Sisters, Rivals and Friends.
Based on Miss Bryant's 1994 book ''Here Comes the Showboat'' (University Press of Kentucky), hers was an idyllic life and one she was certainly born to.
As she wrote in her book, ''A dependable leading lady must be able to run, duck, fall, get up, fall again, crawl over a bed and under a dresser, scream, swing by a rope, deliver an uppercut, struggle and kick and still have enough breath left to say, 'If this is aristocracy, thank God I'm a country girl.
The book, now part of curriculums at hundreds of colleges and high schools, was on the New York Times hardcover best-seller list for 28 weeks and on the paperback list for 77 weeks.
They followed it in 1995  with ''The Delany Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom.
Her last book, with Ms.
The resulting book, ''Voice From the Sea: Reflections on Wildlife and Wilderness'' was published weeks before her death.
The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political tracts, book reviews and magazine articles ranged over the successive enthusiasms of her life: ancient Greece, socialism, genetics, science fiction, space, fascism in Spain, home rule for Scotland and independence movements in Africa, where she became the honorary mother of a tribe in Botswana.
She wrote her first book in 1923, and her early writing met with critical success while causing scandal with its emphasis on subjects like rape, infanticide, lesbianism and abortion.
Dr. Freund-Rosenthal persuaded the artist Marc Chagall to create the stained glass windows for a synagogue in Jerusalem, endowed Hadassah educational seminars in the United States and Israel and wrote the book 'A Tapestry of Hadassah Memories.
She was an advocate for women who has been credited with having initiated the contemporary analysis of gender roles with her book ''Women in the Modern World: Their Education and Their Dilemmas'' (1953, Irvington).
In her book ''Women in College: Shaping New Feminine Identities'' (1985) she described changing views of work, family and men that were held by students in the class of 1983 at Barnard, a women's college.
Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.
Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.
''
        In researching the book, Professor Komarovsky used interviews, questionnaires and surveys to study the attitudes of more than 200 students in the Barnard class of 1983.
Nonetheless, as the book ''Women in Sociology'' (1991, Greenwood), edited by Mary Jo Deegan, reports: ''Komarovsky was puzzled'' by Barnard's ''extolling intellectual excellence while discouraging women from pursuing careers.
Her doctoral thesis was published as a book, ''The Unemployed Man and His Family'' (1940).
Earlier, she was a co-author of the book ''Leisure: A Suburban Study'' (1934).
Dr. Sullivan is also editing a  book of Mrs. Durr's letters.
The association prompted her book ''Kurt Koffka: An Unwitting Self-Portrait,'' reprinted in 1983.
In an industry increasingly populated by conglomerates with deep pockets and a penchant for books that appeal to as wide an audience as possible, Mrs. Boyars was rare in her insistence on publishing only what she liked, whether the book was likely to sell or not.
She published about 25 new books a year, becoming a fixture at the annual Frankfurt Book Fair and  mining world literature for anything worthy of publication in English.
In her book ''Dance Dialects of India,'' Ragini Devi described how she would take the infant Indrani on her own visits to gurus.
The ideal reader, she told one interviewer, was ''someone who likes a jolly good yarn and enjoys thinking about the book as well, about the moral issues.
This quest ''for a passion beyond any center of self,'' as David Bromwich wrote in The New York Times Book Review, made her fiction unlike that of any other contemporary Western writer.
''
        Anthony Burgess, while noting the highly original ''synthesis of the traditional and revolutionary'' in her work and praising her talent for creating stories that were ''both thoroughly realistic yet at the same time loaded with symbols,'' also argued in his 1967 book ''The Novel Now'' that her characters were too often ''caught up in a purely intellectual  pattern.
The note on which the book concludes, however, is one of reconciliation, and of a painfully won serenity.
At Dell, she wrote and edited more than 65 pocket-size how-to handbooks, and in 1964, under the name Dorothea Zack Hanle, wrote the book ''The Hairdo Handbook: A Complete Guide to Hair Beauty.
And they'd prefer to drop in for an hour of good conversation rather than order a book with the click of a mouse.
It is one of 3,300 independent book stores, according to the American Booksellers Association, down from 5,200 in 1992.
THE hot book on this balmy day was a well-reviewed first novel, ''Amy and Isabelle,'' by Elizabeth Strout.
At 12, she discovered ''Franny and Zooey,'' was ''knocked of my feet'' and ''never read another kids' book again.
It was one of the few times in her life, Ms. Boylan said, that she has bought a book someplace other than at Good Yarns.
''
        Dr. Peplau's book was also deemed highly unusual at the time because it had been written by a nurse, without a physician as a co-author.
Over the next few years, Miss Bloch worked on Rivera's controversial mural at the Detroit Institute of Art and on the Rockefeller Center project, along the way falling in love with the artist's chief plasterer, Stephen P. Dimitroff, a young Bulgarian immigrant, and immortalizing their romance in lyrical passages in her diary, which a granddaughter, Lucienne Allen, plans to use as the basis for a book.
In a 1981 review of a revival at the Princess Theater on West 48th Street, Richard F. Shepard of The New York Times wrote: ''Miss Corio, who looks radiant, does it all by the book and, whether you like the book or not, it is to her credit that she catches the flavor of the old burlesque with little attempt to ennoble or elevate it.
In a 1981 review of a revival at the Princess Theater on West 48th Street, Richard F. Shepard of The New York Times wrote: ''Miss Corio, who looks radiant, does it all by the book and, whether you like the book or not, it is to her credit that she catches the flavor of the old burlesque with little attempt to ennoble or elevate it.
Ms. Anderson, whose last name was originally Handelsman, had returned to Berlin on April 7 after two weeks in New York to promote her new book, ''Love in Exile,'' published in March by Steerforth Press of South Royalton, Vt.
The product of decades of reminiscences, journalism and correspondence, the book traces Ms. Anderson's odyssey from a conservative Jewish upbringing in the Bronx, to a stint at the Communist newspaper Daily Worker, to encounters with Richard Wright, Simone de Beauvoir, Anna Seghers, Stefan Heym and other literati.
A review in The New York Times Book Review  found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
A review in The New York Times Book Review  found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
'' The book ends in 1962.

        Grace Zia Chu, who introduced a generation of Americans to Chinese cuisine though her cooking classes in Manhattan and her landmark book ''The Pleasures of Chinese Cooking,'' died Thursday at a nursing home in Columbus, Ohio.
''The book may well be the finest, most lucid volume on Chinese cooking ever written,'' Craig Claiborne wrote in The New York Times in 1962.
It is telling that in his review of the book, Mr. Claiborne had to explain to readers that a wok was ''a Chinese cooking utensil.
''
        With Arthur Chu, Mrs. Chu wrote ''Oriental Antiques and Collectibles: a Guide'' (1973), ''Oriental Cloisonne and Other Enamels'' and ''The Collector's Book of Jade'' (1978).
She was the author of a French book on modern dance, ''La Danse Artistique aux U.S.A.''
        Baroness de Rothschild is survived by a brother, Guy, of Paris, and a sister, Jacqueline Piatigorsky of Los Angeles.
As Stuart W. Little observed in his 1972 book ''Off Broadway: The Prophetic Theater'': ''For thousands of theatergoers, a visit to the de Lys was the authentic Off Broadway experience.
'' The gondola continued to carry passengers and the gondolier was told that if American visitors used Mr. Schweitzer's name to book a ride, they were to be charged double.
Ms. Geis joined Harry N. Abrams, the art book publishers, in 1969 and eventually became senior editor for special projects.
In that capacity she wrote and edited several books for Disney Enterprises, including ''Treasury of Children's Classics,'' ''The Fantasia Book'' and ''Treasury of Stories from Silly Symphonies.
A best seller, the book was turned into a movie by Warner Brothers the following year.
She wrote of the experience in ''The Book That Came Alive,'' her last.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Carolyn G. Heilbrun noted: ''Mary Lutyens has now restored to England the Davis Cup for the editing of Victorian letters -- a trophy long in American hands.
Her book will be equally valuable to the Victorian scholar and to what used to be called the general reader.
''
        Miss Lutyens was the editor of a related book-length collection of letters, ''Young Mrs. Ruskin in Venice,'' which was described in The Times Book Review by another critic, Joan Evans, as ''admirably and discreetly edited.
Her more than a dozen works of fiction include ''Cleo'' (1974), which Martin Levin in The Times Book Review called a ''flawless tour de force.

        Michi N. Weglyn, author of an acclaimed book about the internment of Japanese-Americans in the United States during World War II, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Ms. Weglyn's book, ''Years of Infamy: The Untold Story of America's Concentration Camps'' (University of Washington Press, 1976), was praised by an American Ambassador to Japan, Mike Mansfield.
He called it ''a conscience-wrenching book of major significance,'' and said that ''every American concerned with human liberty should know of this bleak period of our national history.
Frank Freidel, a professor of American history at Harvard University, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Japanese-Americans in the western United States, numbering over 100,000, ''became the scapegoats for the attack on Pearl Harbor.
She wrote a book on Bach arias and an autobiography, ''Nehmt Meinen Dank'' (''Accept My Thanks'').
      
The Washington Post Book World compared the book to the work of F. Scott Fitzgerald ''in both style and subject matter.
The Washington Post Book World compared the book to the work of F. Scott Fitzgerald ''in both style and subject matter.
In 1988 Ms. Boutelle finally published her 271-page biography, an oversize book with photographs and drawings.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Paul Goldberger said the book covered Morgan's career ''with sympathy and intelligence.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Paul Goldberger said the book covered Morgan's career ''with sympathy and intelligence.
''
        Publication of the Morgan biography, which won the California Book Award Silver Medal in 1989, led Ms. Boutelle to embark on a new career as a lecturer and preservationist of historic architecture.
The story of the Carter family's battle was recounted in a book, ''Silver Rights'' (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 1995) by Constance Curry, a field worker with the American Friends Service Committee in 1966, who worked closely with the family.
Block and the Human Condition'' and a book of poetry,  ''What Have You Done All Day.
Her first book, ''Peach Path'' (Methuen), was published in 1940.
Even in her last years, she said that she continued to read an entire book every day.
Finding the book you wanted from the ramshackle stacks in the dimly lit and chaotic shop was known to be such a trial that a competitor created bus stop posters saying, ''Foyled Again?
For decades Miss Foyle maintained a system of purchase that required obtaining a receipt and getting in line three times before finally reaching the desk where the book waited.
In a much repeated comment, one survivor said, ''Imagine Kafka had gone into the book trade.
She got the inspiration for them one morning behind the counter when an older man asked her to suggest a book for a train trip.
It was inscribed, ''For the young lady who liked my book -- John Galsworthy.
Her designs are sold as kits, and she wrote two popular instruction books on the art: ''Sylvia Sidney's Needlepoint Book'' (1968) and ''The Sylvia Sidney Question and Answer Book on Needlepoint'' (1975).
Her designs are sold as kits, and she wrote two popular instruction books on the art: ''Sylvia Sidney's Needlepoint Book'' (1968) and ''The Sylvia Sidney Question and Answer Book on Needlepoint'' (1975).
''
        Her 1996 collection of 35 short stories, ''Women in Their Beds,'' received critical acclaim and won the 1997 National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN/Faulkner Fiction Prize and the Rae Award for the Short Story.
Tobin Harshaw, reviewing it in The New York Times Book Review, wrote: ''One struggles to find a sentence that is anything less than jewel-box perfect.
Cosmopolitan magazine, which called the book ''a novel so entertaining you'll be annoyed to have it end,'' also said: ''Every once in a while, a novelist comes along whose eye for detail is so precise that you wonder if she's read your private journal.
''
        West Coast Review of Books called the book ''enchanting, entrancing, ennobling, all-encompassing.
''
        But Judith Rascoe, reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, panned its female characters as ''raging narcissists'' who ''want it all.
''
        But Judith Rascoe, reviewing the book in The New York Times Book Review, panned its female characters as ''raging narcissists'' who ''want it all.
''
        Her other writings included the novel ''Current Affairs'' (1990, Random House), which Linda Wertheimer, in The New York Times Book Review, called ''stylish and slangy, written in a wild and wordy prose that is engaging and catchy,'' but not as good as ''Hot Flashes.
Her first book of verse, ''The Peacock Poems,'' was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award in 1975.
Her first book of verse, ''The Peacock Poems,'' was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award in 1975.
She won an Emmy Award for a television performance of poems from her second book of verse, ''Some One Sweet Angel Chile,'' which was another National Book Award nominee.
She won an Emmy Award for a television performance of poems from her second book of verse, ''Some One Sweet Angel Chile,'' which was another National Book Award nominee.
''Working Cotton,'' a 1992 children's tale, won an American Library Association Caldecott Award and a Coretta Scott King Book Award, and was listed among the best books of 1992 by Parents magazine.
Ms. Williams had recently published a second children's book, ''Girls Together.
One episode in the first Herriot book describes how Ms. Wight met her future husband.
She wrote a book about her fishing experiences called ''Albacora: The Search for the Giant Broadbill'' (Random House 1957).
The book provided the basis for a textbook, ''The History of Russian Ballet,'' published in 1978.
It was her only book to be published in America and received mixed reviews.
In ''Reader, I Married Him'' (1975), a study of the female characters of Charlotte Bronte, Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell and George Eliot, Ms. Beer ''demonstrates with wit, wide knowledge and a bare minimum of footnotes that even the greatest of women novelists were enthralled by the need of preserving the superior position of men,'' wrote Carolyn G. Heilbrun in The New York Times Book Review.
In the weeks before her death, she had been working on a book about the 55 people who most influenced her career.
Ms. Shrifte, whose name is pronounced ''Shrift,'' was one of the first women to head a book publishing company.
In his history of American book publishing, ''Between Covers,'' John Tebbel wrote, ''Vanguard never became a large and important house, but it continued to publish quality books year after year.
''
        Those books included Mr. Bellow's first two novels, ''Dangling Man'' and ''The Victim''; Dr. Seuss's first two books, ''And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street'' and ''The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins,'' and a score of books by Ms. Oates, including the novel ''Them,'' which won the National Book Award.
The 1975 book ''Eight Is Enough,'' by her husband, Tom Braden, tells of their family of eight children.
In 1977 the book was adapted as the ABC series, starring Dick Van Patten, which was broadcast by the network until 1981.
In the book, Mr. Braden, a columnist for the Los Angeles Times Syndicate from 1968 to 1986, described his wife's personality: ''She's blithe.
Mrs. Braden herself wrote a book, ''Just Enough Rope: An Intimate Memoir'' (1989).
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Maureen Dowd said, ''Joan Braden has taken a lot of heat for this book, which has been criticized as a vapid kiss-and-sell by a Washington society hostess with the capital's most notorious 'open' marriage.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Maureen Dowd said, ''Joan Braden has taken a lot of heat for this book, which has been criticized as a vapid kiss-and-sell by a Washington society hostess with the capital's most notorious 'open' marriage.
' ''
        But ''this reviewer does not take such a harsh view,'' Ms. Dowd continued, adding that after all, how can a book be all bad that features ''a shower scene with Nelson Rockefeller, a bedroom scene with Bobby Kennedy, a toe-tingling lunch with Kirk Douglas and an account of Frank Sinatra singing 'High Hopes' without his toupee?
An artist who wrote poems about pottery and made pots inspired by her reading, Ms. Richards was perhaps best known for ''Centering in Pottery, Poetry and the Person,'' a book of essays published in the middle of the tumultuous 1960's that was impressive for its synthesis of thought, plain speech and incantatory momentum.
The book, which became an underground classic, pulled together ideas about perception, craft, education, creativity, religion and spirituality, arguing for the richness of daily experience if carefully attended to, and the creativity of the average person.
According to his book, he was smitten, but she was aloof.
In 1991, Raisa Gorbachev published a book of reminiscences, entitled in English, ''I Hope,'' which she decided to write after a visit with Mrs. Bush in 1990 to Wellesley College where, she said, ''the girls showered me with questions.
'' Reviewers found the book self-serving in parts but also informative about the couple's intellectual journey as, together, they came to realize the flaws in the Soviet system.
In his book, he recalled how the two would have their most serious discussions in the garden of their Government-provided apartment, beyond the earshot of K.G.B.
''Many men would reject the trade and would never marry a female performer,'' Karin van Nieuwkerk wrote in a 1995 book about Egyptian dancers called ''A Trade Like Any Other'' and published by the University of Texas Press.
The tale of a handful of threadbare survivors in a shabby rooming house on the New York waterfront, the book met with mixed reviews with critics simultaneously proclaiming Ms. de Lima the next Hemingway, Dostoyevsky or Woolf, or calling her writing ''painfully studied and even windy.
The book was well received.
But as Jeff Greenfield wrote in a review of Mrs. Exner's autobiography, ''My Story'' (1977), in The New York Times Book Review, she ''sought no publicity, at least until after a Senate committee investigating C.I.A.-Mafia connections summoned her to testify and press reports revealed her supposed connections to Kennedy'' and to Sam Giancana, a Chicago organized-crime figure.
She also began to create a visual and literary record of her life and was preparing it as a book with a friend.
Press, a specialized publishing house, said he planned to publish the book when the friend completed it.
Ms. Valiente became the coven's high priestess and collaborated with Mr. Gardner in putting an up-to-date spin on what was billed as the witches' ancient liturgy, ''Book of Shadows,'' written in segments during the 1950's
        The book was actually an eclectic mix, based principally on Charles Leland's ''Gospel of the Witches,'' published in 1899, but drawing also on Freemasonry, theosophy and the works of the Golden Dawn, a magical tradition of England and Ireland embraced by George Bernard Shaw and William Butler Yeats.
''The story of witchcraft in Britain is unique, in both its form and mildness, when compared with the rest of Europe,'' wrote Ronald Holmes in his book, ''Witchcraft in British History'' in 1974.
In 1992 the library published Ms. Heskes's annotated catalogue and resource book based on the collection.
Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994).
At the time of her death she was working on another book, ''Yiddish-American Music: Melodies of Immigration, Acculturation and Assimilation.
In a writing career that lasted more than six decades, Mrs. Sarraute published 17 books, including 10 novels, although in her very first book, ''Tropisms,'' she already set the tone of her life's work.
She took the book's title from the biological term for the involuntary reaction of plants to external stimuli and used it to describe the human impulses that precede gestures or words.
''
        ''I believe that, through my novels, I showed that it was possible to write novels where the purely fictional element was freed from the conventions that encumbered it, just as the purely pictorial element in painting has freed itself from subject matter, perspective, and so on,'' Mrs. Sarraute wrote in an essay in The New York Times Book Review in 1964.
In 1932, she had begun writing ''Tropisms,'' a book comprising 24 short sketches.
The book sold few copies, but it sufficed to identify her as a ''new novelist.
'' Just three years later, when she published ''The Age of Suspicion,'' this book of essays about her approach to literature was presented to the public as ''the first theoretical manifestation of the Nouveau Roman school.
Quintessentially French in its intellectual playfulness, ''The Golden Fruits'' revolved around a discussion of the merits and demerits of an imaginary, much-acclaimed book, also called ''The Golden Fruits,'' a discussion that enabled Mrs. Sarraute to demystify the solemn language of literary criticism through parody and caricature while, at the same time, raising disturbing questions.
''The fact that this misty book contains some valid satirical points does not make it a rewarding novel,'' Orville Prescott wrote in The New York Times in February 1964.
In September 1997, at the age of 97, she published ''Ouvrez,'' or ''Open,'' a 130-page book in which she denounced the impoverishment of the French language.
'' And, unsurprisingly, she was working on yet another book at the time of her death.
      

        Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter.
Miss (her preference) Foveaux (pronounced FOH-voh), a snowy-haired great-great-grandmother, lived a literary fairy tale when she turned a memoir she wrote in a writing class for senior citizens in her hometown, Manhattan, Kan., into the book ''Any Given Day.
''
        In a 1997 auction Warner Books paid $1 million for the rights to publish the book.
Her book, never intended for publication, ''just poured out,'' said Charley Kempthorne, a part-time farmer who taught a writing class at the Manhattan Adult Learning Center.
''
        The book, which she began in 1977 and took several years to write, came to light only after an article about it appeared in 1997 on the front page of The Wall Street Journal to which Mr. Kempthorne had sent a copy.
The article set off a frenzy to buy the book, leading to the auction.
''
        The book auction and the publicity visit to New York transported her to a new world.
The book was published in 1997 and remains in print but was not a best seller, despite the wide pre-publication publicity it received.
As her book related, she struggled to maintain them in difficult circumstances.
She said the book provided a key she long carried in her subconscious, the mysticism of Tibet.
'' Just before her death, she finished translating a book by an 18th-century female lama into English.
''
        In her forward to Mrs. Bates's 1962 book, ''The Long Shadow of Little Rock,'' Eleanor Roosevelt wrote, ''I have paid her homage in my thoughts many times and I want to tell her again how remarkable I think she was through these horrible years.
In her book, she told of the trauma of learning at 8 that her mother had been killed in a rape attempt by three white men.
In her book, Mrs. Bates tells of waiting for a call from the school superintendent telling her to bring the children the next day.
She wrote a book, ''So You Want to Be a Doctor?
''I was getting letters from medical students,'' Dr. Bluestone said in an interview after her book was published, ''and the medical students would pour their hearts out to me to the point where I was starting to feel like the Dear Abby of the medical profession.
She also published poetry and collaborated with the ethnologist Marius Barbeau on a government-sponsored project, later made into a book, to collect and translate the folk songs of Quebec.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
It is likely that Kirstein met Ms. Cage at the Gotham Book Mart, where he is said to have invited her to work with Ballet Society, a precursor to City Ballet.
Among her books were ''Death Is Hard to Live With,'' ''Voices of Rape'' and ''The Colors of Freedom'' (1999), a book addressed to teenage immigrants.
Dr. Chall engaged in renewed combat in 1983, when, in the spring issue of Contemporary Education Review, she wrote a blistering review of a scholarly book, ''On Learning to Read'' (Knopf, 1982), by the psychologists  Bruno Bettelheim and Karen Zelan.
The Bettelheim-Zelan book, which had been almost universally praised by other professional educators, argued that the ability to decode words need not be taught but instead was intuitive, resulting without effort from the reading of imaginative, interesting stories.
