
        Dr. Francesca Morosani Thompson, a prominent orthopedic surgeon at Roosevelt  Hospital who chronicled her struggle against cancer of the bone marrow in a book, "Going for the Cure," died on Thursday at New York Hospital.
Her book, written for patients and their families, was published by St. Martin's Press in 1989.

        Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.
        She died after a long illness, said her son Gregory Jay Smith.

        Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.
        She died after a long illness, said her son Gregory Jay Smith.
Her "Collected Poems 1945-1990" (University of Arkansas Press, 1995) was praised in December by Robert Richman, the poetry editor of The New Criterion, in a review in The New York Times Book Review.
It formed the basis for their first book, "Predicting Reading Failure" (1966, Harper & Row), written with Dr. William Langford.
A second book, "Preventing Reading Failure" (1972, Harper & Row), refined the process and focused on intervention.
Miss Larina's book was an instant best-seller.
" She called the book, which was published last year, "a love letter...to my television husband Ralph Kramden.
But stenciling, an early American art form, became the focus of her life in the 1950's after she read a book about it and began reproducing some designs at her home in East Hampton, L.I., where she lived with her first husband, Nicholas Carone, an artist.
Together they produced stencil kits designed for do-it-yourselfers and wrote "The Art of Decorative Stenciling" (Viking, 1976), a book that was a standard reference work for many years.
Her 1951 book, "A Land" (with illustrations by Henry Moore), was based on her work as archeological adviser for the Festival of Britain.
In his review in the  New York Times Book Review, Stanley Edgar Hyman said that Ms. Hawkes had told the "story of the shaping of the earth and the development of life with simple eloquence" and described "A Land" as "a triumph of skill as well as a work of love.
Her death was front-page news in The Irish Times, whose chief book critic, Eileen Battersby, called her "one of modern Irish fiction's most subversive voices" and said, "Her art explored often brutal tensions, disappointments and frustrations dictating the relationships within so-called 'normal' families.
The book sold more than two million copies and was made into a well-received film in 1992 by Jean-Jacques Annaud.
" She described that book, published in 1991, as a "reappropriation" of "The Lover," yet once again she seemed to be reinventing her life to a point where it became impossible to know whether her original novel, Mr. Annaud's film or her second version of the  story was the closest to reality.
By the time he returned from Dachau concentration camp in 1945 (he was the subject of her 1985 book "La Douleur," later published in the United States as "The War"), she was already involved with Dionys Mascolo, who was to become her second husband and with whom she had  a son, Jean.
"
        Her first book, "Les Impudents," was published in 1943, and from that time, she lived off her writing, gradually building a body of work that included more than 70 novels, plays, screenplays and adaptations.
Late last year, struggling again with illness, Miss Duras published "That's All," a tiny 54-page book that seemed intended to be her literary adieu to her readers, to Mr. Steiner and to herself.
The book, which has sold millions of copies and has been translated into more than 20 languages, has inspired critical studies, a string  of sequels and the 1964 Walt Disney movie musical, starring Julie Andrews and Dick Van Dyke.
The critic Richard Lingeman wrote that Miss Travers "has succeeded in creating a timeless world inhabited by real people and complete unto itself -- an immortal world that is summoned into being, unchanged whenever one opens a book.
She moved with her mother and sisters to New South Wales to live with a great-aunt, who years later would become the title character in Miss Travers's 1941 book, "Aunt Sass.
Miss Travers was living in Sussex, recuperating from an illness in a 900-year-old thatched cottage mentioned in the Domesday Book.
Her experience became the basis for her 1941 book "I  Go by Sea, I Go by Land," the fictional diary of an 11-year-old girl who, like Miss Travers, was evacuated from England.
She rewrote the chapter for the 1981 revised edition of the book, substituting exotic animals for the offending ethnic characters.
According to Herbert Mitgang, an author and former New York Times book critic, the most notable aspect of her work was an ability to combine clarity and eloquence.
Applauding a 1956 work, "Wingless Victory," about Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian poet, novelist and dramatist, and his mistress, the actress Eleonora Duse, Miss Frenaye wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book's author, Frances Winwar, "in her spirited and lush re-creation of the  posing poet, has done well to present him in his own terms.
Applauding a 1956 work, "Wingless Victory," about Gabriele d'Annunzio, the Italian poet, novelist and dramatist, and his mistress, the actress Eleonora Duse, Miss Frenaye wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book's author, Frances Winwar, "in her spirited and lush re-creation of the  posing poet, has done well to present him in his own terms.
Frances Lehman Loeb was born in Manhattan on Sept. 25, 1906, into two of the  German-Jewish families whose rise to prominence and zeal for public service were chronicled in Stephen Birmingham's 1972 book, "Our Crowd.
It prompted the critic Haskel Frankel to welcome her in The New York Times Book Review with an accolade, "The lady is a born storyteller.
"
        Those books were such a succcess that she wrote a Florida Trilogy and a Savannah Quartet before a turning out a final Georgia Trilogy, whose return to the familiar St. Simons settings helped propel the first book of the final series, "Bright Captivity" (1991), to The New York Times best-seller list.
Her last book, "The Waiting Time," is to be published next year by Doubleday.
Grace Robert, an American dance historian, said of the Black Swan in her "Borzoi Book of Ballets" (1946): "Tamara Toumanova is at her exciting best in this tour de force, its vertiginous turns and sustained balances exactly suiting her temperament and forceful technique.
"
        At her death, Ms. Howard was under contract to Simon & Schuster for a nonfiction book, tentatively titled "Heartland," on the Midwest.
Her second, "Trainsong" (1988), was about her travels after the first book.
She also taught and lectured on tai chi in live appearances and on television, writing the first book in English on the subject.
Her first book was "Neighbors to the South" (1941), an introduction to 12 Latin American countries.

        Jessica Mitford, whose book "The American Way of Death" won her enormous popularity as an irreverent muckraker and witty polemicist, died yesterday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 78.
The thesis of the book, a scathing indictment of the American funeral industry, was that undertakers had "successfully turned the tables in recent years to perpetrate a huge, macabre and expensive practical joke on the American public.
She told her readers unsettling things about their neighborhood undertakers,  much to the dismay of the trade, and at the end of the book included a list of medical schools that might have good use for a dead body.
The New Yorker hailed the book as a "brilliant journalistic case against the  whole funeral industry," and the work led to an investigation by the Federal Trade Commission.
" Mr. Utt said he suspected that profits from the book "no doubt will find their way into  the coffers of the Communist Party, U.S.A." Miss Mitford had been a Communist in the 1940's, an experience chronicled in her memoirs, but had quit the party.
"
        She produced her first book, "Life itselfmanship," in 1956.
Her next book was "The American Way of Death," which remained on the best-seller list for a year.
At her death she was working on a book on the changing nature of Martha's Vineyard and what might be done to save the island where she had summered for many years.
The article echoed her earlier book, "No Island Is an Island: The Ordeal of  Martha's Vineyard" (1973).
Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in  Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
In his 1971 book "The Name Above the Title," Mr. Capra wrote that Miss Colbert, "never easily pleased, said that  for her it was a disaster, and vowed that it would be her first and last film.
'' After a brief stint as a special editor at Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1970, she returned to magazines as the fiction and book editor for The Ladies' Home Journal.
Betty Friedan, whose 1963 book ''The Feminine Mystique'' is credited with helping to spark the modern women's movement, said yesterday that Ms. East was a ''prime mover'' in the 1966 birth of NOW.
As a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College, Mrs. Livingston submitted a collection of poems to Margaret K. McElderry, then the children's book editor of Harcourt Brace.
In an HBO movie based on the book, the role of Ms. Kushnick was played by Kathy Bates.
Mrs. Calder executed a series of hooked rugs, based on her husband's designs, and wrote a book on crochet.
But her name was listed in the Manhattan telephone book, and despite her great age and infirmities -- she was legally blind -- she granted several interviews.
The couple lived in the Bahamas during World War II, and their studies of the plant life there resulted in their first book, ''50 Tropical Fruits of Nassau'' (1949).
Her durable and widely used book, ''Fundamentals of Radiology,'' was published in 1964.
She was also the author of a 1971 book with the same title.
She had also just completed a book, ''Frances Lear's Guide to Work and Family in the 21st Century,'' which does not yet have a publisher.
She was the author of ''Sharing the Dance: Contact Improvisation and American Culture'' (1990) and was at work on a book about choreography and improvisation.
Critics described the book, which was named for the child the Burnses never had, as both poetic and brutally specific, full of pain and anger, a plea for understanding and an exhortation to live life, come what may.
The book came out in paperback on Oct. 1, with a printing of 50,000 copies.
She began her writing career in 1950 with ''The Unheard Music,'' her one book for adults, and published her first children's book, ''The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom Planet,'' in 1954.
She began her writing career in 1950 with ''The Unheard Music,'' her one book for adults, and published her first children's book, ''The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom Planet,'' in 1954.
That book, an adventure about space travel, inspired four ''Mushroom Planet'' sequels.
''The Court of the Stone Children'' (1973), a complex tale involving ghostly apparitions in modern-day San Francisco, won her a National Book Award.
Mrs. Selsam published her first book in 1946, ''From Egg to Chick,'' after having taught high school science in the New York City public school system.
Her books received many awards, including the Thomas Alva Edison Award for the best juvenile science book, ''Biography of an Atom'' (1965).
''I was, for as long as it took,'' he wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''able to surrender my own callowness and smugness to the ecstasy that is fiction, is art.
''
        Other critics had similar praise, which was echoed when Books & Company/Turtle Point Press reissued the book this year.
Among other things, the budding first novelist was 46 years old and had been working on the book for the better part of two decades.
''It blew the top of her head off,'' Mr. Wesley said, noting that for the last 25 years his wife had been writing -- and rewriting -- a book about the martyred 12-year-old girl who was betrayed by her father, refused to renounce her faith and put to death, inspiring a cult that continues in France.
Ms. Green's book, ''Golden Spark, Little Saint: My Book of the Hours of Saint Foy,'' which combines fiction with factual accounts of the Conques region and its people, is to be published by Random House next year.
Ms. Green's book, ''Golden Spark, Little Saint: My Book of the Hours of Saint Foy,'' which combines fiction with factual accounts of the Conques region and its people, is to be published by Random House next year.
There she wondered at the attention her efforts had received over the years, including a 1989 book by Philip P. Hallie, ''Lest Innocent Blood Be Shed,'' and a television documentary, ''Weapons of the Spirit.
Her best-known book is ''The Theory of the Growth of the Firm'' (1959, Oxford), about the ways companies grow and the reasons why they do.
''
        A Scottish economist, Sir Alec Cairncross, recalled in The Independent on Saturday, that the book brought Dr. Penrose ''instant recognition as a creative thinker, and its importance to the analysis of the job of management has been increasingly realized.
In a 1976 interview, she recalled: ''I was doing a book on multinational corporations, although nobody called them that in those days.
''
        That book, ''The Large International Firm in Developing Countries: The International Petroleum Industry,'' was published in 1968, and by 1976 she was considered one of the top oil economists in the world.
Her first book, ''Economics of the International Patent System,'' was published in 1951.
She started her own publishing company to produce a definitive coffee table book, ''Art of the Carousel.
So she learned from her husband, ''casually, unconsciously, by association,'' and along the way discovered that she had a natural acuity for language and an innate sense of what made a good book work.
''
        Her work appeared in some of the best magazines in the country, including The New Yorker, The Atlantic, Harper's and The Saturday Review, but mainly in two journals that were among those at the center of American intellectual life of the period, The Nation, where she wrote book reviews and literary criticism, and The Partisan Review, to which she contributed essays.
She held the job for 10 years, often wielding her pen like a Bowie knife: ''A mad, bad, and dangerous book, Allan Seager's 'Equinox' is fiction's most recent attempt to practice psychiatry without a license.
''
        Earlier this year The New Yorker published her brief memoir of her days at summer camp, and she finished her last book, ''A Visit to Camelot,'' an account of an evening spent at the White House when John F. Kennedy was President.

        Marjorie Shostak, a woman from a traditional family in Flatbush whose book about a bold older woman from the !Kung San tribe in Africa's Kalahari Desert rode an early wave of women's studies and injected new life into techniques of anthropology, died on Sunday at DeKalb Medical Center in Atlanta.
Ms. Shostak relayed her findings in a 1981 book, ''Nisa: The Life and Words of a !Kung Woman'' (Harvard University Press), illustrated with her photographs.
The book revealed the world of a 50-ish !Kung San woman who says, for example, speaking of sex in old age, ''Then I'll wear the beads and powder and I'll be beautiful again, so beautiful that the men will say, 'Nisa, aren't you a lovely one.
' ''
        The book, which is frequently used as a text in women's studies and anthropology classes, portrayed Nisa, a name that Ms. Shostak invented to protect the privacy of the subject, as a vibrant, piercing, blunt, frank desert woman who would discuss sex, men, jealousy and women's anatomy as casually as a woman in Flatbush might discuss a grocery list.
Ms. Shostak wrote the book while she and her husband lived in Cambridge, Mass., where she was an associate of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.
The story was recorded in a second book, ''Nisa Revisited,'' that Ms. Shostak had largely completed before she died, Dr. Konner said.
Reviewing Mrs. Eberhart's ''Next of Kin'' in 1982, Newgate Callendar wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''contains all of the formulas she has so successfully conjured up through the years -- rich families, nice people, romance, something of a locked-room mystery, lots of suspects.
Reviewing Mrs. Eberhart's ''Next of Kin'' in 1982, Newgate Callendar wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''contains all of the formulas she has so successfully conjured up through the years -- rich families, nice people, romance, something of a locked-room mystery, lots of suspects.
When she was asked to name her favorite writers, she said that she never missed a book by Agatha Christie or Ngaio Marsh.
The book, ''A Bird's Eye View,'' will be published next year by the University of Pittsburgh Press.
''The standard procedure for treating homosexuals in that hospital was electroshock therapy,'' Dr. Hooker recalled in the book ''Making History'' (HarperCollins, 1992) by Eric Marcus.
Leonard Mosley wrote in his 1978 book ''Dulles'' that early in 1962, during the Kennedy Administration, Secretary of State Dean Rusk summoned her and said, ''The White House has asked me to get rid of you.
She recommended that any parent who felt compelled to take a child under age 5 to see the movie should read the book to the child first, to gauge the reaction.
Mrs. Macdonald, who peppered The New York Times and other publications with letters and articles describing the plight of the refugees, even after the death of Franco in 1974, continued to direct Spanish Refugee Aid until retiring in 1983, then summed up her work with a book in 1987 based on taped interviews, ''Homage to the Spanish Exiles: Voices from the Spanish Civil War.
She contributed numerous articles and book reviews to art publications and also wrote about jade and Chinese art for the general reader.
Her most recent book was ''Chinese Jade,'' published in 1986 by Oxford University Press in Hong Kong.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Mrs. Rey once said she and her husband had a simple reason for creating the book: They needed money.
The publisher then asked the couple to collaborate on a book for children.
The book, ''Rafi et les Neuf Singes,'' published in 1939, was the model for Curious George, which two years later became a hit in the United States.

        Magda Denes, a psychoanalyst who had just completed a book recounting her torment as a Jewish child hunted by the Nazis in wartime Budapest, was found dead on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Denes's second book, ''Castles Burning: A Child's Life in War,'' is to be published in January by W. W. Norton.
A book party was set for Jan. 9, after which Dr. Denes was to give readings and interviews around the United States and abroad.
Rights to the book, which was selected as a Literary Guild featured alternate, were also recently sold for German, British and Dutch publication.
The book recounts Dr. Denes's ordeal as one of the so-called hidden children, estimated to number from 10,000 to 100,000, who spent World War II in stables and caves and secret rooms like Anne Frank's annex in Amsterdam.
In 1976, Dr. Denes published her first book, ''In Necessity and Sorrow: Life and Death in an Abortion Hospital,'' which a reviewer for The New York Times Book review called ''a highly emotional anti-abortion tract.
In 1976, Dr. Denes published her first book, ''In Necessity and Sorrow: Life and Death in an Abortion Hospital,'' which a reviewer for The New York Times Book review called ''a highly emotional anti-abortion tract.
'' Many other critics praised the book, and it was published in Austria, England, Germany and Japan.
He asked her to help him with drawings for a book, and she readily agreed.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.
The book, "Flowers in the Attic," has sold millions of copies worldwide and led to Ms. Andrews's fame.
So Josephine went on the next hunt carrying only a book.
Josephine threw the book and hit the leopard in the nose.

        Marcia Davenport, a biographer of Mozart and best-selling novelist, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 92 and lived in Pebble Beach,  Calif.
        Mrs. Davenport's last book was her autobiography, "Too Strong for Fantasy" (1967).
In a review in The New York Times Book Review, Ellen Moers called it "a  compelling production" and said "the gift for old-fashioned, unadulterated romance which made several of her novels best sellers (and one a Greer Garson movie) does not fail her now.
Her best-known book is her biography "Mozart," which came out in 1932, and has been continuously in print since then, most recently from the University of  Pittsburgh Press.
When it appeared, Herbert Gorman praised it highly in The New York Times Book Review, writing that Mrs. Davenport "gives a vivid and convincing portrait of the child prodigy who developed into the man-genius, a portrait that does not romanticize Mozart too much and leaves the reader convinced of the reality of the figure with whom he has passed through a career of hard work, poverty, neglect and few (but astounding) triumphs.
The book also weaves the Scotts' personal lives in with steel-industry and United States history.
The book was made into a 1945 film, with the same title, starring Greer Garson and Gregory Peck.
In that book, she praises one particular box on the second tier at Carnegie Hall, saying "Carnegie Hall is glorious," but "nowhere else in the old house is the sonority so total, the instruments, together or individually, so brilliant and penetrating.
With her husband, who was a Democratic  Senator from Pennsylvania from 1991 through 1994, she was co-author of a book, "India Today" (John Day, 1951).
Mrs. Machover wrote a book on her research that is still in print, "Personality Projection in the Drawing of the Human Figure: A Method of Personality Investigation" (Charles C. Thomas, 1949).
Reviewing that book, William Cole wrote in the Saturday Review, "Madame Prou  weaves an incredibly fine net, the strands of which are passion, deceit, sadism, pride, seduction and burning hate.
"
        Her first novel, "Les Patapharis," which appeared in France in 1966 and was later published in English as "The Patapharis Affair," won the Prix Femina and was praised by Martin Levin in The New York Times Book Review as a "delicately shadowed work of art.
" Her last book, "L'Album de Famille," came out last year.
For some years she worked as an editor for a children's book publisher in  Moscow.
" A second book, "Breaking With Tradition: Women and Work, the New Facts of Life," was published in 1992.
Her most recent book, "The Last of the Duchess," was an eccentric, Kafkaesque account of her vain attempt to visit the ailing Duchess of Windsor.
It revolved  mostly around the Duchess's powerful lawyer, Suzanne Blum, portrayed in the book as obsessed with her client to the point of erotic fantasy.
Although she could spend only two or three weeks there a year, Miss Barry kept such meticulous track of her intense short-term experiences that she turned them into a book, "At Home in France: Tales of an American and Her House Abroad.
In a review in The New York Times, Anatole Broyard called a 1975 reissue of  her 1952 book "Rome and the Villa" "perhaps the finest book ever to be written about a city.
In a review in The New York Times, Anatole Broyard called a 1975 reissue of  her 1952 book "Rome and the Villa" "perhaps the finest book ever to be written about a city.
Although she was sometimes described as a travel writer, "Rome and a Villa" is not a traditional travel book.
Nor is "The Oysters of Locmariaquer," a somewhat similar book that used oystering in Brittany as a springboard to an excursion through history and culture, and won the 1964 National Book Award for  arts and letters.
Nor is "The Oysters of Locmariaquer," a somewhat similar book that used oystering in Brittany as a springboard to an excursion through history and culture, and won the 1964 National Book Award for  arts and letters.
