She was the president of the book division of Times Mirror Magazine.
She helped create and then ran two of the country's most successful book clubs devoted to specialized interests, Outdoor Life and Popular Science.
She also helped establish two other book clubs dealing with nature and crafts.
Murder and Mysteries
        A 1973 murder case about which Ms. Fosburgh wrote for The Times became the subject of "Closing Time," which was a selection of the Literary Guild and the Doubleday Book Club.
In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
Murder and Mysteries
        A 1973 murder case about which Ms. Fosburgh wrote for The Times became the subject of "Closing Time," which was a selection of the Literary Guild and the Doubleday Book Club.
In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
She wrote culture and travel articles for Italian newspapers and magazines and book reviews for The New York Times and The Chicago Tribune.
Her last Holt book, "The Black Opal," is scheduled for publication this year.
The book was a collection of letters between the editor of the Hound & Horn, a literary magazine published between 1927 and 1934, and the magazine's writers.
Her book, "Dyslexia; Theory and Practice of Remedial Instruction" (York Press, 1988), is a standard text on the subject.
Her latest work was a chapter on early reading and instruction in the book, "Learning About Learning Disabilities" (Academic Press, 1991).
Miss Gould was best known for "Winslow Homer: A Portrait" (1962), "Robert Frost: The Aim Was Song" (1964), "The Poet and Her Book: A Biography of Edna St. Vincent Millay" (1969) and "Amy: The World of Amy Lowell and the Imagist Movement" (1976).
Among her many publications, she is best known for her book "Working with Disadvantaged Parents and Their Children" (Yale University Press, 1983).
Feminist Advice for Girls
        Drawing on her personal experiences, Ms. Eagan wrote the first feminist advice book for teen-age girls, "Why Am I So Miserable, if These Are the Best Years of My Life?
Her first book, "The Five Chinese Brothers" (Coward), is being translated to Spanish, 55 years after its original publication.
She was in charge of the children's reading room at the New York Public Library in the mid-1930's and was the children's book editor of Commonweal.
In her 1990 book she wrote that her own husband, Mr. MacArthur, "set about killing himself" with drink after Mary's death.
The book included city landmarks dating from 1650 to 1930.
She also wrote book reviews for Chicago publications.
In 1939, Hurok tried to book her at Constitution Hall in the national headquarters of the D.A.R., and was told that all dates were taken.
Reviewing Atheneum's American edition in February 1987 in The New York Times Book Review, Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of the Book Review, wrote, "If you like your tea and fiction delicately seasoned and served exquisitely, this novel may be a perfect midwinter cup.
Reviewing Atheneum's American edition in February 1987 in The New York Times Book Review, Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of the Book Review, wrote, "If you like your tea and fiction delicately seasoned and served exquisitely, this novel may be a perfect midwinter cup.

        Julia Knickerbocker, a leader in the field of book publicity, died on Sunday at the Robert Janker Clinic in Bonn.
A longtime public relations executive in book publishing, Ms. Knickerbocker influenced a whole generation of young public relations executives who now hold significant positions in various houses.
Her best-known book, "Diderot and Sterne" (Columbia University Press, 1955) won the Clarke F. Ansley Award by Columbia and was reprinted in 1973 by Farrar, Strauss & Giroux.
In the book, he observed: "Freya never lost her passion for acquiring fresh knowledge and new skills.
Anthony Burgess, reviewing her short-story collection "Nobody's Business" for The New York Times Book Review in 1971, wrote: "She is intelligent, economical, poignant, highly contemporary.
Her last book was "To Wit: Skin and Bones of Comedy" (1990), a collection of essays.
She also wrote articles and edited a book on medical problems in Brazil.

        Anne M. Johnson, a former vice president of Beginner Books, a children's book division of Random House, died on Sunday at her home in Clifton, N.J. She was 62.
She served on the editorial advisory boards of the World Book Encyclopedia and the Thorndike-Barnhart and Funk & Wagnalls dictionaries.
Besides numerous articles, she was the author of a book, "The Gift of Play," (Walker & Company, 1980), with Maria W. Piers.
In her book, "Penicillin: Meeting the Challenge" (Yale University Press, 1985), Dr. Hobby chronicled penicillin's precarious journey from laboratory to factory, beginning with Sir Alexander Fleming's intriguing find of 1928.

        Ruth Krauss, the author of "The Carrot Seed," "A Hole Is to Dig: A First Book of First Definitions" and other books for children, died on Saturday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 91.
Her first book, "A Good Man and His Good Wife," with illustrations by the abstract painter Ad Reinhardt, was published in 1944.
Mrs. Bevans's most widely distributed work is her illustrations for the original "Pat the Bunny," (Golden Books, 1940), created by Dorothy Kunhardt, the second-best-selling children's book ever, after "Peter Rabbit.
"
        She is author and illustrator of "Thomas Retires," (Viking, 1939) a children's book.
Other works include " 'I Wonder Why,' Thought the Owl," (Putnam, 1965) and "Danny Kaye's Around the World Story Book," (Random House, 1960), of which she was co-editor.
She was editor of a best-selling book for adults, "Vogue's Book of Etiquette," (Simon & Schuster, 1948), compiled by the late Millicent H. Fenwick.
She was editor of a best-selling book for adults, "Vogue's Book of Etiquette," (Simon & Schuster, 1948), compiled by the late Millicent H. Fenwick.
She also edited "McCall's Book of Everyday Etiquette" (Golden Press, 1960).
Reviewing her book in The New York Times, Howard Taubman wrote: "What all the advice aims at is the eternal one of learning to make technique the servant of art.
She is remembered by many as Sophy, the group leader, in her friend Emily Kimbrough's book, "Pleasure by the Busload.

        Joyce Haber, known for her barbed commentaries as one of the last of Hollywood's powerful gossip columnists and the author of a best-selling book on the movie industry, died on Thursday at a hospital in Los Angeles.
Her last book, "The Rising Sun on Main Street: Working with the Japanese" (International Information Press, 1990), sought to help Americans puzzled by the customs of Japanese living among them.
These experiences prompted her first book, "Half the World's People" (Apoleton-Century-Crofts, 1965).
Miss de la Torre wrote numerous books, short stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, reviews for The New York Times Book Review, poetry and plays, including one produced in Alfred Hitchcock's television series.
Her first book, "Elizabeth Is Missing, or Truth Triumphant" (Knopf, 1945), rebutted 12 theories on the disappearance of a maidservant near the Tower of London in 1753, then offered Miss de la Torre's own answer.
A book review in The Times said she had combined "the scholarly patience of a candidate for a Ph.D." with "the ingenuity of a Nero Wolfe.
" Joseph Wood Krutch called the book "certainly the best and most ingenious account of the famous Elizabeth Canning mystery.
"
        Another book in that vein was "Villainy Detected" (Appleton-Century, 1947), subtitled "a collection of the most sensational true crimes and most notorious real criminals that blotted the name of Britain in the years 1660 to 1800.
Miss de la Torre wrote numerous books, short stories for Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine, reviews for The New York Times Book Review, poetry and plays, including one produced in Alfred Hitchcock's television series.
Her first book, "Elizabeth Is Missing, or Truth Triumphant" (Knopf, 1945), rebutted 12 theories on the disappearance of a maidservant near the Tower of London in 1753, then offered Miss de la Torre's own answer.
A book review in The Times said she had combined "the scholarly patience of a candidate for a Ph.D." with "the ingenuity of a Nero Wolfe.
" Joseph Wood Krutch called the book "certainly the best and most ingenious account of the famous Elizabeth Canning mystery.
"
        Another book in that vein was "Villainy Detected" (Appleton-Century, 1947), subtitled "a collection of the most sensational true crimes and most notorious real criminals that blotted the name of Britain in the years 1660 to 1800.
"She has brilliantly evoked the atmosphere of literary Petrograd," wrote a critic in The New York Times Book Review in 1969, adding that the memoirs "have yielded some remarkable portraits and vignettes.
" The book was re-issued last year by Alfred A. Knopf in a revised translation.
Reported the News
        Miss Berberova then began a 15-year affiliation with the Russian-language daily Poslednye Novosti, reporting news events and writing book reviews, critical articles, short fiction and theater and movie reviews.
Appearing in 1937, the book created a sensation because it dealt openly with the composer's homosexuality.
She also wrote a book of poems, "Crane on the Hackmatack.
In 1977, a year after she resigned from the Communist Party because of differences with its leadership, she wrote a book based on her experiences as an organizer, "The Autobiography of an American Communist: A Personal View of a Political Life.
" Her other books were "To a Young Dancer," "The Book of the Dance," "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death," "Russian Journals," "Dance in America" and "America Dances.
" Her most recent book, "Martha: The Life and Work of Martha Graham," published in 1991, was a lively and highly opinionated commentary on the great modern dancer.
Her last book, "One King, One Faith: The Parliament of Paris and the Reformations of the 16th Century," is scheduled for publication next year by the University of California Press, which placed it on its "centennial roster" of the 100 most distinguished books it has published since 1895.

        Carlotta Monti, an actress who wrote the 1971 book "W. C. Fields and Me," an account of her role as companion to the comedian for the last 14 years of his life, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland, Calif., after a long illness.
Miss Monti's book, written with Cy Rice, was made into a 1976 film directed by Arthur Hiller, which starred Valerie Perrine as Miss Monti and Rod Steiger as Fields, who died in 1946 at the age of 67.
Ms. Simon collaborated with Simone Beck, known as Simca, on the 326-page book of menus and recipes from the repertory of Miss Beck, a respected French cook who died in 1991.
Although Mrs. Landon spent more than 10 years in Siam, now Thailand, it was not her story, but that of Anna Leonowens, that was the basis for Mrs. Landon's 1944 book.
The story in Mrs. Landon's book was told in a 1946 film starring Irene Dunne, as Anna, and Rex Harrison, as the king.
She wrote one other book, "Never Dies the Dream," published in 1948.
