
        Evelyn Tennyson Openhym, a book collector and benefactor of Alfred University in western New York, died on Jan. 13 at her home in Wellsville, N.Y. She was 89 years old.
Included in the book collection are signed first editions by D. H. Lawrence, Virginia Woolf, John Galsworthy and others.
Rizzoli Publishing is working on a book on the collection.
Rizzoli Publishing is preparing a book on the collection.
After her retirement from Rutgers, she served as a library consultant and later vice president of Bro-Dart Inc., a wholesale book supplier.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.
She published four books, including "Everybody's Book of Better Speaking" and "To Sing in English.
She disclosed her findings in 1969 in the book "Ammi Phillips, Portrait Painter, 1788-1865," which she wrote with Barbara and Lawrence Holdridge, folk art collectors.
A book on her work as a model is scheduled for publication later this year in Germany.
She also wrote freelance articles and book reviews for The New York Times, Newsday, The Washington Post, The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Detroit Free Press, The Nation and American Mercury.
In one interview she remarked that acting "isn't like painting a picture or writing a book.
She co-wrote a book about it in 1931, "The Provincetown," which was republished in 1972.
She co-wrote a book about it in 1931, "The Provincetown," which was republished in 1972.
Her first book, on the Kiowas, was "The Ten Grandmothers" (University of Oklahoma, 1945).
In one interview she remarked that acting "isn't like painting a picture or writing a book.
Her selection of work from her father's journals in a 1977 book called "Souvenirs and Prophecies: The Young Wallace Stevens" became controversial.
The work was praised by Helen Vendler, writing in The New York Times Book Review, for giving a complete portrait of the poet as a young man "so that the journal fragments and first poems can be placed in the context of Stevens's character and life.
"
        But Anatole Broyard, reviewing the book for the daily edition of The New York Times, declared that it did a "disservice" to one of his favorite poets.
The book, he said, offered "no intimations whatever of Stevens's ultimate achievement: one year he was writing vapid and sentimental mediocrities, and the next he was turning out one of the best poems of our century.
She later started a public relations company in New York, wrote "Anita Colby's Beauty Book," bought and sold the Women's News Service, for which she wrote a syndicated newspaper column called "Anita Says," and appeared for six months on the "Today" show with Dave Garroway.
The show had music and lyrics by Cole Porter and a book by Mr. Kaufman, Miss MacGrath and Abe Burrows.
Ms. Merriam's work ranged from light-hearted verse, to an Obie-winning musical about sexism, to a theater piece on pioneer women presented at the White House, to poems on inner-city poverty that spurred calls to ban the book from schools and libraries.
Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today.
" She defended the book as misunderstood; others praised its realism.
Feminism Was a Theme
        Feminism was an early and recurring theme in her works, including "After Nora Slammed the Door: the Women's Unfinished Revolution" (World, 1964) and a children's book, "Mommies At Work" (Knopf, 1960).
Her book "Figleaf" (Lippincott, 1960) punctured the fashion industry with a glossary of garment gab that defined exclusive as "a product offered to the broadest possible mass market" and timeless as "a style that remains fashionable for more than one season.
Her first published book of poems, "Family Circle" (Yale University, 1946) won Yale's Younger Poets Prize, and in 1949 she won a Collier's prize for fiction.
In 1957, her book "Opera Caravan," an anecdotal history of the Metropolitan Opera on tour, was praised by Howard Taubman, then chief music critic of The New York Times, as "both diverting and informative.
Her last book, published in 1987, was "Sutherland and Bonynge: An Intimate Biography," about Dame Joan Sutherland and her husband, the conductor Richard Bonynge.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
The book chronicled her experiences accompanying her husband on fishing trips around the world.
" She wrote the lyrics to the music by Sholom Secunda, and the book was by Mr. Kalich and Louis Freiman.
For more than 40 years she was married to James Montgomery, the playwright who wrote "Nothing but the Truth" and the book for the musical "Irene," among other works.
"When I go back and read her book now," Ms.
"
        Grand dame of the kitchen, doyenne of modern cookery, expert on Mediterranean cookery, Mrs. David first displayed her importance with the publication of "A Book of Mediterranean Food," in 1950.
Mr. Olney, whose book, "Simple French Food," (reprinted by Macmillan in 1992) also had a remarkable impact on American cooking, said Mrs. David's writing style, the lack of specificity in her recipes, did not appeal to American publishers, and delayed her fame in this country.
Her last cook book, "English Bread and Yeast Cookery," appeared in 1973.
Her last book, "An Omelette and a Glass of Wine," a collection of earlier writings, was published in 1984.
She also lectured, wrote book reviews, was the host of a children's television show for a year, evaluated manuscripts for publishers and was the juvenile editor of Publisher's Weekly.
She and her partner, Donna Lang, published a book, "Decorating With Fabrics," and were working on a book on decorating with paper, scheduled for publication next year.
She and her partner, Donna Lang, published a book, "Decorating With Fabrics," and were working on a book on decorating with paper, scheduled for publication next year.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me":
        "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
"I wrote a book about my childhood, and I wanted to call it 'Child of an Inner Ghetto.
' " Lessons From the Family Cook
        Instead, the book, which was published in 1970, was called "Among Friends.
Her first book, "Serve it Forth," published by Harper Brothers in 1937, took America by the shoulders and said, "Look, if you have to eat to live, you may was well enjoy it.
In 1968, Putnam published "With Bold Knife and Fork," and Mrs. Fisher joined Julia Child and Michael Field as consultants to the Time-Life book "The Cooking of Provencal France.
"The Boss Dog," a book for children, was published by Northpoint in 1991.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me": "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
"I wrote a book about my childhood, and I wanted to call it 'Child of an Inner Ghetto.
' "
        Instead, the book, which was published in 1970, was called "Among Friends.
Her first book, "Serve it Forth," published by Harper Brothers in 1937, took America by the shoulders and said, "Look, if you have to eat to live, you may as well enjoy it.
"The Boss Dog," a book for children, was published by Northpoint in 1991.
"The graceful and lively books of Yoshiko Uchida have drawn on the author's own childhood to document the Japanese-American experience" in fiction for her young audience, Patty Campbell wrote in a review of Ms. Uchida's "Happiest Ending" (Atheneum, 1985) in The New York Times Book Review.
The book contained many recipes Mrs. Leavitt had devised from her volunteer work showing migrant families in Florida and Pennsylvania how to prepare nutritious and tasty meals.
She held a variety of editorial jobs, including compiling a Yiddish encyclopedia, editing a book on cinema and working at Time magazine.
With Dr. Richard Lectenberg, Dr. Sher was co-editor of a book, "AIDS in the Nervous System," published in 1988 by Churchill-Livingstone.
Under the name Caroline Miller, Mrs. Ray burst upon the national scene with the publication of the prize-winning book "Lamb in His Bosom," a tale, derived from the history of her extended family, about a backwoods community in pre-Civil War Georgia.
Reviewing it for The New York Times Book Review, Louis Kronenberger wrote that it had "a wonderful freshness about it; not simply the freshness of a new writer, but the freshness of a new world," and that Mrs. Ray's strength was her ability to use words to paint "a wonderful large and vital picture.
Her drawing of Eugene O'Neill was used on book jackets, on the theater program for his play "The Iceman Cometh" and on the cover of Newsweek magazine.
The book grew from her experiences during more than a dozen trips to Europe, Latin America and other parts of the world.
Their latest book was "Making Life Right When It Feels All Wrong" (Macmillan, 1988).
Outside the genre, Ms. Baer wrote "The Self-Chosen" (Arbor House, 1982), a book about what she called "the world of the Jewish elite" in the United States since World War II.
The book led to a nationally syndicated radio program in 1971 and 1972 and a monthly column for McCall's magazine called "Of Two Minds," which ran from 1971 to 1979.
The two women began six years of intense collaboration on a book, "Martha Graham: 16 Dances in Photographs," which was a centerpiece of both careers and which is considered the quintessential statement on how to look at dance and record it.
Going beyond the life of Saintsbury, the book is a portrait of the literary scene of Victorian-Edwardian England.
Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award.
Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award.
She first gained attention by turning her doctoral thesis on immigration into a book, "Ancestors & Immigrants: A Changing New England Tradition" (Harvard University Press, 1956).
Her 1972 book about the composer, "And Music at the Close: Stravinsky's Last Years," created a controversy in the music world by challenging previously published portraits of the artist.
In a front-page article in The New York Times, Donal Henahan said the book called into question "Stravinsky's character, his interest in new music, his appetite for prolonging feuds with colleagues and critics, and his brilliance as a writer and polemicist.
Mrs. Ashworth also contributed to the World Book Encyclopedia and to the compendium "Notable American Women 1607-1950.
She modeled briefly for Harper's Bazaar, then worked as a writer and editor at Vogue magazine and compiled "Vogue's Book of Etiquette" (Simon & Schuster, 1948), which sold a million copies.
Winning Literary Acclaim
        The first of the series was "The Borrowers," which won the Library Association Carnegie Medal in England as the outstanding children's book of 1952.
American critics celebrated the book when it was published in the United States the next year.
Jane Cobb, writing in The New York Times Book Review, described "The Borrowers" as "a charming story, beautifully written," that brought to mind "Alice in Wonderland" and "The Wind in the Willows.
A Witch and a Flying Bed
        Her first book, "The Magic Bed-knob; or, How to Become a Witch in 10 Easy Lessons," published in 1943, was the story of three children, a spinster learning to become a witch and a flying bed.
Reviewing it in The Times Book Review, Ellen Lewis Buell said: "No one can tell for certain when a classic is born, but this story has all the makings of one.
" In 1971 the book was made into the Walt Disney film "Bedknobs and Broomsticks," which starred Angela Lansbury.
" Her other stage productions included "Bell, Book and Candle," "Lost in the Stars," "Tea and Sympathy," "The Tender Trap" and "A Streetcar Named Desire.
She has one more book of fiction, "A Big Storm Knocked It Over," also being published by HarperCollins.
Her book "Eudora Welty," published in 1962 by Twayne Publishers, was the first full-length study of that writer.
Her book, "The Album of the American Indian," was published in 1969 by Franklin Watts Inc., and a second book, "Tonewaya and the Eagles," was published in 1979 by Dial Press.
Her book, "The Album of the American Indian," was published in 1969 by Franklin Watts Inc., and a second book, "Tonewaya and the Eagles," was published in 1979 by Dial Press.
With her father, she wrote a book on Luca Cambiaso, a 16th- century Genoese painter.
"
        After retiring, Dr. Spencer received a Fulbright grant and returned to Paris, where she researched 15th-century French book illustration and wrote articles for scholarly journals.
From the publication of her first book in 1968, Ms. Lorde's 17 volumes of poetry, essays and autobiography reflected her hatred of racial and sexual prejudice.
A collection of essays, "A Burst of Light," won an American Book Award in 1989.
Her 1973 collection, "From a Land Where Other People Live," was nominated for a National Book Award.
In 1963 Miss Hirsh joined the book division of Time Inc. and edited several multivolume series.
This year she addressed the American Library Association, which honored her on the 40th anniversary of her book "The Public Librarian.
She also helped organize book fairs in the city.
She also helped organize book fairs in the city.

        Allene Z. Roach, a journalist and teacher whose struggle with Alzheimer's disease was described in a 1985 book by one of her daughters, died on Friday at the Fairfield Division of the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, the Bronx.
Mrs. Smith wrote an article for The New York Times Magazine and a book, both titled "Another Name for Madness" (Houghton Mifflin, 1985), about her mother's ordeal.
Mrs. Cohen's first book, "The Carp in the Bathtub," was published in 1972 when she was 39 years old.
The book, like many of those that came later, was published by Lothrop and remains in print.
Beyond the Rutgers community, Dr. Dinnerstein was best known for her book "The Mermaid and the Minotaur" (Harper & Row, 1976).
"The book had an enormous impact on the women's movement," said Marie M. Collins, professor of French at Rutgers-Newark and founder of its women's studies department.
Her book "Loose Connections," a collection of short stories, was published by Academy Chicago in 1988, and a novel, "A Craving for Women," was published by Dutton in 1989.
'She Dares Her Students'
        Her classroom performances were among the most energetic in New York, Foster Hirsch wrote in his 1984 book "A Method to Their Madness.
In an interview in The New York Times, she said she hoped the book would "help actors who had no foundation and no place to get a foundation, and no culture in which a foundation was encouraged.
Reviewing a 1988 collection of her short stories, "Life Being the Best & Other Stories," edited by Sandra Whipple (New Directions), Ann Hornaday wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book celebrated her "enduring artistic discipline.
Reviewing a 1988 collection of her short stories, "Life Being the Best & Other Stories," edited by Sandra Whipple (New Directions), Ann Hornaday wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book celebrated her "enduring artistic discipline.
Her son said her last new book to be published was was "Words That Must Somehow Be Said: Selected Essays of Kay Boyle" (North Point Press, 1985).
