In 1951, she published her first book, "Art Has Many Faces," one of the first books on the appreciation of modern art, and it was widely used by teachers.
In 1931 Hollywood made a film of her third book, "Sob Sister," which she defined as "a reporter who almost literally sobbed with the victim, the culprit, the families of both.

        Emily Jordan Boxer, a television producer who arranged book interviews for NBC television's "Today" show in the 1980's, died yesterday at New York Hospital.
"
        From 1979 to 1991 she was book coordinator at the "Today" show.
Mrs. Douglas was the author of "Appleseed Farm" (1948), a children's book; "Remember the Ladies" (1966), the story of women who helped shape America, and "Margaret Sanger" (1970), about the pioneer in family planning.
Miss Sperber's book, "Murrow: His Life and Times" (Freundlich Books), was a well-received biography that was republished in paperback in 1987.
Before writing the book about Mr. Murrow, Miss Sperber was an editor of children's books for Putnam and McGraw-Hill.
Her book "The Untutored Eye: Childhood in the Films of Jean Cocteau, Joseph Cornell and Stan Brakhage," was published in 1985.
"
        When "The Tale of Beatrix Potter" was published in the United States, it was lauded for its deep understanding of Miss Potter, who helped Miss Lane with the book, and for its vivid depiction of Miss Potter walking the hills and moors, gathering material for stories and pictures.
Miss Lane's 1975 book "Samuel Johnson and his World" has been called one of the very best modern works on Johnson.
Her 1953 book about the writer Charlotte Bronte and members of her family, "The Bronte Story," won praise as an outstanding literary biography.
In her honor, a room at Smith's Neilson Library was named the Mortimer Rare Book Room just before her death.
The book won her praise as an intelligent and humorous journalist and critic who ardently searched for the truth.
In her book "An Introduction to the Theoretical Basis of Nursing" (1970), Dr. Rogers drew on many disciplines, including psychology, sociology, biology, history and literature, to postulate a humanistic nursing science.
The other book is "Food Processor Baking Magic," published in 1978.
Mrs. Boyle described her experiences as a white Southern woman coming to understand the problems of many black Americans in her book "The Desegregated Heart" (1962).
Her last book, "The Desert Blooms" (1985), described her personal experiences with aging.
Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961.
Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961.
At the annual Frankfurt Book Fair, for example, she could read a manuscript in its original German, French or Italian and make a decision about it overnight.
At her death she was a book designer for Harry N. Abrams Inc., an art-book publisher.
Her first book of criticism, "Metaphysical Passion: Seven Modern American Poets and the 17th-Century Tradition," was published in 1952 by the University of Philadelphia and reissued by Greenwood Press in 1970.
Before that, for six years, she was the president of the General Medical Book Company in Manhattan.
Mrs. Onassis, who had enjoyed robust good health nearly all her life, began being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in early January and had been undergoing chemotherapy and other treatments in recent months while continuing her work as a book editor and her social, family and other personal routines.
The conversation, he said in a 1978 book, "In Search of History," swung between history and her husband's death, and while none of J.F.K.
Stephen Birmingham, who wrote the biography "Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis" (Grosset & Dunlap), called the grandfather's book "a work of massive self-deception.
Although Mr. Manchester did not stand to profit from the book itself, he did arrange to have it serialized in Look Magazine, starting in the summer of 1966, for which he would be paid $665,000.
At one point, she tried to get an injunction in New York State Supreme Court to stop the publication of the book, either by Look or by Harper & Row.
Tapes of two interviews with her -- Mr. White's shortly after the assassination in Dallas and Mr. Manchester's for his book "Death of a President" -- are kept under seal at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library in Boston.
"One of the things I like about publishing is that you don't promote the editor -- you promote the book and the author," she said.
Judge Forer received national attention with her first book, "No One Will Lissen: How Our Legal System Brutalizes the Youthful Poor" (1970).
Her highly topical last book, "The Rage to Punish: The Unintended Consequences of Mandatory Sentencing," is on W. W. Norton's list for next month.
Correction:  May 14, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Lois G. Forer, author and retired Philadelphia judge, referred incorrectly to the publication of her book "What Every Woman Needs to Know Before (and After) She Gets Involved With Men and Money.
Her best-known book was "Shakespeare of London" (1950), published by E. P. Dutton, which was a best seller and a Book-of-the-Month Club dual selection.
Her efforts received the attention of national television shows and she recounted her experiences in a book written with Tony Chapelle, "The Woman Who Took Back Her Street" (New Horizon, 1990).

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
Mrs.Murray, a longtime friend of Miss Flanner, edited the book and added commentary.

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
Mrs.Murray, a longtime friend of Miss Flanner, edited the book and added commentary.
Issued by Health Communications Inc. in 1983, the book won a grass-roots following and made best-seller lists around the country in 1986 and stayed on them for about a year.
The book was translated into six foreign languages; the English version alone has sold 1.8 million copies.
She was co-author of the book "The Transformational Leader: Molding Tomorrow's Corporate Winners," published in 1986.
"
        Miss Haslip's 1988 book, "Marie Antoinette," about the French queen who was beheaded by revolutionaries in 1793, was praised in the United States as fully recognizing the queen's fascination while coolly detailing her many faults.
That work was translated into 10 languages, as was Miss Haslip's 1965 book, "The Lonely Empress: A Biography of Elizabeth of Austria," whose beautiful protagonist was assassinated in 1898.
Ms. Howell was the author of the novels "Joy Ride" (Viking, 1989) and "A Mere Formality" (M. Evans, 1984) and the nonfiction book "Don't Bother to Come in on Monday" (St. Martin's, 1973).
Her first book, "Suds in Your Eye," published by Houghton Mifflin in 1942, was described as "a crazy, funny story" about three impecunious elderly women.
It was unlike most of the novels coming out of Southern California, wrote Beatrice Sherman in The New York Times Book Review on Dec. 13, 1942.
A Broadway play in 1944, based on the book, was dramatized by Jack Kirkland.
Among her other books were "High Time" (1944); "Mrs. Rasmussen's Book of One-Arm Cookery" (1946); "Wait for the Wagon" (1951); "I'll Take Texas" (1958); "Let's Go for Broke" (1962), and "Tio Pepe" (1968).
"
        In the mid-1970's, the book was at the center of a controversy when a Long Island school district banned it and works by Kurt Vonnegut Jr., Langston Hughes and others on the grounds that they contained obscenities and other material considered offensive.
Her writings included a book, "Learning to Live as a Widow," published in 1957.
From 1959 to 1961, Miss Chacel was in New York City on a Guggenheim Fellowship and wrote a book of literary and philosophical essays, "Saturnalia," which was published in 1972.
Correction:  August 4, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Rosa Chacel, a Spanish novelist, misidentified the author of the English translation of her book "The Maravillas District," published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press.
The poet and teacher Myra Cohn Livingston wrote of Ms. Worth's work in The New York Times Book Review in 1988, "The treasures Ms. Worth offers do not lie in some distant, golden land but in the everyday world.
Her other books included "The Crone's Book of Words" (1971) and "The Crone's Book of Wisdom" (1988); "Curlicues: The Fortunes of Two Pug Dogs" (1980), and two novels for young adults, "Gypsy Gold" (1983) and "Fox Hill" (1986).
Her other books included "The Crone's Book of Words" (1971) and "The Crone's Book of Wisdom" (1988); "Curlicues: The Fortunes of Two Pug Dogs" (1980), and two novels for young adults, "Gypsy Gold" (1983) and "Fox Hill" (1986).
Another book of her verses for children, "At Christmastime," was published two years ago.
Her writings included the book "Landmark Architecture of Palm Beach," which was published in 1974 and has been twice revised.
Among her writings is the historical text in "The First Ladies Cook Book: Favorite Recipes of All the Presidents of the United States," an illustrated volume of historical lore and recipes.
The book was praised by Craig Claiborne, then the food critic for The New York Times, who called it "perhaps the most comprehensive and detailed volume ever written" about "what American Presidents and their wives have dined on.
She gave lectures on White House history that detailed the occupants' idiosyncrasies, like Dolley Madison's conversational icebreaker of reading a passage from whatever book she was carrying at the time.
She was the author of one book, "Jewish Folk Art from the Biblical Period to Modern Times" (1986) and the co-author of another, "The Museums of Israel" (Abrams, 1989).
Sally Bedell Smith wrote in her 1990 book "In All His Glory: The Life of William S. Paley" that in a single bedroom Mrs. Parish and Mr. Hadley did in the 1960's in Mr. Paley's Fifth Avenue duplex, "a painter worked for five months applying 18 coats of paint -- six different shadings just for the base, plus glazing.
She wrote about architecture for magazines and edited a book, "Reweaving the Urban Fabric" (Princeton Architectural Press, 1988).
Most recently she had been working on a book about the architect Fay Jones.
Ms. Clampitt published her first full-length book of poetry, "The Kingfisher," when she was 63.
Richard Tillinghast, in The New York Times Book Review, wrote that the author "immediately merits consideration as one of our most distinguished contemporary poets.
Like "The Kingfisher," it began with several poems about the New England coast, notably the book's title poem, an elegy for a drowned lobsterman.

        Faith Cardwell Davis, who with her sisters Hope Cardwell Brock and Charity Cardwell Lawson had been listed in the Guinness Book of Records as the world's oldest complete set of triplets, died on Sunday at Rolling Plains Memorial Hospital in Sweetwater, Tex.
She picked the name Martha Raye from a phone book and piled up the credits.

        Joan Kahn, a book editor whose imprint was a hallmark of suspense stories for many years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Miss Kahn edited hundreds of suspense novels and her imprint, "A Joan Kahn Book," represented excellence for discriminating mystery lovers.
But it caught the eye of Miss Kahn, then at Harper & Row, which published the book in 1970 as "The Blessing Way.
"
        "She wouldn't discuss the book with me until I had finished it to my satisfaction, then it was open season," Mr. Hillerman recalled yesterday.
Mrs. Speare's last book, "The Sign of the Beaver" (1983), also won the Newbery Medal, as well as the Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction.
"I have chosen to write historical novels, chiefly, I think, because I enjoy sharing with young people my own ever-fresh astonishment at finding that men and women and boys and girls who lived through the great events of the past were exactly like ourselves, and that they faced every day the same choices, large and small, which daily confront us," she wrote in the New York Times Book Review in 1961.
Correction:  November 18, 1994, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Elizabeth George Speare, an author of historical novels for children, misidentified an award received by her last book, "The Sign of the Beaver" (1983).
Inside the book were envelopes with amusing surprises, including a letter of apology from Goldilocks to the Three Bears.
"
        In The New York Times Book Review, Daniel Menaker praised the sequel as "a mild, sweet, amusing book" and said "the authors have taken the secrets of the first book's popularity -- cleverness, detail, surprise and humor -- and amplified them.
"
        In The New York Times Book Review, Daniel Menaker praised the sequel as "a mild, sweet, amusing book" and said "the authors have taken the secrets of the first book's popularity -- cleverness, detail, surprise and humor -- and amplified them.
"
        In The New York Times Book Review, Daniel Menaker praised the sequel as "a mild, sweet, amusing book" and said "the authors have taken the secrets of the first book's popularity -- cleverness, detail, surprise and humor -- and amplified them.
When World War II broke out, she was working in the Netherlands, dancing in a cabaret in The Hague, according to Jean-Claude Baker's book about his adoptive mother, "Josephine: The Hungry Heart.
Through her theater games and her book "Improvisations for the Theater" as well as the subsequent work of her son Paul Sills at the Compass and Second City in Chicago and with Story Theater, Mrs. Spolin influenced several generations of actors and directors, including Mike Nichols, Elaine May, Alan Arkin, Severn Darden, Barbara Harris, Anthony Holland, Paul Sand and Avery Schreiber.
"Improvisations for the Theater," her best-known book (published by Northwestern University Press) remains a standard theatrical text.
The book's dedication cited "her unwavering belief in the rule of law.
Her ground-breaking book, "Essentials of Social Group Work Skill" (University of Pennsylvania, 1973), was used to train students in social work for many years.
The book, which was called "a handbook on how the connected make waves in America" in a review in The New York Times, also detailed how she was able to mobilize legislators like Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, who sponsored a benefit in Washington for Mrs. Glaser's fledgling foundation.
The book, which was called "a handbook on how the connected make waves in America" in a review in The New York Times, also detailed how she was able to mobilize legislators like Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, who sponsored a benefit in Washington for Mrs. Glaser's fledgling foundation.
Her latest book is "Shattered Nerves: Doctors, Patients and Depression in Victorian England" (Oxford, 1991).
