King, along with her brother's Elvis Presley records.
She is survived by her twin sister, Bertha Freeman of Miami; a brother, David Feinberg of West Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Frances Linderman of Trinidad, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Jennifer Gerard Maric; three grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin.
      
Baron Elie and his brother, Alain, were serving at the front when Germany overran France in 1940.
She is survived by a sister, Joanna Maure Davis, of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam, of Lancaster, Pa.
      
Ms. Torrey is survived by her mother, Ella Russell Torrey of Philadelphia; a sister, Elizabeth L. Torrey of Washington; and a brother, L. Russell Torrey of Villanova, Pa.
Ms. Collins is survived by a brother, Earnest, of Fort Worth, and a sister, Betty Wilkerson of Pasadena, Calif.
She is survived by her son, Scott Alsop; her daughters Mary Powell Harpel and Kathleen Powell; and her brother, Charles Scott.
In addition to Sunny, of Norman, Okla., and Coral Gables, Fla., and Stormie, of Pacific Grove, Calif., she is survived by another daughter, Dawn, of Pacific Grove; a son, Trails, of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Harold Jones, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
Surviving are her brother, Mark, and her companion, Peter S. Canellos, Washington bureau chief of The Globe.
      
That was the birthday of her older brother, Tom, who died at 16.
''
        Miss Hepburn is survived by a brother, Dr. Robert H. Hepburn, and a sister, Margaret H. Perry, both of Canton, Conn.; four nieces; and nine nephews.
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Catherine Barrett Andrews of Madison, Ga.; two sons, Charles Sperry Andrews IV of Sedona, Ariz., and Albert Ballard Andrews of Wilton; and a brother, Bruce Bass of Louisville.
      
In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
Her survivors include two daughters, Margaret, of Vineyard Haven, Mass., and Georgia, of South Pasadena, Calif.; three sons, Thomas, of Long Beach, Calif., and Stephen and Benjamin, both of Brooklyn; a brother, George Rowe Jr. of Irvington, N.Y.; and 11 grandchildren.
      
Lady Diana Mosley was born the Honorable Diana Mitford in 1910, the third of the six Mitford girls (a brother, Tom, was killed in World War II).
She is survived by six children: Jose, Manny and Cesar, of Detroit; Vincent, of Richmond; and Nanette Magno-Velayo and Carlo, of Manila; three sisters; a brother; 15 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Fouad Younes, of Cairo, and a sister, Nahed Fouad, of London.
      
She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a brother, William Marlow, of Arlington, Va., and a sister, Joan Marlow Foley, of Schoolcraft, Mo.
      
In addition to Ms. Downs, of Newport Beach, Calif., she is survived by a son, Mac Shuttleworth; a brother, George La Fleche; a sister, Janine Helzer; and two grandchildren.
      
She then went to junior college, became a dental hygienist and went to work for her brother, Dr. Sullivan Jackson.
Mr. Halberstam suggested that being employed by her brother protected her from economic pressure from the white establishment.
Ms. Murie is survived by her sister Louise Murie-MacLeod of Jackson, Wyo., who was the wife of Olaus's brother Adolph, who was a National Park Service biologist and an author; two sons, Martin, of North Bangor, N.Y., and Donald, of Palm Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Joanne Miller of Brookline, Mass.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three stepchildren; seven stepgrandchildren; and a brother, Ed Hendren of Chico, Calif.
Madame Chiang's elder brother, T. V. Soong, often called Nationalist China's financial wizard, served at various times as finance minister, acting prime minister and foreign minister, where his primary role was raising money from America.
At the age of 10, she had followed her elder sisters to the Wesleyan College for Women in Macon, Ga.
        She entered Wellesley College near Boston in 1913; her brother, T. V., was enrolled at Harvard.
Listening to the radio inspired her to learn to sing, yodel and play her brother's guitar.
In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      
The cause was hepatitis B, which once again flared in Ms. Marx's system and attacked her liver, her brother Jeffrey said.
In addition to Mr. Ellington, of San Francisco, and Jeffrey Marx, who lives in Washington, D.C., she is survived by her mother, Peggy Marx of Lake Worth, Fla.; her father, Richard, of Bedford, N.Y., and another brother, James, of White Plains, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Kate Thom Fitzgerald and Elizabeth Gazzara, both of Brooklyn; her sisters, Kathleen Rule, of Oceano, Calif.; Ann Nader, of San Marcos, Calif.; and Emily Forbes, of Las Cruces, N.M.; and her brother Ralph, of Mallorca, Spain.
      
; a brother, Charles Thomas, of San Diego; a sister, Frances Martin, of St. Louis; and eight grandchildren.
      
Janet Broderick Kraft and Martha Broderick; a brother, Richard Biow; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      
Her name then was Lucy Douglas Cochrane, but she soon became C. Z. when her brother, Alexander, could not pronounce ''sister.
Her name then was Lucy Douglas Cochrane, but she soon became C. Z. when her brother, Alexander, could not pronounce ''sister.
Her brother, Michael, said the cause of death was breast cancer.
She is survived by her brother.
In addition to her brother, Michael, Ms. Quinn is survived by her father, E. John Quinn, of Amenia, N.Y.
      
In addition to her sister Valerie, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Estess is survived by her mother, Marilyn R. Estess, of Rye, N.Y.; her other sisters, Alison Estess of Manhattan and Meredith Hulbert of Harrison; and her brother, Noah, of San Diego.
      
She is survived by her husband, Francisco Cancino; two sisters, Sally S. Fischer, who lives in France, and Patience S. Scott of Riverhead, N.Y.; a brother, John R. Stevenson Jr. of Woodacre, Calif.; and her stepmother, Ruth Carter Stevenson of Fort Worth.
She is survived by her brother, George Shaskan, of Chevy Chase, Md.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse.
