Ms. Freeman is survived by her brother, Edward Greenbaum of Clearwater, Fla; her sister, Sue Polera of Las Vegas; her sister and brother-in-law, Sally and Warren Rosenberg of Scarborough, N.Y.; and numerous nieces and nephews.
      
But a year or two later, her enthusiasm was rekindled when she helped her brother dissect a frog.
; another son, Edward, who is married to Tricia Nixon, of Manhattan; a brother, Edward Ridley Finch Jr. of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. Kennedy, who is editor in chief of the King Features Syndicate, Ms. Jewler is survived by a brother, Leonard Jewler of Washington, and her mother, Esther Jewler of Silver Spring, Md.
      
Justice Altman is survived by her husband, Herbert I. Altman, a former justice of State Supreme Court; two sons,, Michael T., of Woodmere, N.Y., and Daniel, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Sarah R. Stark of Raanana, Israel; a brother, William Jarblum of Los Angeles; and nine grandchildren.
      
The Fittkos eventually escaped to Cuba, then went on to Chicago, where Ms. Fittko's brother lived.
; a sister, Billie Carol Austin of Denver; a brother, John C. Austin of Duncan, Okla.; 10 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her husband of 64 years, Dr. Jones is survived by two sons, Dr. Howard Wilbur Jones III of Nashville and Lawrence Massey Jones of Denver; a daughter, Dr. Georgeanna Jones Klingensmith of Denver; a brother, King Seegar of Towson, Md.
She is survived by a brother, Robert Denning, of Grand Junction, Colo.
      
''
        Mrs. Knippers is survived by her husband; her parents, Clarence E. and Vera LeMasters of Lakeland, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas LeMasters, of Fairfax, Va.
        She was found to have cancer in 2003 but kept a demanding schedule until recently.
She grew up with three siblings who all went into acting, including Maximilian, her younger brother by four years, who also became a star.
In addition to Mr. Allen, Ms. Levine is survived by a brother, Robert Hayes of Calgary.
; her brother, Jeremy, of Lexington, Ky.; her sister, Susan, of Vienna, Va.; three nephews, Gabriel Popkin, Alexander Popkin and Zachary Popkin-Hall; and a niece, Rachel Kang Popkin-Hall.
      
; three daughters, Alice W. Ballard of Philadelphia, Sophie B. Bilezikian of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Ernesta Ballard of Ketchikan, Alaska; a sister, Cecilia D. Saltonstall of Exeter, N.H.; a brother, Henry Drinker of Bedford, Mass.
He survives her, as does their son, Joel III, who lives in Scarborough, N.Y.; three grandchildren; her brother Edmund Baker of Florida; and her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster and Marian Green, all of New Haven.
''
        Correction:  October 5, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Constance Baker Motley, the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, misstated the given name of her surviving brother and the means by which she was named to fill a vacancy as Manhattan borough president.
Her brother is Edward Baker, not Edmund; she took office by a unanimous vote of the City Council members from Manhattan, not of the Council as a whole.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
Besides Mr. Barnes, she is survived by a brother, Larry Abramowitz of New York City; a sister, Helen Berliner of Wylie, Tex.
In addition to Ms. Segal, Mrs. Groszmann is survived by her brother, Paul Stern, two grandchildren and two great-grandsons.
When she was 3, she and her brother moved with their mother to France.
''
        In addition to Ms. Pucci, Ms. Hunt is survived by a sister, Aileen, and a brother, Saul.
      
Later that year, at the urging of her younger brother, Sylvester, Mrs.
In 1983, when she wanted $25 million to provide an ambulatory care center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, she sold 15 of her French Impressionist paintings, including works by Gauguin, Cézanne, Renoir and van Gogh, to her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher, philanthropist and former ambassador to Britain.
Dorothy's father died when she was 14, and she left high school to support her mother and younger brother by sketching clothes for a coat and suit manufacturer.
Besides Ms. Porter, of Copley, Ohio, Ms. Siems is survived by another sister, Rosemary Snyder, of Chicago; and a brother, David, of Milford, Mich.
        As a mark of just how deeply inscribed on the American palate Ms. Siems's stuffing has become, there are several recipes, available on the Internet, that promise to reproduce the taste of Stove Top from scratch, using fresh ingredients.
      
She is survived by two sons, Michael, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Patrick, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Megan Styles of Danville, Calif.; a brother, Joseph Madden of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Jane Rupp of St. Petersburg; and two grandchildren.
      
