She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
Her survivors include a brother, Hilliard, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Susan Hamovitch of Brooklyn, and a brother, Monty Berger of Montreal.
      
; a brother, Arnold Rich of Armonk, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Elise, Dr. Clark is survived by a daughter, Ashley S. Pettus, and a son, Brewster W. Pettus, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Whitney Armstrong and Janet York of Manhattan, and a brother, Benjamin Brewster, also of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ivan Stux; her mother, Rosa Aytch of Philadelphia; two sisters, and a brother.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Marilyn Silverstone of Katmandu, Nepal, Barbara Garrison of Manhattan and Susan Darer of Beaconsfield, England; a brother, Dr. Leon Littman of Manhattan; four grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
She is survived by a brother, Robert, of Manhattan, and a sister, Barbara Michaels of Ossining, N.Y.
      
Surviving are her husband, Max Greenwood; a daughter, Gwenn Miller; her mother, Sarah Stoler of Stowe, Vt.; a brother, Will Stoler, of Montpelier, Vt., and her sister, Ann Stoler of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      
She is survived by her husband, Paul King; her mother, Kathleen Quinn of Larchmont; a sister, Patricia Quinn of Los Angeles, and a brother, Michael, also of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Boas's brother, Joseph Cullman 3d of Manhattan, is chairman emeritus of Philip Morris Companies.
Another brother, Edgar, also of Manhattan, is chairman of the Culbro Corporation of Manhattan, a diversified products company.
Her brother Lewis, of Manhattan, is president of Cullman Ventures Inc., a private holding company.
She is also survived by two sisters, Anne Smith of Boston and Jane Hamilton of Denver; a brother, Kenneth Murchison of Las Cruces, N.M., and several grandchildren.
      
Besides her sister, Walden, of Center Harbor, N.H., she is survived by a son, Raphael James Taylor; her parents, Vice Adm. Benedict J. Semmes, retired, and Katherine Ainsworth Semmes of Washington; another sister, Amy Semmes Waite of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. B. J. Semmes of Chevy Chase, Md.
      
Mrs. Gerrity is survived by her husband, Edward J. Gerrity; a daughter, Katharine C. 2d of Greenwich; a son, Edward 3d of Rye Brook, N.Y.; two sisters, Angela Marshall of Dalton, Pa., and Grace Kavanagh of Peoria, Ill., and a brother, Robert, of Scranton.
      
"
        She appeared in small roles in movies, including "Come Back Charleston Blue" (1972), "The Brother From Another Planet" (1984) and "Jungle Fever" (1991).
In addition to her daughter Malu, she is survived by another daughter, Fayette Block, also of Provincetown; a sister, Dorothy Nay Carter of Vine Grove, Ky.; a brother, Benjamin Franklin Nay of Bremerton, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Suzy, of Anacortes, Wash., she is survived by a brother, Frank Flanagan, of Phoenix; a sister, Calla Haye, of Santa Fe; another daughter, Holly Hughes of Rowe, N.M.; a son, Antony A. Hughes, of El Paso, Tex.
In addition to her husband and son John, Mrs. Feinstein is survived by another son, Robert, and a daughter, Margaret, both of McLean, and a brother, Peter Richman of Lexington, Mass.
      
She is survived by her son, James Carroll of Greenfield, Mass; her daughter, Nedda Carroll of High Falls, N.Y.; her niece, Cynthia Leigh Young of New York City; three sisters, Inez Alexakos of Stafford, Va., Jeanette Lucas of Crofton, Md., and Josephine Lee of Lake Katrine, N.Y., and her brother, Eriel Saunders of Willow Springs, N.C.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret R. Bennett of Washington; a brother, Abbot Low Moffat of Hights town, N.J.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Antonucci is survived by her husband, Anthony J.; a son, Peter A. of Manhattan; a sister, Marie Oberacker of Amherst, N.Y.; a brother, Anthony Sciolino of Buffalo, and one grandson.
      
She is survived by her parents, Everett and Doris Auger, and a brother, Ralph Auger of Healdsburg, Calif.
and Walter Anoushian of Manhasset; her mother, Shoushan Kaprielian; a brother Walter Kaprielian, both of Bellerose Village, and four grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband of 20 years, Stanley; a son, Walter Frisch of Manhattan; a daughter, Devin Feldman of Queens; a brother, E. Jerrold Miller of Capri, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her father, of Portland; a brother, Peter, of Manhattan, and a sister, Victoria Pierson of Portland.
      
Her survivors include her son, Lee K., of Wilmington, N.C.; a daughter, Cathy Prince of White Plains; a brother, Nathan F. Klein of Titusville, Fla.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
Together they ran a dairy and pig farm in Loudoun County, Va.
        She is survived by a brother, Charles C. Ramsey Jr. of Big Timber, Mont.
      
She is survived by a brother and several nieces.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Constance Cooper Batuscheck of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Kenneth, of Manhattan; a brother, David Buxbaum of Milwaukee, and a grandson.
      
"
        She is survived by her mother, Hildegard Fournier of Florida, and her brother, John, of New York.
      
She is survived by a sister, Audrey McMahon of Lawrenceville, N.J., and a brother, Edward A. Raymond of North Branford, Conn.
      
; a brother, Stephen Walden of Rye, N.Y.; two sisters, Elinor Wharton of New York City and Beth Greenblatt of Teaneck, N.J., and one grandson.
      
Surviving are her husband, Marion G. H. Gilliam; her mother, Natalie Davenport of Great Barrington and John's Island, Fla.; a sister, Baroness Bernard D'Anglejan-Chatillon of Paris and Vero Beach, Fla.; a half brother, William C. Ladd of Brewster, Mass.
; a brother, Stephen Walden of Rye, N.Y.; two sisters, Elinor Wharton of New York City and Beth Greenblatt of Teaneck, N.J., and one grandson.
      
Ms. Martelli is survived by her father, Fred L. Martelli of Ridley Park, Pa.; and a brother, Fred J. Martelli of West Chester, Pa.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Ross Schless of New York and Allyne Ross of Scarsdale; three sisters, Shirlee Land of Purchase, N.Y., Rhodina Schwartz and Paula Bogdan, both of Cincinnati, and a brother, Herbert Stark of Amherst, Mass.
      
Surviving are a brother, Henry de la Torre Bueno of Oxnard, Calif., and a sister, Helen B. Barton of Tucson, Ariz.
      
Surviving are a brother, Henry de la Torre Bueno of Oxnard, Calif., and a sister, Helen B. Barton of Tucson, Ariz.
      
Besides her daughter, Ms. Kessler is survived by a brother, Dr. Edwin S. Kessler of Washington, and two granddaughters.
      
; her mother, Caroline Colgate Taylor of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Day of Canberra, Australia; a brother, Howard C. Taylor 3d of Jericho, Vt., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Charles; two daughters, Susan Curcio of Chatham, Mass., and Shelley Brown of Glen Ellen, Vt.; a son, Philip Atwood Carpenter of Chester, Vt.; a brother, Robert Winnett of Pittsburgh, and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Edwin Levy of Topeka, Kans.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Edward Rosenthal of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Hannah Wit of Oakland, Calif.; a son, David Wit of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Julie Sovern of New York City and Elizabeth Sovern of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; two stepsons, Jeffrey Sovern of Queens and Douglas Sovern of Oakland, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, of Manhattan, and a brother, Henry Magid of Oradell, N.J.
      
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her husband, Phillip J. Smith; her father, Clifford Nolte of St. Louis, and a brother, Douglas, of St. Louis.
      
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel Feinberg; a brother, Edward Gilbert; a daughter, Dr. Jaimy Honig, and two grandchildren, all of New York City.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barton L. Goldberg of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sisters, Elizabeth Welles of Boca Raton, and Lori Yarum of New York; and a brother, Brad J. Goldberg, of New York City.
      
In addition to her husband, survivors include her parents, William M. and Dorothy Clark of Arlington, Va., and a brother, John, of Sarasota.
      
She is survived by her parents, Dhelia and Gaspar Serrano; two daughters, Beverly and Starr Astor; three sisters, Nora, Maria and Debbie, and a brother, Michael.
      
Ms. Bosworth is survived by her husband, Nicholas Pearson, a sculptor; two children, Lukas and Julia; her parents, Stanley Bosworth, headmaster of Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, and Anne Bosworth, head librarian of the school, which they jointly founded in 1965; a sister, Virginia Frisch of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam Bosworth of Seattle.
      
In addition to her daughter Sandra, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Ruskin of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a brother, Nate Krevitz of Bakersfield, Calif.; three sisters, Edna Goldberg, Minnie Krevitz and Molly Moise, all of Griffith, Ind., and five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her father's younger brother was the film director and producer Cecil B. DeMille, who spelled his family name differently.
The cause was colon cancer, said her brother Clement.
Besides her brother Clement, of Northfield, Minn., she is survived by her mother, Erline, of Boston; two sisters, Debbie, of Boston, and Linda Gossage, of San Francisco; and another brother, Charles, of Boston.
      
Besides her brother Clement, of Northfield, Minn., she is survived by her mother, Erline, of Boston; two sisters, Debbie, of Boston, and Linda Gossage, of San Francisco; and another brother, Charles, of Boston.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Callahan, whom she married last year; five sons, Peter D. 3d, of Harrison, N.Y., John S., of Pelham, N.Y., Gregory F., of Chappaqua, N.Y., Dr. Michael J., of Manhattan, and Stephen P. G., of Charlotte, Vt.; two daughters, Dr. Mary Carroll Kiernan of Arlington, Va., and Ann Madeleine Lewis of Loudonville, N.Y.; three sisters, Joan Malone of St. Petersburg, Fla., Macy Ann Beha of Rye, and Madeleine Halpin Bailey of Manhattan, and a brother, Myles Gilson Reilly of New Canaan, Conn.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Tecia Brill and Helcia Chaliapin, both of New York, and a brother, Morris Davidson of Miami.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by three sons, David and Alexander, of Manhattan, and Oliver, of Tempe, Ariz.; her mother, Margot Hobbins of London, and a brother, Dr. Peter Hobbins of Zug, Switzerland.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Robin Briehl of Lewisboro, N.Y.; a brother, Peter Hawley of Yonkers; two sisters, Elizabeth Delza Munson and Sophia Delza Glassgold, both of Manhattan, and one granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mike Sletson; a brother, Peter Angelo Simon of Brooklyn; two stepsons, Roy Aaron Sletson of Lebanon, Conn., and Jay Robert Sletson of Spring Mill, Pa., and a stepgrandson.
      
