; a brother, Peter E. Haas Sr., and 11 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Manz is survived by a son, Gilbert Jr.; four daughters, Bonnie Prieben, Maureen Weigert, Barbara Canapa and Marjory von Hof;  a brother, Carl Schuland, of Green Bay, Wis., 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Justice Shea, Mrs. Klau is survived by two other daughters, Lucille K. Carothers of Cincinnati and Paula K. Oppenheim of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, James D. Klau of San Juan; a brother, Dr. Percy Klingenstein of New York City; 13 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Dr. Percy Klingenstein of New York City; 13 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Ann Weil Richards, of Alstead, N.H., and a brother, Robert Ehrenfeld, of New York City.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kamen is survived by two daughters, Katherine K. Berkowitz of Bethesda, Md., and Abigail K. Holland of Manhattan; her parents, Thelma and Murray Klein of Brooklyn, and a brother, Eric Klein of Manhattan.
      
Survivors include her husband; two sons, Philippe de Nicolay, and Edouard de  Rothschild of Paris; a stepson, David de Rothschild of Paris, and a brother, Teddy van Zuylen of London.
      
Ms. Cohen is survived by her husband, Dr. Ralph Wharton of Manhattan; two daughters, Winifred Alisa Cohen-Smith of Manhattan and Dawn Jennifer Cohen Margolin of Piedmont, Calif., and a brother, Carl Cohen of North Haven, Conn.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six children, David Jr., Abby  Rockefeller and Neva Goodwin, all of Masschusetts; Peggy Dulany of New York, Dr. Richard of Maine, and Eileen Growald of California; a brother, Sims McGrath of Tenants Harbor, Me., and 10 grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband of 50 years and co-worker, Thomas Keehn; a daughter, Deborah Keehn Black of Manhattan; five sons, Jonathan, of Grass Valley, Calif., David, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Benjamin, of Holliston, Mass., Adam, of Queens and Burkina Faso, and Joel, of Peekskill, N.Y.; a brother, William McKee, of Lafayette, Calif.; two sisters, Beatrice Watson, of Barstow, Calif., and Margaret Seder, of Stonington, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Eliza Nichols of Williamsburg, Va., and Kerstin Nichols of Hartford, Vt.; a son, Duncan, of Thetford, Vt.; a brother, Charles Perot, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Haas is survived by a brother, Robert Haas, of Elkhart Lake, Wis.
      
Her brother, Walter Sullivan, a former science editor of The Times, died in March.
      
Beginning in the early 1940's, Ms. Sloane was a stylist, scout and vice president of Madcaps Inc., a Manhattan millinery and accessories company founded by her brother and partner, Alfred Z. Solomon.
She is survived by her brother.
      
" She moved to California in 1930 with an older brother, and began performing on radio there after winning a talent contest.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jurgen Schaff, and a brother, Luis Garcia Seta, of Madrid.
      
"Jerry put a cot in her office for her so she could lie down," her brother Jonathan said.
"
        Besides her brother, of Toronto, she is survived by her father, Jules Gross,  and another brother, Adam, both of whom also live in Toronto.
      
"
        Besides her brother, of Toronto, she is survived by her father, Jules Gross,  and another brother, Adam, both of whom also live in Toronto.
      
; a brother, Eugene Darvin of Pearl River, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Douglas N. Clark, a professor of mathematics at the University of Georgia in Athens.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a brother, Henry P. van Ameringen of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Weiner is survived by her husband, Charles J., a daughter, Toby White, two sons, Barry and Steve, a sister, Miriam Komesar, and a brother, Saul Weinberg, all of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Marian Sanderson of Queens, Antoinette Perlez of Manhattan, and Gloria Jones, also of Queens; a brother, William Smith of Manhattan; four sisters, Lillie Ruth and Christine of Queens, Sarah of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Eunice of Spartanburg; seven grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Her father died before the war, and she lost her mother, a sister, a brother  and two nephews in the Holocaust.
She is survived by two sisters, Sister Mary Frederick of Greensburg, Pa., and Bernadette B. McCloskey of Los Angeles, and a brother, Joseph A. Blatt of Pittsburgh.
      
In addition to her daughter Elizabeth, of Ithaca, Ms. East is survived by another daughter, M. Victoria East of Seattle; a brother, Charles D. Shipe of Great Falls, Va., and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan, of New York City and David, of Cambridge, Mass., and by a brother, Shmuel Govreen of Jerusalem.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffry James Oliver of New York City, and a brother, Sal Ventimiglia.
      
She is survived by a brother, Theodore S. Corwin of Chatham, N.J., three step-children, and nine step-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosenblum is survived by her mother, Fannie Koppelman of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth, of Ashland, Mass., and a brother, Frank, of Queens.
Ms. Kushnick is survived by a daughter, Sara Rose (the other twin), and a brother, Joseph Gorman, of New York City.
      
; a brother, Carl Miller, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 46 years, John Dirk Nies; two sons, J. Dirk, of Rockville, Md., and Eric W., of New York City; a daughter, Nancy N. Sloan of Las Vegas, Nev.; her mother, Lida Wilson of Rockville; a brother, George E. Wilson, and two grandchildren.
      
Besides  her daughter, who lives in Palm Beach, Mrs. Phillips is survived by a son, Herbert R. Phillips, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Milton Rollins of Brooklyn, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
Born in London in 1909, Miss Forbes came from a theatrical family: her mother, Mary Forbes, was an actress and her brother Ralph Forbes was an actor.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, Ms. Besch is survived by her brother, Andrew Besch of Manhattan; two sisters, Drea Gillogly of Los Angeles and Christina MacDonald of Monceaux, France, and her stepfather, Joseph Besch of Manhattan.
      
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte; a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte, and a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
After Akihito, the throne goes to the Crown Prince, Naruhito, but if he dies without leaving a son, it will go to his younger brother, Prince Akishino.
''
        She is survived by her brother Candido, her four children, Silvia, Margarita, Isabel, and Salvador, all of whom live in Mexico City, and 16 grandchildren, Mr. Hidalgo said.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her brother, Robert.
She is survived by her brother, of Skokie, Ill.
      
She is survived by her parents, Joan and John O'Reilly of Fishkill, N.Y.; two sisters, Dolores Rezendes of Duxbury, Mass., and Maureen Stano of Kansas City, Mo., and a brother, Steve O'Reilly of Brookfield, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Sylvia Goldman of Riverdale, the Bronx; a brother, Alfred Leffel of Syosset, L.I., 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
Mr. Kahlenberg is also survived by a brother, Hans Kahlenberg of Chiddingfold, England.
Mrs. Kahlenberg is survived by a brother, Gunthur Wallheimer, and a sister, Helga Ekker, both of Amsterdam.
      
She is survived by her son, James K. Reiter of Hollywood, Fla.; her mother, Edith Rosenwasser of Boca Raton, Fla., and her brother, Stan Rosenwasser of Rehobeth Beach, Del.
      
Mrs. Woodruff is survived by a sister, Gwendolyn Williams of Petersburg, Va., and a brother, Leon Rochester of East Orange.
She is survived by a brother, Dr. Jerry Hirschman of Chicago.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, Rabbi Jonothan Waxman of Eberon, N.J., and David and Hillel Waxman of Great Neck; a brother, Rabbi Albert Bilgray of Tucson, Ariz., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Stephen and Mary Romano, and her brother, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, William Diebold; four sons, David Corcoran of Northvale, N.J., John Corcoran of Red Hook, N.Y.; John Diebold of Nyack, and William Diebold of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara Wick of Northfield, Ill.; a brother, Joseph Brody of Indianapolis; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
; two sisters, Judith Overman of Columbia, Md., and Carol Tilford of Fairfax, Va., and a brother, Kenneth Stack Jr. of Laurel, Md.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her twin sister, the artist Carol Anthony of Sante Fe, N.M.; her brother, Jack M. Anthony of Seattle, and three children from her first marriage, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan of Middletown, R.I., Tessa Wohl of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mark Sanchez de Movellan of Hilversum, the Netherlands.
      
Her highly praised children's books, in which she interwove history and regional lore in poetic prose, included ''Little Brother of the Wilderness: The Story of Johnny Appleseed,'' ''Nancy Hanks of Wilderness Road: A Story of Abraham Lincoln's Mother,'' ''Sparrow Hawk'' and ''Chanticleer of Wilderness Road: A Story of Davy Crockett.
In addition to her father, Ms. Lankton is survived by her mother, Lynn, also of Park Forest; a brother, Mark Alan, of Saugatuck, Mich., and a sister, Cathy, of Bellingham, Wash.
      
; a brother, Albert B. Ratner, of Cleveland, and 13 grandchildren.
      
She left the State Department in 1962, after her brother Allen had been dismissed from the C.I.A.
In addition to her granddaughter, Carol Haber, she is survived by a brother, Silas Bates of Philadelphia; a grandson, Clifford Chase, who lives in Ohio, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Palmer is survived by a brother, Angel Srebrov of Lucerne, Switzerland; a stepdaughter, Audrey Palmer Neville of Los Angeles; a stepson, Michael Palmer of London, and four granddaughters.
When her brother, Selden Rodman, a poet and prominent art collector, introduced them at a party, she, the daughter of a New York architect, was fresh out of college, and he was a writer for Fortune magazine.
In addition to her son Nicholas, of Brooklyn, and her brother of Oakland, N.J., Mrs. Macdonald is survived by another son, Michael of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great grandchild.
; six grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; a sister, Janet Cooper Dakin of Irvington, Va., and a brother, Dr. William Grant Cooper Jr., of Little Rock, Ark.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Pamela Pulleyn Machold of Princeton; a brother, Gurdon W. Wattles of Oldwick; a sister, Elizabeth Wattles of Hightstown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Her brother, William L. Donovan, said that the cause was cardio-respiratory arrest and that she had suffered from chronic respiratory obstructive disease.
She is survived by her brother, of Scituate, Mass.
      
Mrs. Schwerner is survived by another son, Stephen of Yellow Springs, Ohio; her brother, Morris Seigel, a resident of Florida, and two granddaughters.
At the time, she was working with adolescent addicts at Riverside Hospital on North Brother Island, now Roosevelt Island.
She is survived by a brother, Walter Leporsky of Santa Rosa, Calif.
      
In December 1944, months before liberation by Soviet forces, her 16-year-old brother, Ivan, who had been a secret courier for the Zionist resistance group Hashomer, was caught and shot.
Surviving are a daughter, Allyson Forsythe; a brother, David Diamant, and two grandchildren, all of Weston.
      
; a brother, J. Irwin Miller, the former chairman of Cummins Engine, and a stepgranddaughter.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Cassie Arnold of Washington; two  sons, Tony Schwartz of New York City and James Schwartz of Boston; a brother, Theodore Nierenberg of Armonk, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
During the next years she endured a series of Job-like catastrophes: the death of Citkowitz; Lowell's crippling manic depression and early death; the death from AIDS of her brother, Sheridan, to whom she was very close; the death of her eldest daughter, Natalya, after a drug overdose, and her own bout with cervical cancer, for which she had an operation that left her in constant pain.
The cause was liver cancer, her brother, Julien L. McCall, said.
She is survived by a brother, Gene, of Palm Harbor, Fla.
      
