She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, Ms. Strasberg is survived by her brother, John, who lives in Paris and New York, and by two half-brothers.
Mrs. Owings is survived by a daughter, Wendy M. Benjamin, of Durango, Colo., from her previous marriage to Malcolm Millard, a resident of Carmel, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Natalie O. Prael and Jennifer O. Dewey, both of Santa Fe., and Emily O. Kapozi, of Novato, Calif.; a brother, William Wentworth, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
She assisted a brother and the young Aldous Huxley as they performed experiments on guinea pigs on the lawn.
In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly older brother, Arthur, inherited their share of the Gershwin genes, but when one older brother is one of the century's most acclaimed composers and another is among its most lionized lyricists, it is hard to measure up.
In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly older brother, Arthur, inherited their share of the Gershwin genes, but when one older brother is one of the century's most acclaimed composers and another is among its most lionized lyricists, it is hard to measure up.
Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 26, 1906, 10 years to the day after her oldest brother, Ira, Mrs. Godowsky had a peripatetic childhood as her father, Morris, a man with an eclectic personnel file, repeatedly moved the family to be near his latest job.
Frequently summoned to George's lair on the fifth floor, she was often the first to sing Gershwin songs that would later be Broadway hits, and when George was in rehearsal for ''Lady Be Good,'' brother and sister would try out steps he had learned from the show's star, Fred Astaire.
Mrs. Godowsky, who had been her brother George's tryout singer, played a similar role for her husband, posing in bright red beret and bottle-green dress as a photographic test subject.
Mrs. Godowsky, whose husband and brother Ira both died in 1983, is survived by a son, Leopold 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Alexis Gershwin of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Georgia Keidan of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Nadia Natali of Ojai, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
Dr. Hawkins is survived by her parents, John and Francette Hawkins of Mountain View, Calif.; two sisters, Kim Hawkins of Cleveland and Cynthia Rahilly of Manhattan; a brother, John Hawkins of Virginia Beach, Va., and her fiance, Prof. Rand Spiro of East Lansing, Mich.
      
The cause was heart failure after a long illness, said her brother Ira.
In addition to her brother Ira, of Fairfield, Conn., she is survived by another brother, David, of Wanaque, N.J., and a sister, Miriam, of Delray Beach, Fla.
      
In addition to her brother Ira, of Fairfield, Conn., she is survived by another brother, David, of Wanaque, N.J., and a sister, Miriam, of Delray Beach, Fla.
      
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
Dr. Peplau is survived by a sister, Bertha Reppert, of Mechanicsburg, Pa., and a foster brother, John D. Forster, of Reading.
      
But both of them believed in giving me the same advantages as my brother, which was very important to my education.
She got her professional start with an Andrews Sisters-style group called the Lana Sisters, but quit to form her own folk-pop group, the Springfields, with a friend, Tim Field, and her brother, Dion O'Brien, now known as Tom Springfield, who is her only survivor.
; a brother, Dorman Priest of Amherst, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a brother, John Bernard Handelsman of Hampton Bays, N.Y., a cartoonist at The New Yorker, and a grandson.
She was the author of a French book on modern dance, ''La Danse Artistique aux U.S.A.''
        Baroness de Rothschild is survived by a brother, Guy, of Paris, and a sister, Jacqueline Piatigorsky of Los Angeles.
In addition to her husband and sons, she is survived by her relatives in England: her mother, of Bath; her sister, Lois Stuart-Black of London, and her brother, Dr. Grant Kelly of West Sussex.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, she is survived by two sons, David of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Daniel of Paris; a daughter, Judith Davison of New York; a brother, Harry H. Herman of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
The cause was breast cancer, according to her brother, Lindsey.
Besides her brother, of Kent, Conn., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Lourie, of Tiverton; her mother, Flora Lewis, of Paris, foreign affairs columnist for The International Herald Tribune, and a sister, Kerry Gruson of Miami.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Alex, and a daughter, Elizabeth, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Clayton Lewis of Luxembourg.
      
She is survived by a brother, Edward Saltzman of Somers Point, N.J.
      
Mrs. Marx is survived by her husband; their son, Leonard Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.; two daughters, Mary Lynn Bianco of Los Angeles, and Jennifer Gruenberg of Scarsdale; two sisters, Muriel Ducibella of Orange, Conn., and Jane Smith of St. Louis; a brother, Rudolph Wise Jr. of Baldwin, Mo.
She had waged a long battle with a rare muscle cancer, said her brother, Michael Terry of Richland, Wash., who is her only survivor.
One of two children of a Navy officer, Ms. Brandel was born in Philadelphia and grew up ''all over the place,'' her brother said, ''but the place that really got under her skin was Hawaii.
Neither her brother nor her longtime friend Nilofer King knew how Ms. Brandel became obsessed with cooking.
Her late brother's five children are her only remaining relatives.
She is also survived by a brother, Leonard Reinke, of Oshkosh.
      
She is survived by a son, Donald Klune of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepdaughter, Carol Klune of Arcata, Calif.; a brother, Arthur Peterson of Seattle; 17 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
; a brother, Theodore H. Sheafe of Tigard, Ore.; a sister, Mary S. Jewett of Lyme, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her brother, Jack Barrow; her son, Marc St. Louis, a music producer, and a grandson, Cameron.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Wendy White-Tomson, and a brother, James, both of Kent, England.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Erika Littlewood of Richmond; two sons, Jamin Ben, of Takoma Park, Md., and Noah A., of Vienna, Va.; seven grandchildren, and a brother, Richard Bellman of Manhattan.
      
Dr. Allen is survived by three daughters, Dana Densmore of Santa Fe, N.M., Indra Allen of San Francisco and Dr. Martha Allen of Washington; a son, Mark, of Memphis; a brother, Donald Rehkopf of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
Ms. Rubinstein was predeceased by her husband, Victor Silson, and her brother, Oscar Kolin, who was chairman of Helena Rubinstein Inc. and died in 1995.
Ms. Carter was one of three daughters of Ezra and Maybelle Carter, who formed the country singing group the Carter Family along with her cousin, Sara, and A. P. Carter (Sara's husband and Ezra's brother).
She is survived by her husband, David Zolotnitsky; a brother, Yuri; a son, Yuri, and a stepdaughter, Tatiana Zolotnitsky, all of St. Petersburg.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
; a sister, Ann Rountree Forsberg of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Calvin Rountree of Hayesville, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Her brother, Shmuel Tamir, served as Justice Minister, and an uncle, Zalman Shazar, was Israel's third President.
She is survived by three children, David Bradley of Oakland, Calif.; Patrick Breen of Denver, and Moira Stern of Sparks, Nev.; a brother, Leslie Zimmer of East Greenbush, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother, Dr. Oliver Holder, of Sag Harbor, N.Y., two nieces and three nephews.
      
He is her brother, Lawrence Newman of Niskayuna, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a brother, William Wolff of Los Angeles.
She died of cervical cancer, said her brother David.
Besides her brother David of Schenectady, she is survived by another brother, Michael of Portland, Ore.
        After a short stint with a public relations firm in the early 1980's she founded her own company, which took on Trivial Pursuit as one of its first projects.
Besides her brother David of Schenectady, she is survived by another brother, Michael of Portland, Ore.
        After a short stint with a public relations firm in the early 1980's she founded her own company, which took on Trivial Pursuit as one of its first projects.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, Benjamin, of Northfield, Minn., and Samuel and David, of New York; her mother, Mary Adasko, and a brother, Hardy Adasko, both of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Brian Boylan; her mother, Adele Beudert of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; her sisters, Martine, of Brooklyn and Michele Richard of Old Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Claude, of East Hampton, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Grace and Serena Boylan of London.
      
Ms. Raileanu is survived by her mother, Sylvia, of Brooklyn; a brother, Val, of Manhattan; and her father, Nicolau, who lives in Romania.
      
''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York, Ms. Leslie is survived by a brother, Warren Leslie, also of New York, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, John Hansbury, and a brother, Jeffrey.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Rebekah Sale and Kalista Sale Parish, both of New York; a brother, Ben Apfelbaum of Atlanta; and a granddaughter.
      
