Besides Dr. Erickson of Harrisville, she is survived by a brother, Harry, of Cape Coral, Fla.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Joan, of Gambier, Ohio, and Wendy, of Falls Creek, N.M.; a son, Frank, of Manhattan; a brother, Bernard Liebman, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and one grandson.
      
In addition to her husband, Dr. Andre-Schwartz is survived by a son, Louis-George Schwartz of New York City; two sisters, Francoise Poutiers of Bordeaux, France, and Claude Andre of Paris, and a brother, Jean-Pierre Andre, also of Paris.
      
"
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      
"
        She later toured with her brother Luther in "Tovarich," which appeared at the City Center in 1952.
She is survived by two daughters, Molly Finn of Manhattan and Judy Pitt of Leonia, N.J.; two sisters, Rebecca Jarmon of Forest Hills, Queens, and Mina Gudeon of Sunrise, Fla.; a brother, Saul Kamen of North Hills, L.I., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Kate Hooper Gorman of Piermont, N.Y.; Jeanette Williams of Mount Washington, Md., and Queene Hooper Foster of Manhattan; a brother, Dexter Ferry of Detroit, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Harris is survived by her second husband, Jake Heggie of San Francisco; two sons, Shaun Harris of Livermore, Calif., and Dan Harris of Indio, Calif; three daughters, Patricia Connelly of Santa Monica, Calif., Maureen Forman of Palm Desert, Calif., and Lane Murray of Tahoe City, Calif., and a brother, Norman Duffey of Lakeland, Fla.
      
She is survived by three sons, Andrew McFarland, Gavin McFarland and Luke Sawyer, all of Manhattan; a brother, Clifford Michel of Gladstone, N.J., and a sister, Julienne Michel of Santa Fe, N.M.
      
She is survived by a brother, Dr. Karl Vogel of Neustadt, Germany, and a sister, Lotte Vogel of Munich.
      
After Nazi persecution prompted her departure from Germany, she joined her brother in Guatemala, where he had founded a boarding school.
Dr. Swap is survived by her husband, Walter; a son, Clifford; a daughter, Alison, all of Winchester; her parents, John and Pauline McAllister of Fairfield, Conn.; two sisters, Joan Howard of Winterville, Ga., and June McAllister of Stratford, Conn., and a brother, Jef McAllister of Great Falls, Va.
      
; a sister, Ruth Cooke of Kennett Square, Pa.; a brother, John H. Emerson of Arlington, Mass., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Charles M. Kinsolving Jr.; a son, Ronald Hammer of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Richard Brockman of Manhattan; a sister, Susan Brockman of Manhattan; her stepmother, Elizabeth Brockman of Manhattan, and one grandson.
Ms. Cayne is survived by her husband, Maurice Cayne; a daughter, Naomi Finerman of San Rafael, Calif., and a brother, David Liebert of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
He was hired as publisher of The Houston Post-Dispatch at about the same time that Miss Culp, a friend of Florence Sterling, whose millionaire brother owned the paper, got a job in the circulation department.
Dr. Kaplan is survived by her husband of 15 years, Charles P. Lazarus; two sons, Dr. Phillip Kaplan and Dr. Peter Kaplan, a daughter, Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, all of the Upper East Side; a brother, Frank Singer of California, and two grandsons.
Her brother, Norman Chadwick of Mount Vernon, Wash., said she died of cancer.
During the last two years, she was in charge of developing the ARCO United States Olympic Training Center in Chula Vista, Calif.
        Miss Chadwick is survived by her brother.
      
She is survived by a brother, Henry Wilder, of Macon, Ga.
      
; a brother, Norman Brooks of Cushing, Me., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Mark of Potomac, Md., Dan of Brooklyn, Robert of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and Peter of San Rafael, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and a brother, Herbery Wolfson of Wilmington, Del.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
"
        Her brother Wilford Stubblefield, who is 16 years older, was working at an oil refinery in Houston as a janitor, the only job open to a black man at the refinery in those days.
"
        Another brother, Clarence Stubblefield, who is 54 and a high school basketball coach in Houston, had gone to Prairie View College in Texas on a basketball scholarship.
She is survived by her husband, James M. Hopkins; her mother, Helen Barer of Cranbury, N.J., and her brother, Sol, of Westfield, N.J.
      
Her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, is a major benefactor of art institutions, and a sister, Enid Haupt of New York, has devoted much of her fortune to public gardens and horticultural institutions, as well as museums and libraries.
Mrs. Hazen is survived by Mrs. Polsky of Manhattan; four grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; a brother, Walter H. Annenberg of Rancho Mirage, Calif., and three sisters, Mrs. Haupt, Janet Hooker and Evelyn Hall of Manhattan.

        Edith Pargeter, a British author of mysteries and historical fiction who wrote a series of novels under the pen name Ellis Peters about a sleuthing 12th  century monk named Brother Cadfael, died Saturday.
Her novels about Brother Cadfael, an herbalist at the Benedictine abbey in Shrewsbury with a knack for solving murders, received wide acclaim.
The first of 20 Brother Cadfael books appeared in 1977.
They included "The Potter's Field" (1990), "The Confession of Brother Haluin" (1989) and "The Hermit of Eyton Forest" (1988), all published by Mysterious Press.
Last January, some of the Brother Cadfael novels were dramatized in four 90-minute segments of the television program "Mystery.
"
        The British Tourist Authority has published a brochure, "Brother Cadfael Car  Trails," offering directions through the hamlets and villages of Shropshire, where most of her stories were set.
Mrs. Haynes and her brother, Calvin Griffith, were raised by their uncle, Clark Griffith, because their parents were struggling financially and were later adopted by Griffith, a Hall of Fame pitcher who owned the Washington Senators.
She is survived by a brother, Robert Kolp, of Greenville.
      
She is survived by a brother, William L. Gorman of Fort Myers, Fla.
      
" In an interview, Miss Lindfors said she had brought her performance to a peak by torturing herself with memories of how she felt upon the death of her brother two years earlier, "so that I could find the feelings of Anastasia.
She took up the piano at an early age, and she and her brother Joseph were taught violin by their father.
She collaborated often in performance with her brother Joseph and her other brother, Harry, a cellist.
She collaborated often in performance with her brother Joseph and her other brother, Harry, a cellist.
She is survived by her brother Joseph; her daughters, Barbara Stein Mallow, a cellist, of Leonia, N.J., and Carol Stein Amado, a violinist, of Merion, Pa., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Michael, of Miami.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ericson is survived by her parents, H. A. and Alma Ericson, of Norwalk, Conn., and a brother, Scott, of Arlington, Tex.
      
Ms. Sullivan is survived by her husband, Alan H. Bomser; her stepmother, Patricia Sullivan of Bronxville; a brother, Eugene Sullivan of Larchmont, N.Y.,  and two sisters, Jane Burke of Bronxville and Mary Tracy of Boston.
      
She is survived by a brother, Lewis, of Lake Alfred, Fla., and a step-daughter, Judith Dilts, of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by a brother,  Francis Bordier of Mandelieu, France, and by two stepchildren, Nadine Aiello Gombault of Mount Shasta, Calif., and Jean-Claude Gombault of Paris.
      
She is survived by a brother, Frank, and a sister, Stella, both of Manhattan.
      
The cause was intestinal cancer, said her brother Jorge.
In addition to her brother Jorge, a drummer, of New York, she is survived by her parents, Mario and Josefina, and another brother, Mario, a bassist, all of Barcelona.
      
In addition to her brother Jorge, a drummer, of New York, she is survived by her parents, Mario and Josefina, and another brother, Mario, a bassist, all of Barcelona.
      
In addition to their son, James S. Baumann of Manhattan, Mrs. Baumann is survived by a sister,  Susan Behrend of Philadelphia, and a brother, Fred Hirschhorn Jr. of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      
With her brother, Dr. Massimo E. Calabresi, she helped publish and distribute the leading underground newspaper of the Italian Resistance, Non Mollare (Don't Give Up) and was jailed for a time by the Mussolini Government.
Her brother, a former professor of medicine at Yale University, died in 1988.
      
; three sisters,  Rebecca Breed of Greenwich, Tenney Auger of Portland, Me., and Michelle Hodgin of Los Angeles, and a brother, Samuel Sutter of Fall River, Mass.
      
Ms. Leustig is survived by her husband, a brother and a sister.
      
The cause was leukemia, said her brother John Limpert Jr.
In addition to her brother John, of Plainfield, N.J., she is survived by her  son, Philip A. Amara of Weeki Wachee, Fla., her brother Harold J. Limpert 3d of  Vineland, N.J., and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her brother John, of Plainfield, N.J., she is survived by her  son, Philip A. Amara of Weeki Wachee, Fla., her brother Harold J. Limpert 3d of  Vineland, N.J., and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her mother, Helen Brehon of Queens, and a brother, Walter Cade of Queens.
      
In addition to her husband and her sister, Margaret Schwartz of Endicott, N.Y., she is survived by a brother, Paul R. Camp of Orono, Maine.
      
In addition to her son, who is on the Superior Court bench in Union County, she is survived by a daughter, Naomi Margolies of Plainfield; a brother, Dr. Morton Bertin of Orlando, Fla., six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons from her second marriage, Christopher and Timothy, both of London, and a brother, Ted Gilbert of Stamford, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. James Marston Fitch, the architectural historian and critic, and a brother, John Rickman of Chapel Hill, Tenn.
      
The Kahns had Margaret baptized at an Episcopal church in Morristown in 1911, along with her older sister, Maud, and her younger brother, Gilbert.
Besides Donald, she is survived by two other sons, Aaron and Marshall, both of Manhattan; a sister, Helen Rachmil of Los Angeles; a brother, Morton Goldman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Roxana, of Los Angeles, and a son, Matthew, of London, from her marriage to Mr. Tynan; her mother, Jean Halton of Ottawa, and a brother, David, of Washington.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Seattle, she is survived by her twin brother, Lee, of Greenville, Tex., and a son, David, also of Seattle
      
She is survived by a brother, Broughton Wade.
      
; John, of Aspen, Colo.; Susie Kayyali of Coral Gables, Fla., and Harriet Fraunfelter of Washington; her brother, John Hauberg Jr. of Seattle; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Sadie Tripp; a brother, David Tripp, both of Farmington, Mo., and two sisters, Kay Taylor of Dahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Karen Eaton of Topeka, Kan.
      
Ms. Frantz's interest in Greece began in her youth in Princeton and her interest in photography with the gift of a camera from her brother.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Sadker is survived by two daughters, Robin and Jacqueline; a brother, Dr. Murray Pollack of Potomac, Md., and her father, Louis Pollack of Boca Raton, Fla.
      
She is survived by a son, Ronald Jr., of Atlanta; a brother, Thomas, and a daughter, Susan Akkad, both of New York City.
      
In later years, she contributed introductions to several of her brother's posthumously published works, including "The Alcestiad" (1977), "American Characteristics and Other Essays" (1979) and "The Journals of Thornton Wilder 1939-1961" (1985), selected and edited by Donald Gallup of Yale University.
Besides Mr. Rangel, she is survived by a daughter, Frances McDermott of the Bronx; a brother, Percy Wharton of Camden, N.J.; a sister, Sylvia Curtis of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
"I think he saw dollar signs," Selena said laughingly in an interview last year, describing the evolution of a family band that included her sister Suzette on drums and her brother Abraham III on guitar.
; a brother, Laszlo Steingisser of Chile, and four grandchildren.
      
That year, Ms. Cleaver wrote "The Literary Agent and the Writer: A Professional Guide," published by The Writer Inc.
        She is survived by her brother, Barry Cleaver of Birmingham, England.
      
" Her Off Broadway credits included "The Strong Breed," "The Trials of Brother Jero," "The Resurrection of Lady Lester," "The Last Street Play" and "Before It Hits Home.
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla. and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla., and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Tom, of Los Angeles; two sisters, Sarah Bozzola of Orange, Conn., and Elizabeth Horn of Buffalo, and a brother, Thomas Speller of Buffalo.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jacob E. Goldman; a brother, Rabbi Burton Mehler of the Bronx; three sisters, Jean Kelman of Queens and Gloria Mehler and Mindella Lamm of Manhattan; three sons, Shalom L., of East Thetford, Vt., and Ari L. and Dov E., of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
