She is survived by a sister, Pricilla Simon of the Bronx, and a brother, Morris of Massapequa, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Peter Schilder of Annapolis; a daughter, Jane S. Knowles of Santa Fe, N.M.; three grandchildren, and a brother, Karl Bender of Milwaukee, Ore.
      
; a brother, John A. Gilmore of Osterville, Mass., and six grandchildren.
Mrs. Pantaleoni is survived by a brother, Tadeusz Adamowski of New York; by four sons, Michael and Anthony of New York, Guido 3d of Bronxville, N.Y., and Hewitt of Oneonta, N.Y.; a daughter, Nina Hillgarth of Toronto, and 14 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are her husband, Joseph W. De Fossett, a daughter, Michelle, her mother, Annie, of Manhattan, three sisters, Floretta St. Ange, of the Bronx; Faustina Jenkins, of Los Angeles, and Persis Myers, of Manhattan, and a brother, Kendrick, of Brooklyn.
      
Martin Madison, of High Point, N.C., John Madison, of Alexandria, Va., and Paul Madison, of Englewood, N.J.; a brother, Dr. Thomas W. Edwards, of Silver Spring, Md.
Hammer, co-owner with his brother Armand of the Hammer Galleries in New York.
She is survived by her children, Bruce, Robert and Gail; a brother, Lawrence, and three sisters, Hilda Kahle, Ruth Semple and Anna Dudley.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Vladimir Ussachevsky, also of Manhattan, who is now composer in residence at the University of Utah, and a brother, Richard Kray, of Grosse Pointe, Mich. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jesse, a retired New York lawyer; a son, Dr. Gregory Siskind of Manhattan, and a brother, Nathaniel Drabkin, also of Manhattan.
      
; three daughters, Cynthia Phipps of Westbury, Lillian Rousseau of Palm Beach, Fla., and Florence Chase of Manhattan; a brother, Dunbar Bostwick of Sherburne, Vt., and a sister, Dorothy Campbell of Cooperstown, N.Y.
      
sales representative, said her brother, William T. Cahill Jr.
Mrs. Stein is survived by her husband, Dr. Max H. Stein; three sons, Jeffrey, of Hartsdale, N.Y., Ethan, of Irvington, N.Y., and Matthew, of Bayside, Queens; a brother, Irving Sperber of Englewood, N.J.; a sister, Beatrice Leis of Southbury, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard W. Lawrence Jr.; three daughters, Ruth Wilson of Moab, Utah; Alida Currey of Grand Junction, Colo., and Elizabeth Lawrence of Burlington, Vt.; a brother, Richard Wadhams, also of Burlington, and two grandchildren.
      
At about the same time, she married Frank Dorsey, a copy editor there, according to her brother, Leon Halfon.
She is survived by three sisters, Zilia Sfez of Tunisia, Yvonne Brami of Nice and Nelly Cohen of Versailles, in addition to her brother.
She is survived by three sisters, Anna Coit and Jean Palmer North, both of North Stonington, Conn., and Amelia Potter North of Montclair, and a brother, Charles Edward North of Essex Fells, N.J.
      
A Pure, Roughly Urban Sound
        Her career began in 1939, when she joined her fiddle-playing brother, Skeets, in a touring country band.
She is survived by her husband, Lionel; three daughters, Connie, Naomi and Ruth, all of Jerusalem; a sister, Helen Rudolph of Queens, and a brother, Stanley Evans of the Bronx.
      
Mrs. Manley is survived by two sons: Michael, leader of the party his father founded and Jamaica's Prime Minister from 1972 to 1980, and Douglas, a social scientist who served in his brother's Cabinet.
      
The books ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' and ''Belles on their Toes'' were written by Mrs. Barney's sister, Ernestine G. Carey, who lives in Scottsdale, Ariz., and brother, Frank Jr., who lives in Charleston, S.C.
        Nine siblings survive Mrs. Barney.
''
        Miss Lindley is survived by a brother, Robert Strunsky of Kingston, N.J.; a son, Dr. Charles Lindley of Boston; a stepson, Denver Lindley of Erwinna, Pa., and a grandson.
Ms. Mann is survived by her brother, Sam H. Mann Jr. of St. Petersburg.
She is survived by a brother, Robert, of Rockport, and six nieces and nephews.
      
; two sisters, Alice Bowman of White Plains and Pearl Johnson of Millbrook, N.Y., and a brother, Ernie, of Katonah, N.Y.
      
She then joined her brother, Maximilian Apfelbaum, in his fur salon.
In Control of Business
        With the death in 1953 of her brother, who had changed his name legally to Michael Maximilian, she assumed control of the business.
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Martin D. Kamen, professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego; two sisters, Carole Swanson, of Glendale, Calif., and Beverly Hill, of La Jolla, Calif., and a brother, Robert Swanson, of Lynwood, Calif.
      
; a brother, Winston C. Anderson of Lancaster, Pa., and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. David is survived by her husband; two sons, Jim and Craig, both of Los Angeles; her mother, Florence Tuttle of Glen Cove, L.I., and a brother, Al, of Warren, N.J.
''
        Miss Page is survived by her third husband, the actor Rip Torn; their three children, Jonathan, Anthony and Angelica Torn-Burkhardt; a grandchild, Elija Burkhardt, and a brother, Donald.
She is survived by three sons, James, of Hampton, N.H., Richard, of Center Ossipee, N.H., and Harold, of Raymond, N.H.; a daughter, Mrs. Noel Robertson of St. Catherines, Ontario; a brother, Roger, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Charles A. Perera; two sons, Donald A., of San Jose, Calif., and John B., of Cleveland; three daughters, Ellen P. Scott of San Diego, Carol P. Weingeist of Hanover, N.H., and Sylvia B. Perera of Sherman, Conn.; a brother, Samuel Brinton, and a sister, Alice Clement, both of Kennett Square; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Holland Estill, of Manhattan; a sister, Katharine Bouterse, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Julia Knickerbocker, Miranda de Kay and Suzanne Colt, all of Manhattan; a sister, Gerd Sherman, of Manhattan; a brother, Rolf Schjoldager of Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Price is survived by a daughter, Claire Krischok of Manhattan; a brother, Sol Westheimer, also of Manhattan; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Edward, of Wakefield, Mass., and a sister, Elizabeth Pullar of Quincy, Mass.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stuart B. Glover; a brother, Allan H. Kalmus of Manhattan; two sons, James D., of White Plains, and Richard K., of Stamford, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Warburg is survived by a brother, Edward M. M. Warburg of Weston, Conn.; a son, Walter N. Jr., of Syosset, L.I.
Miss Lonergan, whose grandfather, father and brother also were actors, made her stage debut at the age of 6, in ''Mother Lode,'' starring Melvyn Douglas.
Surviving are a brother, Newton I. Steers of Bethesda, Md.
She is survived by a sister, Miriam Rabinowicz of New York, and a brother, Rabbi Harry Rabinowicz, of London.
      
She is survived by a brother, William B.
Mrs. Rothschild is survived by a brother, Edward M. M. Warburg of Wilton, Conn.; a son, Walter N. Jr., of Syosset, L.I.
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
Besides her twin, Mary E. Gordon of Boston, Miss Gordon is survived by another sister, Sarah Gayley of New York, and a brother, Albert H. Gordon of New York.
      
; a brother, Joseph Wallace, of New Rochelle; a sister, Zena Wallace of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Saladino is survived by her husband; a son, J. Graham, of Norfolk and Manhattan; her parents, Gladys and Wyatt Burl Hendrick, a brother, Robert, and a sister, Myra Grace, all of Lawton, and a sister, Elizabeth Maloney of Fairfax, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. Bartholomew's Church at 109 East 50th Street.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Abigail Ives of White Plains and Coletta Bernadino of Westport, Conn.; a son, Thomas Cox of Stamford, Conn.; a brother, James J. Ruch Jr. of Princeton Junction, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Nathaniel, and a daughter, Caitlin, both of Manhattan; a brother, John Campbell of Chittenden, Vt., and her parents, Ford and Miriam Campbell of Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
      
