In addition to her sister Margaret, she is survived by another sister, Virginia, of Manhattan, and a brother, Joseph, of Baltimore.
      
; a brother, Benjamin Seiger, of Chevy Chase, Md., and two grandsons.
      
Surviving are her husband, Milton; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Eve, both of White Plains; her father, Abraham Letich of Queens; two sisters, Davida Luttenberg of New Hyde Park, L.I., and Judith Kaplan of Ocala, Fla., and a brother, Larry Letich of Verona, N.J.
      
Besides her brother, the former Congressman and Governor, she is survived by her second husband, Albert G. Isaacs Jr.; a son, Edward E. Mayer of Esher, Surrey, England; a stepdaughter, Betsy Cooper of Waverly, Pa.; two sisters, Katherine Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y., and Sara Scranton Linen of Greenwich, Conn.; three stepgrandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Stephen A., the music director of the Washington Chamber Symphony, of Washington; a brother, Walter H., the former chief executive of Triangle Publications and the founder of TV Guide, of Philadelphia and near Palm Springs, Calif.; four sisters, Enid Haupt, Janet Hooker, Lita Hazen and Evelyn Hall, all of Manhattan, and six grandsons.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her brother, the actor Barry Primus.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her father, George, and a sister, Natalie Fewsmith, all of New York City.
      
' "
        She is survived by a brother, Dr. Roger F. Murray II of New Hampshire, and a sister, Mary Murray Westcote of New Jersey.
      
She is survived by her brother, George, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, an actor, and a daughter, Marina, both of Manhattan, and by a brother, Fred Nebelthau of Bremen.
She is also survived by her mother, Lillian B. Fraser of the Bronx, and her brother, Earl W. Fraser Jr. of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her son Peter, she is survived by another son, Alexander Stein of Manhattan; a brother, William Paris of Nashville, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by three sons, Geoffrey of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Gregory of Newington, Conn., and Gordon of Sandy, Utah; four grandchildren and a brother, E. Albert Berol of Bedford Hills, N.Y.
      
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
She began practicing law in Manhattan with her brother, Ashton Korn, and after his death worked on her own.
She is survived by a brother, Richard, of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, George C., an investment banker; a daughter, Diana, of Manhattan; two sons, George, of Riverside, Conn., and Jonathan, of Manhattan; a sister, Sheila English of New Haven; a brother, Alexander White of Manhattan and Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Dr. William L. of Albany, N.Y., and Dr. Richard H. of Westport, Conn.; seven grandchildren; five great grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Eugene A. Humbert of Atlantis, Fla.
      
She is survived by a sister, Evelina Johnson McAvoy, of Erie, Pa., and a brother, Harry Johnson, of Warren.
      
Miss Herman is survived by a brother, Harold Herman of Brooklyn.
      
"  Genesis of a Comedian
        She was introduced as Miss Walker -- Mr. Abbott and Richard Rodgers had been expecting a singer named Helen Walker -- and began belting out a song called "Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Alexander Bodnar of Floral Park, L.I.
      
"  Genesis of a Comedian
        She was introduced as Miss Walker -- Mr. Abbott and Richard Rodgers had been expecting a singer named Helen Walker -- and began belting out a song called "Bounce Me Brother With a Solid Four.
Surviving are her husband of 30 years, Robert E. Lewis, a literary agent; two daughters, Ellen J. and Sarah E., both of Manhattan; a brother, James Simonson of Minneapolis, , and a sister, Sonja Schrag of La Crosse, Wis.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
Surviving are two sons, Dee Michel of Los Angeles and Guy Michel of Brooklyn; a brother, Lou Martin of Wyncote, Pa., and a sister, Helen Abramson of North Miami Beach.
      
She is survived by her brother, James Speers of Pensacola, Fla., and a sister, Elizabeth Bagley of Rock Hill, S.C.
      
She was one of the first women to have their work represented in the archives of the Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University in Blacksburg, Va.
        She is survived by a brother, Binnert, of the Hague.
      
; a daughter, Jan Doughery of Sedona, Ariz; a brother, Martin Whitman of New York City; a sister, Judge Phyllis Beck of Philadelphia, and a granddaughter.
      
; a brother, Albert C. Stutsman Jr. of St. Louis; and two stepchildren, Henry J.
After being imprisoned by the pro-Nazi regime in Hungary during World War II, Ms. Marton came to the United States, and by 1953 began to work as a theatrical agent for European writers in collaboration with her brother, George, who was living in Paris.
She is survived by her father, Ellis Dryer of Toronto; a brother, Matthew, of Buffalo; a sister, Dr. Dagny Dryer Murray, of Prince Edward Island, Canada, and a grandfather, John L. Synge of Dublin.
      
Mrs. Reynal is survived by a brother, Robert W. Whelan of Washington Depot, Conn.; her sister, Eleanor W. Ewart of Manhattan, and eight nieces and nephews.
      
She is survived by a brother, Morse Palmer of Delray Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by her mother, Alma Lewis of Gloucestershire, England, and a brother, Frank Barr of Victoria, British Columbia.
      
She died of cancer, said her brother, Alwin, of Lake Nebagamon, Wis.
        Dr. Wiesner, who was born in Rice Lake, Wis., was a physical-education major at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when she discovered the university's dance program.
Her brother is her only survivor.
      
She is survived by a brother, Burton Blagman, of Wyckoff, N.J., and a sister, Muriel Bailey of Chesterfield, Mo.
Ms. Sklover is survived by a sister, Marcia Kleinman, and a brother, Stanley Klein, both of New York City.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives on Staten Island, Ms. Brown is survived by a son, Christopher, of Portland, Me., and a brother, Peter Stettenheim, of East Plainfield, Vt.
      
Mrs. Bryce is survived by a brother, Huntington Hartford 2d of Manhattan; a daughter, Nuala O'Donnell Pell of Newport, R.I. and Washington; a son, Columbus O'Donnell of London; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, William Glenn Ellis of Houston, a sister, Rebecca Ellis Christy of Dallas; and a stepson, Matthew Hirschhorn of Arvada, Colo.
      
She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      
; a sister, Anna Lopin, and a brother, William Mazer, both of Manhattan; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, William Glenn Ellis of Houston, a sister, Rebecca Ellis Christy of Dallas, and a stepson, Matthew Hirschhorn of Arvada, Colo.
      
In addition to her husband, Dr. Roque Cohen is survived by two daughters, Michele and Jennifer, both of Harrison, and a brother, Alfredo of Cordoba.
      
"
        She had two younger sisters, Anne, who died in 1965, and Norah, and a brother, David, who died in 1942.
"
        She had two younger sisters, Anne, who died in 1965, and Norah, and a brother, David, who died in 1942.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by a brother, Bennett C. Oelheim of Pacific Grove, Calif.
      
She is survived by her son, David, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Sidney, of Norwalk, Conn.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey, and a brother, William Brice, both of Los Angeles, and one grandchild.
In addition to her son, who lives in Philadelphia, Mrs. Sherman is survived by her second husband, Melvin Sherman, a daughter, Barbara Cohen Stanley, of San Francisco, a brother Stanley Silverstein, of Charleston, W.Va., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Abel is survived by a brother, Jack Goldman of Chicago.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Gail Weed Westcott, of Simsbury, Conn.; two sons, Jonathan, of Yonkers, and Ethan, of London and Vienna; a brother, Rabbi Herbert Gilner of Chambersburg, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Jonathan, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her husband, Dr. Norman Sher; a daughter, Katherine, of San Francisco, and a brother, Dr. Robert Hollenberg, of Hamilton, Ontario.
      
Ms. Sze is survived by three sisters, Julia Sze Bailey of Manhattan, Betty Sze O'Neill of Poughkeepsie and Alice Sze Wang of Cambridge, Mass., and a brother, Dr. Szeming Sze of Pennsylvania and Florida.
      
Surviving are a son, Richard P. Mathias of Wiesbaden, Germany; two daughters, Natalie Wolfe of Manhattan and Sasha Wolfe of Brooklyn; a brother, Rudy Zerabica, and a sister, Josephine Simmons, both of Trafford, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
Her brother, Frederick R. Knubel, was president of the United Lutheran Synod of New York and New England from 1945 to 1957.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Douglas, of Covelo, Calif.; her parents, Lil and Albert Tarshis of Las Vegas, Nev.; a sister, Lolo Berkoff, and a brother, Stanley Gordon, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lenhart is survived by three sisters, Helen B. Buckland of Farmington, Conn., and Mary B. Blake and Elizabeth B. Brookfield, of Nyack, and a brother, Dr. E. Tremain Bradley of Norfolk, Conn.
      
Ms. Baer is survived, in addition to Dr. Fensterheim, by a sister, Carol Norr of Scarsdale, N.Y., and a brother, Robert Baer of Woodstock, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a brother, Walter Zanger of Jerusalem, and a stepson, Grattan V. Armstrong of East Hampton, L.I.
      
She is survived by a brother, Arthur J. Morgan of Westhampton Beach, L.I.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her parents, George and Priscilla of Harwich Port, Mass., and a brother, Peter of Melvin Village, N.H.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Howard; two sons, Robert, of Westfield, N.J., and Barry, of Novato; a brother, Arnold Fassler of Williamsville, Vt.; a sister, Sue Kellerman of San Rafael, Calif., and three grandchildren
      
Professor Jones is survived by a brother, Dr. Edward R. Richardson of Dallas, and Lake St. Catherine, Vt.
Dr. Schulman is survived by her brother, Cherrill Paul Heaton of Gainesville, Fla.
      
Mrs. Hanes is survived by their daughter, Susan H. Caldwell of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, June H. McKnight of Norwich, Vt., and Ormsby H. Matthiessen of Old Lyme, Conn.; a stepson, John W. Hanes Jr. of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, Lunsford P. Yandell of Scottsdale, Ariz.; 16 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Granowitz is survived by two daughters, Ida Granowitz of Manhattan, and Tina Marks of Hartsdale, N.Y.; a son, Philip of Stanford, Conn.; a brother, Milton Smith of Port Chester, and three grandchildren.
      
While still a teen-ager, she went to work as a stenographer in the gallery that her uncle, Charles W. Kraushaar, founded in 1885 and that her father, John Kraushaar, inherited at his brother's death in 1917.
Surviving are a brother and sister, Jack and Rosalie Scaglione, both of Queens.
She died after a long illness, said her brother Alex, of Queens.
In addition to her brother Alex, she is survived by another brother, Leonard, of Syosset, L.I.
      
In addition to her brother Alex, she is survived by another brother, Leonard, of Syosset, L.I.
      
Her brother Walstein C. Findlay Jr. established the Chicago branch in 1932, and she was involved in the business there since the early 1940's.
In addition to her brother, who lives in Palm Beach, she is survived by another brother, William A. Sr., of the Florida Keys.
      
In addition to her brother, who lives in Palm Beach, she is survived by another brother, William A. Sr., of the Florida Keys.
      
Survivors include her mother, Blanche, of North Conway, N.H., and a brother, Joseph E. Hollingworth Jr., of Carlisle, Mass.
      
Dr. McClintock is survived by a sister, Mignon Crowell, who lives in Florida, and a brother, Thomas N. McClintock of Newtown, Conn.
      
Professor Friedlaender is survived by her husband, Stephen Friedlaender; two sons, Lucas Friedlaender and Nathaniel Friedlaender, both of Newton, and a brother, Alexander L. Fetter, of Palo Alto, Calif.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Eleanor De Francesco of New Port Richie, Fla., and Edith Natale of Linden, N.J., and a brother, John Natale of Caldwell, N.J.
      
"
        Miss Green is survived by a brother, John H. Green, and a sister, Beatrice Clews.
      
Surviving are her husband of 19 years, Dr. Peter Finch; her parents, Sylvia Shepherd of Manhattan and Archibald Shepherd Jr. of Florida; a daughter, Abi Shepherd-Finch of Manhattan; a brother, Lawrence of Manhattan, and her grandmother, Doris Allman of Barbados.
      
Besides her husband, Dr. Fromm is survived by her sister, Selma Margolis, and her brother, Nathan Glikin, both of Union, N.J.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Eleanor Parker of Tucson, Ariz., and Ethel Anderson of Lenoir, N.C., and a brother, George, also of Lenoir.
      
In addition to her sister she is survived by a brother, David, of Hallendale, Fla.
      
Mrs. Lynn is survived by her husband, Lawrence R.; her mother and stepfather, Sylvia and Ralph Lippman of Manhattan; a brother, Keith Stanger of Ypsilanti, Mich., and four stepbrothers, David Lippman of Eureka, Calif., Dr. Jay Lippman of Manhattan, Jonathan Lippman of Rye, N.Y., and Dr. Leonard Lippman of West Hartford, Conn.
      
She is survived by a brother, Alan Peldzus of Chicago.
      
She is survived by a brother, Alan Peldzus of Chicago.
      
She is survived by her husband, Aubey Neill, of Baldwin; a sister, Myrna Shrouder; a brother, Ken Chong, and her parents, Zena and Linton Shrouder, all of the Bronx.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Claudia Whitman of Peaks Island, Me., and Debbie Robins of Los Angeles, and a brother, Norman Friedlander of Massapequa, L.I.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barney Gelfan, and a brother, Carl Gelfan, both of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Leah Cohen Chatinover of South Windsor, Conn.; Sara Cohen of Kibbutz Ketura, Israel, and Rebecca Cohen Stewart of Bridgewater, N.J.; her mother and stepfather, Florence and Ed Nash of Bridgewater; a brother, Louis Kauder of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Susan Schwirck of Rahway, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Paula Blasband, she is survived by her daughter Julia Mason of Manhattan; a brother, Arthur Mavity of Indianapolis; two sisters, Marion Greenwald of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Caraway of Watertown, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Whitelaw is survived by her daughter; her brother, Seymour Whitelaw of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Hoxie is survived by a brother, Dr. Wallace C. Lobitz of Portland, Ore.
      
; a stepson, Sam Claiborne of Brooklyn; a grandson, Matthew Shulman, and a brother, David Resnik of Stockbridge, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Kevin; a son, Matthew; three daughters, Anna, Katherine and Margaret, all of Bedford Hills; her mother, Anna Bondhus; her brother, Nelson, of Farmington, Conn., and a sister, Diana Bortolin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter Joyce, Mrs. Bauer is survived by another daughter, Elaine Goldsmith of Somerset, N.J.; a brother, Irving Rapaport of Los Angeles; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
A brother, Val R. Lorwin, died in 1982.
In addition to her daughter, Professor Lorwin is survived by her husband of 18 years, Alain Virnot; two sons, Tom, of Paris, and Steve, of Plainsboro, N.J; a brother, Boris, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Bruce F. Roberts of Purchase, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
