In addition to her husband, an astrophysicist at Harvard and at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Dr. Thaddeus is survived by a daughter, Eva Thaddeus of Albuquerque; a son, Michael Thaddeus of Manhattan; a sister, Alison Wilson of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a brother, Curtis Farrar of Washington.
      
Her father, Leo Herbert Heckart, took her younger brother to live with him, she said, but she remained with her mother, Esther, who was married five times.
She is survived by a son, Frederic, of Manahattan; a brother, Daniel Horowitz, of Washington; and two nieces.
      
She is survived by her brother, Peter Poor, of Manhattan, two nieces and a nephew.
Ms. Phillips is survived by her daughter, of Los Angeles; her brother, Matthew Miller of Weston, Conn.; and her son-in-law, Modi Wiczyk of Los Angeles.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Kajiwara is survived by a brother, John, of New York City.
      
In addition to Mr. Auer, Ms. Patchett is survived by their daughter, Amy Auer of Westhampton Beach, N.Y.; a sister, Mrs. J. Fred King; and a brother, Frank Patchet.
      
Ms. Durdin is survived by her brother, Oscar V. Armstrong of Mitchellville, Md., and Edward Chen of Hong Kong, whom the Durdins informally adopted.
She is survived by her father, Robert, of Newport News, Va., and a brother, Von, of Lawrenceville, Va.
      
''
        Princess Margaret Rose was born on Aug. 21, 1930, at Glamis, Scotland, the second daughter of the Duke and Duchess of York, six years before her father became King George VI with the abdication of his brother, Edward VIII.
Within a short time, the Radleys opened a small tailoring business with Miss Trigère's brother, Robert.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
Within a short time, the Radleys opened a small tailoring business with Miss Trigère's brother, Robert.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
When she was a child, her mother died of pneumonia at the age of 27 after giving birth to her brother in a Harlem hospital corridor because segregated policies barred her from a room.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Anderson is survived by her brother, Michael, and her daughters Katherine, 14, and Joanna, 10.
She is survived by their children, Robert Jr., of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Kathleen Reagan of Washington Township, N.J.; and her brother, John, of Newburyport, Mass.
In 1936, when her painfully diffident husband was crowned King George VI after the abdication of his older brother, she became the strength behind the throne, helping transform him from a stammering, insecure second son into a loved and respected monarch.
Bullied by his parents and overshadowed by his handsome and charming older brother, David, the Prince of Wales, Bertie suffered from delicate health, crippling shyness, an array of nervous tics, a terrible stutter, an unpredictable temper, a tendency to melancholy and what today would be described as a serious case of low self-esteem.
''
        Another duty was bucking up the flagging spirits of her husband, who hated the spotlight but who was required to make many public appearances, particularly as his father's health waned and his older brother proved more interested in a racy social life than in boring regal duties.
''
        Edward and Mrs. Simpson
        The coziness of their early years was abruptly shattered in 1936, when King Edward VIII, as Bertie's older brother styled himself on ascending the throne, announced that he had fallen inconveniently in love with the very married Wallis Simpson, an American whose earlier divorce from her first husband had already ruled her out as a possible royal bride.
Not even the exhortations of his most trusted advisers, or the frightened tears of his younger brother, would make Edward give up Mrs. Simpson, and on Dec. 10, 1936, he abdicated and left for France.
She is survived by her brother, Philip Holland, of Jacksonville, Fla.
Besides Ms. Goebert, she is survived by her mother, Sarah Hewett, of Lake Charles, La., and her brother, Barton Hewett, of Palm Springs, Calif.
      
In 1964 they starred in ''Tiny Alice,'' Ms. Worth as the mysterious benefactor Miss Alice, Gielgud as the innocent lay brother Julian.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her brother Luke Evans of Los Angeles.
Miss Ferrer is survived by a sister, Dr. M. Irene Ferrer of Manhattan; and a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor, film director and producer, of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
Her father, a printer, and her brother, Richard, did not become Jehovah's Witnesses, creating a deep fault line in the household.
She is survived by her husband of 63 years; a daughter, Barbara Segal of Los Angeles; a brother, Aaron Mosko of Denver; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
; a brother, Fred McGriff of Newark; a sister, Naomi Chambers of Plainfield, N.J.; and two granddaughters.
; a brother, Dr. Bradford Cannon of Lincoln, Mass.
Martha Levinson said her mother was motivated by the vastly different experiences of two dying relatives: her brother died alone and miserable with hospital officials barring visits; while her mother died at home surrounded by loved ones.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her two daughters, Sarah Abrams and Rebecca Abrams Benn, both of New York City; a brother, Michael Stocker, of Syracuse and New York City; and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ramelle Monsky of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Max, and two daughters, Samantha and Montana, all of Santa Barbara; a sister, Robin Monsky of Chicago; and a brother, Henry Monsky of Omaha.
      
Her survivors include a brother, Adorel Safir, who lives in Israel, and a stepson, Patrick Johnson of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass.
Ms. de Saint Phalle is survived by a brother, John de Saint Phalle, of Florida; a daughter, Laura Duke, of Paris; a son, Philip Mathews, of New York; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her partner, Dr. Perry; her brother, Esteban Lopez; and her sister, Haydee Lopez.
She is survived by two daughters, Ms. Paine of Durham, N.H., and Gillette Piper of Coral Gables, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Mimi Thompson of Manhattan; a sister, Carmel Eitt of King George, Va.; a brother, John Michael White of Delray Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
In addition to her sister Tracy, of San Francisco, she is survived by her mother, Frances Brown, of Grand Junction, Colo.; a brother, William, of Leawood, Kan.; and another sister, Jesslyn Brown Stevens, of Sioux Falls, S.D.
      
In addition to her husband, who lives in Great Barrington, Mass., and her sister, of Los Angeles, she is survived by her brother, Samuel Abady of Bronxville, N.Y..
As parties rustled silkenly in Jo Copeland's Park Avenue living room -- guests might include Joan Crawford or Tyrone Power -- Lois and her brother were expected to remain in their rooms with their supper trays, blissfully unseen and unheard.
Ms. Gould is survived by her son Anthony, of Manhattan, and her brother, Anthony Regensburg, of Camden, Me., and Boca Raton, Fla.
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
; and a brother, Andrew, of Salem, Mass.
      
She was 77 and lived in Westchester, Calif.
        She died of complications of surgery to remove organs because of cancer, said her brother, Richard Dancer, her only survivor.
Dancer worked as an electronics technician and lived in Santa Monica until moving in with her brother two years ago.
Ms. Solomon's survivors include, besides her son Thomas, of Los Angeles, another son, John, also of Los Angeles, and a brother, Dr. Donald Dworken of Greenwich, Conn.
        ''She was an original, as strong a personality as any of her artists,'' said Mr. Wegman, who was particularly close to the Solomon family.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
She is survived by her brother, George Linskie.
Ms. Pasternak is married to Michael Starn, an arts photographer who collaborates with his identical twin brother.
She is survived by a brother, Richard Baylis of Huntington Beach, Calif.
      
''My brother telephoned me afterwards and said, 'When did you go Communist?
''My brother telephoned me afterwards and said, 'When did you go Communist?
Keith Robinson said he and his brother, Bruce, had no intention of changing anything on the island, much less selling it.
Ms. Wyler is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president, and Dr. Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; a brother, Edwin L. Goldwasser; a sister, Joan Schine; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her parents, Bobbi and Derek, of London; a brother, Tony, of California; a sister, Michele, of Cornwall; and her partner, Peter Gevisser.
Ms. Mink is survived by her husband; their daughter, Gwendolyn; and a brother, Eugene Takemoto.
      
''My only brother was nine years older and had little time for me.
She had six sisters and one brother and grew up on a farm.
She is survived by her daughters, Leah Shetler, Verena and Susan Coblentz, Elizabeth Wengerd, Lovina Eicher and Emma Schwartz, all of Geneva; her sons, Amos of Berne and Albert of Geneva; her sisters, Leah Girod of Berne, Lovina Swartzentruber of LaGrange, Ind., Emma Schwartz of Berne and Salome Hilty and Barbara Schwartz, both of Geneva; her brother, Chris A. Graber of Bryant, Ind.
After catching fire at Hell Gate, the General Slocum put ashore on North Brother Island at 10:40 and burned.
Mrs. Connelly lost her mother, brother and sister.
She is survived by her husband, Raouf Boudjakdji; four children; three grandchildren; her mother; and a brother.
Nichols of Charlottesville, Va.; her parents, Thomas and Elizabeth Stephenson of Boston; a brother, Thomas F. Stephenson of Atherton, Calif.; and a sister, Susan S. Gates of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      
Her track career started at age 7 when she followed her 9-year-old brother, Bart, to his track club.
''
        Until college, she had been coached by her brother, Bart, who died in 2000.
She is survived by her husband, Gregory Jaynes; a sister, Lisa Greenleaf Miller of New Haven; a brother, Newcomb Greenleaf of St. Johnsbury, Vt.; a stepson, Todd Jaynes of Dahlonega, Ga.; a stepdaughter, Whitney Jaynes Laidlaw; and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, a resident of Babylon, N.Y., Ms. Grossman is survived by her husband of 51 years, Herbert Grossman, a conductor, and by a brother, Blair Chotzinoff of Denver.
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
; a son, Roger Bernard Lowe of Arlington, Va.; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and a brother, Irving R. Segal of Philadelphia.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Springfield, Va., Mrs. Wells is survived by her brother, Kenneth Gillis of Franklin, Mich., and two grandsons.
In addition to her twin, Sarah Louise Barasch, she is survived by her mother and two siblings who live in London, her brother Nicholas and her sister Suellen Grealy Vlaveanos.
