She is survived by her brother, Eugene Vernon Regier of Vancouver, British Columbia.
      
Surviving are two sons, William, of Greenwich, a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives, and Martinus, of Juneau, Alaska; a brother, Sam Soames of London; a sister, J. S. Judd of Salisbury, Wiltshire, England; two stepsons, Judge Eugene H. Nickerson of Federal District Court in Brooklyn and Adam H. Nickerson of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
She is survived by a brother, Louis R. Taylor, of Bethlehem, Pa.
      
She is survived by a brother, Frank, of Cranston.
      
Mrs. Betzak is survived by a sister, Bella Shore of Forest Hills, N.Y., and a brother, Elias Margoles of Atlanta.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bernard; a son, John, of Van Nuys, Calif.; a sister, Evelyn Blackstone of Tamarac, Fla.; and a brother, Robert Kraushaar of El Toro, Calif.
      
She is survived by two sisters, May Furstenburg of Hallandale, Fla., and Louise Baker of Great Neck, and a brother, Daniel, of Shirley, L.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mitchell; two sons, Franklin, of Cambridge, Mass., and Wesley, of Princeton; a daughter, Joanne Peterson of Woodbridge, Conn.; a brother, Joseph Oshiver of Kansas City, Mo., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Williams is survived by a son, Alexander, of Chicago; a daughter, Elizabeth Fox of Philadelphia; a brother, Charles Evans of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Grinnell is survived by a brother, John R. Hoopes, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Helen Lapp, of Hatboro, Pa.; a daughter, Nancy G. Barnum, of Washington; three sons, Robert S. Jr., of Guilderland, N.Y., Alexander, of New York City, and Lawrence I., of Waitsfield, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Jules Feiffer, the cartoonist, of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Korman of East Meadow, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
Surviving are three sisters, Lillian Fisher of Riverside, Calif., Aida Winkler of Nanuet, N.Y., and Tillie Berson of White Plains; a brother, Harry Altman of North Miami Beach, Fla., and two sons, Carl, of Manhattan and Ned, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Loening is survived by a brother, Lawrence Larkin of Tallahassee, Fla.; a son, Albert Palmer Loening Jr. of Rochester Hills, Mich., and a grandson.
Survivors include her husband, Milton; a son, Thomas Brady of Guttenberg, N.J.; a brother, Peter Dunn of Whitestone, Queens; two sisters, Agnes Stone of Mount Pocono, Pa., and Maureen Crowley of Oyster Bay, L.I., and one grandchild.
      
Ms. Frelinghuysen, whose husband died in 1975, is survived by a brother, Griswold Frelinghuysen, of Vermont.
      
Her father, John Spencer Heard, spent four years in the Confederate Army and then opened a general store in McKinney, north of Dallas, with his brother.
; a brother, John G. Winchester of Jupiter Beach, Fla., and 10 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her mother, Rita Manning of Gunnison, Colo.; a son, Tiger, of Stockholm; two daughters, Ann Gerschman and Marika Bergman, both of Manhattan; a brother, Paul Manning, also of Gunnison; a sister, Gwen Barry of Palo Alto, Calif., and a grandson.
      
; a brother, Maxwell Notkin of Montreal; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Carl N., of Pittsburgh.
      
''
        Mrs. Conrad is survived by her husband, Harold, and a son, Casey, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Robert Mosier, of Sebring, Fla.
      
Surviving are a son, Russell H. Long of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan R. Lehman of San Francisco; a sister, Susan Bloom of Ganges, British Columbia, and a brother, Smith Bagley of Washington.
      
Mrs. Grant is survived by her husband; three sons, John of New Delhi, James D. of Fairfield, Iowa, and William of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Putnam Henck, and a sister, Anne Stewart, both of Sky Forest, Calif.; a sister, Katherine Lovell of Jakarta, Indonesia, and two grandchildren.
      
Survivors are a brother, Richard, of Carmel, Calif., and a sister, Conna Bell Shaw, of Silver Spring, Md.
      
But while the family sent her brother to law school, she was sent to the Conservatory of Music in Cincinnati, where she studied voice and piano.
Survivors are her son, Ray-Eric of Manhattan; three sisters, Dina Fleming Moreno, Lise Nunes and Nellie Engle, all of Miami, and a brother, Oger, of St.-Martin.
      
She is survived by six daughters, three sons, her mother, a brother, a sister and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, J. Kelly Johnson, of Waitsfield, Vt.
      
Also surviving are two daughters, Robin Woods of Darien, Conn., and Elizabeth Phillips of Houston; a brother, Edward Steele of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a sister, Libby Rathbun of Palm Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, John; a brother, Lynfield Ott, of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and three stepchildren, Elizabeth Guide, of Hackensack, N.J., Elizabeth, of Berkeley, Calif., and Robert, of Manhattan.
      
; a brother, Edward Midlam of Lake Charles, La., and eight grandchildren.
She is survived by her father, Dr. Sunoll Blumenthal, and her mother, the former Frima Horwitch, both of Chicago, and by her brother, Alan, of Miami.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Berlin is survived by her daughters, Mary Ellin Barrett, of New York; Linda Louise Emmett, of Paris, and Elizabeth Irving Peters, of New York; a brother, John W. Mackay, of Locust Valley, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles; and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Raymond, of Dallas; by her mother, Ivy Rabinowitz, of Dallas; by her daughters, Andrea, Joan and Nancy Nasher; by her sisters, Judy Tycher and Sandra Cohen, and by her brother, Stanley Randall.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her mother, Jean Dehnel of Daytona, Fla.; a son, Christopher Jones of Boston, and a brother, Robert Henderson of Penn Yan, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a brother, Henry Wise Wood Distler of Tangier and London; two sons, John, of Cambridge, Mass., and Horace, of Menlo Park, Calif.; a daughter, Hope Brock Winthrop of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ramsey is survived a brother and a sister.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Robin, of New York City; a son, Bruce, of Darien, Conn., and a brother, Charles Jacobs of Palm Desert, Calif.
        Funeral services are to be held tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1976 Madison Avenue, at 80th Street.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert; four sons, Joseph, of Santa Monica, Calif., Daniel, of Boston, John, of Albuquerque, N.M., and Michael, of Briarcliff; a sister, Mimmy Harris of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, Dick Porter of Upper Jay, N.Y., and one grandchild.
      
Surviving are her husband, George; four sons, Patrick, Colin and Casey, all of Philadelphia, and Sean, of Bala Cynwyd, and her brother, Frederick Bohen of Providence, R.I.
      
Surviving is her brother, Theodore, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Neale, who is director of the Seamen's Church Institute in Philadelphia; two sons, Jonathan and Thomas, both of Manhattan; a brother, Hedley G. Dimock, who lives in Ontario, and a sister, Dorothy Palfi of Michiana, Ind.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan; a son, Ralph Jr., of London; a sister, Aileen Davis of Washington; a brother, Booker Harris of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Ben Wyker, and a brother, Bernard Charach of Fort Lee, N.J.
      
There was the death of her only brother, Alexander, in a private-plane crash in 1973.
She is survived by her brother, Stanley, of Manning.
She is survived by a brother, Stanley Gould of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Betty Teitz of Newport, R.I.
      
She is survived by a son, George, of Honolulu; a brother, Vincent Demm of Gilboa, N.Y., and two sisters, Therese Sbano and Margaret Meade, both of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by a son, Stephen, of Syracuse; a daughter, Kathleen, of Nantucket, Mass; a brother, William F. Collins, of Stamford, Conn., and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a brother, William, of Bradford, R.I., and a sister, Carol Virginia Witkowski of Detroit.
      
''
        Miss Seymour is survived by a brother, William Seymour Eckert Jr. of Lombard, Ill.
      
