Surviving are a brother, Robert Harrell of Carbondale, and a sister, Jane Ferguson of Norcross, Ga.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michael Katz; a daughter, Moorea; her parents, Brian and Brenda Neale of Birmingham, and a brother, Anthony, also of Birmingham.
      
She is survived by a brother, Frederick DuBois of Des Moines, Iowa; four sons, Frederick Jr., and Marshall, both of Manhattan, John of Flathead Lake, Mont., and Robert, of Halifax, Nova Scotia; a daughter, Mary S. Merrill of Manhattan, and 15 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; her mother, Rae Leventhal, of Pottstown; a brother, Harris, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Elizabeth Feifer, of Long Island.
      
She is survived by a sister Arlyne Fisher of Bayside, Queens, and a brother, Joseph Orman Fisher of Montclair, N.J.
      
Besides her husband and brother, she is survived by her parents, Harry and Jean Dinnerstein of North Miami Beach, Fla.; two sons, David, of Pomona, N.Y., and Jay, of Anaheim, Calif.; a daughter, Bonnie Friehling of Great Falls, Mont., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ruebhausen is survived by her husband, Oscar; a twin brother, Robert M. Peet of Hanover, N.H., and a sister, Sarah Lewis of Philadelphia.
      
She took commercial courses in high school, and an older brother paid her tuition so she could continue secretarial studies for a year at Atlantic Christian College in Wilson, N.C.
        At 18, she visited her eldest sister, Beatrice, in New York City, on a journey that transformed her life.
A graduate of Adelphi University, she is survived by a daughter, Sarah Petlin of Manhattan; a son, William, of Newton, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Bernard Simon of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, survivors include a brother, Richard Young, and a daughter, Josephine Edmonds Case, both of Van Hornesville; three sons, James 3d and John, both of Cambridge, Mass., and Samuel, of Fairfax, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
; a brother, Melvin Braverman; a sister, Isabelle Kistenberg, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Molly Henderson, of Norwood, Mass., and a brother, Judson Moak, of Ocala, Fla.
      
She is survived by a brother, Rognar Anderson of Colton, and a sister, Eleanor Kearnes of Oregon City, Ore.
      
; Thomas Tone of Ottawa, and Cornel Wallace Wilde of Beverly Hills, a brother, John Wallace of Los Angeles, a sister, Karol Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Susan Gullotta of Pleasantville; a son, Dr. Beach Conger of Hartland, Vt.; a brother, Dr. George A. Cunningham of Palm Beach, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      
Her daughter recalled yesterday that her mother's earnings put her and her brother, Carl, through high school and college.
Her brother, Michael Grobsmith, said yesterday that Miss Simon recently completed and sent to Harper & Row the manuscript of a third volume, tentatively titled ''Etchings on an Hour Glass,'' ranging from her college years through two marriages and career to her latest travels.
She won awards from the National Book Critics Circle, the English Speaking Union and Hunter College, where, her brother said, she was to begin teaching a writing course today.
Survivors, besides her brother, who is a public health officer for the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic, include nieces and a nephew.
She is survived by her husband, Gregg C. Bissell; a stepson; a sister, Lila G. McMillan of Davidson, N.C., and a brother, Robert S. Galloway Jr., of Greenville, S.C.
      
She is survived by her husband and her daughter, Joan, both of Manhattan; a sister, Monica Lewis Lang, and a brother, Marlo Lewis.
      
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother,
        Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother, Billy.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband, Walter, and a son, William.
      
Among those who spoke at the more than two-and-a-half-hour service, which the editor Rose Slivka called ''the marathon memorial,'' were the poet John Ashbery, the gallery owner Leo Castelli, the artists Joop Sanders and Al Copley, the photographer Rudy Burckhardt and Mrs. de Kooning's brother Peter Fried.
She is survived by her husband, Harold; three sons, Stephen, of Washington, Richard, of Boulder, Colo., and Andrew, of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Harry W. Schoenberg of Chicago, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Henry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Pamela Lee Syrmis, also of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Strauss of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth Pimberman and Susan Telcher of Manhattan; a sister, Elaine Cramer, and a brother, Robert Cramer, also of Manhattan, and another brother, Walter Cramer, of Niles, Ill.
She is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth Pimberman and Susan Telcher of Manhattan; a sister, Elaine Cramer, and a brother, Robert Cramer, also of Manhattan, and another brother, Walter Cramer, of Niles, Ill.
She is survived by her husband, Murray, a former reporter for The New York Times; three sons, Richard, of Lakewood, Ohio, James, of Seattle, and John, of Lakewood, Colo., and a brother, Dexter Spence of Roswell, Ga.
      
; a brother, Bruce Taylor of Annapolis, Md.
She was a trustee of the Shipley School of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        She is survived by her husband, R. Palmer Baker Jr.; a daughter, Mary Fickett of Manhattan; a brother, DeLancey Nicoll 3d, and a grandson.
      
''
        Among her other works were ''Launcelot, My Brother,'' ''A Durable Fire,'' ''Kinsmen of the Grail,'' ''With Night We Banish Sorrow,'' ''A Man of Malice Landing,'' ''Return of the Stranger,'' and ''Mountain Journey,'' all published before her retirement in 1964.
; two sisters, Elinor Vaughan of Kittery Point, Me., and Kathleen McCann of San Mateo, Calif.; a brother, Philip Burnett of Laguna Hills and Newport, R.I.; 13 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Dr. Willner is survived by a brother, Walter L., of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a brother, Beretz Ronen of Kibbutz Hazorea, Israel.
      
Surviving is a daughter, Mary Sillman, and a brother, Samuel Balber, both of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her parents, Thomas and Mystical Del Giorno, and a brother, Daniel, all of Brentwood, L.I.
; a brother, John H. Wolf of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Washington, and Andrea, of San Francisco; her mother, Ruth Solomon of New York; a brother, Howard Solomon of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Marquise Sue de Brantes, of St. Armand Lepypre, France.
''
        Ms. Ireland is survived by her husband; her parents, Jack and Dorothy Ireland, of Sussex, England; her brother, John Ireland, of Toronto, Ontario, and six children: Paul and Valentine McCallum; Suzanne, Tony and Zulieka Bronson, and Katrina Holden, all of Los Angeles.
      
Surviving are her husband, Peter Jr.; four sons, Peter 3d, of Orlando, Fla., James, of Boise, Idaho, William, of Manhattan, and David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Jane, of Manhattan; a brother, William C. Breed 3d of Greenwich; a sister, Ellen Staniford of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
''
        She is survived by her mother, Peggy Juba, and a brother, Stanley Juba, both of Fort Lauderdale.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerard Hurwitz, also an American Cancer Society research professor at Sloan-Kettering; two sons, Isaac, of Manhattan, and Gideon, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and a brother, Ezra Mendelsohn of Jerusalem.
      
The national organization was founded by her brother, Paul Cohen, and her husband, William Mazer, in 1950, and she founded the Manhattan chapter a short time later.
; a brother, Jerome Cohen of Kings Point, L.I., and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter; two sisters, Maria Hackshaw of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Betty Diaz-Cane of Hawaii, and a brother, Fermin Diaz of Jersey City.
      
She is survived by a brother, Samuel Parzybok of Wichita, Kans., and two sisters, Maurine Spach of Evanston, Ill., and Helen Erickson of San Diego.
      
She is survived by her father, Sam Rosenberg of Hallandale, Fla; her daughters, Ba-Nhi Mai and Kim Thuy, both of Westport, and Nguyet Baty of Berlin; a brother, Richard Balin of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
Mrs. Silverman is survived by her husband, Selig J.; three sisters, Violet Straus and Louise Kline of Portsmouth, Ohio, and Eva Sofer of Falls Church, Va.; and a brother, Harold Strauss of Huntington, W.Va.
      
In addition to Mr. Cooper, her husband, she is survived by their daughter, Shay Cooper of Long Beach, Calif., and a brother, Jack Luster of Edwardsville, Ill.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert G. Furno; two sons, Courtney, of Brookline, Mass., and Erik, of Cos Cob; her mother, Jean Davis of Stamford, and a brother, Keith Davis of Seattle.
      
She is survived by her husband, Darrel Austin; a son, Darrel Jr., of Newtown, Conn., and a brother, Barney Helser, of Portland.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dudley H. Grape; two sons, Peter, of Wellesley, Mass., and Thomas, of Boston; two daughters, Judy Barnett of Darien, Conn., and Dee Karlen of Fairfield; a brother, George A. Oldham Jr. of Peoria, Ariz.; a sister, Lorraine Garger of Golden, Colo., and eight granchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Beric Glanville-Hicks.
She is survived by a brother, Merton, of Dorset, England.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Alison, of Los Angeles; a son, Edgar Valentine Loew of Manhattan; a sister, Eleanor F. Lenzner of Manhattan, and a brother, Myron S. Falk Jr. of Manhattan.
      
; a brother, Donald Robinson, of New York City, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
; a brother, John Mann of Conesus, N.Y., and her mother, Edna Mann of New York City.
Beside her parents, Ms. McCarthy is survived by two sisters, Ellen, of Washington, and Margaret, of Boston, and a brother, Michael, of Seattle.
      
Ms. Burns decided to write the novel moments after a doctor diagnosed her disease in 1975, her brother, William H. Burns of Atlanta, said yesterday.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, John A. Sparks of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a daughter, Becky Sparks of Atlanta, and two sisters, Margaret Turn of Bushkill, Pa., and Jean LeGrand of Conyers, Ga.
      
She is survived by a sister, Betty Fife of Salt Lake City; a brother, Joseph Drees of Saratoga, Calif., and a stepdaughter, Eva Brock of Tacoma, Wash.
      
Surviving, besides her husband, are two daughters, Carmel and Leora, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Nahum Amir, a composer, of Tel Aviv.
      
Survivors include a brother, James A. Collins Jr., of Battle Creek, Mich., and a niece, Cathryn D'Arcy, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, William E.; three sons from a previous marriage, Henry Sage Jr. of Atlanta, Reginald Sage of Georgetown, S.C., and David Sage of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Duncan Devereux of Virginia Beach; a sister, Audrey Carey of Ponta Vedra, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
Her only brother, Willie, was a tap-dancing protege of Bill (Bojangles) Robinson, and performed for a time as Bill Bailey.
Her only brother, Willie, was a tap-dancing protege of Bill (Bojangles) Robinson, and performed for a time as Bill Bailey.
''
        After the service, Miss Bailey was buried at Rolling Green Memorial Park in nearby West Chester, where her mother and brother are buried.
In 1941, after her father's death and nine months before the United States entered World War II, Mrs. Stern and her brother, William E. Dodd Jr., published the Ambassador's diaries.
; a brother, Samuel Murphy Jr. of Boca Grande, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
A widow, she is survived by three daughters, Page Tharpe of Marathon, Fla.; Virginia Conn of Kilmarnock, Va.; and Constance Van Valkenburg of St. Paul; a brother, William F. Royall, a retired Navy admiral, 24 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Thomas, and 10 nieces and nephews.
      
She is survived by a brother, Jay, of Brooklyn.
      
Mrs. Tupper, a native of Marblehead, Ohio, began her career playing piano in a small jazz band she organized with her brother, Jack Clemens, who played guitar.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Adam and Matthew; a daughter, Amy; her parents, Stanley and Edith Weinstein of Bridgeport, Conn., and a brother, Peter Weinstein of Trumbull, Conn.
      
She is survived by a two children from a former marriage, her son, Walter of Rye, N.Y., and a daughter, Susan Butler of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a brother, Edwin H. Koehler of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol K. Pforzheimer of Stuart, Fla., five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
'' In addition to her sister, she is survived by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. William Parks, and a brother, William Jr., all of Boston.
Mrs. Ascoli is survived by two sons, Alfred R. Stern of Manhattan, and Peter M. Ascoli of Chicago; a brother, William Rosenwald of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Her brother, Thomas Hale Boggs, is a prominent lawyer in Washington, and her sister, Cokie Roberts of Bethesda, Md., is a correspondent for National Public Radio and for ABC News on television and radio.
Besides her husband, her mother, her brother and her sister, Mrs. Sigmund is survived by three sons, Paul Jr., of Ann Arbor, Mich., David, of Detroit, and Stephen, of New Orleans.
In addition to her son David, she is survived by her son Jeremy, of Philadelphia; a brother, Clair Maxwell of Orlando, Fla.; a sister, Hope Tate, of Oxford, Mich., and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her parents, Joseph and Ann Creaturo of St. Louis, and a brother, Anthony, of Maui, Hawaii.
She is survived by a sister, Lucille Leslie of Newtown, Pa.; a brother, William C. Steber of State College, Pa., two stepdaughters and one stepson.
      
She is survived by her mother, Elsie Stern of Manhattan; a daughter, Abigail Rebecca Sims, also of Manhattan; and a brother, John Stern of Cape Neddick, Me.
She is survived by her son from a former marriage, Shane Edwin Riorden of Williamstown; a brother, Stanton Mighell of Aurora, Ill.; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Keith C. Robertson; two daughters, Hope E. Robertson of Stockton, N.J., and Christina H. Robertson of Philadelphia; a son, Jeffrey K. Robertson of Hopewell, and her brother, Peter Hexter of Newtown, Pa.
      
"  Dancing Her Way To Hollywood
        The actress's first marriage lasted only a few years, and the teen-age bride brought up her son as if he were her younger brother.
Surviving are her father, Victor, of Manhattan; a sister, Maura, of Los Angeles and Manhattan, and a brother, Chad, of Connecticut.
      
She died of a brain tumor, said her brother, Skip Federber, of Los Angeles.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Scott Grabo of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Carrie Grabo of Woodbury, Vt.; her mother, Pearle Carroll of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Robert Hoffman of Coconut Creek, Fla; 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
She was active in alumni affairs at Wellesley College and at Dartmouth College, her late brother's alma mater, and she raised funds for both institutions.
Her brother appointed her as Ambassador to Moscow when India became independent in 1947.
Dr. Dempsey is survived by her parents, William H. and Frances Dempsey of Mineola, and a brother, William J. Jr., of Westbury, L.I.
      
"
        She is survived by her mother, Barbara Detro, a brother and a sister.
      
Besides her son, she is survived by a brother, George Columbus of Lake Worth, Fla., and a granddaughter, Jamey Phillips of New York City.
      
The 1930 painting by her brother Grant Wood, the regionalist artist, portrays a somber farmer bearing a pitchfork and his equally somber daughter standing before a cottage in Eldon in southeast Iowa.
If her brother had gone through with his original intention of using another model, the secretarial school graduate said she would have whiled away her days as "the world's worst stenographer.
Her brother died in 1942.
In 1984, widowed and going blind, Mrs. Graham entered a Menlo Park nursing home, ending a lifetime job as historian of her brother's work.
      
The 1930 painting by her brother Grant Wood portrays a somber farmer holding a pitchfork and his equally somber daughter standing before a cottage in Eldon in southeast Iowa.
She spent a lifetime as historian of the work of her brother, who died in 1942.
She died of lung disease, said her brother, Robert David Lion Gardiner of Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Creel and her brother inherited the 3,300-acre island on the eastern end of Long Island, which was bestowed on her family by King Charles I in 1639.
She died of lung disease, said her brother, Robert David Lion Gardiner of Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Creel and her brother inherited the 3,300-acre island on the eastern end of Long Island, which was bestowed on her family by King Charles I in 1639.
In addition to her brother and her daughter, Mrs. Creel is survived by four grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Margery McCready of Pittsburgh, and a brother, John P. Lawson of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Appel came to the United States with her parents and older brother in 1940, first to New York City and a month later to a poultry farm in Vineland, New Jersey.
Ms. Vuole died of congestive heart failure, her brother, Joseph, of Albertson, L.I., said
        She joined the school system as a foreign language teacher at Franklin K. Lane High School in Queens, where she later became dean.
Besides her brother, she is survived by her mother, Gussie Tuzzolo of Woodhaven; a sister, Carmela Reichert of Jamaica, Queens, and another brother, Anthony, of Mineola, L.I.
      
Besides her brother, she is survived by her mother, Gussie Tuzzolo of Woodhaven; a sister, Carmela Reichert of Jamaica, Queens, and another brother, Anthony, of Mineola, L.I.
      
Besides Mrs. Childs, she is survived by a brother, D. Tennant Bryan of Richmond; three other daughters, Anne McGuire and Shelah Scott, both of Charlottesville, and Constance Tucker of Cincinnati; 11 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
