In addition to her husband, surviving are their daughter, Amanda Fink, also of Pasadena; a stepson, Stuart, of New York; and a brother, Dr. Barry Braiker of Beverly Hills, Calif.
      
She is survived by her brother, Charles Mitchell, and sister, Margaret Tesone, both of Detroit.
; her sisters Jean Stange of Denver and Adria Lique of Hopewell, N.J.; a brother, Richard Greenberg of Springfield, Mass.
Ms. Oysher's brother, Moishe, was a major star in Yiddish theater and films and a cantor known as ''the master singer of his people.
Dr. Gardner is survived by her brother, Porter, of Zoar, Ohio.
      
Miner is survived by a brother, Donald Miner, of Concord, N.H.
        She made the Palmolive commercials in French, German, Danish and Italian.

        Estelle Stewart Axton, whose name put the ''Ax'' in Stax Records, the Memphis soul label she founded with her brother, died on Tuesday in Memphis.
Ms. Axton and her brother, James Stewart, founders of the label, were white; most of their hitmakers were black; and the label's studio band, Booker T. and the MG's, was mixed.
''
        She nurtured songwriters, ran the record store and helped decide what Stax released, including, over her brother's initial opposition, Eddie Floyd's ''Knock on Wood.
In 1969, after disagreement about the label's direction, she quietly left the company in 1969, bought out by her brother and the label's president, Al Bell.
''
        Ms. Axton is survived by her sister, Mary Lucille McAlpin; her brother, Mr. Stewart; her daughter, Doris Axton Fredrick; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Ms. Gamarekian, who was divorced, is survived by her brother, Glenn Soellner of Burnt Hill, N.Y., and her sister, Robin Hughes of Schenectady.
Trude Wenzel Lash is survived by three sons, Dr. Peter W. Pratt of Bridgewater, Conn., Roger S. Pratt of New Milford, Conn., and Jonathan Lash of Washington; a daughter, Vera C. Pratt, also of Washington; a brother, Heinz Wenzel of Germany; 11 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
Ms. O'Donnell is survived by a brother, Charles Melton O'Donnell of Sacramento.
Dr. McCord is survived by her sons, Geoffrey Sayre-McCord of Durham, N.C., and Robert McCord of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; her ward, whom she regarded as a family member, Tom Underwood of Boston; her brother, Robert Fish of Santa Cruz, Calif.; her sister, Connie Arnosti of Milwaukee; and four grandsons.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband Joseph F. Cullman III of Manhattan, the chairman emeritus of the Philip Morris Companies in New York; a son, Barney Straus Jr., of Evanston, Ill.; a brother, Leon Paley of Far Rockaway; and a grandson.
      

        Ella Johnson, a jazz singer who performed with her brother Buddy Johnson in his dance bands in the 1940's and 50's, died in New York on Feb. 16, her nephew James Johnson Jr. said.
But as a part of her brother's rollicking bands, she also helped forge a link to R&B and early rock 'n' roll.
Ms. Johnson was born in Darlington, S.C., and moved to New York to join Buddy, her older brother, while still in her teens.
Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents.
Her brother, William E. Park, was president of Simmons College, in Boston.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Selnick, of Las Vegas, from whom she had separated; a daughter, Milan Reinoehl; a brother, Anthony; and three grandchildren.
      
A more sinister family memory, mentioned in an oral history by the Southern Regional Council, was her father's mentally ill brother being lynched by a white mob.
; her brother, Osly Gates of Portland, Ore.; two grandsons and three great-grandchildren.
''
        Besides her son, of Los Angeles, she is survived by a brother, James H. Capers, of New York.
      
Britton Stitt of San Francisco was her brother, not her sister.
      
A brother, Albert, died in 1999.
Mrs. Shub's younger brother, Dr. William Charney, a microbiologist, was known for his work on the development of prednisone and prednisolone, the synthetic corticosteroids.
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      

        Karol Kennedy Kucher, who teamed up with her brother, Peter Kennedy, to win the gold medal in pairs at the 1950 world figure-skating championships and a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics, died on Friday at a hospital in Seattle.
The cause was pneumonia, her brother said.
In addition to her husband and her brother, Karol Kennedy Kucher is survived by two sons, John, of Seattle, and Charlie, of Hailey, Idaho; four daughters, Kathryn Etherington, of Wenatchee, Wash.; Mary Jane Kucher, of California, and Heidi Pray and Suzanne Sanchez, both of Seattle, and five grandchildren.
Her survivors, in addition to her niece, are a brother, Barry Danziger of Califon, N.J., and three nephews.
      
Ms. Payson is survived by a son, William Blair Meyer Jr. of Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Joan Curci Meyer of London and Porto Ercole, Italy, and Averil Payson Meyer of New York City and Katonah, N.Y.; two sisters, Payne Whitney Middleton of Manhattan, and Lorinda Payson deRoulet of Manhasset; a brother, John Whitney Payson of Jupiter Island, Fla.; and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her sons, J.J. Gorsuch of Denver and Neil Gorsuch of Vienna, Va.; her mother, Dorothy McGill of Denver; her sisters, Mary Edwards of Severna Park, Md., Theresa Peace of Lincoln, Neb., Dorothy McGill of El Paso, Tex., Veronica Urban of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Rosie Binger of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, Joe McGill of Plano, Tex.
She is survived by a son from her second marriage, Jonathan Moore of Seattle, and a brother, Milton Levenson of Manhattan.
In addition to her son, David, of La Jolla, Mrs. Copley's survivors include a sister, Mary Frances Davison of Santa Maria, Calif.; a brother, Frank E. Kinney of Cedar Rapids; and two stepchildren from her husband's first marriage, Michael Copley of San Diego and Janice Obre of New York.
      
The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her brother Mark Branigan.
'' and ''Self Control,'' although she continued to be most known for ''Gloria,'' her brother said.
Besides her sister, of Belle Harbor, N.Y., she is survived by a brother, Peter, of Ormond Beach, Fla.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, Ms. Revsin is survived by a brother, Ethan Revsin, of New Albany, Ohio, and two grandsons.
She came to the United States in 1925 to join two sisters and a brother, all of short stature.
They include her mother, Suad Munir Abbas; a brother, Abbad, of Abu Dhabi and Toronto, and her sister, Selma, a renowned archaeologist who has done extensive work on preserving historic buildings in Yemen.
She and her brother, Nathan S. Kline (author of ''From Sad to Glad,'' about depression), lived in a house full of art, books and music, with parents who wanted their children to be aware of people different from themselves.
Ms. Schwei is survived by a brother, Peter, of Dodgeville, Wisc.
      
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
In addition to her daughter Nasreen Alkhateeb, of Brooklyn, and her sister Nafeesa Ahmad, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Alkhateeb is survived by her husband, Mejdi; a brother, Muhammad Ahmad, of Horsham, Pa; her sisters Shahara Ahmad-Llewellyn of Manhattan and Sayyida Ahmad Jordan of Los Angeles; her daughters Layla Alkhateeb of Arlington, Va., and Maha Buthayna Alkhateeb of Potomac Falls, Va.; and a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, Ms. Chang is survived by her parents, Shau-Jin and Ying-Ying, and a brother, Michael, all of San Jose; and by a son, Christopher.
Dr. Ferrer is survived by a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor and director, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      
Ms. Schlein is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth S. Weiss of Union City, N.J.; a son, John M. Weiss of Brooklyn; a brother, Dr. Paul Schlein of Bethesda, Md.
Ms. Bender is survived by her partner, Mitchell Wagenberg of Manhattan; her parents, Charles and Carolyn Bender of Charlotte, N. C.; a brother, Jonathan Bender of Los Angeles; and two sisters, Kate Bender of Charlotte and Valerie Godwin of Philadelphia.
      
They adopted Alexander Bland as a byline, derived from the names of two piglets (Pigling Bland and his brother Alexander) in a Beatrix Potter story.
''
        Ms. Chaney's first husband, David Lardner, was a younger brother of Ring Lardner Jr.'s.
Dr. Yokom is survived by two sisters, Ruth Carkin of Tucson and Roberta Jean Fox of Eugene, Ore., and a brother, Raymond, of Lancaster, Pa.
      
She is survived by a sister, Florence Gittleman of Manhattan, and a brother, Irving A. Kaye of Boca Raton, Fla.
