She is survived by a brother, Louis Donadio of Tehachapi, Calif., and a sister, Frances Siliani of Florence, Italy.
Ms. Tyson is survived by her companion, Saul Lishinsky of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Cohen of Princeton, N.J.; and a brother, William Tyson of Philadelphia and Cascais, Portugal.
Ms. DeWitt had cancer for the last year and a half, said her brother, the photographer Bruce Weber.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband, Timothy DeWitt, an architect, of Mariposa, Calif.; and two sons, Noe, of Manhattan, and Jeremy, of Seattle.
      
Her brother William, her only survivor, said her condition resulted from a botched appendectomy on her pregnant mother, which severed her arms and legs while she was in the womb.
Her brother remembers her going sledding, and laughing uproariously when she fell off.
Guests who had earlier expressed interest in watching her eat would realize only after she was finished that she had been so natural they failed to notice how she did it, her brother said.
; and Mrs. Murkoff, of Santa Barbara, Calif., Mrs. Eisenberg is survived by her mother, Mildred Scharaga of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Victor Scharaga of Washington; and six grandchildren.
Ms. Fisher is survived by her daughters, Samara Maxe of San Diego and Jole Baerga of Hackensack, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Fisher of Randallstown, Md.
Dr. Meadows is survived by her parents, Phebe Quist of Tahlequah, Okla., and Don Hager of Palatine, Ill.; and a brother, Jason Hager of Waterford, Wis.
''
        She and her brother Toku were sent to an ''assembly center'' in San Bruno, Calif.

        Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island.
When Ms. Lawry's brother, Bernard, was stricken with multiple sclerosis in 1945, she and her sister Alice placed a classified advertisement in The New York Times: ''Multiple sclerosis.
''I was looking for medical clues that might have helped my brother,'' Ms. Lawry said in an interview with The New York Post in 1959.
The doctors whom Ms. Lawry first consulted about her brother became interested in the effort.
Though her brother's health progressively weakened until his death in 1973, the organization Ms. Lawry founded gathered momentum.
She is survived by her husband; her mother, Phyllis Feigenbaum of East Norwich; and her brother, Richard Roth of Seattle.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
; a brother, the Rev.
She is survived by a brother, Bernell Nelson of Medford, Ore.
      
But Mrs. Clymer also explored the lives of children who stay in the city in books like ''My Brother Stevie'' (1967), about a troubled third grader,  and ''The Tiny Little House'' (1964), inspired by a small house that she saw squeezed between two tall buildings in Manhattan.
Ms. Sigler is survived by her companion, Patricia Locke of Highland Park, Ill.; her father, Philip Sigler of North Carolina; and a brother, Andrew Sigler of Chicago.
      
Dr. Rives is survived by Dr. Difede and their son, Hal Difede Rives; her parents, Barbara and Hal Rives of Tucker, Ga.; a brother, Jack Rives of Roswell, Ga.; and a sister, Dr. Cathy Rives.
      
; a brother, Alexander Sandomirsky of Orange, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Gary Cookson, an actor in New York, and Tony Cookson, a writer and director in Santa Monica, Calif.; two stepchildren, Peter Cookson Jr. of Irvington, N.Y., and Jane Coopland of Hawaii; a brother, Michael Straight of Chicago, a former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Krakauer is survived by a son, the clarinetist David Krakauer; a daughter, Lisa Schultz, of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Theodore Lieberman of New York; and her mother, Jean H. Lieberman of Florida.
      
She performed in the musical ''Sophisticated Ladies'' in the early 80's as understudy to Phyllis Hyman, and on her own, playing an Ellingtonian repertory with the trombonist Art Baron, the pianist Lloyd Mayers and her brother, the flutist Bernard Moore.
They are a sister, Rosi Kuerti of Cleveland, and a brother, Fritz Jahoda of Concord, Mass.
      
Ms. Dance is survived by sons  Francis, of Woodbury, Conn., and Rupert, of Hopkinton, N.H.; daughters Theresa Bennink-Dance of Peterborough, Ontario, and Maria Lindley of Carlsbad, Calif.; sisters Jacqueline Hickson of New Smyrna Beach, Fla., and Doris Barry of Wilton, Conn.;  brother John Gillespie of Toronto; and three grandchildren.
Occasionally she performed with her brother as an accompanist and chamber music partner, and she sometimes played piano duets with her sister as well.
Ferry is survived by a son, John Bernstein of Guilford, Vt.; four stepchildren, Dennie LaTourelle of Carpenteria, Calif., Fay Bisno of Norwich, Vt., Robin Ferry of Salt Spring Island, British Columbia, and Lucien Ferry of Blue Sea Lake, Quebec; and a brother, Arthur Underwood of Denver.
      
Her husband's death in 1994 was followed a month later by that of her brother Todd, who died of a stroke.
; her brother, John J. O'Reilly Jr., of Mahwah, N.J.; and her companion, Andrea Abruzzo.
      
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.
She was also predeceased by her brother, H. Walter Blumenthal, a financier and art collector, who died in 1969, and a cousin, George Blumenthal, a banker and president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who died in 1941.
      
In addition to her sons, Mrs. Wirth is survived by her twin sister, Mercedes Bowman of Rome; a brother, Robert Bucher of Geneva; and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Jack Levin of Omaha; a daughter, Dail Neugarten of Denver; a son, Jerrold, of Hannacroix, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by a son, William S. of Washington; a daughter, Emily McGrath of Manhattan; a brother, Les Honig of California; and three grandchildren.
; and a brother, Jamie Kilgallen of Charleston, N.C.
      
Ms. Cohen is survived by her parents, Myrna and Donald V. Cohen; her grandmothers, Belle Cohen and Edith Klein; and a brother, Daniel J., all of Milwaukee.
      
When Mrs. Milstein was 10, she boarded a ship to New York with her mother and younger brother to escape Nazi persecution.
Her children survive her, along with a brother, Justin, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by her parents, Diane and Michael Haughton, and a brother, Rashaad.
      
She is survived by her father, Willie Hearne; her husband, Robert Tragesser; a daughter from a previous marriage, Colleen Mendelsohn; and a brother, James Hearne.
      
She is survived by her husband, of Bristol, R.I., her mother, a brother and a sister.
In addition to her son Alex, she is survived by two other sons, Lawrence and Steve; a twin brother, Don, and two grandchildren.
She recalled a news release at the time that said Mr. Reagan and his wife Nancy, whom he married in 1952, had had two children, Patti and Ronnie, and did not mention her or her brother Michael.
Mr. Busch and his brother, August A. Busch Jr., were partners at the brewery and were accomplished horsemen.
Mrs. Olson is survived by her brother, David Bracher, and her sister, Antoinette Lawrence, both of Houston, as well as her husband.
      
''
        Ms. Raines is survived by her husband, Stephen Push, a former vice president for corporate communications at Genzyme; her father, Arthur Raines of Lovettsville, Va.; her mother, Marilyn Raines of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas Raines, of Wayland, Mass.
      
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years
        She was married at 17.
She organized and maintained the negatives and archives of Mr. Capa and his brother, Robert Capa, another renowned photographer.
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years.
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eric Fischman of Boston; two daughters, Sharon Fischman of Bethesda, Md., and Amanda Fischman Henshon of Boston; a stepson, Marc Kleber of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Kleber of Philadelphia and Pamela Shad of Greenwich, N.Y.; her mother, Sarah Weinbaum of Philadelphia; a brother, George Weinbaum of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
      
They are her father, Robert C. Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; her brother Robert C. Hoover II of Alameda, Calif.; her half-sister, Whitney Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; and her half-brothers, John S. Hoover of Los Angeles and Samuel S. Slater of Ketchum, Idaho.
      
