; a brother, Reeve Schley Jr. of Whitehouse, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Stewart ayers, Of St. Petersburg, Fla.
      
; a daughter, Sharon Cohen, also of Brookline, and a brother, Martin R. Arick of Newton, Mass.
      
Brother Becomes King
        Her eldest brother became King Carol II of Romania, and at his behest she was married in her early 20's to Archduke Anton of the Austrian Hapsburg dynasty and left Romania.
Brother Becomes King
        Her eldest brother became King Carol II of Romania, and at his behest she was married in her early 20's to Archduke Anton of the Austrian Hapsburg dynasty and left Romania.
She is survived by her husband, David Kelly, chairman of the history department at D'Youville College in Buffalo; two daughters, Jennifer, of Manhattan, and Elizabeth, of Buffalo; her father, Joseph Paradise of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Judith Moskowitz of Manhattan, and a brother, Steven Paradise of Washington.
      
She is survived by two sons, Adam and Damon, of New York; a brother, Melvyn Harris of Chicago; a sister, Betty Zamore of Ventura, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Alcott is survived by a brother, B.C.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her father, Edward Burton, of Manhattan; a brother, James Burton, of Manhattan, and a sister, Lorraine Burton Koiner, of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Manhattan, and Walker Jr., of Boston; two daughters, Mary Shea of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a brother, Thomas J. Watson Jr., the former chief executive of the International Business Machines Corporation, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ann, of Washington and a brother, Charles, of Potomac, Md.
      
Her brother, Felix, a photographer, also adopted Fonteyn as a professional name.
"
        In addition to Mrs. Brillenbourg, of New York City, and her brother, Felix, of London, she is survived by another stepdaughter, Rosita Arias, and a stepson, Roberto Arias, both of Panama.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by her father, Adrian C. Israel of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; two daughters, Julie Ann Pollitz and Karen Jeannette Rosen, and a son, Thomas Andrew, all of Manhattan, and a brother, Thomas C. Israel of Manhattan.
      
"
        Miss King is survived by a brother, John, of Sahuar Rita, Ariz., and a sister, Lucile C. King of Cherry Hill, N.J.
      
Her brother, Jose Antonio, was the leader of the Falange until he was executed early in the war by the Government of the Second Republic, against which Franco revolted.
She is survived by four sisters, Leonora Clark of Bloomfield, Conn., Agnes Fisher of Vero Beach, Fla., Vida Hofmann of Manhattan, and Mary Schultz of Fort Myers, FLa., and a brother William Lacey of Port Charlotte, Fla.
      
A twin brother was killed in action with the German Army in World War I.
She is survived by her husband and a brother, Dr. Irvine Page of Hyannis, Mass.
      
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Allison Bishopric Jr.; a brother, J. Rawson Collins of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, George; two daughters, Cornelia Grassi and Giovanna Grassi, both of London, and a brother, Julius Hegeler of Danville, Ill.
      
She is survived by her parents, Finvola and George Drury of Rochester, and a brother, George Jr., of Chicago.
      
She is survived by a son, Finn, of Andover, N.J., a brother, Abraham Resika of Manhattan; a sister, Lilian Kandel of the Bronx, and seven grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Leonia, N.J. and Amherst, Mass., Mrs. Horch is survived by a brother, Nathan Stone of Lake Worth, Fla., four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bozzo is survived by her husband, Rogelio Chomnalez of Manhattan, and her parents, Manuel and Dora, and a brother, Carlos Antonio, all of Buenos Aires.
      
Miss Booth, whose death had been erroneously reported several times since she contracted an illness while filming "Trader Horn" in Africa, died in the Medallion Convalescent Hospital in Long Beach, her brother, Booth Woodruff, said.
In addition to her brother, Miss Booth is survived by a sister, Betty Benson, and two stepdaughters, Judy Larson and Dixie Nelson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Col. William R. Cameron; two daughters, Catherine, of Washington and Laurie Desimone, of Carmel; a son, Bruce, of Santa Maria, Calif.; two sisters, Nancy Easterbrook of Carmel and Winifred Cox of Tiberon, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Stilwell of Guam, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by three sons, David, of San Francisco; Jairus, of Chicago, and Daniel, of Cambridge; a brother, Sidney Alpert, of San Diego; a sister, Sylvia Bernstein, of Lake Worth, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She wrote a lively autobiography, "Heritage of Fire," but her only real ally in the Wagner family was her brother Wieland.
After Wieland's death, the hostility shown her by her mother and her brother Wolfgang turned her later years into a gypsylike odyssey as she fruitlessly attempted to find support for her dream of a theatrical academy.
She is survived by her brother Wolfgang, of Bayreuth, and a sister, Verena Lafferentz, of Uberlingen, Germany.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Stephanie Doane and Victoria Villamil; a stepson, Harry Hollins; four stepdaughters, Elizabeth Aldrich, Lilias Outerbridge, Evelina Kats and Angelica Braestrup; a brother, Peter Jay; three sisters, Sybil Waldron, Augusta Huffman and Katharine Bacon, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Jack Hewitt of Kaneohe, Hawaii.
      
Her father was killed in World War I when she was 10 and her mother died when she was 18, leaving her elder brother, Edward, as her only close relative.
She is survived by three stepdaughters, Helen Vishniac, a professor at Oklahoma State University; Joan Burns, a writer, of Williamstown, Mass., and Elizabeth Wurr, a psychologist, of Woodside, Calif.; a brother, Robert of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Pat Oldt of Little Switzerland, N.C.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Dr. Louis R. Burman of North Miami Beach, Fla.
      
(Oleg Cassini, the designer, is Igor Cassini's brother.
They are her parents, James and Bette Vogan, of Sun City, Fla.; a brother, Ritch Vogan, of Atlanta, and two sisters, Sheryl Haber, of Pittsburgh, and Jamie Gillie, of Los Angeles.
      
; a stepson, Sumner Collins of Medical Lake, Wash.; a brother, Dr. John L. Feldman, a physician of Palos Verdes, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Lee; her mother, Jenny Hart; a brother, Herbert Hart of Monte Carlo, Monaco; and, by a former marriage, a daughter, Elise Hart of Berkeley, Calif., and two sons, Michael Sheffrin of Majorca, and Ivan Sheffrin of Washington, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, her brother George Sullivan of Belmont, Mass., said.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by another brother, James, of Darien, Conn., and three sisters, Mary Ford, Catherine Collins and Anne Powers, all of the Boston area.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by another brother, James, of Darien, Conn., and three sisters, Mary Ford, Catherine Collins and Anne Powers, all of the Boston area.
      
He is her brother Bruce Waldo Remick of Springfield, Va.
      
Surviving are a son, Roger Zeeman of Bridgewater, N.J.; a brother, Warren Hirsch of Weston, Conn., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Parker is survived by her husband, Raymond; a brother, Jules Winarick of Southampton, L.I.
She is survived by a brother, Frederick Laise of Santa Fe, N.M.; two stepsons, Samuel Bunker of Dummerston, Vt., and John Bunker of Wheatland, Wy.
In addition to her son, Del, Mrs. Davis is survived by a daughter, Mona Shorey of Sutter Creek, Calif.; a brother, Edward Ponder of Chicago; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a stepson, Peter, of Manhattan, and a brother, Richard Stephens of College Station.
      
She is survived by her mother, Dorothy T. Ellington Ashley of Washington, and her brother, David Ellington of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her mother, Mary Petit of Pawling, N.Y.; four sisters, Cordella Pascariello of Freeport, L.I., Cassandra DeFillippo of Pawling, Renee Glover of New Rochelle, and Sarita Petit of the Bronx, and a brother, Peter Petit of San Francisco.
      
Besides her husband, Dr. Weaver is survived by a brother, Hampton D. Haith of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      
She was neither an architect nor a planner but rather, as her brother, Malcolm, recalls it, "a rainmaker" who was able to motivate city officials.
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
Mrs. Silberberg was a sister of the late Norman Cousins and is also survived by another brother, Robert Cousins, and her sister, Jean Middleton.
      
In addition to her son Lawrence, she is survived by her husband, Bernard L. Gladieux Sr.; two other sons, Bernard Jr. of Gilbertsville, Pa., and Jay A. of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Lowell Skilliter of Toledo, Ohio; a sister, Lois Jones of Harrisburg, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Dorothy T. Ellington Ashley of Washington, and her brother, David Ellington of Los Angeles.
      
In 1934 she married King Hussein's great-uncle Prince Zeid el Hussein, a diplomat serving as a minister plenipotentiary in Turkey for his brother King Faisal I of Iraq.
She is survived by her mother, Angela Bovasso of Staten Island, and a brother, Bernard X. Bovasso of Saugerties, N.Y.
She managed to survive her difficult childhood relatively unscathed, but her older brother, Shane, and a half-brother, Eugene O'Neill Jr., committed suicide.
In 1939, she fled Germany through the Netherlands to Britain, and in late 1940 she joined her mother and a brother in the United States.
; a brother, Walter Casson of Rockville Centre, L.I.
De Kooning, Warhol and Ruscha
        Born in Portland, Ore., she was a daughter of Meyer Simon, who with Mrs. Weisman's brother, Norton Simon, went on to found Val Vita Food Products, a forerunner of Hunt Wesson Foods.
Besides her brother, she is survived by a sister, Evelyn Simon Prell; two sons, Richard and Daniel; a daughter, Nancy, and two granddaughters.
      
He is Robert Fine Forrest, of Manhattan, her brother.
      
"
        She is survived by two sisters, Lessie M. Holloway of the Bronx and Wilma Taborn of Virginia Beach, Va.; a brother, Samuel K. Epps of Brooklyn; a daughter, Phyllis Davis of Baton Rouge, La., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Dooling's brother, T. S. Matthews, who died in January, was the editor of Time magazine from 1949 to 1953, a post he took over from Henry R. Luce, the magazine's creator.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Cahill is survived by five daughters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary E. Cahill of Washington, Regina Blake Keeley of Potomac, Md., Teresa Cahill of Boston and Eileen Campbell of Merchantville, N.J.; two sons, William T. Jr. and John P., both of Collingswood, N.J.; a brother, George Myrtetus of Scotch Plains, N.J., and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother, Robert H. Krieble of Old Lyme, Conn.; a niece, Helen K. Fusscas of Marlborough, Conn., and a nephew, Frederick B. Krieble, who lives abroad.
      
Mrs. Feldman is survived by her husband, Edgar; a brother, Sherman Yellen; a daughter, Mindy Schanback, and a grandson, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      
"
        She is survived by a brother, Jack Zornow, of Queens, and two nephews, David Zornow and Todd Zornow, of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Blum is survived by her husband, Robert E.; a son, John R. H., and a daughter, Alice B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville; a brother, Donald Halsey of New Orleans; 10 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She died of liver disease, her brother, Nelson Doubleday, said.
She is survived by her brother, Bernard Beck, of Cagnes-sur-Mer, Provence, and five nephews.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Michael, of St. Louis, four grandchildren and a brother, Edward, of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
      
She married Mr. Kriendler in 1933, three years after his brother, Jack, founded "21" Club on West 52d Street.
She is survived by son, Don, of Harwich, Mass., and a brother, Edward J. Eyring of Langhorne, Pa.
      
