Ms. Batcheller is survived by a brother, Donald Macdonald, of Webster, N.Y., and a son, Michael, of Greenwich.
      
She is survived by her husband of 35 years, James Denman; two sons, Daniel Stanton of Ridgewood, N.J., and James L. Denman of Manhattan; a daughter, Diana Denman of Atlanta; a brother, Rupert Welch of Falls Church, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Ferraro was born on a farm in Edgerton, Mo., and was raised with seven sisters and one brother.

        Frances Messersmith Miner, who for 43 years nurtured tulips, radishes and children at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Monday in Utica, N.Y., her brother said.
She is survived by her brother Charles of Oriskany Falls.
Her brother, Warren H. Badger, a lawyer, gave the couple money that they quickly spent on acquiring an architectural print by Piranesi.
She is survived by her brother, of Dixon, Ill.
        For more than 30 years, Ms. Davies worked on a critical biography of the architect, which she may not have completed; other architectural historians did not produce such a biography, leaving the field to her.
Ms. DeCastro is survived by a brother, Robert, of Miami.
      
Ms. Kenner-Jackson, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by four children, Antonio Kenner, Gary Kenner, Tracey Jackson, and Staci Jackson-Richardson, all of Sacramento; two sisters, Ernestine Francies of Passaic and Agnes Coley of Bloomfield, N.J.; a brother, Jeremiah Coley of Paterson, four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
With her brother, Ramon Grau Alsina, she helped send some 14,000 children to Miami in the early 1960's.
Ms. Grau and her brother were arrested in 1965 and accused of plotting to overthrow Fidel Castro, who was then Cuba's prime minister.
She, her brother, Stephen Sanford, an internationally recognized polo player known as Laddie, and her sister, Sara Jane Sanford, were said to have been the inspiration for Philip Barry's 1929 play ''Holiday,'' made into a classic movie starring Katharine Hepburn and Cary Grant.

        Dorothy Hart, the editor of two highly praised books of song lyrics by her brother-in-law, Lorenz Hart, of Rodgers and Hart fame, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Ontario, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        Mrs. Hart was the widow of Lorenz Hart's brother, Theodore, a comedian.
She is survived by two daughters, Frederica Miceli of Manhattan and Ruth Underwood of Studio City, Calif.; a son, Charles Komanoff of Manhattan; a brother, Stanley Winters of Port Charlotte, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
Surviving are two daughters, Elizabeth Wagman of Brooklyn and Sarah Jacobs of London; two sons, Paul, of Washington, and John, of Berkeley, Calif.; seven grandchildren; two great-grandchildren and a brother, Dr. Oscar Ratnoff of Cleveland.
      
Besides her daughter, K. Ann McDonald of Manhattan, a litigation lawyer with the Manhattan law firm of Robinson Murphy & McDonald, Judge McDonald is survived by a brother, Malcolm Patrick Austin of Chicago.
      
Ms. Bobrow is survived by a brother.
      
It was a deeply competitive family, with Ms. Fitzgerald, her brother, Rawle, who became a foreign correspondent, and their uncles vying at the dinner table at literary games.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan Stern of Washington, D.C., and Rabbi David Stern of Dallas, whose wife, Nancy Kasten, is also a rabbi; a daughter, Elsie Stern, of Brooklyn; her stepmother, Lili Rudin of New York City;  a brother, Stephen Rudin of Manhasset, N.Y.; a stepbrother, Jeffrey Laikind of New York City; four grandchildren; and nieces and nephews.
''
        Ms. Sosenko, who is survived by a brother, Jay Jerome, and a sister, Ruth Goodman, both of Cherry Hill, N.J., had no false modesty.
''My brother and I walked 20 miles a day,'' she would recall.
Her survivors include a brother, a niece and a nephew.
      
Ms. Saurwein is survived by a brother, George Saurwein, of Erie.
      
Ms. Werner was also running other agents, including a Royal Air Force officer, a specialist in submarine radar and even her brother and father.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her mother, Gladys, and her brother, Saleem Muhammad, both of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Adams H. Nickerson; her children, Douglas Bateson, Emily Bateson, William Bateson and Rosina Bateson Barker; a brother, Keith Moffat; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by Sam Wulwick, whom she married in 1988; three daughters, Elinor Wohl of Manhattan, Nancy Drake of Aspen, Colo., and Vicki Greenberg of Lawrence, N.Y.; a son, Larry W. Wohl of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Jaffess of Miami; and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Becky Rankin of Monroeville, Pa. and Millie Glinsky of Indiana, Pa.;  and a brother, Joseph, also of Indiana.
      
She is also survived by nine other children, Barbara Chambers, Suzanne Peterson, Linda Pack, Robert Holt, Mary Last, Christine Russell, Helen Stampe, Paul Holt and Betty Blankenship; three sisters, Beulah Stronczek, Katherine Stanger and Grace Fisher; a brother, William L. Holt; 19 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
Her brother, Luis, was a governor of Puerto Rico, and established the ruling New Progressive Party.
She is survived by her brother.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Monette Watts of Harvest, Ala., and Barbara Russell of Canton; a son, Andrew, of Omaha; a brother, Garfield Heath of Detroit; 8 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother and a sister, both of Texas.
''
        She is survived by a sister, Christina Burke; a brother, Patrick Burke; a niece, Tawny Wagner; and three nephews, Toby Wagner, Matthew Burke and Laurence Burke.
Miss Shepard was Auntie Mary to Fitzgerald's three children and had only one other relative, Minette Hunt, the daughter of her brother, who was killed in World War II.
Besides her brother the duke, she is survived by four daughters, Serena Balfour of London, Consuelo Russell and Jacqueline Williams, both of Manhattan, and Alexandra Birch of Pennsylvania; a sister, Lady Rosemary Muir of Berkshire, England; a brother, Lord Charles Spencer-Churchill of London; and 10 grandchildren.
      
Besides her brother the duke, she is survived by four daughters, Serena Balfour of London, Consuelo Russell and Jacqueline Williams, both of Manhattan, and Alexandra Birch of Pennsylvania; a sister, Lady Rosemary Muir of Berkshire, England; a brother, Lord Charles Spencer-Churchill of London; and 10 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
Her father soon left for New York, where he set up a shop on Ludlow Street in the Lower East Side; Biala, her mother and her older brother Jacob, who would become the Abstract Expressionist painter Jack Tworkov, followed in 1913.
While both nieces contend that Biala knew she wanted to be a painter from a very early age (before her brother did, in fact), all they know of her artistic education is that at the age of 18 or 19, after a brief period of study at the National Academy of Design, she went to Provincetown, Mass., to study with the painter Edwin Dickinson, whose painterly representation was especially influential on her work.
She is survived by a brother, John P. Austin of Palo Alto, Calif., and by Ms. Wondisford of the Music-Theater Group, her companion.
She is survived by a brother.
      
Reuel Wilson of London, Ontario, was her half brother and Helen Miranda Wilson of Wellfleet, Mass., her half sister -- not stepbrother and stepsister.
Besides her husband, director of the Rutgers Latin American studies program, Dr. Rotker-Martinez's survivors include their daughter, Sol Ana Martinez, 14; her parents, David and Cecilia Rotker; and a brother, George Rotker, all of Caracas.
      
Her parents, David Anderson Brooks and the former Keziah Corinne Wims, encouraged her and her younger brother, Raymond, to read and take an interest in culture from an early age.
She is survived by two sons, Ion and Julian, and a brother, Julius Kahn Jr.
      
''
        Ms. Windsor is survived by her husband, Jack Rodney Hupp; her son, Richard Hupp; a brother, Jerry Bertelsen; and a sister, Louise Atherley.
Ms. Ledis is survived by her husband; her parents, Nathan Ledis and Joan Feldman; a brother, Stuart Ledis; and a sister, Holly Blumenstyk.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Robert McCready of Manhattan, and her mother, Ellen McCready of Dallas.
      
She is survived by a brother, Saul, of Oceanside, Calif., two nephews, one niece, two grand-nieces and two grand-nephews.
      
Her parents, David Anderson Brooks and the former Keziah Corinne Wims, encouraged her and her younger brother, Raymond, to read and take an interest in culture from an early age.
