In addition to her sister, Wendy Wasserstein, of New York, Mrs. Meyer is survived by two daughters; Jenifer Schweitzer, of New York and Samantha Schweitzer, of San Francisco; another sister, Georgette Levis, of Manchester, Vt.; a brother, Bruce Wasserstein, of New York, and her parents, Lola and Morris Wasserstein, of New York.
      
''
        Ms. Sunn, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Dave Parmenter; a daughter, Jan Carreira of Los Angeles; her parents, Elbert and Roen Sunn of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; a brother Eric of Makaha, and three sisters, Val Fenwick of Kailua-Kona, Anella Dehr of Makawao, Hawaii, and Kula Sunn of Haiku, Hawaii.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dave McNeely, political columnist for the Austin American-Statesman; her parents, Sandy and Lorrainne Kent of Austin; two stepdaughters, Michelle Mueller of Houston and Candace McGriffy of Austin; and a brother, Gale Kent of Littleton, Colo.
      
She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Blake McKelvey, Rochester's city historian emeritus, and a brother, Richard Trepp of Springfield, Mass.
      
Besides Mr. Osmundsen, she is survived by twin children, Jonathan Eric, of Washington, and Mirjana Erika Dougherty of Baltimore; her father, Irvin Binns of the Bronx; a sister, Heather Habeger of New City, N.Y.; a brother, Roger Binns of Wayne, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
She and her brother James helped administer the Scripps League Newspapers, which at one time included dozens of local newspapers across the country.
She is survived by her son, George Alexander Gellhorn of London, and a brother, Alfred Gellhorn of New York.
''
        She is survived by a brother, Robert Goldsmith of Harwich, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Jonathan Adam Smith Sherman of Westfield; her parents, Ellen and Frank Avenoso of Charleston, S.C.; a brother, Kenneth Avenoso of Portland, Ore., and two grandparents, Lillian Stark of Manhattan and Dorothy Shotsky of Rockville Centre, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara C. Marziali of Charlottesville, Va.; a son, F. Bosley Crowther 4th of Los Angeles; a brother, Edward George Benson Jr. of Storrs, Conn. and a sister, M. Ophelia Benson of Seattle.
      
; two daughters, Sarah Howell, of Framingham, Mass., and Eve Howell, of Boston; a brother, Tony Raugust of Minneapolis, and one granddaughter.
      
Dr. Wakin is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
Elliott Roosevelt was his brother's best man, and two other brothers, Franklin D. Roosevelt Jr. and John A. Roosevelt, were among the ushers.
In addition to her husband and three children, Mrs. Harrington is survived by two sisters, Agnes Tate-Sanders and Tamogene Tate, both of Philadelphia, and a brother, Jay-Cee Tate of North Carolina.
But her oldest brother, who had a pleasant baritone voice, encouraged her to take her singing seriously.
Ms. Rysanek is survived by her husband of nearly 30 years, Ernst-Ludwig Gausmann, a former journalist; a stepson, Marcus Gausmann; a brother, Kurt, and sister, Lotte Rysanek, who was a lyric soprano with the Vienna State Opera.
The living room of her tidy little house in Elgin had what she called her Titanic Corner, including books, a painting of the Titanic and a photograph showing her and her older brother, Harold, at the New York premiere of the Titanic movie ''A Night to Remember'' in 1958.
She, her mother and her 4-year-old brother, Harold, had gone to Finland to visit her mother's dying father and other relatives and were on their way back to the United States when they stopped over in England and discovered that their passage on another ship had been canceled because of a coal miners' strike.
The other Swedish girl had gotten into another lifeboat and survived, she said, but the one who had been holding her brother went down with the ship.
Mrs. Shuman, whose brother died in 1968, is survived by a son, Earl, of St. Charles, Ill., two sisters, Irene Van Thournout of St. Charles and Esther Rudder of Connecticut, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Watkin, who created some confusion by marrying and later divorcing a man with the same surname as her own, is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother, Don, of Ashland, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Schele is survived by a brother, Tom Richmond of Chicago.
      
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Vincent Connelly, who is a partner at the Chicago law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt; two daughters, Courtney and Carleigh; a son, Robert; a sister, Mary Fitzgerald, and a brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, both of Arlington Heights, Ill.
      
Besides Mr. Pringle, she is survived by her father, William Wolsky of Brooklyn; her mother and stepfather, Joyce and Lloyd Greenidge of Brant Lake, N.Y.; a brother, William Jr., of Spring Hill, Fla., and a sister, Leanne Wolsky of Queens.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, William Damon of Manhattan; a sister, Nancy Keiser of Springfield, Mo., and a brother, John, of Fargo, N.D.
      
Her survivors include a brother, David Perles, who lives in Boca Raton, Fla.
      
She is survived by a son, Robert Aiken of Washington; a sister, Carmen Zincke of Madrid; a brother, Henry Arizmendi of Tenafly, N.J., and three granddaughters.
      
'' Her partner was Willam Christensen, Lew's brother and the company's director.
'' When Willam Christensen left California in 1951 to found Ballet West in Salt Lake City, of which he is now director emeritus, his brother  succeeded him in San Francisco.
She is survived by a brother, Nelson E. Deveneau of Salisbury, Mass., and a sister, Marion D. Stevens of Lee, N.H.
      
She started her own furniture business with $500 she borrowed from a brother.
She is survived by her son, Louis; three daughters, Frances Batt, Cynthia Schneider and Sylvia Cohn; two sisters, Anne Rosenblatt and Ruth Lasher, all of Omaha; a brother, Mayer Gorelick of Los Angeles; 12 grandchildren, and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
In 1974, Mrs. Harrington suffered two blows, the deaths of both her husband and, a few months later, their only child, Sally Harrington Goldwater, the wife of Robert Goldwater, the younger brother of Senator Barry Goldwater.
She is survived by her daughter, Ann Wandell of Windham; a brother, Bruce McWilliams of Little Deer Isle, Me; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
Only the third brother, Larry, ever spoke.
Ms. Frann, who is survived by two sisters, Patricia Sauve and Jacqueline Rogers, and a brother, Harry Luecke, all of Los Angeles, was also active in charity work.
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
After watching her brother virtually volunteer for death during a mass ''selection,'' Mrs. Rosenberg escaped to the nearby city of Lwow armed with a birth certificate, supplied by her compassionate factory manager, belonging to a Polish Catholic woman who had died.
Mrs. Rosenberg said that she originally wrote her book in 1948 as a way to deal with the paralyzing guilt she felt as a Holocaust survivor, and that she published it to satisfy her brother Romek's last request that she stay alive to tell the story of the Kolomyja ghetto to the world.
Ms. Kay is survived by her husband, Mr. Arac, and by her brother, Jeffrey Kay of Takoma Park, Md.
      
She died of cancer, said Ferrucio Ferragamo, her brother and chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
Besides Mr. Weller, she is survived by a daughter from an earlier marriage, Valerie Reuther of Seattle, and a brother, Dr. Homer House of Sherwood, Md.
      

        Inge Aicher-Scholl, who inspired a generation of pacifists in post-World War II Germany by writing about an anti-Nazi youth movement and the killing of her brother and sister, died on Friday.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl moved millions of Germans toward nonviolence by chronicling the activities of the White Rose, a student movement whose leaders included her younger brother and sister, Hans and Sophie Scholl.
; two granddaughters, and a brother, Putnam Flint of Weston, Mass.
Mrs. Judd said she did not have the key and left in an automobile driven by her brother, Burton McKinnell.
She is survived by her brother, Steven Klebanoff of Rye, N.Y.; two sons, William Goff of Kent, Conn. and Neal Goff of Manhattan; two daughters, Ginny Goff Green of Loveladies, N.J., and Kimberly Goff of Bridgehampton; and three grandchildren.
      
It was during an engagement in Monte Carlo that Miss Parla caught the eye of two future kings of England, Edward, the Prince of Wales, and his brother Albert, the Duke of York, who later became King George VI.
As students at Purdue, her Irish-born father, Miles O'Brien, and his identical twin brother, Richard, had invented the South Bend lathe, an ingenious device that proved so useful for grinding automobile gears and the like that the brothers made a fortune turning them out in a factory in South Bend.
She is survived by two sisters and a brother.
      
; a brother, David Long Jr. of St. Petersburg, Fla., and her maternal grandparents, Robert and Florence Roy of Ruxton, Md.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sam Gulkin; a brother, Dr. Martin Kurman of Manhattan, and a sister, Bernice Winarsky of Springfield.
      
Dr. Radley is survived by a brother, Erwin Radley of Poestenkill.
      
Besides her mother and her father, Dennis Thomas, a saxophonist who is the musical director of the band Kool and the Gang, she is survived by her grandfather, Cecil Saunders, and a brother, David, all of Weehawken.
      
''
        She is survived by her sister, Janet Sovin of Berkeley, Calif., and her brother, David, of Huntington Station, N.Y.
        Ms. Roberts's major passions were theater and horses.
