She is survived by her husband; her mother, Sadie Murray, and her brother, Paul Murray, both of Newport Beach, Australia.
      
She is survived by a son, Ted Lloyd of Phoenix; a brother, Carleton Ralston of Los Angeles; two daughters, Judy Richmond of Mill Valley, Calif., and Mary Baxter of Phoenix; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her brother William A. Mathis.
"
        In addition to her brother William, of Memphis, she is survived by another brother, Charles M. Mathis Jr. of Salt Lake City, and her mother, Laura Mathis.
      
"
        In addition to her brother William, of Memphis, she is survived by another brother, Charles M. Mathis Jr. of Salt Lake City, and her mother, Laura Mathis.
      
Mrs. Firestone is survived by a son, John D., of Washington; three daughters, Gay F. Wray and Susan F. Semegen of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and Cinda F. Fox of New York; a brother, Peter Joers of Hot Springs, Ark., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She died of natural causes, said her brother, Roswell Averill of St. Simons Island, Ga.
        Mrs. Svendsen, who was born in Old Town, Me., in 1915, majored in art at Wellesley College.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a sister, Caroline Averill Rogers, of Patten, Me.
      
She is survived by her mother, Florence Lawson of Florida; a brother, Thomas Lawson of Sandy Hook, Conn.; three children, Douglas Sloan of Manhattan, Kathryn Roth of Weston, Mass., and Gillis Bolton of Roxbury, Conn., and three grandchildren.
At the same time, Mr. Field's brother, Hermann, who had been held in Czechoslokavia on espionage charges, was also released.
The cause was an apparent heart attack, said her brother, Dr. Alan Sperber.
She is survived by her mother, Lisa Sperber, and her brother, both of Manhattan.
      
"
        In addition to her stepdaughter, of Ogunquit, Me., she is survived by a brother, G. Robert Williams Jr. of Melville, L.I.
She is survived by her brother and sister-in-law, Allan and Susan Sherman, of Toms River, N.J.
      
; a son, William Jr., of Baltimore; a brother, Theodore Roosevelt 3d of Mount Desert, Me., and three granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a brother, John Driscoll of Melbourne, Fla., and two sisters, Catherine Ryan of Lake George, N.Y., and Dorothy Driscoll of Loudonville.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eve Pomerance of London; a son, Moby Pomerance of Manhattan; a brother, Nicholas, of London, and a sister, Anne Zribi of Paris.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a brother, Frank Schober of West Chester, Pa., three granddaughters and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Harvey is survived by her husband; four sons, Alan, of Larchmont, Russel, of Manhattan, Adam, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Eric, of Larchmont; a stepdaughter, Shulamis Bush of Brooklyn; a sister, Ruth Korten of Winter Park, Fla.; a brother, Eric Lorne Sr. of Inverness, Fla., and three stepgrandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband and by a brother, Spiros Mercouris.
      
Mrs. Schwartz is survived by her husband of 30 years, Stanley; two daughters, Blair and Kim; her mother, Blanche Rosenzweig Levine of Bal Harbour, Fla.; a sister, Carol Nussbaum of Charleston, S.C., and a brother, Lawrence Rosenzweig of Manhattan and Bal Harbour.
      
She is survived by her mother, Janet Strain; a brother, Bob, and a sister, Terri Sullivan, all of Cliffside Park, N.J.
      
The cause was cancer, said her brother, Gerard Mandry.
She is survived by her brother, of Dobbs Ferry.
      
In addition to her daughter, a hematologist in Wynnewood, Pa., Dr. Weil is survived by two grandsons and a brother, Albert Phiebig of White Plains.
      
Mrs. Lord is survived by her husband, Edwin Jr., of Cambridge; a son, Edwin 3d, of Frankfurt, Germany; a daughter, Mary, of Washington, and a brother, Ted Allen of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
Ms. Ichiyasu is survived by her husband, Michael Clancey; her father, Harry T. Ichiyasu, and a brother, Alan, both of Chicago.
      
In addition to her husband, who maintains homes in New York, Philadelphia and Miami, she is survived by two sons, Robert, of Philadelphia and Alan, of Miami; a sister, Florence Jans of Miami; a brother, Marvin Chaiken of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her father, Ms. Dunbar is survived by her sister, Dr. Adrienne Dunbar of Coral Springs, Fla., and a brother, Dean, of Montclair, N.J.
      
She is survived by a brother, Joseph Gilbert of Bridgeport, Conn., and two stepchildren, Alex J. and Maggie K. Trias of Washington.
      
They moved into a rented Georgetown home after Mr. Kennedy sold his Virginia home to his brother, Robert.
Ms. Gair is survived by a daughter, Patricia Sweeney of Kingston upon Thames, England; two sons, Judd Rose of Manhattan and Roger Rose of Los Angeles; her mother, Rose Gair of Chicago; a brother, Seymour Gair of suburban Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
; her mother, Amy Miller, and a brother, Donald Miller, both of New Port Richey, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother, Hans Farman of Old Greenwich, Conn.
      
Mrs. Burdick is survived by her husband, John; two sons, Owen of Jersey City and Richard of Manhattan; her brother, Robert Birdsall of Haddonfield, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Milgrim is survived by two sons, Franklin of Miami and Paul of Detroit, a brother, Louis Knobel of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Paepcke is survived by three daughters, Anina Hamilton of Sussex, England, Paula Zurcher of Woodside, Calif., and Antonia DuBrul of Manhattan; a brother, Paul H. Nitze of Washington, the longtime United States arms negotiator who is now retired; eight grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
      
In addition to her son, of Fort Wayne, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Dr. Lester D. Rothman; a brother, Matthew, and a sister, Josephine Bono, both of Kansas City, and a grandson, Wilson J. Rothman.
      
Mrs. Emery is survived by her husband of 40 years, Charles E.; three daughters, Roxane G. Holmes and Jamie N. Emery, both of Centreville, and Robin E. Loring of Virginia Beach, Va.; three sons, Charles R., of Fayetteville, N.C., Randy B., of Centreville, and Ronald H., of Stafford, Va.; a brother, Sylvestor Janis of Kyle, S.D., and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Powell, of New York City, she is survived by two other sisters, Rosebud Smith of Jamaica, Queens, and Gertrude Penna of Orlando, Fla., and a brother, Floyd Washington of Hempstead, L.I.
      
Mrs. Hong is survived by three sons; Alfred of Jamaica Estates, Robert of Syosset, L.I., and Morris of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a daughter, Virginia Wei of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Moy of Chicago; a sister, Mae Wu of Berkeley, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Richmond is survived by her father, Richard, and a brother, Barry, both of Stonington, Conn.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Albany, she is survived by a brother, Alexander C. Mitchell of Frenchtown, N.J., and a granddaughter, Madeleine Ringwald of Albany.
      
Miss Williams is survived by her son, Robin, of Philadelphia; a brother, Isaac, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, who lives in the Solvang Lutheran Home in Solvang, and a brother, Clyde Lubbock of Pensacola, Fla.
      
Besides her parents, Ms. Henrich's survivors include a brother, Paul.
      
Dr. George is survived by two sisters, A. Catherine Johnson of Massachusetts, and Vivian Edwards of Los Angeles, and a brother, Samuel E. J. Watson of Bangor, Mich.
      
; a brother, Richard C. Lemon of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
; two sisters, Jean Seglie of Washington and Susan Othmer of Los Angeles, and a brother, Joseph K. FitzGerald of San Francisco.
      
; two daughters, Anne Adler Tarbell and Mary Ballard Malhotra, both of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Katherine Turpin Gnugnoli of Washington and Mary Turpin Barradale of Richmond; a sister, Mary Tyler McClenahan of Richmond; a brother, James Douglas Freeman of Richmond, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, William, of Iowa City.
      
; a daughter, Deborah Carliner of Washington; a brother, Karl Kalter of Munich, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Dawe, of Milwaukee, she is survived by a son, Simpson Markson of New Jersey; a brother, the producer and director Edwin Sherin of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      

        Margaret Janus, who helped her brother, Dr. Jack Kevorkian, in assisted suicides, died today at Sinai Hospital here.
Mrs. Janus, who was called Margo, kept all the patient records involving the assisted suicides, and videotaped sessions between her brother and the 20 patients he helped commit suicide since 1990.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her daughter, Ava, of Troy, and a sister, Flora Holzheimer, of Schmalwasser, Germany.
      
"
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country.
; a brother, Frederick Martin of Orono, Me.
In addition to Ms. Chernela Mount, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Chernilo, and a son, Abbey Chernela, both of New York; a sister, Diane Graf of Southbury, Conn., and a brother, Paul Moss of Hewlett, L.I.
      
In addition to her son, a New York art dealer, she is survived by three grandchildren, Kimberly and Justin Nasatir and Amanda Goldberg, and a brother, John Zickel of Carmichael, Calif.
      
She is survived by her three sons, Dr. David Lewis of Linkoping, Sweden, Frank Lewis of Phoenix, and Peter Lewis of Baltimore; a sister, Ernestine D. Hanwell of Atlanta; a brother, Paul Dietrich of Ridge, L.I.
Mrs. Rathgeb is survived by her husband of 34 years, Donald Sr.; three daughters, Elizabeth Pratt of Amesbury, Mass., and Laura Rathgeb and Mary Jo Balaskas, both of Manhattan; a son, Donald Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; a sister, Laura Mae Hellrung of Alton, Ill.; a brother, Howard Ellspermann of Cape Coral, Fla., and one granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Holly Crumpton; a brother, Rue Knapp; a sister, Mary Lou DiNardo, and a granddaughter, Crystal, all of Atlanta.
      
Professor Bozeman is survived by her husband of 44 years, Dr. Arne Barkhuus; a daughter, Anya B. Taylor of South Nyack, N.Y.; a brother, Bodo von Bruemmer of Colares, Portugal, and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Kafka, of Manhattan, she is survived by two grandchildren and a brother, Abraham Shapiro, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband and son; by her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and by a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      
She is survived by her husband and son; her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      
