Besides her husband, Ms. Dent is survived by a brother, Stephen Dent of Riverside, Conn., and a sister, Melissa Dent of Manhattan.
''
        Lucy Jane will live with Ms. Wasserstein's brother Bruce.
''
        Besides her four children and her sister, Edythe, of Cheyney, Pa., survivors include her brother, Obie Leonard Scott of Greensboro, Ala.
        Mrs. King remained a beloved figure, often compared to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as a woman who overcame tragedy, held her family together and became an inspirational presence around the world.
She is survived by a sister, Jean Beasley; a brother, Charlie Nellums; a son, Cedric; and a granddaughter, according to the University of Southern California.
      
''
        One sister, Ruth Lewis Smith, and a brother, George Lewis, both of Unionville, survive Miss Lewis, as does a stepsister, Bessie Jones of Philadelphia.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her brother, Lawrence Chaifetz, said.
Besides her brother, her survivors include her husband, Daniel Seltzer, and their 10-year-old triplets, a daughter, Leila, and two sons, Isaac and Milo, who all have the last name Selchaif; and her parents, Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz.
      
Ms. Wright is survived by her parents, Diane and Bill Wright, and a brother, Craig, all of Dayton, Ohio, and her sons, Matthew de la Pena, of Iowa City, and Alexander de la Pena, of Chevy Chase, Md.
      
In addition to Mr. Morris, whom she married 23 years ago, she is survived by a daughter from the earlier marriage, Miela Ford of Rochester; a brother, the writer Russell Hoban, of London; a granddaughter; and one great-granddaughter.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
During her childhood, she and her brother frequently lived with relatives while her mother, Margaret, was off pursuing graduate studies in music.
Besides her stepdaughter Rosita, Ms. Moffo is survived by a brother, Nicholas Moffo Jr., of Berwyn, Pa., and two other stepdaughters: Serena Benenson of New Canaan, Conn., and Claudia Sarnoff of Middleburg, Va. She and Mr. Sarnoff, who died in 1997, had no children.
When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy.
Jamie Dixon, Maggie's older brother and the men's basketball coach at Pittsburgh, said she collapsed Wednesday while having tea at a friend's home.
The Dixons were the first brother and sister to coach in the N.C.A.A.
In addition to her brother, Dixon is survived by her parents, Jim and Marge Dixon of North Hollywood, and a sister, Julie.
Ms. Rau, who was divorced, is survived by three sons, Taylor Pattison, George Pattison and Jean-Paul Menard, all of Northport; two daughters, Anne Pattison of London and Stephanie Pattison of Wellington, Fla.; a sister, Roli, and a brother, Forest, both of Louisiana; and four grandchildren.
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud of New York City and Leslie Goodman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud, of New York City and Leslie Goodman, of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer, of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, Ms. Lewis is survived by two daughters, Carla and Christy; her mother, Alene Rhodes of Houston; and her brother, Tim Rhodes of South Shores, N.C.
      
Besides her daughter and son, she is survived by a brother, Mark Mosolino of Bethel Hill, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      
Other survivors include her husband of 40 years, Reuben Earnest Adams Jr.; their son, Reuben III; a brother, Glodies Jackson; and eight grandchildren.
Besides her parents, she is survived by her husband, David Mahler, of Brooklyn; a brother, Christopher; and a sister, Rachel, both of Washington.
      
She is survived by her father; her brother, Lukas Weber of Portland, Me.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 82 and also had a home in Manhattan.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Mrs. Lawford's brother.
As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods, and when he ran for President in 1960 she often substituted at events for his pregnant wife, Jacqueline Kennedy.
Her brother Robert, the former attorney general and later senator from New York, was closest to her in age, just 18 months younger.
After his assassination in 1968, Mrs. Lawford assembled a privately printed book of reminiscences about him, as John had done before about the oldest brother, Joe, who died in World War II.
''
        In addition to her brother Edward and her three sisters, Jean Kennedy Smith, Eunice Kennedy Shriver and Rosemary Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of New York, and three daughters, Sydney, of Washington, Robin, of New York, and Victoria Frances, of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Melissa Wagoner, a spokeswoman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, Mrs. Lawford's brother.
As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods.
Mrs. Lawford's brother Robert, the former attorney general and later senator from New York, was closest to her in age, just 18 months younger.
After his assassination in 1968, Mrs. Lawford assembled a privately printed book of reminiscences about him, as John had done for their oldest brother, Joe, who died in World War II.
''
        In addition to her brother Edward, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of California; three daughters, Sydney and Victoria Frances, both of Washington, and Robin, of New York; her sisters Jean Kennedy Smith and Eunice Kennedy Shriver; and 10 grandchildren.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her brother, Bernard Gelbman of Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Deschamps Adams is survived by a brother, Henri Deschamps of Maraussan, France.
Her brother, Herman Jr., was a fine golfer.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
Survivors include her current husband, Dean McNeil; their daughter, Ruby; and her brother, Warren Silverman.
Mrs. Carr is survived by her brother, William G. Halsey, of Basking Ridge, N.J., and her sister, Dorothy K. Halsey, of Chatham, Mass.
The cause has not been determined, said her brother and only survivor, Lloyd Crisfield.
She is survived by her partner of 32 years, Marianne Ardito, and her brother, Richard Maxian, who lives in Georgia.

        Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif.
Mrs. Carey's brother Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr. received first billing as a co-author, and the book's narrative voice is decidedly unified, never betraying who wrote what.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Carey wrote other books (as did her brother, who died in 2001), including ''Jumping Jupiter,'' ''Rings Around Us'' and ''Giddy Moment.
Mrs. Carey and her brother mined a rich vein of humorous and quirky material from the Gilbreth clan.
She is also survived by a brother, Benjamin Zimmer of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by a brother, Robert Gibson, of La Mesa, Calif.; and one step-grandchild.
