Her mother was a daughter of Lord Stalbridge, who, despite being the younger brother of the first Duke of Westminster, had little money.
She is survived by a daughter, Roma Torre of Manhattan, a news anchorwoman; a son, Adam Jeffrey Friedman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Torregrossa of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
Dr. Barbosa is survived by a brother, Rafael Barbosa, of Carolina, P.R.
      
Mrs. Bouteneff is survived by their son, Archpriest Sergei C. Bouteneff of Trumbull, Conn., rector of St. George Albanian Orthodox Church; a daughter, Dr. Marina Koulomzin of North Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Vera C. Bouteneff; a brother, Dr. Eugene S. Troubetzkoy of Hastings-on Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a son, John Thacher Hurd of Berkeley, Calif., himself a writer and illustrator of children's books; and a brother, Nicholas Thacher, of San Francisco.
      
In addition to her son, Mrs. Harriman is survived by her sisters, Sheila Moore of Atlanta and Ireland, and Jaquetta James of the Isle of Mull, Scotland; her brother, Edward, Lord Digby, of Minterne Magna; four grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
In addition to her sister, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Julia, who now heads the English Theater; her mother, Anna K. Brinkmann of Delray Beach, Fla.; a brother, Klaus Brinkmann of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Fosdick's career was also influenced by her beloved Uncle Raymond, her father's brother, Raymond B. Fosdick, an international lawyer whose appointment as Under Secretary of the League of Nations came to naught after the Senate failed to ratify the founding treaty.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Caroline and Claire, and a brother, William Ides of Huntington, L.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
''
        With her husband at war, Mrs. Gibson moved in with her brother in the Gramercy Park house and became a leader of the New York society home front, throwing herself into a whirlwind of volunteer efforts for organizations like Bundles for Britain and the American Red Cross, serving as an Air Raid warden and even becoming a defense industry expediter.
In collaboration with her husband, she presented Mr. Soyinka's ''Trials of Brother Jero'' and ''The Strong Breed'' during a time when the playwright was a political prisoner in Nigeria.
She is survived by her sister, Gloria Diemer, and her brother, Charles Courtright.
She is survived by her sister, Gloria Diemer, and her brother, Charles Courtright.
For her most famous journey, a harrowing 7-month, 3,500-mile trek from Beijing to Kashmir through  Chinese Turkestan in 1935, she set off with two pounds of marmalade, a  rifle, a bottle of Worcestershire  sauce, writing paper, a Leica camera and an unwieldy companion -- Peter Fleming, a Times of London correspondent and Ian Fleming's younger brother.
Besides her son, she is survived by a brother, Julian Sayer of Stamford, Conn.
      
She is survived by a brother, Robert Sachs of West Granville, N.Y.
      
Besides Mr. Claster of Los Angeles and Mrs. Bell, of Baltimore, Mrs. Claster is survived by another daughter, Candace Claster; a brother, Robert Goldman, and a sister, Sue Baker, all of Baltimore, and four grandchilden.
Ms. Flannery is survived by her husband, Dennis; a son, Dennis, of Washington; four daughters, Erin of Santa Monica, Calif., Kelly of Collegeville, Pa., and Shannon and Megan, both of Washington, and a brother, David Sysko, of Wilmington.
      
Mrs. Gleason is survived by her husband of 57 years, Frederick B. Gleason Jr.; a brother, Thomas W. Dewart of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Frederick B. Gleason 3d of Savannah, Ga.; a daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar of Riverside, Conn.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Miss Goldfrank concentrated initially on kinship, the mundane study of things like what one calls one's mother and who is considered a brother, which was the anthropological rage of the day.
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gurwin is survived by their daughter, Laura Flug of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Livingston, N.J.; her twin brother, Murray Brizell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marshall, and a brother, Thomas Tweedy of Minnesota.
      
Ms. Finkel is survived by her father, Abraham Milton Finkel, and a brother, Robert, both of Los Angeles.
      
Her brother, Dr. Thomas D. Dublin of Washington, said the cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease.
Besides her brother, she is survived by another brother, Amos Dublin of Norwich, Vt.
Besides her brother, she is survived by another brother, Amos Dublin of Norwich, Vt.
The inspiration for ''Making Things Grow,'' she recalled, came on a visit to her brother in England: ''We would watch the BBC gardening programs and complain about how bad they were.
Besides her husband, Ms. Daves is survived by a brother, Peter Davidson of Las Vegas.
The cause was respiratory failure, said her brother, Calvin Borror of Wichita, Kan.
        Ms. Wolanin, who was inducted into the American Nurses Association Hall of Fame last year, began her career as a nurse in 1935 at Kansas City General Hospital in Missouri.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband of 54 years, Maj. H. J. Wolanin; another brother, Martin Borror of Tucson, Ariz., and a sister, Florence Lewis of Quenemo, Kan.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband of 54 years, Maj. H. J. Wolanin; another brother, Martin Borror of Tucson, Ariz., and a sister, Florence Lewis of Quenemo, Kan.
      
Her brother Victor worked and taught at the school.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Talley is survived by a son, MacDonald W. Talley of Pacific Grove, Calif.; two daughters, Melanie Talley Whately and Marina Talley, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. of Sea Girt, N.J.
      
She performed as a child with her family's act, began a solo act at 15 and later performed with her brother, Bob Brown, in a tap act.
The cause was cancer, her brother, Charles E. Heming, said.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Daniel H. Frank of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Katherine L. Frank of Manhattan; two sisters, Delia H. Cantor and Harriet H. Simpson, and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Fleischner is survived by her husband, Peter; a daughter, Julia, of Manhattan; three sons, Robert, of Buffalo; Paul, of Phoenix, and Michael, of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Patrick O'Shaughnessy of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
She was a trustee of Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., Smith College, the Greenwich Country Day School and the Gunnery, in Washington, Conn.
        She is survived by a sister, Katherine Scranton Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y.; a brother, William W. Scranton, the Governor of Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1967; five children, Ellen S. Linen and Marion M. Dawson Carr, both of Greenwich, Jonathan S. Linen of Summit, N.J., Christopher T. Linen of Redding, Conn., and Worthington W. Linen of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, George Tannenbaum of Montgomery, Ala., and a sister, Ruth Deroux of San Diego.
Surviving are two sons, Douglas, of Brattleboro, Vt., and Paul, of Manhattan; a brother, Albert A. Garthwaite Jr. of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by two sons, Roy, of Newark, Del., and Edward, of Marlboro, Vt.; a daughter, Peggy Lopata of Francestown, N.H.; five grandchildren; a brother, Philip Good of Somers, N.Y., and a sister, Esther Goffman of Houston.
      
She is survived by her sister, Anjelica Wender of Manhattan, and her brother, Hervey, of Rochester.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Nathalie Friedman; three sisters, Nathalie Herman and Hilda Fischman of Manhattan and Sylvia Lipton of Los Angeles; a brother, Charles Schlang of Scottsdale, Ariz.; eight grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Keeton is survived by five stepchildren; her brother, Keith Keeton of South Africa; her uncle, William Keeton of South Africa, and three cousins, also of South Africa.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Leila Sears of North Pomfret, Vt., and Elisabeth Laderoute of Princeton, N.J., and a brother, John, of Jamaica, West Indies.
      
She is survived by a son, John Stearns of Manhattan, and a brother, Richard Dunnigan of Sacramento, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael Andersen of San Francisco; a brother, Harold, of Orlando, Fla., and a sister, Dolores Clausen Brockmeyer of Sarasota, Fla.
      
Ms. Miro is survived by a son, Gonzalo, and a brother, Carlos.
      
; a brother, Neil Devroy of Heath, Tex., and two step-brothers, Michael Ryan, of Madison, Wis. and James Ryan, of Savage, Minn.
      
She is survived by her son, Eytan Bercovitch of Baltimore and Madison, and her brother, Leonard Malmquist of Laguna Beach, Calif.
      
Besides her husband of 57 years, Mrs. Slewett is survived by two sons, Robert D. and Alan M., both of Miami; a brother, Leon Miller, of Great Neck, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was cancer, her brother, Jack, said.
She is survived by a sister, Marie Buley of Seaford, N.Y.; her brother, of Naples, Fla.; 8 nieces and nephews, and 13 great-nieces and great-nephews.
      
She is survived by three daughters from her first marriage, Coco Ramirez Morris of Sarasota, Fla., and Ketty Pelaez and Tina Ramirez, both of Manhattan; a sister, Luisa Lolon of Manhattan; a half brother, Edward Pion of Washington; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She played with her brother, Roger, a future British Amateur champion.
; her mother, Florence Clark of Seattle; two sisters, Catherine Elizabeth Clark of North Egremont and Candyce Elaine Clark of Washington, and a brother, David Lane Clark of Salem, Ore.
      
In 1988, when she won a $7 million jackpot the first time she played the New York State Lottery, Miss Katzenbogen was a cosmetics consultant living at home with her parents and younger brother in Canarsie, where the whole family collected and sheltered stray cats.
Four years later, when a grief-stricken Miss Katzenbogen decided to move to the West Coast after the deaths of her mother and brother, she never considered leaving the cats behind, or allowing them to travel without her.
''
        She is survived by three sisters, Beulah L. Smith and Fredrica L. Yates of San Diego and Sue L. Wimberly of Green Valley, Ariz.; a brother, Hunter W. Lewis of Albuquerque, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Katherine Hollingshead of Irvine, Calif.; a stepson, Peter Seymour of Pasadena, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hooker, her brother, Walter Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to the Court of St. James, and Mr. Annenberg's wife, Lenore, jointly contributed $200,000 in 1987 to the renovation of Blair-Lee House.
In addition to her two sons, Gilbert Kahn of Newport, R.I., and Miami, and Donald Kahn of Salzburg and London, she is survived by her two sisters, Enid Haupt of New York and Evelyn Hall of Palm Beach; her brother, Walter Annenberg of Philadelphia and Palm Springs, Calif.;  five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
' ''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a brother, Larry, of Manhattan.
Also surviving is a brother, John Alsop, of Old Lyme, Conn.
      
''
        Dr. Grierson is survived by a brother, Lucius S. Storrs Jr., of Tempe, Ariz.
      
He is her brother, Steve Geng of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her parents, of Hamilton, Mass., and her husband, she is survived by a sister, Sophie Clifton of Bozeman, Mont., and a brother, John Pirie of Hamilton.
      
