Surviving are her husband, William; two daughters, Stephanie, of Bangkok and San Francisco, and Allison Krebs-Khalil, of Stony Point, N.Y.; two sons, Christopher, of Newton, and Anthony, of Seattle; a brother, Frederick Boucher, of Jacksonville, Fla., and one grandson.
      
Surviving are four sisters, Irene McAllister, of San Jose, Calif.; Cristine Sharkey, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; Eve Jane Mueller, of Portland, Ore.; and Mimi Findlay, of Martinez, Calif., and a brother, P. J. Worrall, of Alamo, Calif.
      

       Ruth Moore Garbe, a writer of books about science, died of cancer Monday at her brother's home in San Francisco.
Ruth Moore Garbe, a writer of books about science, died of cancer Monday at her brother's home in San Francisco.
In 1986, Mrs. Garbe and her brother, Norman Moore, gave $1 million to Washington University to endow a professorship in architecture.
She is survived by her brother.
      
Survivors include a sister, Amy Blocher, of Springfield, Va.; a brother, Louis, of Westfield, N.J.; two sons, Arnold, of Marlboro, N.J., and Paul, of Wayland, N.J., and three grandchildren.
Surviving are a brother, Robert MacKaye of Spring Valley, N.Y., and a sister, Christy Barnes of Hillsdale.
      
Surviving are her son, Gabriel, of Los Angeles; a sister, Shifrah Mendelsund, of Scarborough, N.Y., and a brother, Solomon Krystal of the Bronx.
      
She is survived by her sister, Cecilia Wilkenfeld, and her brother, Peter Goode, both of Manhattan.
      
She was born in Brooklyn and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University and a master's degree from New York University, Surviving are her husband, Joseph; four daughters, Julie Bellow, Irene LoBosco and Francesca and Teresa Mattone, and three sons, Carl, Joseph Jr. and Michael, all of Douglaston; a brother, Henry Ficarra of New Hyde Park., L.I.
She is survived by a brother, Lawrence, of Salem, Ore.
      
She is survived by a sister, Lisbeth Haar, of Stockholm, Sweden, and a brother, Robert Muser, of Geneva, Switzerland.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert K. Greenleaf; a son, Newcomb, of New York City; two daughters, Elizabeth, of New Haven, and Madeline Jaynes of New York City; a brother, William Hargrave of Lansdowne, Pa.; a sister, Nora Bailey of Short Hills, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Sol, and a brother, Martin Grad, of Skokie, Ill.
      
Mrs. North is survived by a son, David, of Washington and a daughter, Arielle North Olson of Harding Township, a sister, Edith Buchanan Baker of Zionsville, Ind., a brother, Howard A. Buchanan of Downers Grove, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin Collett Vare of New Haven; a daughter, Glenna Kalen of Caracas, Venezuela, and a brother, Edwin A. Collett of Brewster, Mass.
      
; a sister, Odilie Esposito of Westbury, L.I., and a brother, Timothy of East Northport, L.I.
      
Mrs. Beebe, a native of Hellertown, Mass., is survived by a brother, Charles E. Hulik, of Hancock, N.H., and a sister, Mary Eliassen, of Palo Alto, Calif.
Surviving are her daughter, Babette Cole of Brooklyn; two sisters, Mary Shapiro of Manhattan and Frances Goodman of Hawthorne, N.J.; a brother, Sidney Davidoff, of Queens, and a granddaughter.
      
Surviving are a half sister, Belle Sidoroff, of Wilmington, Del., and a half brother, Al Steloff, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
      
Surviving are her husband, Kevin; a son, Donald, of San Diego; a brother, Eugene Zagat of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by her husband, Erwin Fleissner; two daughters, Jennifer and Katherine; her brother, Victor; and her mother, Sadie, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Willliam; her mother, Sheila Brodie of Manchester, Vt.; a son, Andrew Hultkrans of Manhattan, a brother, Franklin Driggs of Brooklyn, and a sister, Jean Pfister of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by her brother, Irving, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and a sister, Belle Henig of Chicago.
      
; a daughter, Grace Doria of Queens; a brother, Ricardo Miscioscia of Naples; 17 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a sister, Suzanne, of Talkeetna, Alaska, and a brother, Paul, of Canoga Park, Calif.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Poliak is survived by a brother, Edmund Perls of Miami.
      

       Lydia Pasternak Slater, a poet who translated some of the works of her brother, Boris Pasternak, the Russian Nobel laureate in literature, died in Oxford, England, on May 4 after a long illness.
Lydia Pasternak Slater, a poet who translated some of the works of her brother, Boris Pasternak, the Russian Nobel laureate in literature, died in Oxford, England, on May 4 after a long illness.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert; two sons, Jonathan, of Tenafly, and Joseph, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Rachel, of San Francisco, and a brother, Michael Bernstein, of Murray Hill, N.J.
      
She is survived by her parents, Dr. Jesse and Ethel Holland, and a brother, John, all of Manhattan.
      
Surviving Mrs. Newhouse are her daughter, Meg Kirkpatrick, and a brother, George Roche, both of Manhattan, and a grandson.
She is survived by a daughter, Sally Kirkland, the actress, of Los Angeles, and a brother, Robert T. Phinney of Santa Fe, N.M.
Dr. Robinson is survived by her parents, Franklin and Gloria Robinson, and a sister, Dorothy, all of New Haven; a brother, Geoffrey of Leverett, Mass.
The family was musical, and her brother, Bozidar, became a pianist and composer who often was her accompanist for her recitals.
She is survived by her daughter, Lois Lawrence of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Glasser of Highland Park, N.J.; a sister, Betty Bernstein of Miami Beach; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, James; two sons, Matthew and Joshua; a daughter, Margaret, of Monmouth Hills, N.J., and a brother, Dawes Walter of Wilton, Conn.
      
Mrs. Newhouse presided over several homes, including the couple's 12-room duplex apartment on Park Avenue and their weekend retreat, Greenlands, a rambling early-American farmhouse in Harbourton, N.J.
        She is survived by her two sons, S. I. Newhouse Jr. and Donald E. Newhouse, both of New York City; a brother, Walter Evans of St. Louis; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Allison is survived by her brother, Lynn, of Chicago.
      
She is survived by two sons,the rock singer Country Joe McDonald, of Berkeley, and Billy of Oakland; a daughter, Susan Amoroso of Bolinas, Calif.; a brother, Sidney Plotnick of Los Angeles, and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter, of Orlando, Fla., and Paul, of Cincinnati; a brother, Herbert Pinsley of Scarsdale, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Louis Schoenfeld, of New York City.
      
Mrs. Tanner, who lived in Santa Cruz, is survived by her husband, Jim Moore; two daughters, Elna Brunckhorst of Berkeley and Elizabeth Brunckhorst of Felton, Calif.; a stepmother, Edith Tanner of Green Bay, Wis.; a brother, Tom Tanner of Yorkville, Ill., and a grandson.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children, James B. Brickell Jr. of Sykesville, Md., and Allegra Mertz Torrey of Rowayton, Conn.; a brother, Arthur Knapp Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Marina Beach of Rye, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, R. L. Ireland 3d; her mother, Julia Armstrong Kaufman of New Orleans; two sons, Thomas and Robert of Manhattan; two daughters, Julia of Manhattan and Nancy Stahl of Millbrook; a brother, Zeb Mayhew of Atlanta, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Catherine Lipcius of Wallingford, Pa., and Annabelle Carone of St. Clair, Ill., and a brother, John, of Wallingford.
      
She is survived by her mother, Catharine Schenck Macandrew; a sister, Bonnie Rosenblatt of Baltimore, and a brother, Peter F. Macandrew of Garden City.
      
She is survived by a brother, Robert, of Potsdam, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a brother, Albert, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Dorothy Bordock of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Tom Ewell; two daughters, Carly and Courtney; her mother, Mary Shickert of Wilmington, N.C.; a sister, Denise Simpson of Durham, N.C., and a brother, Ken Simpson, of Washington.
      
Survivors include a brother, Lucius, of Danville, Calif; three nieces and a nephew.
      
Miss Lee moved to West Virginia 12 years ago and founded the Eco Theater, which her brother, John, described as ''suggestive of ecology, close to the people, based on oral history and using untrained actors.
Surviving are two daughters, Alexandra Washburn of Palm Beach, Fla., and Pamela Washburn of Manhattan; her mother, Louise Melhado of Palm Beach, and her brother, Frederick Melhado of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Leota Bronson of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; two daughters, Melody, of Detroit, and Jennifer Marks of Seattle; a brother, John Bronson of Brewster, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
''Today, some of my relations allege my literary successes and my brother Kevin's career as an actor as proof that the harsh formula followed in our upbringing produced results; nevertheless, I cannot feel grateful.
She is survived by a daughter, Mary Amory of Washington; a brother, William Taylor of South Natick, Mass.
; a brother, William Lowenthal of Falls Church, Va., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband and a brother, Robert Beckelman of Yardley, Pa.
      
Surviving are her husband, Elton Fax, an artist, and her brother, Edward Murrell, of Fayette, Me.
Surviving are a sister, Catherine Nolan of Ridge, N.Y., and a brother, Joseph G. Connolly of Manhasset, L.I.
      
Mrs. Serger is survived by her brother, Oscar Spitzer, of Manhattan.
      
Dr. Mazzola is survived by a daughter, Mary Rooney of Manhattan; a brother, Charles, of Forest Hills, Queens, and a grandson.
      
Captain Lenihan is survived by a sister, Priscilla Lawler of Woodbridge, Conn., and a brother, Edward Lenihan of Verona, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harvey Dzodin, a vice president of Capital Cities/ABC Inc.; her parents, Francis and Marjorie Northrop of Bridgeton, Mo., and a brother, David, of Redlands, Calif.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Christina White and Alexandra Faggi, both of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Xanthos of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Xanthos of Akron, Ohio, and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Peter, head of the Peter Tishman Real Estate Company; three stepchildren, Linda, Anita and Steven Tishman, all of Manhattan; her mother, Evelyn Rothenberg, also of Manhattan, and a brother, Donald Rothenberg of Babylon, L.I.
      
She is survived by a brother, Paul Billotti of Staten Island.
      
Survivng is a son, John Luft, who shared her home, and a brother, John Fisher, of Newport Beach, Calif.
      
She is survived by a brother, the Rev.
Surviving Dr. England, a widow, are a brother, Sinclair W. Winburn, of Little Rock, and several nieces and nephews.
      
She is survived by her husband, Thomas; a son, John, of Brookfield, Wis.; a brother, Thomas Cronyn of Plandome; a sister, Nancy C. Knox of Darien, Conn., and one grandson.
      
She is survived by a brother, Dr. Albert A. Rosenberg of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her mother, Clara Kaplan of Hudson, Fla.; three daughters, Wendy Curts of Hillsdale, N.J., Corrine Gould of New Rochelle, and Victoria Kaiser of Huntington, N.Y.; a brother, Louis Kaplan of Holmes Beach, Fla.; a sister, Lillian Albrecht of Rye, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
