After her marriage to Mr. Diamond in 1942, she continued to work in show business, back in New York.
In 1947 she married Charles Gershenson of Detroit and retired from the music business.
She wrote entertainingly and often about show business, musing about what to say when lunching with a prospective producer (order a drink, so you look relaxed, but don't touch it lest he think you're an alcoholic), or gloomily anticipating negative reviews of her latest work (''If I have to commit suicide, I have nothing but Gelusil'').
Mrs. Lippert was 73 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan and in West Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Lippert played a role in turning a budding business into an international phenomenon with millions of subscribers to its weight-control regimen.
Heinz sold the business to a European investment company in 1999.
Soon the station was so successful that her father quit his job with the phone company to help her run the business.
She later ran a business importing straw baskets and handbags from Haiti.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Cornell University, where she later helped found the President's Council of Cornell Women, and an M.B.A. in marketing at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
His work and business was carried on by his son, Marc, her father.
She stayed on as a partner and took over the business upon her father's death, in 1977.
In 1999 the Mystery Writers of America gave her an Ellery Queen Award, which honors distinguished people in the mystery-publishing business.
' ''
        Brassieres remained the foundation of the store's business, though most of the thousands available are kept discreetly out of sight.
At one time the business had expanded to four stores, but is now down to one.
''
        Her business strategy involved recruiting as many members as possible and crowding them into large gyms.
She quit and started her own business with her husband.
Mrs. Roberts hated to deal with inventory and wanted to find a business in which things like colors and sizes did not matter, she said in an interview with CNNfn in 1999.
The club was an immediate success, but its name, the Body Shop, caused confusion: People thought it was an auto-repair business.
'' It was, and Mrs. Lezama-Clark dashed off for urgent business.
He became her business manager, and in 1958, her husband.
From 1991 to 1998 she was president and owner of the J. H. Mello Company, an investment banking and consulting business, which became known as the Mello Corporation in the mid-1990's.
After returning to Shanghai in 1886, Mr. Soong, a genial wheeler-dealer, passed up missionary life to start a business printing Bibles, earning a fortune.

        Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was attending a business conference.
'' That year she joined women who were top executives across the corporate spectrum in the Committee of 200, founded as a power base for women in business.
has staged benefits involving show business celebrities in New York and Los Angeles, and in 2002 it arranged for Project A.L.S.
''
        Ms. Lange was born in November 1933 in Connecticut to show business parents -- her father was a composer and arranger, and her mother was an actress.
