After moving to Long Island, she owned and directed the Busy Bee nursery in Amityville from 1976 to 1990, when the press of her community work and public service prompted her to sell the business.
After a divorce from her husband, a business executive, she lived in London and changed her legal name to Justine Rendal.
When he took over the family business, he turned to his former teacher to help train his staff in reporting, writing and ethics.
''
        Her partner of 15 years is Nancy A. Lee, a vice president for business development at The New York Times, and they live in Manhattan.
She received a master's degree in business education from New York University.
''We're in the recycling business,'' Mrs. Fleck said.
The Stax studio, in the former Capitol movie theater in Memphis, attracted young singers and songwriters, and was an integrated business in a largely segregated city.
''
        Although Stax was a musical powerhouse, it was a business debacle.
Part of her settlement included $25,000 a year on the condition that she stay out of the recording business.
In the 1940's, she married Robert Wood, a fellow activist, who later opened a business importing cigars.
Ms. Wood is survived by her stepson and a stepdaughter, Sara Gearry, of Coeburn, Va.
        Because of her husband's cigar business, Ms. Wood traveled to Cuba.
As the wife of Charles Engelhard, owner of a vast international business empire, she helped Jacqueline Kennedy restore the White House, regularly made best-dressed lists and was such a fixture of New York society, its own magazines recounted, that socialites affectionately called her ''Our Mother Superior.
Mrs. Schott's image first soured in November 1992 when several former Reds executives said that she had referred to players and business associates using racial and ethnic slurs.
''
        She was born Margaret Unnewehr, the second of five daughters of Edward Unnewehr, a Cincinnati native who made a fortune in the lumber business.
And she clearly believed that the business of beauty was just as honorable.
During the period when she was building her business, she invariably showed up at stores where her products were being introduced and, with no provocation at all, whip out a jar and rub its contents on the wrist or face of a prospective customer so that her skin would acquire ''a gentle glow.
She also took part as a corporate officer in Mr. Berman's growing business, which later included the Hess's department store chain.
She grew up in Harlem with connections to show business, her cousin Edna Turner-DeGeneste said.
After leaving the movies, she never looked back on her career in show business, her cousin added.
My girls, I believe, are the best hoofers in the business.
Because it was illegal to run a business in their housing project, they smuggled copies out the door in a baby carriage.
''That was German business,'' she once said speaking of the heavy trough in the smokehouse, used to scald the fur off carcasses, and her other implements.
''She said, 'If people couldn't visit me alive, they have no business visiting me as a dirty old dead woman.
In 1958 Ms. Frey moved to New York, where she worked at the Museum of Modern Art's business office and at the Clay Art Center, a pioneering ceramics center in Port Chester, N.Y.
But her father angrily opposed the plan, telling her she could resign herself to being his secretary in the office supply business that he managed or spend the rest of her life as a maid.
''
        The glitter of Mrs. Alsop's social whirl sometimes masked the serious business it facilitated.
Her business is now run by her son Andrew.
From 1966 until her death, Ms. Goldsmith was an executive with Ruder Finn Arts and Communications Counselors, a division of the international public relations agency Ruder & Finn that is active in promoting business support for the arts.
After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960.
But it turned out there was a lot of unfinished business.
