She earned a master's degree and a doctorate at the Graduate School of Business Administration of New York University.
''She never took herself too seriously, though she knew fashion was a serious business.
''You learn that politics is everybody's business.
''
        Politics was her business most of the time after she met her husband in 1950 at a convention of the California Young Democrats.
''You learn that politics is everybody's business.
''
        Politics was her business most of the time after she met her husband in 1950 at a convention of the California Young Democrats.
Mrs. Frankel, born and raised in Brooklyn, was a graduate of Barnard College and held master's degrees from the Harvard School of Education and the Columbia School of Business.
''
        And, the Senator continued: ''She also was remarkable in this business that I'm in, in that she could walk away from it, which she did at the height of her career.
'' The Telling Moment
        At a cocktail party held by Leonard Bernstein for the Black Panthers in 1970, when a Panther field marshal stridently outlined his tenets before a small group that included Mr. Bernstein, principal conductor of the New York Philharmonic, Miss Curtis caught the telling moment:
        '' 'If business won't give us full employment, then we must take the means of production and put them in the hands of the people.
In 1974, she became editor of the Op-Ed page, leavening serious pieces by academic, government and business leaders with unexpected essays on lighter subjects, such as an exchange of letters between Henry Miller and Erica Jong entitled ''In Praise of Rabelais and Each Other,'' and with bits of Americana, from lesser-known writers.
They were the third generation of their family in the fur business.
In Control of Business
        With the death in 1953 of her brother, who had changed his name legally to Michael Maximilian, she assumed control of the business.
In Control of Business
        With the death in 1953 of her brother, who had changed his name legally to Michael Maximilian, she assumed control of the business.
Until then the agency had handled mostly show business figures, but Miss Strauss was asked to establish the literary department.
Miss Hayworth was truly born to show business, in New York City, on Oct. 17, 19l8.
Mrs. Simon ran the business daily, her family reported, and the shops now pass to yet another generation, her grandson Gary Schwartz.

       Ruth Karen Hagai, a business consultant, journalist and author who was known professionally as Ruth Karen, died of cancer Saturday at her Manhattan home.
Ruth Karen Hagai, a business consultant, journalist and author who was known professionally as Ruth Karen, died of cancer Saturday at her Manhattan home.
Ms. Hagai was a former senior vice president of the Business International Corporation, a publishing, research and consulting concern serving multinational corporations.
After two decades with the company, she formed her own consulting business, Hagai Associates, in 1985.
Mrs. Ryan was also a member of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, the Business and Professional Women's Club of New York and the Order of Our Lady of the Holy Sepulchre.
Until April she lived in Denver, where she and her husband had a fine arts appraisal business.
Until April she lived in Denver, where she and her husband had a fine arts appraisal business.
Mrs. Rice, who was born in Manhattan, started in business in the mid-1920's and carried on long after ready-to-wear had swept the millinery field.
She was born in Bethlehem, Pa., graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1950 and received a master's degree from its graduate school of business in 1951.
In the early 1930's, Mrs. Hammerstein founded an interior design business, Dorothy Hammerstein Inc., and quickly established herself as one of the most sought-after decorators on both coasts.
A prominent figure in the New York housewares business for many years, Mrs. Bannett also was active in several civic organizations, including the 79th Street Block
        Carole P. Bannett, a housewares retailer and an associate of Lee Bailey, the designer and author, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
A prominent figure in the New York housewares business for many years, Mrs. Bannett also was active in several civic organizations, including the 79th Street Block Association.
She also became a partner with Mr. Bailey in a wholesale housewares business, Bailey Bannett.
In the 1950's, the company had more than 200 silk looms going night and day in Long Island City, Queens, and in Paterson, N.J. Scalamandre Silks now has 425 employees and does $30 million worth of business in silk annually.
After college, she worked for Time Inc. as business manager for the newsreel series ''March of Time.
She carried on the work begun by her mother, Elisabeth Ferguson vonHesse, who died in 1963, coaching actors, politicians, business executives and others.
She began her own real estate business in 1982.
