Along with its fame and reputation, the Gotham was also a very carefully operated book business.
In 1919, she opened the business, which has since closed, at 146 East 55th Street in Manhattan.
In 1919, she opened the business, which has since closed, at 146 East 55th Street in Manhattan.
''
        Miss Ball was also an astute business executive.
''My father had a hotel,'' she once told an interviewer, ''and people in show business used to stay there.
She was a graduate of New York University and the Leonard Stern School of Business, from which she received a master's degree.
Mrs. Bullitt, who inherited a real estate fortune, was a leading figure in the business and cultural life of Seattle for more than 50 years.
The same year, Fortune magazine listed her as one of the country's top seven women in business.
Miss Wyant, a 1938 graduate of Bennington College, joined Dun & Bradstreet in 1942 as a researcher and was vice president for business economics from 1975 until her retirement in 1984.
She had little business experience, and she later learned that she had assumed obligations for millions of dollars in severance pay if the paper closed.
For 17 years she was president of the National Ziegfeld Club, offering assistance to needy women in show business.
Valentina was the widow of George Schlee, the financier who served as her business partner and as an adviser to Greta Garbo, who was one of Valentina's notable clients.
Valentina had closed her own business in the late 1950's.
Shortly after arriving, they started a business with $10 and a rented sewing machine.
Bullocks-Wilshire bought all the samples and the young couple were in business.
With Olga designing and her husband directing the business, the Olga Company reached a volume of $67 million when it was sold to Warnaco in 1984.
Previously, she was director of business analysis of the Industrial Commodity Corporation in New York.
''The doctors had said let her go on going about her business.
Breaking Into the Business  Stage Experience, Looks and a Voice
        Miss Davis's first professional acting job was with a winter stock company in Rochester, run by the director George Cukor, who dismissed her after a few months.
'' She got her first show business break in the title role of George M. Cohan's ''Little Nellie Kelly.
She met Mr. Webb, and the two went into business together in New York City in 1945.
She was the founder in 1983 of a consulting business, Redfield Associates, which helped to raise money for many causes.
She was the founder in 1983 of a consulting business, Redfield Associates, which helped to raise money for many causes.
She was an economist with the State Department from 1951 to 1953, and before joining Time, she worked for RCA and International Business Machines.
During their 33-year marriage, Mrs. Hammer regularly traveled with her husband, the 91-year-old founder and chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, on trips to foster business, East-West trade, benefactions and art collecting.
Little note was taken of the fact that she had completed two years of high school and a three-month business course.
She joined Time magazine as a researcher in business news in 1954, later becoming chief researcher for Time-Life Books and for the corporate development staff at Time.
She was active in business and philanthropic circles, served as president of the Advertising Club of Westchester in 1984 and was a member of the board of Sales and Marketing Executives of Westchester.
