She charted how the business evolved from one dominated by major corporations to one controlled by the nationalized companies in the 1970's.
The family members moved often, always within the borough, as did their carpet business.
She was helping run the business on a stretch of Third Avenue that had seen better days, when she became active in civic affairs.
She closed the carpet business several years ago to devote herself full time to her community work.
Ms. Stern lent Ms. Rostenberg $1,000 to start her rare-book business and eventually joined her as partner.
Ordained at 50 after a career as a personnel executive in private business, Mrs. Wofford became a full-time minister at the church, doing pastoral work and acting as a liaison officer with other church organizations.
''
        But Ms. Messick knew little about the newspaper business and refused to learn about it, saying it might spoil her imagination.
Ms. Messick changed her name to Dale after she encountered discrimination against women entering the newspaper cartooning business.
''She loved to talk about the business and what was going on behind the scenes, and she knew everything about shoes,'' Ms. Mirabella said.
She also ran a prosperous country ham business and in later years operated a restaurant out of her home.
She built the company into a $6 million business before selling it in 1969.
It is Connoisseur Society, not Connoisseur, and it remains in business.
      

        Mary T. Washington, a bookkeeper who in the 1920's began methodically surmounting racial barriers in business to become the first African-American woman to be a certified public accountant and the head of one of the largest black-owned accounting firms in the nation, died on July 2 at a nursing home in Chicago.
Inspired by Mr. Wilson, Ms. Washington earned her bachelor's degree in business from Northwestern University in 1941.
Her first business partner, Hiram Pittman, once described it as an ''Underground Railroad'' for aspiring black C.P.A.
Ms. Sosenko became her business manager and the two traveled, lived and collected art together for 23 years.
She emerged as the one-name Hildegarde after an audition with Gus Edwards, the impresario, who suggested she lose her surname.Sosenko became her business manager and the two traveled, lived and collected art together for 23 years.
She received bachelor's and master's degrees from Peabody College of Nashville in the early 1960's while playing Amateur Athletic Union basketball for Nashville Business College.

        Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1 at her home in Manhattan.
She was not encouraged to attend college but graduated as an adult from the Pennsylvania School of Horticulture for Women (now part of Temple University) in 1954, when she started her own greenhouse business.
More than a half century later, Ms. Settle recalled ''the brave Christmas dinner of 1930'' when she and her parents were living with her grandmother ''because the bottom had dropped out of the coal business.
Through much of the Depression, Ms. Yard's mother, who ran a mail-order business selling imported Chinese goods, was the family's sole support.
He ran a nonhunting safari business; their marriage ended in divorce.
On May 30, 1965, Ms. Jones became the first black to graduate from the University of Alabama in its 134 years of existence, earning a degree in business management with a B-plus average.
To get an accredited degree, she applied to the University of Alabama's School of Commerce and Business Administration and was admitted as a junior.
The business was renamed Hunt/Pucci Associates three years after Ms. Pucci joined the company.
Much later, when a business associate of Mr. Haupt asked what she wanted as a wedding present, she said orchids, and orchids she got -- 13 tubs of cymbidiums from England.
      

        R. Gaynor McCown, the executive director of the Teaching Commission, a bipartisan advocacy group of leaders in business, government, philanthropy and education, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
After receiving a master's in business administration in 2000, she was the senior vice president for business development at Edison Schools, an operator of commercial charter schools, when Mr. Gerstner recruited her for the Teaching Commission.
After receiving a master's in business administration in 2000, she was the senior vice president for business development at Edison Schools, an operator of commercial charter schools, when Mr. Gerstner recruited her for the Teaching Commission.
Second, it divorces the stuffing from the bird, sparing cooks the nasty business of having to root around in the clammy interior of an animal.
Ms. Hays, who joined The Times in 1986, covered business news for the last eight years, writing on subjects from magazine publishing to the food and beverage industry to advertising.
