Miss Lee's performances at Basin Street East in Manhattan beginning in 1959 were credited by Newsweek with ''single-handedly reviving the supper club business.
As she told the writer Michael Gross for his book ''Model: The Ugly Business of Beautiful Women'' (Morrow, 1995), she moved into a Methodist rooming house for women, for $13.50 a week, and signed with Harry Conover's agency.
She remembered designing her first dress in her early teens, although, she said, she never particularly wanted or intended to be in the fashion business.
Within a short time, the Radleys opened a small tailoring business with Miss Trigère's brother, Robert.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
Although new and younger designers gradually replaced her at the top of the fashion hierarchy, and a number of stores that had been important customers went out of business, Miss Trigère continued to design collections and to take part in fashion press weeks until 1994.
She closed her ready-to-wear business at that time, partly because several of her principal accounts went into bankruptcy, owing her money.
Despite her sophistication, she never lost a sense of delight and wonder at the friendships she enjoyed with many of the illustrious names in the fashion, arts, business and political worlds.
She remembered designing her first dress in her early teens, although, she said, she never particularly wanted or intended to be in the fashion business.
Within a short time, the Radleys opened a small tailoring business with Miss Trigère's brother, Robert.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
Although new and younger designers gradually replaced her at the top of the fashion hierarchy, and a number of stores that had been important customers went out of business, Miss Trigère continued to design collections and to take part in fashion press weeks until 1994.
She closed her ready-to-wear business at that time, partly because several of her principal accounts went into bankruptcy, owing her money.
Despite her sophistication, she never lost a sense of delight and wonder at the friendships she enjoyed with many of the illustrious names in the fashion, arts, business and political worlds.
Her contributions to the convertible business, which was sold to Krause's Furniture in 1993, were usually anonymous.
''
        Miss LeNoire's life coincided with glittering moments in show business.
Having molded dozens of top-flight soloists, she also became an important power broker in the music business.
Her contributions to the convertible business, which was sold to Krause's Furniture in 1993, were usually anonymous.
If a business prospers and the loan is repaid -- as more than 98 percent are -- then a larger loan is made available.
But she plowed her profits back into the business.
She liked to keep things simple, as when she taught business management skills to women involved in cooking and selling food on the streets.
After moving to Montreal, Mrs. Spiegel and her husband ran a business making purses and other leather goods.
Ms. Fertel came to the food business with no restaurant experience and even less culinary training.
She ignored advice from her lawyer and banker when she bought her first restaurant, and she kept the cumbersome name even as the business grew far beyond New Orleans.
After starting in a three-martini world, Ms. Fertel's business thrived through both the carbo-loading and fat-fearing eras and now benefits from the new appetite for protein, particularly in the form of hulking steaks dripping butter.
In an interview with New Orleans magazine in 1997, she insisted that the beef business was virtually impervious to health trends.
''I don't think society should be in the business of killing people,'' she said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1986.
She had a master's degree in business administration and had become a highly regarded management consultant with McKinsey & Company, which she had to leave in 1985 after her health deteriorated.
She applied her business expertise to the foundation.
She received a bachelor's degree in economics from Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif., and a master's degree in business administration from Stanford.
After the couple divorced in 1962, she revived her show business career, appearing in television variety shows, cabaret productions and, briefly, on the New York stage in an all-black version of ''Born Yesterday.
She marshaled children in strollers, including her own four sons, to press the case that Greenwich Village's only significant park had no business being a bus turnaround, much less being cut in half by a four-lane road.
Her twin sister, Pauline Esther, known as Popo, followed 17 minutes afterward, just as she would later follow her into the advice business.
Her twin sister, Pauline Esther, known as Popo, followed 17 minutes afterward, just as she would later follow her into the advice business.
Her fortunes changed again in 1974 when Bing Crosby asked her to appear with him at a show marking his 50th anniversary in show business.
Ms. Knapp graduated with honors from Brown University and worked as a reporter for The Boston Business Journal before joining at The Phoenix, where she was a features writer and later the lifestyle editor.
Another sibling, Gail, did not venture into show business.
Her fortunes changed again in 1974 when Crosby asked her to appear with him at a show marking his 50th anniversary in show business.

        Dorle Jarmel Soria, who was a co-founder of Angel Records in the course of her long and varied career in the classical music business, died on July 7 at her home in Manhattan.
She married Leonard Stegman, who was in the costume jewelry business.
The business brought her into contact with leading industrialists and politicians, and fueled rumors, vigorously denied by Mrs. Olmedo, linking her romantically to several Mexican presidents.
At 19, she married Sol Goldman, who had bought his first building at 17 and whom she urged to leave his family grocery business in Brooklyn and plunge full time into the world of New York real estate.
In the United States she became a real estate broker while continuing her design business.
''
        After The World went out of business and was merged with The New York Telegram, she continued to write for the paper until 1949.
''
        After The World went out of business and was merged with The New York Telegram, she continued to write for the paper until 1949.
She took a job as a secretary and movie booker in a relative's film distribution business.
'' Her parents, Charles and Gladys, inherited the business, the Boston Store.
Several years later, she took on Dr. Edgar F. Berman, a member of the Democratic Party's committee on national priorities, who claimed that women's ''raging hormonal imbalance'' made them unfit for executive positions in business and politics.
''The whole business is dumb,'' she told one interviewer.
That ability caught the attention of Manolo Paredes, a prominent Spanish actor, and Ramón Zarzoso, the flamenco maestro, both of whom helped her early in her show business career.
List, from Fall River, Mass., who made his family's grocery the basis of a business empire that eventually included RKO Theaters.
There Mr. Doerr oversaw the revival of his family's mining business.
A black woman in a business often dominated by white men, Ms. Carroll's career included several theatrical milestones and a consistent sense of activity and ambition.
The Straus family used the money it received for its own conservation easement to convert its farm into an organic operation, a move that saved it from the unprofitable co-op milk market and made it possible for the Strauses to stay in business by selling more profitable products.
