Miss Dache's husband, Jean Despres, an executive at Coty Inc., the fragrance and cosmetics house, was retiring and she decided to close her business.
At her death, Ms. Vale led Vale Consultants, a public relations business.
At 15, Ruby entered show business as a chorus girl, first dancing in speakeasies and soon advancing to Broadway and touring stints in the Ziegfeld Follies and other revues.
Friends said she was looking forward to her mission and had already approached American business people and universities about addressing Gambia's poverty and illiteracy.
At 15, Ruby entered show business as a chorus girl, first dancing in speakeasies and soon advancing to Broadway and touring stints in the Ziegfeld Follies and other revues.
In 1931 Sister Mildred was put in charge of the Shakers' jelly and jam industry and candy-making business.
In 1960 she was chosen trustee of the community, overseeing business and financial matters.

       Lily Mae Lassiter Foregger, whose family business, the Foregger Company, manufactured anesthesia equipment and other medical supplies, died of respiratory complications on Feb. 14 at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin.
She was 89 years old and lived in Waterbury Center, Vt.
        Lily Mae Lassiter Foregger, whose family business, the Foregger Company, manufactured anesthesia equipment and other medical supplies, died of respiratory complications on Feb. 14 at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin.

       Adele Rosenfeld Meyer, who was active in New York civic affairs and helped run a Manhattan poultry business, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. She was 92 years old and had lived in Portland since 1977.
Adele Rosenfeld Meyer, who was active in New York civic affairs and helped run a Manhattan poultry business, died Thursday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. She was 92 years old and had lived in Portland since 1977.
Mrs. Meyer operated the New York office until 1951, when Mr. Meyer died and the company went out of business.
Later that year Mrs. Sulzberger, a prime mover in setting up a program that let high school students alternate classroom studies with store and business jobs, received an award from the New York City Board of Education; it cited her as ''an outstanding friend of cooperative education.
Mr. Ochs introduced his daughter to other worlds - the pleasures of walking, the mysteries of the newspaper business and delight in the ideas of other people.
When she was older, she was often a guest at luncheons her father gave for figures in business, the professions or politics.
From 1980 to 1982 she was director of the foreign investment development program for the New York Governor's Council on International Business.
In 1966 she and her husband, Andrew Reis, moved to Evanston, where Ms. Reis began a catering business.
''She showed the world that you didn't have to be a man to be a great cook, and she was so generous in advancing women in the restaurant business.
She attended the Brown Business College and the American Institute of Banking and worked as a secretary for Barclay's Bank in Manhattan until she met and married Mr. Hogan in 1936.
Mrs. Pons was in charge of the designs and Mr. Pons, who died in 1959, took care of the business side of the firm.
Mrs. Weil, aware that the bakery business was perilous in the Depression, sought a way to put Melba toast on the family table.
The business grew, with Melba toast's remaining the bellwether.
The business was sold to Arnold Bakeries in 1985.

       Margaret T. Hance, a supporter of business who presided over eight years of explosive growth as Phoenix's first female Mayor, died of cancer on Sunday.
Margaret T. Hance, a supporter of business who presided over eight years of explosive growth as Phoenix's first female Mayor, died of cancer on Sunday.
Miss Dumm began her career in 1915 as an editorial cartoonist for The Columbus (Ohio) Monitor, which has since gone out of business.
'' It was distributed by the George Matthew Adams Syndicate, which went out of business in the 1940's.
She died of breast cancer after a five-year battle with the disease, her business partner, Paul Cavaco, said.
Fast-talking and irrepressibly enthusiastic, Ms. Keeble had reached the level in her business where she had become that rare public-relations executive who did not return journalists' phone calls.
Her brothers were Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, who built the family-owned business into a large, diversified health care company, and J. Seward Johnson, whose will was the subject of prolonged litigation in Manhattan.
She died of breast cancer after a five-year battle with the disease, her business partner, Paul Cavaco, said.
Fast-talking and irrepressibly enthusiastic, Ms. Keeble had reached the level in her business where she had become that rare public-relations executive who did not return journalists' phone calls.
In 1946, the father, then a clothing manufacturer, advanced money for the sons, fresh out of wartime service, to go into business for themselves.
Earlier in her career she was a business manager for several symphony orchestras including that of the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Obtaining a second master's degree, from the Prince School of Business at Simmons College, she became an employment supervisor for Jordan Marsh, the Boston department store.
She also won critical praise as Sally Field's mother in the 1979 film ''Norma Rae'' and again in 1981 as a business executive in Wendy Wasserstein's play ''Isn't It Romantic.
It went out of business in 1982.
Mrs. Korey died of a heart attack during dinner, said her business partner, Allen Kay.
A native New Yorker, Mrs. Lichtenstein graduated with a bachelor of business administration degree cum laude, from the City College of New York.
She was disturbed to see this quality going out of show business, and she sometimes talked of forming a troupe - she still thought of it as a vaudeville act long after there were no more vaudeville theaters where it could play - through which she could instill the old discipline of trouping in-promising young performers.
She was disturbed to see this quality going out of show business, and she sometimes talked of forming a troupe - she still thought of it as a vaudeville act long after there were no more vaudeville theaters where it could play - through which she could instill the old discipline of trouping in promising young performers.
Her store, established a few months after her arrival in New York, originally sold china and silver but evolved later into a retail jewelry business.
Her husband went into the food business and became chairman of Hartog Foods International.
She believed 'show business' was 'show love.
She first worked in the city Department of Parks and Recreation before starting her own business.
She covered the Nuremberg trials before writing about the United Nations and switching to business news until her retirement in 1968.
Ms. Shapiro had practiced business law with her husband, Robert, in Hackensack, N.J., since 1983.
Ms. Byrn graduated from Wellesley College and received a degree in 1974 from the Harvard Business School, where she was a Loeb Rhodes Fellow.
Frequently she sang in churches and at clubs, and learned about show business by watching movies and imitating singers and dancers.
She graduated from Columbia Law School in 1936 and from Columbia Business School, where she received a master's degree in public accounting, in 1939.
The colorful types had a passionate love for the business, not just for the money.
Today, it seems to me, it's strictly a big business, based on dollars and cents.
She was a graduate of Smith College and did graduate work in business administration at Baruch College of the City University of New York.
But the awful thing about the whole bloody era was that whether you answered or didn't, cooperated or not, you were dead in the business.
