She remained president of the business until 1979, when Random House acquired it.
The cause was cancer, said Murray Schapiro, her business manager.
She was married for 58 years to Irving Kobrin, a business executive, who died in 1990.
She gave another reason for staying single: "Actresses have no business marrying.
"  A Comeback at 60
        In 1971, 30 years after she had retired from show business, Miss Keeler starred on Broadway in a revival of the 1925 musical "No, No, Nanette.
" The show, which ran for 871 performances, was among the season's surprise hits and won warm critical notices for its star, whose return to show business at the age of 60 was hailed one of the most remarkable show business comebacks in years.
" The show, which ran for 871 performances, was among the season's surprise hits and won warm critical notices for its star, whose return to show business at the age of 60 was hailed one of the most remarkable show business comebacks in years.
Before founding her business in 1969, Miss Collins was vice president of sales promotion for the Stern Brothers department store chain, a division of the Allied Stores Corporation.
She had also served on the boards of Stratford Hall Plantation in Virginia and the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif.
        A native of Dallas, she was a member of a prominent business family in Texas as the daughter of Kenneth Murchison.
Mr. Schaffer's ancestors founded the business in Kiev in 1851.
The business moved to Paris after the Russian revolution and later resettled in New York.
Surviving are two sons, Peter and Paul, both of Manhattan, who together with a grandson, Mark, run the business.
Anthony Burgess, reviewing her short-story collection "Nobody's Business" for The New York Times Book Review in 1971, wrote: "She is intelligent, economical, poignant, highly contemporary.
Known for Her Stories
        Although Ms. Gilliatt wrote five novels, including "A State of Change" (1968) and "The Cutting Edge" (1979), she was best known for her stories, collected in "Come Back if It Doesn't Get Better" (1969), "Nobody's Business" (1972), "Splendid Lives" (1978), "Quotations From Other Lives" (1982) and "They Sleep Without Dreaming" (1985).
The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, said Tom Costello, a friend and business associate.
They and a third partner, F. Werner Hamm, each risked $1,000 in 1946 to start a business.
In 1927, she married Jack Hausman, whose family fortune derived from the textile business.
After graduating as the valedictorian at Erasmus Hall High School, she worked at a blouse company, then opened her business.
For nearly 65 years, Miss Merrell operated her business, Elinor Merrell Antiques, in several different shops on the East Side of Manhattan and since 1981, from her apartment on East 78th Street.
The cause was heart failure, said her son, Joseph, a professor in the Harvard School of Business Administration.
While pursing her career, she studied psychoeducation at Temple University and not-for-profit management at Columbia University's School of Business.
Fortune magazine twice named her as one of the top 10 women in business in the 1970's.
She was educated at the American Secretarial and Business College in Wichita.
In 1936, Mrs. Draper established her business under her own name.
She and her husband, Samuel, founded the business in 1948.
When their parents retired, the children took over the business on Madison Avenue.
She took an interest in the business and sat in on family discussions guiding the growth of the company, said her grandson, Mark Shwayder.
She took an interest in the business and sat in on family discussions guiding the growth of the company, said her grandson, Mark Shwayder.
Before she established the business Ms. Kessler served for a year as an analyst for the Foreign Economic Administration, a Federal agency, conducting studies of postwar industrialization in Ethiopia and China.
Throughout the 50's and 60's, the Eckarts established themselves as among the most versatile and productive theatrical designers in the business, often working on costumes and lighting as well as sets.

        Liza Anne Bosworth, a partner in a Manhattan law firm, died on Oct. 18 in San Francisco, where she was on a business trip.
Fenced with barbed wire and guarded, Rough Point was part of her inheritance from her father, known as Buck, who was president of the American Tobacco Company and had other extensive business interests.

        Charlotte O'Keefe Pepe, head of Chemicolloid Laboratories of Garden City Park, L.I., died on Thursday while attending a business meeting in Paris.
Born in Pittsfield, Mass., Mrs. Luke, whose original name was Mary Munger, graduated from Berkshire Business School and worked in advertising in New York, and later for a documentary film company and RKO Studios in Hollywood.
During her career in show business she sang using the stage name Marian Bruce.
Mrs. Tondel graduated from Wheelock College in Boston and was an artist in the Boston area for many years, maintaining a graphic arts business.
It became one of the early American traders doing business with the People's Republic of China.
Mrs. Alexander began her career in publishing in Philadelphia and later moved to Manhattan, where she entered the advertising business.
