Millicent Carey McIntosh was born on Nov. 30, 1898, in Baltimore, the daughter of Anthony Morris Carey, who ran a machinery supply business, and the former Margaret Cheston Thomas, both active Quakers.
In the mid-1980's, Ms. DeWitt left the music business and worked with Mr. Weber to cast and produce print advertising campaigns for fashion companies like Ralph Lauren, Gianni Versace and Calvin Klein.
But Mr. Zigun defends displaying those who are known in the sideshow business as freaks.
People from business and publishing and advertising and popular culture may have been starting to mix in society late in her career, but they never made it into ''Jennifer's Diary,'' where the exclusivity of prewar family background was remorselessly maintained.
Peter Kenward, a cavalry officer who worked in his family brewery business, in 1932 and was divorced from him 10 years later.
A woman running what was then often a man's business, Mrs. Buck pushed racks around the bakery floor, rode to the stores in the cabs of her trucks and dealt with unions daily.
Her family ran a profitable business importing and exporting dried foods.
With Mrs. Freedman's father devoting most of his time to Jewish studies, the business was run by her mother.
Ms. Letheren was stricken while speaking at an alumni banquet Wednesday night at the Schulich School of Business at York University.
When Mrs. Colbert retired in 1991, she turned over the reins of her company, which remains in business under her name, to her longtime associate, Agnes Eisenberger.
She used the last name Lawry for the rest of her life, though she married Stanley Englander, who was in the wholesale meat business, in 1957.

        Peggy Converse, a character actress whose seven-decade career in show business included films, television and more than 100 roles in more than 1,000 theaters, died on March 2 at her home in Los Angeles.
She joined the editorial staff at Business Week, where her first husband, Glenn Griswold, was the editor and publisher.
She sang in the New York City Labor Chorus; her business cards bore the logo of the union shop that printed them, as did her son's bar mitzvah invitations.
Mrs. Levin, the widow of Philip J. Levin, a lawyer and real estate developer, took over her husband's business after his death in 1971.
She left show business in the 1950's and in 1953 married her fifth husband, Septimus Rutherford, chief steward for the Moore-McCormack Lines.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.
In a letter to her on her 100th birthday, Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said: ''For half a century, as the representative of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women at the United Nations, you actively promoted the concerns of women.
She initially joined his firm to complete his contracts but stayed to carry on and expand the business, which concentrated on large interior design projects for hotels.
Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
There are three things about this money business: asking, saying 'no,' or saying 'yes.
Then, in the 1980's, she essentially checked out of the music business for 16 years when she moved with her husband to his hometown, Detroit, became a homemaker and started a family.
In the drug operations, Sergeant O'Reilly saw what clearly seemed a structured business.
The Hassler's history reaches back to Albert Hassler, who started the business when he bought a small boarding house in Naples, which was named the Hassler Hotel by 1870.
The Wirths joined the business in 1915, when Oscar Wirth started to run the Hassler and the Eden hotels.
Ms. Findlay was a graduate of the Dana Hall School, Goucher College and the Harvard-Radcliffe Business Program.
Mrs. Graham had been attending a business conference in Sun Valley.
The heiress agreed to his terms -- that they return to Florida and his father's dairy business, provided, she remembered, that ''I could live with only two dresses because I had to understand that he would never take anything from my father or be involved with him and we would live on what he made.
The Business of News
        Mrs. Graham's resolve on editorial questions often contrasted with indecisiveness on business matters.
The Business of News
        Mrs. Graham's resolve on editorial questions often contrasted with indecisiveness on business matters.
And her business career began in a time when selling contraceptives to the unmarried was illegal in Germany, as were sexually explicit materials.
As staid German attitudes mellowed, her frank, humorous nature and business acumen gained her a degree of respect.
Most recently, her business, ranked 79th among publicly traded German companies, was said to be taking a fresh look at the American market.
And to counter the business's invasion of gasoline stations, German church leaders were envisioning setting up chapels along highways.
''What I am happiest about,'' she told the German news agency DPA that year, ''is that we have in the last 50 years succeeded not only greatly in business, but also in being accepted in society.
In 1931, she and her husband, Lawrence M. Gelb, a manufacturer of chemical products, traveled to France in search of new business opportunities and came upon a small company, Mury, that was producing a new kind of hair-coloring preparation called Clairol.
After college Miss Welty told her parents that she wanted to be a writer, but she said that her father insisted that she ''learn something to fall back on'' to support herself, so she took advertising courses at the Columbia University School of Business.
Intrigued by the inscription, she painstakingly researched his life and found how he, a complex man with a deep sense of honor, bought his freedom and built a home, a family and his own successful business as a skilled weaver and tanner.
She was 39 and lived on the Upper West Side and in Rowayton, Conn.
        Ms. Cohen, a native of Milwaukee and a Smith College graduate with an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School, was a sailor and skier.
Mrs. Milstein offered her savings from the school job to cover most of the $75,000 down payment, and Mr. Milstein bought the business.
Mrs. Milstein continued as a librarian until 1973, helping her husband with the business on weekends.
In 1974, Mrs. Milstein expanded the business to include children's clothing.
The business, which went public in 1983, later added a men's division as well as linen and sportswear divisions.
The daughter of a husband-and-wife vaudeville team, Ms. Freeman was literally born into show business, growing up on the song-and-dance circuit.
She did her bit to help the act -- she took to the stage for the first time at the age of 2 -- but the family business eventually failed.
She started her show business career as a big band singer.
''
        Mrs. Minnich was born in Bronxville, N.Y., and worked in her family's woodworking business.
It also was an advocate in the winning fight to persuade Congress to pass the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, which required banks to invest in neighborhoods where they did business.
When her father retired, he gave shares in the business to his three sons-in-law.
With her older sister, Hattie Gold, and her younger sister, Anne Federman, Mrs. Schwartz grew up working in the business begun as a pushcart in 1914 by their father.
Mrs. Schwartz met her first husband, Max Pulvers, through work, and he, like the husbands of the other sisters, joined the business.
The feistiest of the sisters, Mrs. Schwartz was often at odds with her father as to how the business should be run, and finally left to open her own successful store, popularly known as Ida's, in Massapequa, N.Y.
''
        But her work was not limited to show business.
Among the favorites she recalled were comedies in the late 1920's that starred Bebe Daniels as a wisecracking flapper; ''Million Dollar Legs'' (1932), with W. C. Fields; and the Marx Brothers's ''Monkey Business'' (1931) and ''Duck Soup'' (1933).
Her father moved off the farm to become the sheriff of Hidalgo County, Tex., where he made his wife and only child deputies so they could travel with him over the vast territory on official business.
She added props, from canes to matador capes, and persuaded a friend in the fabric business to develop nylon pompoms as a more versatile substitute for paper ones.
Mr. Dannheisser sold his business in 1981, just as the East Village art scene was taking off and contemporary-art collecting became a very competitive sport.
She graduated from Huntington High School and Huntington Business College, according to Huntington Quarterly, a local journal.
More than 35,000 sales representatives and directors and, in some years, professors from the Harvard Business School, paid to attend the education sessions at her seminars in Dallas.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
The business opened with nine saleswomen and her 20-year-old son, Richard Rogers, a sales representative for Prudential Life Insurance, as financial administrator.
Orders are paid for with cashier's checks, money orders or credit cards, and consultants are encouraged to conduct their own business in the same way.
Mrs. Ash's third husband, Mel Ash, who was in the wholesale gift business, died in 1980.
More than 35,000 sales representatives and directors and, in some years, professors from Harvard Business School, paid to attend the education sessions at her seminars in Dallas.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
The business opened with nine saleswomen and her 20-year-old son, Richard Rogers, a sales representative for Prudential Life Insurance, as financial administrator.
Mrs. Ash's third husband, Mel Ash, who was in the wholesale gift business, died in 1980.
Mrs. Wexner, with a professional background in the clothing business, joined her son, Leslie H. Wexner of Columbus, when he incorporated the Limited in 1963, as did her husband, Harry, and her daughter, Susan.
Today, that arrangement is a $250 million business.
Though she acted as a child and trained in drama at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, Ms. Van Acker made her career in business.
''
        When Ms. Soltysik left the consulting business, she and Ms. Van Acker bought the old train station in Water Mill, on Long Island, and eventually turned it into a restaurant, the Station Bistro.

        Frances Elizabeth Holberton, one of the first computer programmers, whose contributions to software over the years ranged from an early data-sorting program to helping develop the business programming language Cobol, died on Dec. 8 at a nursing home in Rockville, Md.
In 1959, she was a crucial member of the committee that developed Cobol, or Common Business Oriented Language.
The committee worked for six months on the standards and specifications for a business programming language, which was introduced in 1960.
The committee's work was seen as a temporary solution to the growing problem created by the increasing need for a standard programming language for handling business data at a time when computing was moving into the mainstream of the corporate world.
But it gave computing a way to handle and visually describe business data, making it easier to program business problems on computers.
But it gave computing a way to handle and visually describe business data, making it easier to program business problems on computers.
