Working under the business name of Elsie May Gross Interiors, she specialized in designing for residences throughout the New York metropolitan region.
Savoir-Faire Was Helpful
        Ms. Jablonski became the Journal's oil editor and "the most influentual oil journalist of her time," as Daniel Yergin wrote in his history of the oil business, "The Prize" (Simon & Schuster, 1990).
Admiral Hopper made several vital contributions to the development of modern computing systems, including helping invent the Cobol programming language, which is still in widespread use in business.
In 1986, Ms. Samuel became director of the Office of School and Business Linkages to develop initiatives that involve people from the private sector and government with students, teachers and administrators.
She was active in the real estate business and was a founder of WRDC-TV in Raleigh, N.C. She was also an elder in the First Presbyterian Church.
Denied the Ultimate Goal
        Although Mrs. Yawkey's business adviser and presumptive heir, John Harrington, the president of the JRY Corporation, which holds the Yawkey Red Sox shares, was often mistaken for the real power behind the franchise, those close to the club insisted that Mr. Harrington was merely the prime minister and Mrs. Yawkey was always the queen.
While she had access to politicians and business leaders, she also worked to reach out to the public schools where she worked.
Last July she was the only university representative named to the President's Commission on Environmental Quality, a group that will recommend ways to slow the destruction of the environment without restricting business excessively.
Mrs. Hopwood was advertising sales manager of Barron's, the business weekly, in the 1970's.
Mrs. Hopwood was an alumna of Finch College and earned a master's degree in business from New York University.
She was also president of Vencura Ltd., a Manhattan-based company that rehabilitates landmark buildings and has been doing work in Vail, Colo. She had also managed a Chinese catering business.
Her husband, Milton, who was a perfume business executive, is dead.
" Organized Drama Critics Circle
        Although not a performer, she played many other roles in show business.
While still a senior, she started managing the Provincetown Players, continuing till the troupe went out of business.
" Organized Drama Critics Circle
        Although not a performer, she played many other roles in show business.
While still a senior, she started managing the Provincetown Players, continuing till the troupe went out of business.
"I introduced them to their wives," she told a reporter in 1970 on the occasion of her first and only marriage, to Palen Flagler, a business executive.
Her husband of 35 years, E. J. Audi, who ran a furniture and carpet business, died in 1968.
After graduating from Brown University, she earned a master's degree in business administration at Columbia.
Financed by government, business and private donations, the committee presents concerts, exhibitions and lectures, drawing audiences from throughout Westchester County.
When he died in 1966, she expanded her knitting hobby into a full-time business.
Before enlisting in the Naval Reserve in 1942, she served as business manager of the Association of the Junior Leagues of America for 14 years.

        Gillian Barr Rudd, who ran a marketing firm and was a leader in national efforts to foster business ownership by women, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital in Washington.
She was the chairwoman of the National Foundation for Women Business Owners and vice president of the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs.
In 1988 she was was a lead witness at Congressional hearings that led to the Omnibus Women's Business Ownership Act of 1991.
The act created the National Women's Business Council to promote businesswomen's access to contracts, purchase orders, credit, statistics and managerial and technical assistance.
She worked for several years in the business office at Teachers College at Columbia University but, after taking her vows in the Order of St. Ursuline in 1939, she returned to New Rochelle to teach at the Ursuline School.

        Frances Brice Stark, Fanny Brice's daughter, who became a philanthropist and a well-known figure in show business circles, died on Sunday at her home in Los Angeles.
Together they made contributions to many charitable causes and were the hosts of many social and business events.
In 1980 Mrs. Sherman was appointed to the White House Conference on Small Business, and in 1982 she became the first Connecticut woman to receive the National Award for Small Business Person from the United States Business Administration.
In 1980 Mrs. Sherman was appointed to the White House Conference on Small Business, and in 1982 she became the first Connecticut woman to receive the National Award for Small Business Person from the United States Business Administration.
In 1980 Mrs. Sherman was appointed to the White House Conference on Small Business, and in 1982 she became the first Connecticut woman to receive the National Award for Small Business Person from the United States Business Administration.
Born to a poor immigrant family in New York City before the turn of the century, she started working at odd jobs when she was 8 years old, and eventually built a multimillion-dollar dress business.
In no time, she had her name on the door, and then, in partnership with a man she met in school and later married, built a dress business that in its best years grossed $10 million.
"
        Meanwhile, the fellow who took her to the football game was in the silk business and she figured that if she worked in a dress house where they used silk she might see him more often.
She and Leon Livingston were married in 1930 and in 1933, in the midst of the Great Depression, they went into business together.
Mr. Livingston handled the business aspects.
As their business prospered, Miss Parnis hired other designers, but she remained the fashion editor.
" A Brief Closing
        When Miss Parnis's husband died in 1962, she went out of business.
' Well, I got back into business so fast, I can't tell you.
But as her business prospered, she quickly learned how to design her life as well as she designed dresses.
May Cohen dropped out of high school at the age of 15 and enrolled in a business school to study typing, stenography, bookkeeping and commercial law.
The Rudins also were the first business sponsors of the New York City Marathon.
Mrs. Rudin is survived by her sons Jack and Lewis, respectively the chairman and the president of the family business, both residents of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
After graduating from the College of Mount St. Vincent, she earned a master's degree in business education from the College of St. Rose.
Although her mother had discouraged Ms. Nelson from a show business career, a nun saw her potential and nudged her to Broadway.
Although her mother had discouraged Ms. Nelson from a show business career, a nun saw her potential and nudged her to Broadway.
Her brother Walstein C. Findlay Jr. established the Chicago branch in 1932, and she was involved in the business there since the early 1940's.
Mrs. Huttner, who was born in Brooklyn, started a business career as a millinery buyer for a department store.
"
        The actress was born in Manhattan to the former Virginia Wright and Albert J. Ford, a business executive.

        Edith Sable, a longtime civic leader who fostered voter participation and recruited public officials and business leaders to debate New York City's problems and future, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Mr. Stone and Mrs. Fulton divorced in 1975, and in 1980 she married Mr. Fulton, who had been the chief mining engineer in the Stone family gold and silver mining business, where she worked from 1974 to 1978.
They moved to New York, where he ran a floor-waxing service and studied business administration in night classes at City College.
