Over the next years, Mrs. Hafe, a gregarious woman with a wide circle of friends and a bulging file of telephone numbers, continually amazed Arab-American leaders and visiting Arab diplomats with the ease with which she could put them in touch with journalists and newscasters, many of whom were, in turn, equally amazed with the ease with which she could ferret out and secure them interviews with obscure Arab officials or Arab-American scholars, lawyers and business leaders.
She liked radio well enough, she said, until it occurred to her that by thinking and writing about it, she had become ''as dull and as intellectually sterile as everybody else in the radio business.
In it, she summed up in a few words her view of the newspaper business: ''We love newspapers the way a plain woman loves a charming, no-good husband.
Though less involved in the newspaper business than her grandfather, who founded the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain and United Press International, Ms. Scripps Davis maintained links to the publishing industry.

        Barbara Benson Crowther, a business manager of a law firm and a volunteer in mental health, died yesterday at her home in Palmyra, Va. She was 60 years old.
'' Bored with the business of fashion and chafing under her dictatorial boss, Diana Vreeland, Mrs. Rayner left Vogue and went in search of what William Rayner  called ''less ephemeral, more creative'' work.
''
        She was born in 1914 in Sommerfield, Fla., where her father, Paul O. Blackwell, was in business as a  farmer.
When she was 4, she and her mother moved to Baltimore while her father remained in Florida to run his business, commuting back and forth to Baltimore to visit his family.
While Ms. Fields, whose married name was Karp, concentrated on the television advertising, side of the business, others in her office also represented some of their clients for theatrical productions.
Mrs. Burnham, a large, imposing woman who had run her own real estate business and served as her husband's clerk during his nine years as town justice, was not intimidated.
They included the United States Council of International Business, the Financial Women's Association of New York and the International Fiscal Association.
When Mr. Roosevelt went into the insurance business, the couple bought a house and property in Framingham, Mass.
In November 1938, James Roosevelt left the Government and went to Hollywood to work in the movie business as an aide to Samuel Goldwyn.
Though Mrs. Harrington eventually started a tiny enterprise designing business cards, her main interest was her music, and her repertoire of solemn ballads like ''Somewhere Over the Rainbow,'' and patriotic hymns like ''America the Beautiful,'' quickly made her a redemptive presence in a gambling town.
In the capricious world of show business, she never enjoyed splashy success, but in the backwaters of her profession, where most singers, after all, spend their entire careers, Miss Cisyk, a tiny, slender woman with a smile as big as her heart, made her share of waves.
Both have been wildly popular among the 100 million far-flung Ukrainian expatriates and in Ukraine, where the woman who worked in the backwaters of American show business was regarded as a leading performer and is very much a household name.
      
Her father, Lee Eastman, was a prominent show business lawyer in New York and one of his clients, Jack Lawrence, wrote ''Linda'' for her in 1947 when she was 6.
In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
The extraordinary success that followed propelled Mr. Dilenschneider to the top of Hill & Knowlton, the world's largest public relations firm, and Ms. Connelly rose to become its first female executive vice president and head of worldwide business development.
''She had a great flair for the numbers side of the business, but saw the human implications of the numbers like no one I have ever known,'' said Daniel Yankelovich, a partner of Ms. Skelly at the opinion research firm that bore their names.
''Our clients loved her, and she loved the business.
Mario M. Cuomo's Business Advisory Board and the Warnaco Corporation.
Her friend and business partner, Millicent Safro, said the cause was an infection contracted during treatment for the flu.
It was the beginning of a remarkable partnership, and by the time Ms. Safro had helped Ms. Epstein organize the hoard of buttons the friends had backed into a business they knew nothing about.
As Ms. Epstein later recalled, the women, who had no real notion of opening a business, made their first sale when one of the store's former customers wandered in one day and bought six red buttons for a penny apiece in what may or may not have been a bargain: The women had no idea what any of their buttons were worth, but they soon made a point to find out, reading virtually everything ever written about buttons, which date to ancient Egypt but have been a collecting craze only since the Depression, and pumping experts in the field.
Business is business, however, and they made the best of it, purchasing a series of important collections, making two extensive buying trips abroad each year and making their store such a valuable resource it was a wonder how such celebrity regulars as Joan Bennett, Candice Bergen, Bill Blass, Oleg Cassini, Julie Christie, Claudette Colbert, Catherine Deneuve, Greta Garbo, Rose Kennedy, Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Ali MacGraw, Paloma Picasso, Sidney Poitier, Isabella Rossellini, Susan Sarandon, Brooke Shields, Carly Simon, William Styron and Tom Wolfe could have got by without them, not to mention Kermit the Frog.
Business is business, however, and they made the best of it, purchasing a series of important collections, making two extensive buying trips abroad each year and making their store such a valuable resource it was a wonder how such celebrity regulars as Joan Bennett, Candice Bergen, Bill Blass, Oleg Cassini, Julie Christie, Claudette Colbert, Catherine Deneuve, Greta Garbo, Rose Kennedy, Calvin Klein, Ralph Lauren, Ali MacGraw, Paloma Picasso, Sidney Poitier, Isabella Rossellini, Susan Sarandon, Brooke Shields, Carly Simon, William Styron and Tom Wolfe could have got by without them, not to mention Kermit the Frog.
Ms. Epstein, who is survived by two brothers, Mel and Sheldon Green, and a sister, Barbara Levin, all of Chicago, where Tender Buttons also has a store, made sure the business would survive her.
''She would burst in on legislators who were busy with other business, even if they were behind closed doors, even if they were in conference.
In the 1930's, long before Montana became a popular hideaway for show business stars, Miss Nolan and her husband, John McIntire, an actor whom she married in 1935, maintained a log cabin in the Rockies 3 miles from the Canadian border and 14 miles from the nearest mail drop.
''A singing actress of both wit and power, she finds bitter humor in the character's distorted sense of self: when she barks her outrageous demands to her lackeys, we see a show business monster who's come a long way from her roots.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
Her experiences, which became a case study for the Harvard Business School, exemplified how someone involved in social entrepreneurship could overcome  great odds.
''A very profitable business to be in,'' one was quoted as saying.

        Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn.
        She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems that began over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, the business office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, and of her sister June Carter Cash.
Under the law as it was passed in 1980, both spouses, in the event of a divorce, are enabled to share equitably in the assets that either or both of them have accumulated during the marriage, even if title to the property -- a house for instance, or a business -- is in the name of only one spouse.
The book is used in college undergraduate courses and business schools and was the basis for a television film of the same name starring Loretta Swit and Sam Waterston, broadcast by CBS in 1982 and 1985.
Her father, born a slave, built a fruit and vegetable business that lifted the family into the slim ranks of Boston's black upper middle class.

        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore.
Like her business acumen and her boundless good humor, her religious commitment seems to have come from her father, Frank, a Pennsylvania Railroad executive with a weakness for practical jokes and such a spiritual bent, his daughter later recalled, that ''he would pray all the way to work, and when I went with him, I would pray, too.
In a business world where women have had to pick their way through contradictory advice on how to dress for success, Sister Irene never had a wardrobe worry.
If the men she encountered were unaccustomed to dealing with a hard-driving business woman in a habit, Sister Irene, a raconteur with an impish sense of humor, knew how to put them at ease and rarely stopped there.
Her first big break in show business came in 1952 when she appeared on Arthur Godfrey's televised ''Talent Scout'' show.
'' Mrs. Carnegie took control of company operations after Mr. Carnegie's death in 1955 and developed the business into a multinational one with offices in 70 countries, 5 million graduates and $187 million in annual sales.
With her strawberry blond hair, gleaming smile and rich Oklahoma twang -- Mrs. Carnegie was a student of Mr. Carnegie as well as his wife -- she proved as big a success in business as he was in motivational speaking.
He later made her his business partner.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
''
        But Mrs. Carnegie put business before her personal writing and teaching interests.
It never took off financially, however, and her business instincts prevailed over her desire to offer a women-only alternative.
Mrs. Blumkin stood just 4 feet 10 inches in her prime, but her merchandising skills and daring as she made the long journey from an impoverished childhood in Russia to success led figures like Warren E. Buffett to rank her as a business giant.
''Put her up against the top graduates of the top business schools or chief executives of the Fortune 500 and, assuming an even start with the same resources, she'd run rings around them,'' Mr. Buffett said in 1984 soon after Berkshire Hathaway Inc. bought majority control of the Furniture Mart from Mrs. Blumkin.
She started her own furniture business with $500 she borrowed from a brother.
''It's important in charitable institutions as well as in business.
''
        Born in St. Louis, Ms. Frann began a career in show business as a child model.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Elysabeth Kleinhans, a lawyer who manages the real estate business with other family members.
Ms. Tighe said Mrs. Korein was ''always an object of fascination, certainly to women coming up in the business but even to men, because there was no one else of her gender who accomplished what she did when she did.
''She never lost her fascination with the business.
There was no shortage of money in her family; her grandfather, an officer in the Civil War, had founded a coal and lumber business that sustained the family very well.
After completing her secondary education, Miss Dalrymple moved to New York, studied secretarial skills at a business school and got a stenographer's job on Wall Street when she was only 16.
She did not leave the publicity business but pursued more producing ventures, among them ''Brighten the Corner'' (1945) and ''Burlesque'' (1946).
''
        Still, Mrs. Elianoff found such an enthusiastic market for her Luba Elianoff line of luxury linens that she soon had to move her business to her Broadway workroom, where a staff handled the sewing.
After her husband's death, she moved her business to Hunter, about 40 miles southeast of Albany, in 1974 and continued to be active until 1995.
With the burgeoning of the fragrance business in the 1960's and 70's, cosmetics companies became hot stocks and her advice was ardently sought.
To succeed in business, in finance, and in academics in only part of a life is truly an amazing thing.
''The family talk around the dinner table always concerned business,'' Miss Bishop said.
After she left the business, she still mixed up lipstick for herself, a red shade with a blue cast, and once offered the following beauty advice: ''Women should use makeup to accentuate their most attractive feature.
Mrs. Baker and Mr. Holzhauer were divorced in 1940, and seven years later she married Jacob Baker, a business executive, and they moved into the Chelsea Hotel.
