"
        Governor Ray a conservative in fiscal matters and was praised by a lobbyist in the aircraft industry as "the best friend business ever had.
Two years later, he retired from active business and the Lasker Foundation was set up.
Mrs. Heitman then directed President George Bush's Committee on Executive Exchange, which promoted close relations between the Government and private business through an exchange of executives.
From the 1940's to the 1970's Firenze House was the setting for social functions attended by Presidents, Government officials, diplomats and business executives.

        Dr. Celia Yeack-Scranton, a physical sciences researcher for the International Business Machines Corporation in San Jose, Calif., died on Monday at the Mission Oaks Hospital in Los Gatos, Calif. She was 42.
Mrs. Lebenthal, grieving, decided to stay in business.
Until his death at the age of 78 in 1985, she often collaborated with him on arts and business projects.
She entered the business world in 1947 when she converted a retail store in Cincinnati into a dance-supply business.
She entered the business world in 1947 when she converted a retail store in Cincinnati into a dance-supply business.

        Marie T. Mandry, who over 36 years in the advertising business rose from a secretary to senior vice president of Young & Rubicam in New York, died Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She reported on hamburger that was too fat, on warranties that were too lean, on gadgets that were too temperamental and on business ethics that she saw as seriously flawed.
She told an interviewer in 1977, "To me, it's easy because it's my business and I'm thrilled to say, 'Buy a Cadillac.
She was a graduate of the College of St. Rose and received a master's degree in business administration from Xavier University in Cincinnati.

        Mary Anne Devanna, an associate dean at the Columbia University Business School, died on Saturday at her home in Ardsley, N.Y. She was 55.
The cause was leukemia, said Maryann Hedaa, an associate professor at the business school.
Dr. Devanna earned her Ph.D. in human resources management from the Columbia Business School in 1982.
Dr. Devanna was born in Jersey City and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University in 1960 and a master's degree in business administration from the Columbia Business School in 1974.
Dr. Devanna was born in Jersey City and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University in 1960 and a master's degree in business administration from the Columbia Business School in 1974.
She entered the hotel business and worked in England, Bermuda, Florida and Nevada before settling in New Jersey.
Col. Kendall S. Bryant, the couple founded the Bryant Bureau, a Weston, Conn., business that helped families arrange weddings Colonel Bryant died in 1979 and she sold the business in 1989.
Col. Kendall S. Bryant, the couple founded the Bryant Bureau, a Weston, Conn., business that helped families arrange weddings Colonel Bryant died in 1979 and she sold the business in 1989.
In 1961 Ms. Shorell formed a business with a $1,500 investment and Dr. Shorell's cream -- marketed under the name Contour/35 -- as its first product.
The one-room business she founded in 1933 in Far Hills, N.J., evolved into the noted decorating firm of Parish-Hadley Associates, based in Manhattan, whose designs consistently exuded quality.
She called her business "Mrs. Henry Parish 2d Interiors" and placed it in Far Hills.
In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them.
She had preparation for the job: she had worked for a Philadelphia investment house while taking business courses at night and, the two men told her, she had another important qualification, common sense.
But in 1978, when she became chairwoman of the Women's Bank, she argued that there still was a place in the business world for banks that were operated specifically for female customers.
She went to work in Philadelphia and took evening courses in merchandising and business administration at the University of Pennsylvania.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
A lawyer who became the owner and operator of a business school in St. Louis, Miss Hickey was prominent in World War II as chairwoman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the national War Manpower Commission, from 1942 to 1945.
