"She always treated newcomers to the game as if they were one of the family, and she was a wonderful role model,"
        Danzig briefly turned professional in 1947 for an exhibition tour with Pauline Betz before switching her attention to a business career in which she also thrived.
Instead of wooing corporate clients with the traditional martini luncheon, the health-conscious Danzig booked weekly court time at a mid-Manhattan facility and supervised vigorous tennis matches among writers, editors and business executives.
It was only later that the series, which is still being replayed on cable and airline flights, became what the television business calls a classic.
The subsequent story is right out of the legends cherished in show business.
In a business notorious for typecasting, Miss Meadows quickly discovered that every producer wanted to keep  her in the kitchen.
She virtually retired from acting after her 1961 marriage to Robert Six, the  chairman of Continental Airlines, turning her attention to business activities and her family.
From that start, she built a custom stenciling business, adding a partner, Cile Lord, in 1960.
In 1984, Wall Lenk Corporation acquired the business and moved it to Kinston.
Mrs. Kambert later opened her own business as part of the custom house of Chez Ninon and, for a brief period, was associated with Saks Fifth Avenue.
She was a past president of the Federal Business Association in New York and  chairman of the Federal Regional Council.
Her guests included a cross-section of international society, business and the arts -- the Duchess of Windsor, Princess Grace, Elizabeth Taylor, Yves Saint Laurent, Oscar de la Renta and Andy Warhol.
Recipients of multimillion-dollar gifts from the foundation include the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Junior Museum and educational programs, the Columbia University Graduate School of Business, Cornell University, and Lenox Hill Hospital.
But in 1953, with her mother, Maria de los Angeles Ruiz,  in tow as her chaperone, Ms. Beltran moved to Mexico City with hopes of entering show business.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
"If I didn't do my own housework, then I have no business writing about it," she said.

        Helen Keane, a manager and producer who was one of the few women on the business side of jazz, died at Cabrini Hospice in New York on Monday.
Ms. Keane is best known for her business relationship with the pianist Bill  Evans, whom she represented from 1963 until his death in 1980.
In 1988, the trade publication Advertising Age named her to its "100 of the Best and Brightest Women in Advertising" list and in 1989, Business Week included her in its list of "Women in Corporate America to Watch.
Out of this grew her idea of a business that could offer expert personal care.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jonathan Estrin, who was also her longtime business partner.
She worked there until Mr. Solomon sold the business in 1992.
She had been assistant to the president and director of business development  for the firm's New York/ New Jersey metropolitan district.
"She was a pioneer in creating the field," said Mr. Webb, a business agent for United Scenic Artists,  the union that represents lighting, scenic and costume designers.
Mrs. Tyler and her husband, Edward J. Tyler Jr., started the business in 1933, when they and other members of their family bought a dairy farm in Highgate Springs.
The company publishes 27 trade, business and consumer newspapers, including Advertising Age, Crain's New York Business, Automotive News and Electronic Media, and owns a radio station in the  Florida Keys.
The company publishes 27 trade, business and consumer newspapers, including Advertising Age, Crain's New York Business, Automotive News and Electronic Media, and owns a radio station in the  Florida Keys.
In 1982, Mrs. Crain became a founding member of the Committee of 200, an organization consisting of the top 200 women business owners and chief executives in the country.
She felt strongly that someone's mortal remains would be better off studied by medical students than transformed into a profit center for those in the business of marketing and planning funerals.
Among her other books were "Kind and Unusual Punishment: The Prison Business" (1973), a study of American prisons, which she found wanting in almost everything except brutality; "A Fine Old Conflict" (1977), a memoir of her Communist days; "Poison Penmanship: The Gentle Art of Muckraking" (1979), and "The American Way of Birth" (1992), in which she accused doctors of doing too many Caesarean sections and of not paying enough attention to the possibilities  offered by midwifery.
In 1981, in her seventh decade in show business, the New York Times critic Frank Rich, praising her performance in the Broadway flop "A Talent for Murder," called her "a lady of piquant, irrepressible, ever-so-amusing common sense.
Her father was a mill owner and was also in the movie business.
A native of Vienna, she graduated from Mount Holyoke in 1943, received a Master of Business Administration degree from New York University in 1946 and a doctorate in education in 1971.

        Phyllis Pearsall, who created the famous ''A to Z'' maps of London by traversing more than 3,000 miles of roads throughout the city, died on Wednesday, her business, Geographers' A-Z Map Company, said today.
Her London map business grew to include maps of all sizes, maps of other British cities, and road atlases, but Mrs. Pearsall always said that her real love was painting.
Mrs. Pearsall wrote several books, including an account of her trips through Spain, a collection of short stories, a company history and a volume describing her business philosophy, in which she advocated generosity (''bonuses to everyone''), courtesy (''no aggressive selling'') and frugality (''Micawber housekeeping'').
Hamburger, who had an infectious personality that charmed both buyers and sellers, operated her own business, selling homes with enthusiastic concern for 37 years and becoming a well-known figure in Baltimore.
The designer, who did business with Mrs. Phillips for almost a half-century, added, ''She developed a special knowledge of who her customer was -- from the very first client, she knew what she was doing.
''
        And Mr. de la Renta called it ''the end of a whole era'' and Mrs. Phillips ''the last of the great ladies of retailing with a true grasp of the luxury business and a tremendous sense of quality.
There was never a time when she was not fascinated by fashion, Mrs. Phillips said in a 1983 interview on the 50th anniversary of her business.
Born Martha Rollins in Brooklyn, where her father had a shop called the Star that specialized in hand-tailored clothes and riding clothes, she asked to help in the business one day when she was 8.
''
        As her longtime manager, Mark Mordoh, noted yesterday, none of her friends were surprised that Miss Prowse was convinced that the same dedication and hard work that had brought her a successful show business career would lead to a victory over her cancer, discovered in 1994.
''
        As her longtime manager, Mark Mordoh, noted on Saturday, none of her friends were surprised that Miss Prowse was convinced that the same dedication and hard work that had brought her a successful show business career would lead to a victory over her cancer, discovered in 1994.

        Melanie Shroder Totenberg, who acted as business manager for her husband, the violinist Roman Totenberg, for five decades, died on Sunday at her summer home in Blue Hill, Maine.
Born in Hoboken, N.J., in 1906, the former Martha Schneider was a 19-year-old saleswoman in a Bay Shore bakery in 1925 when she married her boss, William Entenmann Jr., whose father had founded the business in Brooklyn in 1898.

        Julia Waldbaum, an effervescent personification of motherly concern, homey wisdom and business savvy who helped build a supermarket chain from a butter and egg store in Brooklyn, died in her sleep on Monday as her son held her hand in her apartment in Floral Park, Queens.
Both her parents were in the real estate business and each influenced her.

        Ruth Ratner Miller, a Cleveland business woman and civic leader, died on Tuesday at the Cleveland Clinic.
The district includes much of the Brooklyn waterfront in Red Hook, an area Ms. Dugan was dedicated to revitalizing through the establishment of open space and park land and the introduction of new business.
'' When Syd Pollock, the Clowns' owner (and a sometime business partner of Abe Saperstein, the owner of the clowning Harlem Globetrotters), decided he needed a woman on the Clowns to help attract fans, it was hardly surprising that he chose the 5-foot-7 1/2-inch, 148-pound St. Paul native who had been playing baseball with the boys since she was a girl and with the men ever since.
It was also her family money that enabled him to leave Fortune for The Partisan Review, where she worked as business manager.
Most recently, the foundation gave $250,000 for a room for the staff of the new Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street, and just last week she gave her annual Christmas lunch for more than 1,000 employees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
The idea was to generate good will, and eventually business, for the auction house.
The idea was to generate good will, and eventually business, for the auction house.
She prompted a national debate in 1989 with an article in the Harvard Business Review that asserted it cost companies more to employ women than men.
