Andrea Brett Morrison, known as Andy, was born in London on May 30, 1945, the daughter of an American mother, Doris, and a Scottish father, Hyam, who ran a women's clothing business.
Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
In 1968, she went her own way as the president of Jo Foxworth Inc.
        She set up business in the loft of a D'Agostino market and wrote campaigns like ''If there's no D'Agostino near you -- Move!
Her book ''Boss Lady'' (1979) was an introduction to the trials and tribulations women faced in business; it made a hit on college campuses.
She also wrote ''Wising Up: The Mistakes Women Make in Business and How to Avoid Them'' (1980).
In 1990, 32 years after its founding, facing debt and disarray, the Opera Company of Boston went out of business.
Ms. Jardine handled the business of everyday life, down to the typing of Ms.
Other works by Ms. Allen include ''Funny Lady'' (a sequel to ''Funny Girl'') and ''Just Tell Me What You Want,'' a romantic comedy directed by Mr. Lumet and featuring a critically praised turn by Alan King as a vulgar, megalomaniacal business magnate.
It said the college's alumnae had long been overrepresented at Harvard Business School and said part of the reason was the dynamic teaching of Dr. Bell.
In 1973, she was appointed an overseer of the Amos Tuck School of Business Administration at Dartmouth College, the first woman appointed to any governing board there.
Her father then married Annette Poindexter, a schoolteacher from Iowa, and moved his family to predominantly white Joliet, Ill., where he ran a dry-cleaning business.
Sometimes a ''press girl'' would call and ask what Mrs. Truman would be wearing to a reception, Miss Odum said, and the first lady would say, ''It's none of their business.
Some of the couple's noble friends were horrified at additions that they considered shocking intrusions of show business: in addition to snack bars and sailboat rentals, there was a children's zoo with a skunk named Jasmine.
The Lawfords strengthened John F. Kennedy's ties to the show business world of Hollywood and Las Vegas through Mr. Lawford's association with ''The Rat Pack'' of Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Shirley MacLaine.
The Lawfords strengthened John Kennedy's ties to the show business world of Hollywood and Las Vegas through Mr. Lawford's association with the ''Rat Pack'' of Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin, Sammy Davis Jr., Joey Bishop and Shirley MacLaine.
She and her husband convinced Brooklyn Union Gas that it would be good business to buy another old house, then occupied by pigeons, and turn it into a showcase.
''
        In 1948, the couple started a business under the name Herbert Levine.
''
        Though opera was the family business, Ms. Varnay was a latecomer to singing.
A top seller for every company that owned it -- in the end, there were four -- it earned a place alongside Life Savers as a household name in the often-overlooked hard candy business.
''
        In 1953, Miss Bigley played Jeanie in Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Me and Juliet'' -- a Valentine to show business that chronicle's the backstage life of a successful Broadway musical.
She later moved to be with her adopted daughter in Australia, where she tried to establish a catering business.
The princess then started a business importing and reproducing French designs, favoring the collections of Balenciaga and Dior.
She was not as skilled at running a business, however.
One day, Ms. Allen recalled, Ms. Hayes noticed that she unwaveringly would watch every rehearsal and said to her, ''I think you're in the wrong end of the business.
Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      
They called themselves the Revuers and persuaded Max Gordon, the owner of a club called the Village Vanguard, that their act would be good for business.
The business focused on the science of motion study and industrial efficiencies.

        Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J.
In the company's early years, Mrs. Mattus, the company's controller, built the business by going to bodegas and grocery stores to offer free samples.
''Rose was a true partner of her husband in operating the business, making decisions,'' said Roy Sloane, the company's advertising manager until 1987.
Rose basically ran the business, holding the company together and making it possible for a dreamer like Reuben to be successful.
Mr. and Mrs. Mattus were married in 1936, and soon after she began working for the family business.
Turning down a scholarship to the veterinary school at Cornell, Anne Rogers joined her mother's business after high school, then took to the show ring as a handler.
During her years in show business, Ms. Gibbs was widely known by her full, magisterial title: Her Nibs, Miss Georgia Gibbs.
The cause was a long pulmonary illness, said Sherri Spillane, Ms. Webb's business partner.
It also included friends and business associates of the famous, among them Kato Kaelin (O. J. Simpson), Gennifer Flowers (Bill Clinton) and Divine Brown (Hugh Grant).
For many years, Ms. Webb ran her business from her home in the Hollywood Hills.
