
        Betty Bryant, who had such a satisfying childhood career in the backwaters of show business that she never bothered to try to top herself in the Broadway mainstream, died on Jan. 15 at her home in Park Ridge, Ill.
        She was 76 and was recalled as the third generation of a family of showboat performers who brought corn  pone and culture to riverside mid-America.
To say that show business was in her blood would be something of an understatement.
She closed her business down after the 1929 stock market crash.
By the mid-1950's she was in business on her own, working from a barn on her farm with her husband drafting the patterns for her clothing.
Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
For writers, a job on the program was a coveted plum; many of Ms. Kallen's colleagues, including Mel Brooks, Carl Reiner and Neil Simon, would become show business luminaries in their own right.
The two set up business in London under the name Calder & Boyars, publishing works by such authors as Samuel Beckett, Marguerite Duras, Henry Miller, Eugene Ionesco and William S. Burroughs.
But Mrs. Boyars, who by then had married her second husband, Arthur Boyars, fell out with her business partner.
Good Yarns, by all accounts, is a dying breed, a hole-in-the-wall in an era of megamalls, a brick-and-mortar business in the age of on-line commerce.
Reading time is scarce with the demands of an aging parent and a seven-day-a-week business.
Later, with her sister, she owned a graphic design business.
With the advent of desktop publishing, her business became obsolete and Ms. Boylan took part-time work at Good Yarns while she looked for something to do.
''My father was in the heating business and my mother worked in a store.

        Lois Borwick Herman Rivkin, the founder and president of an organization linking business organizations and cultural institutions to New York City public schools, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Rudy Crew, the New York City Schools Chancellor, noted that during her illness, she displayed the same energy she had shown in 1988 when she founded the organization that sought to introduce public school students to the city's cultural and business communities and vice versa.
'' Her involvement with the View From the Torch project convinced her that there was very little interaction between business and arts communities and the public schools.
During a business trip to France he telephoned and told her he was sending a ticket and that they would get married in Paris.
Embarking on a career in show business, they changed their name to Brox when a producer persuaded them the new spelling looked better on a marquee.
''
        Mary Ellen Greenfield -- she derived Meg from her initials -- was born on Dec. 27, 1930, in Seattle, where her father, Lewis Greenfield, ran an antiques business.
Ms. Everett retired from show business in the 1950's.
Though women made broad strides in Italian business in her lifetime, Ms. Danieli was one of a handful who reached the top in the male domain of heavy industry.
That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
But Danieli's business success reflected her drive for technical superiority and her untiring sales efforts.
''
        The magazine business was long a family enterprise.
They found there was a market for technical texts, and they went into business at their home in North London.
She turned aside all offers to buy the business or to take it public, disliking the thought of being accountable to shareholders as much as that of dealing with trade unions.
As meticulous as she might be, as committed to researching history, assessing color, collecting swatches, cords and tassels and overseeing the  construction of costumes, Ms. Zipprodt never forgot that her quest for authenticity and beauty was in the service of the hectic and sometimes harrowing institution of show business.
''
        The committee stopped asking questions about Community Party membership in 1969, when it went out of business.
Ms. Rubinstein, a niece of the company's founder, Helena Rubinstein, lived in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y.
        She moved from Poland to Paris at age 18 to learn the business from her aunt and worked at the company from the 1920's until the 1970's, when it was sold.

        Jean Gardiner Chisholm Lindsey, a business and civic leader who in the 1980's served as an officer, trustee or member of 18 organizations and foundations at the same time, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on June 29, according to her son John.
She was a member of the business council of the Phillips Collection in Washington, served on the executive committee of the Mississippi Arts Commission and was a trustee of Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss.
It was sold in 1978 and went out of business about 10 years ago.
Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empire built by her late husband, Arthur Murray, and played such an important part in promoting their ''dancing in a hurry'' business that the entertainer Sam Levenson joked that Mr. Murray had become rich ''by the sweat of his frau.
'' The Murrays and the business signed a consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission in 1960 promising to stop using high-pressure tactics to sell dance courses.
The couple built their empire to 500 studios by the time they sold the business.
They continued to manage the business until 1964.
The Murrays were constantly mentioned in the newspapers because of their glamorous lives and complex business affairs.
In a 1960 interview, she said, ''I was determined to prove that a Government agency could be made efficient; that business management and standards could be instituted and sustained; that Government employees could provide the public with interested, friendly and personalized public service.

        Barbara Wolff, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts program and in the commercial revitalization program that followed the blackout of 1977, died Oct. 15 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Ms. Wolff was assistant commissioner in charge of the neighborhood development division of the New York City Department of Business Services, a job she had held for more than a decade.
In that post and for some years earlier she played a leading role in creating the business improvement districts known as B.I.D.
Mr. Glatter, a deputy assistant commissioner in the business services department, said Ms. Wolff had directed the program, begun as a response to the damage inflicted on stores around the city in the looting that took place during the 1977 blackout.
Correction:  October 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Barbara Wolff, a New York City official who was instrumental in setting up the city's business improvement districts, misstated the date of her death.
The Trivial Pursuit campaign designed by Ms. Pezzano changed the way game makers do business.
She attended Elmira College without obtaining an undergraduate degree but later earned a master's degree from Columbia Business School while working full time.
''You could go to Harvard Business School and learn how to do that,'' Mr. Byrne said, ''but to Linda it was always just common sense, and fun.
''She was very interested in helping other women,'' said Jean Thies, a Buddhist living in Manhattan who has a business importing Tibetan Buddhist goods into the United States.
With her business partner Alice Huberman, Ms. Lenzner created colorful fabrics in the early 1970's.
Mr. Weitzman dropped out because of a business deal.
''That horse was the real reason I am in the racing business today,'' she said years later.
Nine years later, she married Jack Resnick, who had started a small real estate business in 1928.
Her first job there was as an assistant to Frances Hawkins, the business manager at Ballet Society.
She combined her newsletter with a mail-order business for knitting supplies, books and video productions under the name Schoolhouse Press.
The result was a sculptural quality, said her daughter Meg Swansen, who is also a noted knitter and will carry on her mother's business.
