For Mrs. Murray, a native of Charlotte, N.C., who came to New York in 1933, owning and operating a business on 125th Street was a triumph.
In her own business she was able to develop the style of clothing that appealed to women as diverse as Princess Alexandra, Lady Antonia Fraser, Glenda Jackson, Lauren Bacall and Joanna Lumley, the co-star of the British comedy "Absolutely Fabulous," who once worked as a Jean Muir model.
" She learned Italian, and when the agency went out of business, she returned to the United States and joined the staff of The Reporter magazine, which began publication in early 1949.
She did not practice law but joined her husband in a window-display business.
Margaret Keswick Jencks hailed from a family that has lived and done business in China for nearly 140 years.
Miss Church was the last survivor of a family of black Tennesseans who were prominent in business and Republican politics when few Southern blacks were active in either business or the party.
Miss Church was the last survivor of a family of black Tennesseans who were prominent in business and Republican politics when few Southern blacks were active in either business or the party.
Although Mrs. Adams had complained that Miss Fleiss had stolen her client list, she continued to operate her business, Mr. Knecht said, most recently from a house abutting the parking lot of the West Hollywood sheriff's office.
The restaurant went out of business with her retirement.
She was working on the staff of the American Museum of Natural History when a restaurateur interested her in the business.
Both remain in business.
She also reorganized the business department of The Houston Post from top to bottom, and she later developed a reputation as a hard-working administrator who prized efficiency in government.
As a teen-ager from a modest home, Miss Chadwick honed her Alpine skills by skiing regularly at nearby Cannon Mountain, N.H.
        She received a bachelor's and master's degree in business from the now-defunct Staley College in Brookline, Mass., and later studied management at Santa Clara University in Santa Clara, Calif.
Her daughter, Joan Raines, and son-in-law, Richard Raines, ran the business after her retirement.
In 1991, the family sold the business to Barron Peters, a clothing company in Lowell, Mass., which has since filed for bankruptcy and discontinued the Adele Simpson line.
The tiny, soft-spoken woman who gave her name to Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics liberated students, professionals and business people from the habits that shackled them to the average American's reading rate of 250 to 300 words a minute.
In 1967, she sold the business.
It has been owned since September 1993 by Pryor Resources, a business seminar training company in Kansas City, Kan.
        Mrs. Wood continued to teach and was developing a remedial reading program for children when she suffered an incapacitating stroke in 1976.

        Benay Venuta, whose career in show business began as a teen-age dancer in 1925 and ended with a bit part in Woody Allen's 1993 movie, "Manhattan Murder Mystery," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
In a 1935 interview, she said that when she quit high school to go into show business she "just added a 'ay' to Ben and the rest I guess you can figure.
"All my life I'd been in show business.
After serving as a National Committeewoman for 28 years, Mrs. Gray resigned in 1964 to devote herself full time to banking and other business and farming interests.
"She wanted to keep running the business from home," he said.
By then, she had spent a decade in the antiques business, buying and selling gold and jewelry door to door on Long Island, during the Depression.
She often recalled that as she came into the business, dealers were taking unpopular Tiffany lamps and knocking out the glass flowers and trees, to sell the metal for junk.

        Marie Callender, a California woman who started baking pies at home for a delicatessen and turned that into a chain of 146 restaurants and a frozen-entree business, died on Saturday at the Rossmoor Regency Residential Community here.
Mrs. Callender got into the food business by chance, answering a delicatessen's help-wanted ad, then making pies for the business at home.
Mrs. Callender got into the food business by chance, answering a delicatessen's help-wanted ad, then making pies for the business at home.
The shop owner later persuaded her to start her own baking business and sell him pies.
She was 82, and lived in Teaneck, N.J.
        As a pioneering woman in the male-dominated world of rhythm-and-blues, Mrs. Greenberg was, by her own later account, a triple anomaly: "a white woman who was in a black business and who couldn't carry a tune.
She worked at Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Studios and at the Casting Company, after which she went into business for herself.
The business was started in 1934 and now has about 35,000 customers a week and $40 million in sales a year, her sons Stanley and Saul said last night.
Saul and Stanley Zabar, who live in Manhattan and are still associated with the business founded by their parents, said last night that their mother was a gifted maker of blintzes, potato salad, stuffed cabbage and coleslaw.
The business was started in 1934 and now has about 35,000 customers a week and $40 million in sales a year, her sons Stanley and Saul said.
Saul and Stanley Zabar, who live in Manhattan and are still associated with the family business said last night that their mother was a gifted maker of blintzes, potato salad, stuffed cabbage and coleslaw.
In addition to her husband and business partner, Ms. Boucher is survived by a sister, June Dutton of Sausalito, Calif; two sons, Douglas, of Belvedere, Calif., and Theodore, of Davis, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Their three-year marriage produced two sons, Sydney and the late Charles Jr.
        Mrs. Chaplin played clubs in Europe and the United States and spent eight years with the Radio Keith Orpheum theater circuit before retiring from show business in 1947.
(In 1970, Mrs. Maxwell formed a business partnership with Mr. Milstein's nephew Morton Milstein.
The cause was heart failure, according to Steve Selby, a Washington business associate.
' "
        Miss Rogers's later films included an elaborate fantasy, "Lady in the Dark" (1944); a wartime romance, "I'll Be Seeing You" (1945); the comedies "Dreamboat" (1952), "Monkey Business" (1952) and "Forever Female" (1954), and melodramas like "Tight Spot" (1955) and "Harlow" (1965).
" Ever a Trouper Through the Decades
        In more than six decades in show business, Ginger Rogers appeared in some 70 films, as well as in vaudeville, theater and television.
They divorced in 1980, but remained business partners.
