Her father, whose failed business schemes included a plan to develop a new kind of motorcar, was a ''gentle, humorous, dreamy person whose dreams never came true,'' she once said.
She helped him in the business and also predicted individual's futures and future events, acquiring a local reputation for accuracy.
The titles there included ''Johnny Lion's Book,'' ''Come and Have Fun,'' ''Stop Stop'' and ''No Funny Business.
She worked in the garment business.
In 1935 she met Mr. Ganz, who ran a family costume jewelry business.
Both organizations teach modern business practices to entrepreneurs and government officials in 21 countries in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
She found that the work as a literary and talent agent suited her so well that she took over the business in 1947 and turned it into the Lucy Kroll Agency.
The newspaper study ''Changing Needs of Changing Readers,'' published in 1979, had ''an electrifying effect on the news business,'' said Lee Stinnett, executive director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which commissioned it in an effort to assess why circulation was declining.
She learned the business on her own, starting as a door-to-door questioner and gradually rising as a survey designer for marketing companies and eventually to prominent positions in the industry.
She obtained a job with Lou Harris that kept her in the marketing survey segment of the business at first.
She believed that women were better than men at the fashion business.
She ran her business until 1990.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Elizabeth Rush, her business representative.
Never comfortable in the limelight, Ms. Nyro married and retreated from the music business to lead a secluded life for the next three years in a fishing village in Massachusetts.
''
        From the beginning of her correspondence, Ms. Hanff ignored the niceties of business letter writing.
Her repeated attempts to succeed in New York theater are chronicled in her 1961 memoir, ''Underfoot in Show Business.
Mrs. Sharp took charge of the business, selling and buying her own rich portfolio of properties by 1955.

        Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan.
''
        When ''Barefoot in the Park'' was canceled in 1970 after 13 weeks, as when she was out of show business for several years after her mother died in 1962, Ms. Carpenter, while disappointed, refused to turn bitter.
She said they also tried to force her agency to spend money advertising in a politically connected newspaper and tried to strong-arm her into backing off on smoking regulations to help their business friends.
''
        Times changed, and from 1965 to 1967 she was on the President's Council on Minority Business Enterprise.
She would let the two instruments cascade toward the ground like a waterfall as she made the crowd laugh with her body-bending stage business.
Mrs. Talley left Dreyfus to develop programs for the American Women's Economic Development Corporation, a joint venture of the Small Business Administration and the Commerce Department that aids women entrepreneurs.
Mrs. Talley said she took the job to hone her interest in small business rather than further an interest in business.
Mrs. Talley said she took the job to hone her interest in small business rather than further an interest in business.
''Everybody in my family has started his own business,'' she said in a 1979 interview.
''She knew our business as a customer and a vendor, and she did a great job for New York State by getting the state heavily into stocks in the early 1980's, which was the right thing to do,'' said Dave Williams, chairman of Alliance Capital.
His business survived the Depression, but a dessert of spoiled preserved cherries killed him, but not his wife, in 1942.
She had no business partners or immediate family, and the boutique will close on Saturday after a memorial service for Ms. Blum.
She had worked as a buyer for Bergdorf Goodman, Neiman Marcus and Saks Fifth Avenue before going into business for herself.
The success that eluded Mrs. Westwood in politics came to her in business.
Mrs. Howorth was president of the Business and Professional Women's Club of Washington and often served as a mentor to women in government.
She was president of her own business, American Vernacular, from 1973 until her death.
''My social life always seems to revolve around business,'' she said.
Her articles appeared in trade and business periodicals, and then national publications like The Saturday Evening Post and Reader's Digest.
She founded Feminist Majority in 1987 together with Eleanor Smeal, Peg Yorkin, Katherine Spillar and Judith Meuli, her companion and partner in a Los Angeles graphic arts business since 1970.
''If I want to spend my money and take care of my cats, which are my family, I don't think it's anybody's business.
The following year, she married Joseph A. Neff of Lincoln, Neb., who had been in the clothing business in the West and later was involved in the sale of the Cleveland Plain Dealer to S.I.
Her son Gilbert said that the two met at business meetings and that the friendship evolved into a love match.
Mrs. Ottinger, a Chicago native and a graduate of Smith College, was the matriarch of a New York family prominent in business and politics.
On a train ride from New York City to Los Angeles, after a serious business setback, Mr. Disney came up with a new character: Mortimer Mouse.
Their plan worked so well that they not only raised the money but also decided to go into the restaurant business.
After Halley's birth, Ms. Hubert Allison began to withdraw from the restaurant business.
Her first novel, ''How I Gave My Heart to the Restaurant Business'' (Ecco Press), a roman a clef, was published earlier this year, and she completed a cookbook, ''The Vegetarian Compass,'' which is to be published by Little, Brown next spring.
Ms. Steel's career and life were marked by a powerful, even outsize, personality that helped her succeed in a business dominated by men.
Inc., she said, ''because when I said I was in the toilet-paper business, people would say, 'Oh Dawn!
By 1978, Ms. Steel had ended a 10-month marriage, sold her business to her ex-husband and asked Mr. Davidoff to place a call to his friend Mr. Katzenberg about a marketing job for her at Paramount.
''She's the most determined woman in the business.
In 1971, at the age of 65, Mrs. Peterson started another career, this time in business as vice president for consumer affairs at Giant Food Inc., the largest supermarket chain in the Washington-Baltimore area.
Odonna Mathews, who worked with Mrs. Peterson as a University of Maryland undergraduate intern and now holds Mrs. Peterson's old position at Giant, said: ''Her friends in consumer activism asked, 'How can you work for a business and represent the consumer?
''
        Her 1988 collection, ''Love Trouble Is My Business,'' included a ''letter'' from the proprietor of a dog kennel to ''Secretary Weinberger'' about a defense contractor's $87.25 bill for dog boarding: ''I wear the key to the pantry around my neck on a platinum chain, and not only is the level of the kibble bin measured twice a day but the bin itself is equipped with a state-of-the art laser lock, which cannot be opened without a microcoded propylene wafer.

        Adelma Grenier Simmons, the author of dozens of books on herbs, died on Wednesday at her home on the Caprilands Herb Farm in Coventry, Conn., which she founded in 1929 and developed into a teaching center and a business.
