At a time when the first lady, Eleanor Roosevelt, was writing a column titled ''My Day,'' Miss Hart was writing one with a significantly different slant called ''My Night,'' published sporadically in show business publications.
Ms. Cage arrived in 1947 and retired formally in 1985, working first as an assistant to Frances Hawkins, the business manager at Ballet Society.
She opened her own business, Bonnie Cashin Designs, in 1952 and for the two ensuing decades also designed leather, jersey, canvas and tweed clothes for Philip Sills.
Her father, George Kangas, was in the grocery business, and her mother, Janice, tested recipes at home for a local flour mill.
They worked with the girls on their singing and dancing skills and  encouraged them to pursue show business careers.
Then, in 1957, the Marriotts moved into the hotel business, which was taking off in tandem with the interstate highways.
The ads continued to be produced by Mr. Rogers after Ms. Trahey gave up the agency business in the mid-1970's.
Ms. Trahey was too creative to worry about the details of running a business, recalled Rocky Piliero, who worked as production manager of her agency starting in 1969 and is still working with Mr. Rogers.
She was born in Muleshoe, Tex., and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Louisville and a master's degree in business administration from the University of Chicago.
An aficionado of pug dogs, which she regarded as ''living proof that God has a sense of humor,'' Ms. Kaufman proudly carried a business card identifying herself as a Hollywood correspondent for Pug Talk magazine.
Determined to get an education but lacking financial resources, she earned her first associate's degree -- an associate in applied science in business -- from Queensborough in 1972, having completed her part-time studies while working full time.
As a full-time student at the college, she went on to earn two more associate's degrees -- an associate in arts in the liberal arts program in 1974 and an associate in science in the business administration program in 1978.
Her extensive archive of the business transactions of George and Ira Gershwin was acquired by the Music Division of the Library of Congress.
An intense, gregarious and outspoken woman, Ms. Sosenko was known for her business acumen and did not suffer fools, gladly or otherwise.
''I've probably had the biggest people in show business work for me,'' Ms. Sosenko once said, referring to her benefits and the galaxy of stars she enticed to participate, among them Julie Andrews, Rex Harrison, Liza Minnelli, Sid Caesar, Natalia Makarova and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ''They know when I do a show, it's going to be a great show because I only do great things,'' she said.
Born Ruth Rubin in New York, she had a successful career as a fashion stylist and as a business partner of her first husband, Samuel Kass.

        Nija Battle, who brought a swaggering sense of sophistication to the furs she designed for the music world's most tireless clotheshorses, died last Thursday while on a business trip in Montreal.
After getting experience with Orchard Street furriers, Ms. Battle started her own business and gradually gained a following among rap and hip-hop stars who saw her out wearing her own designs.
When she went into business for herself in 1947, she won Tucker as a client, and later James King, Arlene Saunders, Maria Stader, Benita Valente, and other singers and instrumentalists.
But she was almost as famous for her prickly interpersonal relations with staff and other associates, and her sparring with Mr. Wasserman was an open secret in the music management business.
Miss Young said friends and advisers warned her that if she appeared on television regularly she would be ''blackballed out of this business'' and ''never get another job.
In 1963, at age 50, with movie offers still coming her way, Miss Young left show business.
While Mr. Davis worked as an accountant and later in the insurance business, Mrs. Davis worked at his side, organizing the office, handling the bookkeeping and serving as his sounding board.
They go off looking bewildered and we go on about our business.
The newspaper also took controversial liberal stands on gun control, environmental issues and the land rights of Alaskan natives, earning it the enmity of the business establishment.
While her husband ran the business, she volunteered at various charities.
The newspaper also took liberal stands on gun control, environmental issues and the land rights of Alaskan natives, earning it the enmity of the business establishment.
While her husband ran the business, she volunteered with  charities.
Her death from a heart attack on Election Day seemed poetically timed for a woman whose family business is politics and whose political career spanned four decades.
Show business was part of the household, and baby Gwyneth was pointed toward the stage from the time she could walk.
The following year, when ''Redhead'' was on tour in Chicago, Miss Verdon and Fosse were married, and by the time the tour reached Los Angeles she had decided to retire from show business with the intention of concentrating on family life.
'' After the show ended in 1977, she did one last film before retiring from show business.
She was born in Akron, Ohio, where her Austrian-born father ran a plumbing business.
As the director of Nonesuch Records from 1965 through 1979, Ms. Sterne turned a small budget label into one of the most adventurous companies in the recording business.
Nonesuch's business had consisted mostly of acquiring the rights to existing recordings of Baroque music by European ensembles and reissuing them at budget prices in the United States.
In an interview with The Boston Globe at the time, Mr. Smith said: ''Nonesuch is in business, and it is losing its credibility in its marketplace.
In 1955 she married Ernest Kanzler, a Detroit business executive who was head of the War Production Board during World War II.
She started an art consulting business, Contemporary Emerging Artists, in 1983.
Her father was a Pullman porter and later owned a taxi business.
She graduated in 1951 and worked briefly for a Manhattan law firm before opening her own law office in 1954. Business was not good, and she had to take a job at Bloomingdale's one Christmas to pay the rent.
''Handling the Holiday and Parker estates taught me more than I was really ready for about government and business delinquency and the hostility and helplessness of the courts,'' she wrote.
In this business, there certainly has never been a bigger star.
She came along just as the whole business of modeling changed, Mrs. Ford said.
In the immediate post-war years, models became the elegant emblems of a newly booming haute couture fashion business, perhaps epitomized by Christian Dior's romantic New Look of 1947.
She also developed a side business of arranging tickets for corporations, then asking them for cash donationsto her organization or for products that she could give to box-office personnel as gifts.She also built up relationships with Broadway ticket sellers by giving them movie tickets and popcorn coupons and discussing their personal problems with them in the soft, soothing voice that was her most effective tool.
