
        Annette Markoe Schieffelin, widow of William Jay Schieffelin Jr., a former chairman of Schieffelin & Company, died on Thursday in Lenox Hill Hospital.
'' The chairman of the company, George Tulloch, presented it to Mrs. Haisman in Southampton in December 1993.
''If she wanted that result, she would get that result -- legal niceties didn't bother her,'' George DeSipio, a former chairman of the city bar's trust and estates committee, recalled.
''If she wanted that result, she would get that result -- legal niceties didn't bother her,'' George DeSipio, a former chairman of the city bar's trust and estates committee, recalled.
Arthur H. White, vice chairman of Yankelovich Partners, said that in her surveys Mrs. Clark always made sure she included the opinions of all segments of American society, not just those of the economically comfortable or affluent, because of her  concerns for the downtrodden.
She was national vice chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and was active in the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, the League of Women Voters, B'nai B'rith and the Urban League.
She also was a past chairman of La Maison Francaise at New York University.
From 1955 to 1973, she was vice chairman and then chairman of the Y.W.C.A.
From 1955 to 1973, she was vice chairman and then chairman of the Y.W.C.A.
's International division, and from 1958 to 1964, she was chairman of the organization's World Service Council.
She was a trustee of Spelman College in Atlanta for nearly 25 years, a trustee of the Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Mass., and the Whitney Museum of American Art and, in 1972, was chairman of the Y's National Convocation on Racial Justice.
She was a past chairman of the building fund for the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center and chairman of the Hadassah Medical Organization, one of the Mideast's largest medical care and research institutions.
She was a past chairman of the building fund for the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center and chairman of the Hadassah Medical Organization, one of the Mideast's largest medical care and research institutions.
In 1945, as chairman of Hadassah's national convention, she called on its 150,000 members to take up the struggle for Jewish statehood.
In 1947, she helped David Ben-Gurion, chairman of the Jewish Agency for Palestine, break ground for a new Hadassah hospital building on Mount Scopus.
As national board chairman, she stayed in Israel to mesh Hadassah's medical and child-care centers of Palestine with the public health and sanitation programs being charted by the new state.
She was also something of a Washington insider: the wife of Leon H. Keyserling, a prominent economist who had been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman, and a woman of accomplishment with a wide circle of influential friends.
''She had a lot of energy, talent and ability in the field, and did very well,'' said Howard Stein, the retired chairman of Dreyfus.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Talley was vice chairman of W. P. Carey & Company, a real estate concern, a member of Alliance Capital Management's International Advisory Committee and a member of the board of the Joffrey Ballet.
''She knew our business as a customer and a vendor, and she did a great job for New York State by getting the state heavily into stocks in the early 1980's, which was the right thing to do,'' said Dave Williams, chairman of Alliance Capital.
''
        Mrs. Oku is survived by a daughter, Kii Nakamura, who also served as a chairman of the Housewives' Association, and a son, Kyoichi Oku, both of Tokyo.

        Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines.
Mrs. Smith was chosen to be chairman of the Republican National Committee by Gerald Ford when he succeeded Richard M. Nixon as President in 1974.

        Anna Balakian, former chairman of the department of comparative literature at New York University and an internationally recognized scholar in the fields of Symbolism and Surrealism, died on Tuesday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island.
As a full professor, she was chairman of the department from 1977 to 1985, when she retired as professor emerita.

        Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years.
So the unenvious task of trying to put a brave face on the McGovern campaign fell to Mrs. Westwood, who became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee after Mr. McGovern won the Democratic nomination.
But by December, she was gone after just five months as party chairman, whose title she preferred over chairwoman (''It's not something I'm going to fret about,'' Mrs. Westwood said when she got the job.
Along with her husband, Arnold, she was a founding member of the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the national organization best known for fund-raising telethons with its chairman, Jerry Lewis, as host.
She was also vice chairman of General Media International, the holding company that oversees the publishing arm.
In 1989, she married John C. Whitehead, chairman of AEA Investors, an investment concern in New York, and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York.
In 1989, she married John C. Whitehead, chairman of AEA Investors, an investment concern in New York, and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York.
Her other beneficiaries included Girls Town in Jerusalem, Miami University and various other institutions..
        She helped establish the National Parkinson Foundation in 1957 with her husband, Nathan Slewett, a lawyer who became its chairman in 1981.
As a committee chairman, she advocated the idea that the group support the expansion of a vocational educational program from a small high school to a major college, the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem.
''History has proven her right,'' Michael Long, chairman of the Conservative Party, said.
He is the founder of the International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and was its first chairman.
''
        In 1946, she married Josef Rosensaft, who was chairman of the Jewish Committee of Bergen-Belsen, which oversaw the day-to-day administration of the displaced-persons camp for Bergen-Belsen survivors from 1945 to 1950.
Concurrently, he was the chairman of the Central Committee of Jews in the British Zone of Germany.
In 1960, she married Moreton Binn, now chairman of the board of Atwood Richards Inc., an international trading company.
Mrs. Howard, the wife of Jack R. Howard, the former chairman of Scripps Howard Broadcasting Corporation, was the author of two books and two screenplays.
faculty in 1981 as a professor and chairman of the Department of Anthropology.
''This really is the end of an era for Disney,'' said Roy E. Disney, a nephew of Mrs. Disney's and vice chairman of the Walt Disney Company.
''
        Michael D. Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company, said, ''Mrs.
Having married Mr. Roven in 1985, she was in the hospital after the birth of her only child, Rebecca, in March 1987, when she learned that Frank Mancuso, chairman of Paramount, and Mr. Tanen, chairman of the Motion Picture Group, had ousted her.
Having married Mr. Roven in 1985, she was in the hospital after the birth of her only child, Rebecca, in March 1987, when she learned that Frank Mancuso, chairman of Paramount, and Mr. Tanen, chairman of the Motion Picture Group, had ousted her.
Mrs. Chubb married into the family in 1932, when she became the wife of Percy Chubb 2d, a former chairman of the Chubb insurance underwriters group.
Earlier this year she won the Essex three-day event in Gladstone, N.J.
        She was born on Aug. 22, 1968, in Boston, the daughter of Robert S. Pirie, vice chairman of investment banking at Societe Generale Securities Corporation, and Deirdre H. Pirie, also an equestrian.
