The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chairman of the Post Company's executive committee.
''At times the response to her could be described as vitriolic,'' said Dr. Alan M. Houghton, chairman of immunotherapy at Sloan-Kettering.
''Sylvia's uncompromising battle for more than a half century to solve the mystery of multiple sclerosis made her a hero to anyone touched by this devastating disease,'' said Richard Slifka, chairman of the society.
When Mr. MacFarquhar accepted an offer to be chairman of the Harvard government department, Mrs. MacFarquhar wrote for The Economist from Cambridge until joining U.S. News in 1986 as foreign editor.
She is survived by her sons, Gary Cookson, an actor in New York, and Tony Cookson, a writer and director in Santa Monica, Calif.; two stepchildren, Peter Cookson Jr. of Irvington, N.Y., and Jane Coopland of Hawaii; a brother, Michael Straight of Chicago, a former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
''
        The speakers included Peter Martins, ballet master in chief of the New York City Ballet; Howard Solomon, the company's chairman; and Nancy Lassalle, a board member emeritus of the company and a board member of the School of American Ballet.
She was influenced, she wrote in an autobiography, by the teaching of Harry Hollingworth, for many years chairman of the psychology department at Barnard, and by the writings of Charles Spearman, an English psychologist and statistician who developed the ''two-factor'' theory of intelligence.
The sketches were never about very much, often just an idea: a wife trying to hide the fact that she has just smashed up her husband's car, a roof leaking on an elegant dinner party, a catered boardroom lunch that lurches into chaos over who gets the chopped liver as a slavering chairman lusts after a pickle wagged by his vice chairman.
The sketches were never about very much, often just an idea: a wife trying to hide the fact that she has just smashed up her husband's car, a roof leaking on an elegant dinner party, a catered boardroom lunch that lurches into chaos over who gets the chopped liver as a slavering chairman lusts after a pickle wagged by his vice chairman.
''
        In a statement yesterday, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman emeritus of The New York Times Company, said:
        ''We are deeply saddened by the passing of Katharine Graham, a close friend and honored colleague.
Lawrence Gelb remained active in the company, retiring as chairman before his death in 1980; Mrs. Gelb's involvement with Clairol ceased after the divorce.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
)
        Mrs. Newhouse is an aunt of  S. I. Newhouse Jr., the multibillionaire chairman of Condé Nast Publications.
Another nephew, Jonathan Newhouse, and his wife, Ronnie Cooke Newhouse, have flown in from London, where they live, to be chairman and chairwoman of the benefits.
The Limited went public in 1969, with Mr. Wexner serving as chairman until his death in 1975.
With John K. Howat, former chairman of the department of decorative arts at the Met, Ms. Voorsanger organized last year's ''Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825-1861,'' which traced the beginning of New York's ascendancy as a cultural capital.
