On Jan. 1, 1929, she received her international pilot's license, signed by Orville Wright, then chairman of the International Aeronautic Federation.
Dr. Davis is survived by her husband of 47 years, Dr. Walter Adam Wichern Jr., chairman emeritus of surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; a son, Walter A. III, and a daughter, A. Logan Wichern, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol Goodman of Morristown, N.J.
      
Her father, who was 63, was chairman of the neurology department at Stony Brook University Medical School in Stony Brook, N.Y.

        Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio.
''
        She ascribed part of her success to her husband and sometime law partner, Hicks G. Griffiths, who was once state Democratic chairman of Michigan.
Newhouse Jr., chairman of Condé Nast Publications, owned by Advance Publications.
Heldman persuaded her friend Joseph Cullman, chairman of Philip Morris, to donate prize money and sponsor five tournaments.
Mr. Ammon, who was chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center, was found bludgeoned to death on Oct. 22, 2001, at his estate in East Hampton, N.Y. His widow and Mr. Pelosi married three months later.
Miss Falkenburg and Mr. McCrary were friends of John Hay Whitney, who was chairman of the finance committee of the Republican Party.
She was elected to Parliament in 1982 and quickly rose through her party's ranks, becoming chairman of its youth league in 1984 and a member of the policy-making executive committee in 1991.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
Chiang tried unsuccessfully to block his successor as president, Lee Teng-hui, from succeeding him as chairman; she did not seek office for herself, nor was she eligible to do so.
      
The Communist Party leadership called her the only true patriot in the Soong family, and appointed her honorary chairman of the People's Republic in 1980, a year before her death.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
Chiang tried unsuccessfully to block his successor as president, Lee Teng-hui, from succeeding him as chairman; she did not seek office for herself, nor was she eligible to do so.
      

        Joan B. Kroc, a prominent philanthropist, a former owner of the San Diego Padres and the widow of Ray A. Kroc, the founder and chairman of the McDonald's Corporation, died on Sunday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. She was 75.
''She became the symbol, if you please, of someone who was against desegregating Boston schools,'' said Paul Parks, who was chairman of the education committee of the Boston N.A.A.C.P.
Correction:  November 17, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 2 about Dorothy Farnan, a New York City teacher who wrote ''Auden in Love,'' a book about W. H. Auden and his companion, Chester Kallman, misstated the year in which she became chairman of the English department at Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn.
''I can remember tearing out pages and sending it to my people and saying we ought to look at this or that,'' said Marvin Traub, former chairman of Bloomingdale's.
''She was my most trusted adviser,'' Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the S.E.C., said in a telephone interview.
in 1980 and became executive assistant to the chairman, John Shad.
She stepped down to become its chairman in 1998 and the next year was honored at a tribute at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
