The cause was cancer, said Prof. Gary Hatfield, chairman of Penn's department of philosophy, from which she retired in 1985.
Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a daughter, Phyllis Barbara Lambert of Montreal; two sons, Edgar M. of Manhattan, the chairman of Seagram, and Charles R. of Montreal, co-chairman; 11 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren.
In 1978, she became an aide to Robert F. Wagner Jr., then chairman of the City Planning Commission and later deputy mayor.

        Carol Fox Sulzberger, the wife of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, and an active volunteer with foundations and social-service organizations, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I.
As the publisher's wife, she became president of the Texas League of Women Voters, a member of the board of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, a member of the Houston Symphony Orchestra Committee and regional chairman of the Mobilization for Human Needs, all before she was 35.
Later she wrote a handbook on parliamentary procedure, "Mr. Chairman," which was used as a textbook throughout the state.
At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
For the last decade, she focused her efforts on behalf of women in skiing as chairman of the International Ski Federation Subcommittee on Women's Cross-Country.
With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 1989, Mrs. Titus supported endeavors like the film program at the Museum of Modern Art, biochemistry at Duke University and ophthalmological research at the Wilmer Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
Mrs. Cummings was born in Chicago, the daughter of Harriet Toor and Harold Toor, former chairman of the United States Shoe Corporation.
She sat on the board of Connecticut Public Television and was the chairman of the program advisory board of WTIC.
Her husband, J. Kenneth Bradley, the Republican state chairman for Connecticut for many years, died in 1969.

        Anyone attending the inauguration this weekend of Ruth Simmons as Smith College's ninth president will be likely to note the presence of such luminaries as Toni Morrison, the Nobel Prize-winning author; Johnnetta Cole, the president of Spelman College; Cornel West, the scholar, and Henry Louis Gates, the writer and chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard.
Dr. Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania who was chairman of the workshops for a decade, noted that she insured that participants ranged from Nobel laureates to junior scientists and that "she relished providing a bit of luxury to them, a good dinner, putting them up in pleasant places.
She was also the chairman of the advisory committee for modern-dance series at City Center in 1949.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Geber is survived by two sons, Stephen, the  principal cellist with the Cleveland Orchestra, and David, a cellist with the American String Quartet and chairman of the Manhattan School of Music's string department, and six grandchildren.
      
She was the first woman to be vice chairman of the State Department's Planning Council, from 1968 to 1970.
" and "Box-Mao-Box; Quotations From Chairman Mao Tse-tung.
She was a past vice chairman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee and in 1977 became the first woman to be elected president of the National Association of State Chairmen.
She is survived by her husband, Lionel I. Pincus, chairman of E. M. Warburg, Pincus & Company, a venture banking firm; two sons, Henry A. and Matthew S., both of Manhattan; and three brothers, Brent Poulton, of Medford, Ore., Kent Poulton, of San Francisco, and Michael Poulton, of Lausanne, Switzerland.
      
After the death of her husband of 38 years, Harry, in 1977, she joined the law firm of Etra & Etra, where her partner was her brother-in-law, Max Etra, chairman of Yeshiva's board from 1953 to 1977.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, who is chairman of Straus Communications, Mrs. Straus is survived by her mother, Louise Mayer Blumenthal Sulzberger of Longboat Key, Fla., and Saranac Lake, N.Y.; four children, Diane Tucker of Bedford, N.Y., Katherine Caple of Wellesley, Mass., Jeanne Tofel of Manhattan and Eric Straus of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; two sisters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann Sand, both of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
At her death, she was vice chairman of the board at Albert Einstein.
