Ms. Seidman, who had lived in Manhattan since 1960, was chairwoman of two philanthropies financed by the investor George Soros: the East-West Management Institute and Soros Management Training Programs.
She became Tradenet's chairwoman in 1990, a post she held while also working as an executive with several Soros foundations.

        Ursula Niebuhr, the founder and longtime chairwoman of the department of religion at Barnard College, died on Friday at her home in Stockbridge, Mass.
She accepted and remained as associate professor and department chairwoman until her retirement two decades later.
The coalition's projects included helping young black women establish personal networks and holding voter registration drives on 125th Street in Harlem, said Mary Burke Washington, a co-founder of the coalition and a former chairwoman of the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board.
As president and then chairwoman of the 12-store Bonwit chain from 1965 to 1970, Ms. Custin used extensive retailing experience, superb taste and a sense of daring to impart a high-fashion image to what had been a traditional store selling the same clothing women could buy just about anywhere else.
Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.
In the 1950's, she was a founder and chairwoman of the American Emergency Food Committee for India and The American Citizens' Committee for Economic Aid Abroad.
Ms. Woodhull was also vice chairwoman of the International Women's Media Foundation and chairwoman of the Peabody Radio and Television Awards.
Ms. Woodhull was also vice chairwoman of the International Women's Media Foundation and chairwoman of the Peabody Radio and Television Awards.
She was a former president of the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and, with Betty Friedan, a founding chairwoman of Women, Men and Media, a national organization that monitors the coverage of women in the media.
As enthusiastic about her sport as she was proficient in it, Ms. Flannery, a bubbly woman with a perpetual smile, was an accomplished recruiter who charmed thousands of women into taking up the sport while serving as chairwoman of the women's commission of USA Triathlon.
She was chairwoman of the board of the Ethical Culture Schools for 13 years, having herself graduated from Fieldston, the Ethical Culture Society's preparatory school.
''Mary is credible, and the rest of them aren't,'' said Maxine Postal, a Democrat and chairwoman of the County Legislature's Health Committee.
''She opened the way for consumers' movements and consumers' rights in Japan after the war,'' said Teiko Kihara, chairwoman of the Japan League of Women Voters.
Mrs. Winship served for some years in the 1970's as the American chairwoman of Girls Town of Italy, an international organization based in Rome that cared for children who had been abandoned.
But by December, she was gone after just five months as party chairman, whose title she preferred over chairwoman (''It's not something I'm going to fret about,'' Mrs. Westwood said when she got the job.
Mrs. Mindell was a founder of the Association of Village Home Owners and the West Ninth Street Block Association and was chairwoman for 24 years of the Village Committee for the Jefferson Market Garden.
Dr. Sears was chairwoman of the First International Congress on Oceanography, which was held at the United Nations in 1959.

        Eleanor Pepper, a former chairwoman of Pratt Institute's department of interior design who was a longtime design consultant and decorated an early version of the United Nations Security Council meeting room, died on Sunday at her apartment in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan.
In 1948, while she was chairwoman of the chapter's subcommittee on exhibitions, she oversaw the installation of an exhibit titled ''Tomorrow's World,'' sponsored by the chapter, in the New York Museum of Science and Industry in Rockefeller Center.
She was the first chairwoman of the board of trustees at the University of Rochester in New York.
She urged Mr. Stevenson to run for governor in 1948 and served as the state chairwoman of his successful gubernatorial campaign.
Mrs. Wauneka was in the council for nearly 30 years, serving as the chairwoman of the health committee.

        Rella MacDougall, a prominent decorator who was the longtime chairwoman of the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House, died on Wednesday in her apartment in Manhattan.
She was chairwoman of Camp Rainbow for disadvantaged children and the Lexington School for the Deaf.
''She had a formula for many of her movies that carried a simple truth: You want something, you work incredibly hard, you get it,'' said Lucy Fisher, vice chairwoman of the Columbia Tri-Star Motion Picture Group, and a close friends.
Dr. Weintraub was also chairwoman of the department of political science until 1960 and then associate dean of graduate studies at City University of New York until 1968.
