In recent years, she was vice chairman of Community Planning Board 14 and was on the executive board of the Midwood-Kings Highway Development Corporation and on the board of the Brooklyn College Performing Arts Center, which gave her its Distinguished Community Service Award in 1995.
''She was packaged like the quintessential elderly lady that a Boy Scout would help across the street, except that she drank martinis, smoked cigarettes and could, on occasion, have a mouth like a sailor,'' said George White, chairman and founder of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, where Miss Oliver served as a dramaturge for 20 seasons at its National Playwrights Conference in Waterford, Conn. ''She could be tough and would brook no banality, but she truly loved playwrights and loved the theater.
Her star quotient increased exponentially in 1963, after her mother remarried, becoming the wife of Iva S. V. Patcevitch, the chairman of Conde Nast.
At her death, Professor Stamler was involved in a study to examine how protein, carbohydrates and fats in the diet affect blood pressure, said Alan Dyer, associate chairman of the department of preventive medicine at the medical school.

        Nena Manach Goodman, an artist, patron of the arts and philanthropist, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Rye, N.Y.
        Mrs. Goodman was the widow of Andrew Goodman, owner and chairman of Bergdorf Goodman in the 1950's and 60's.
Barbara (Babe) Cushing, the youngest, was married to Stanley Mortimer Jr., a grandson of one of the founders of Standard Oil, and after a divorce, to William S. Paley, the legendary founder and chairman of the Columbia Broadcasting System.
After receiving her master's degree and doctorate, Dr. Wakin, whose name is pronounced WAY-kin, remained at Columbia as a member of the faculty, attaining tenure as senior lecturer in 1974 and serving as department chairman.
''
        Dr. Wakin was also the editor of the Journal of the American Oriental Society and chairman of the prestigious Columbia Seminar on Arabic Studies.
''
        Mr. Breslin also recounted the Congresswoman's introduction to Sol Linowitz, the former chairman of the Xerox Corporation and a Democratic Party luminary: ''Are you the man that used to be head of the Xerox?
She was briefly chairman of the Labor Party in 1977-78 and served as a junior minister in several Labor Governments in the early 1970's, but was perhaps too uncompromising in her beliefs to rise to a higher office.
During her later marriage, when her Air Force husband was posted to Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Maxwell talked the chairman of the Harvard biology department into helping her sign up for postgraduate courses.
The center grew from her belief in tapestry as ''a vital contemporary art form with rich historical connections,'' said Dr. Ann Lane Hedlund, chairman of its board.
The Lipmans donated many works of art to the Museum of American Folk Art, where she was a trustee from 1965 to 1978 and then a trustee emeritus, and to the Whitney Museum of American Art, where Mr. Lipman was long a trustee, until his death in 1992, and had served as chairman.
Mr. Snyder was chairman and chief executive.
And in 1980, when she became the first woman to serve as chairman of the American Hospital Association, she headed off a move to call her chairwoman or chairperson.
''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain.
Ms. Lewis vehemently defended the need to strengthen such protection and then informed Representative Edward Markey, a Democrat  from Massachusetts and chairman of the subcommittee, that Lamb Chop wanted to testify, too.
She was vice chairman and then chairman of the Inter-American Commission on Women from 1944 to 1949, the first regional body set up to advance the rights of women.
She was vice chairman and then chairman of the Inter-American Commission on Women from 1944 to 1949, the first regional body set up to advance the rights of women.
She was a former chairman and a longtime treasurer of the Association for Voluntary Surgical Contraception, which has become AVSC International.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
In one of her first statements in that post, she echoed a theme sounded by Paul A. Volcker, the Fed chairman, who argued that Federal deficits had to be cut to make the Fed's job less painful.
Singer, the chairman of the Singer & Bassuk Organization, who arranged financing for Mrs. Korein over many years.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Chairman's Civil Rights Leadership Award for her work improving the image of blacks.
In 1980, on the occasion of Miss Bishop's appointment to the Revlon Chair in Cosmetics Marketing at F.I.T., Michel Bergerac, chairman of Revlon, said: ''It is really quite an achievement to carve one outstanding career in a lifetime.
In the 1960's, she was vice chairman of the Commission to Study the Arts in New Jersey, which led to the creation of the New Jersey State Council on the Arts, on which she served until 1975.
In partnership with the Hall's president, the violinist Isaac Stern, and its chairman, Sanford Weill, Ms. Arron began an endowment campaign in 1995 and had raised $87 million to date.
