Housing for War Workers
        In 1933, Mrs. Rosenman became chairwoman of the investment housingcommittee of the Citizens Housing Council of New York and, on its formation in 1941, she was named chairwoman of the National Committee on Housing, where she championed emergency housing for war workers.
Housing for War Workers
        In 1933, Mrs. Rosenman became chairwoman of the investment housingcommittee of the Citizens Housing Council of New York and, on its formation in 1941, she was named chairwoman of the National Committee on Housing, where she championed emergency housing for war workers.
In Dallas, she was a co-founder of the Auction for Cultural Arts and a former chairwoman of the annual Crystal Charity Ball.
Dr. Kelly, who received a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin at Madison, was chairwoman of the Department of Educational Organization, Administration and Policy at the university's Graduate School of Education.

        Charlotte L. Peskin, chairwoman and president of Polyplastex United, a producer of interiors for aircraft cabins, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 76 years old and lived in Tamarac, Fla.
        She died of peritonitis after surgery, her family said.
She was named chairwoman and president two years ago.

        Katie Louchheim, a former State Department official and a former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who was a prominent figure in the social life of Washington for four decades, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
A vivacious woman of enormous energy, she plunged into Democratic Party affairs and worked her way up to become vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960.
She was a member of the Salvation Army's advisory board; vice chairwoman of the board of managers of the New York Botanical Garden; a trustee of the Brick Presbyterian Church; a board member of the Young Women's Christian Association, and a member of the national Y.W.C.A.

        Elizabeth Ulman Rowe, former chairwoman of the National Capital Planning Commission and a leader in urban beautification, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
"
        She also acted as a consultant on Impressionist painting to Christie's auction house and was chairwoman of the committee that is working on the revised edition of Adelyn Breeskin's catalogue raisonne of Mary Cassatt.
National and City Awards
        Mrs. Singer was chairwoman of the voluntary advisory council to the Department of Correction, and of the executive committee of the Women's Prison Association.
She was also vice chairwoman of the Citizens Union of the City of New York and a trustee of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
She was chairwoman of the history department from 1955 to 1963 and retired in 1966, but returned as acting dean of the college until 1967.

        Mary C. O'Connor, a former chairwoman of Community Board 6 on the East Side of Manhattan, died on Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center, where she was taken after she was hit by a truck at Second Avenue and 45th Street.
Ms. O'Connor was a member of the community board for many years and its chairwoman in 1983 and 1984.
At her death she was first vice chairwoman of the National Advisory Council of the American Civil Liberties Union.
From 1970 to 1978, she was chairwoman of the Law Panel International of Planned Parenthood Federation.
She was a Pulitzer Prize committee chairwoman and a judge of the general nonfiction category on four occasions.
Besides helping her husband, Olaus, build the Beneficial Loan Society, now known as the Beneficial Corporation, into one of the nation's largest consumer-loan concerns, Mrs. Caspersen was the director of the Beneficial Foundation and chairwoman of the O. W. Caspersen Foundation, a major contributor to health and educational programs.

        Geraldine N. Moon, vice chairwoman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee, died at her home in Camden County on Wednesday.
At her death, she was serving a second two-year term as first vice chairwoman of the committee.
She was chairwoman of the resulting International Conference of Church Women in Baarn, the Netherlands, in 1948.
She was a past chairwoman and a member of the Assistant Board of Woman's Hospital since 1949.
She was a board member of the East Side Settlement House and the New York City Opera Guild and chairwoman of the benefit for the American Foundation for AIDS Research.
A linguist, translator and specialist in dramatic literature, she was chairwoman of the comparative humanities department from 1975 to 1976 and again from 1986 to 1987.
At her death, she was the chairwoman of the league's field service and of its long-range planning committee.
She later worked with Meals on Wheels and was chairwoman of the Board of Zoning Appeals in Rye.
She was elected first vice chairwoman of the Westchester Democratic Committee in 1986.
She was also a former chairwoman of the Town of Greenburgh Democratic Committee for many years, a delegate to the 1980 Democratic National Convention in Manhattan and the Westchester County coordinator for Mario M. Cuomo's first campaign for governor.
She was also the founder of the Huntington Youth Bureau and served as chairwoman of the Suffolk County Youth Board.
Ms. Maples was the co-founder and former chairwoman of the Association of Vocational Rehabilitation Advocates for Substance Abusers, the first organization formed exclusively to help with jobs for recovering drug abusers.
In the last decade, she was chairwoman of the Citizens Committee for New York City, a group that tries to help neighborhood groups improve their communities.
She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS.
She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund.
She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund.
She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS.
She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund.
She was the chairwoman of the advisory board of the Actors' Work Program, vice chairwoman of the board of Save the Theaters and a member of the boards of the American Council for the Arts and the Theater Development Fund.
At the time of her death, she was chairwoman of the committee on personal income taxes of the New York City State Bar Association.
She was a past chairwoman of the state bar's tax section, as well as of its finance committee, and served on the executive committee of the state bar's House of Delegates.
For many years, Mrs. Weiss was chairwoman of the board of the Wiltwyck School for Boys.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Silberberg was vice chairwoman of the fund and a member of the Human Rights Watch executive committee.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Silberberg was vice chairwoman of the fund and a member of the Human Rights Watch executive committee.
As chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater in 1950, she organized productions for community theaters.
Among her early activities, she organized and was chairwoman of the Women's Division of the National Jewish Welfare Board and was a vice president of the board for 19 years.
She also had been an honorary governor of Hebrew Union College, vice president of the New York City Y.W.H.A., vice president of the national Girl Scouts and chairwoman of its American Girl magazine, executive committee member of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Parsons School of Design.
As chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater in 1950, she organized productions for community theaters.
After World War II, she was transferred to the Department of State and sent to the Mission to the United Nations, where she worked with Eleanor Roosevelt when she was chairwoman of the Commission on Human Rights from 1946 to 1951.
In that period she was also chairwoman of the Coty American Fashion Critics Award organization.
"
        While at Madeira, Miss Maynard served six years on the executive committee of the National Council of Independent Schools and was its chairwoman for three years.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
For 50 years she lived in Teaneck, N.J., where she was a co-founder of the Senior Services Center and was chairwoman of the Friendship House, the Advisory Board on Senior Citizens and the Advisory Board on Community Relations.
