In 1956, Mrs. Todd was elected vice chairman of the Republican National Committee.
During World War II, she was chairman of the New Jersey Red Cross Canteen.
She was a past chairman of the board of the Far Hills Country Day School and of the Foxcroft School.
Mrs. Todd's husband, Webster Bray Todd, a former state Republican state chairman in New Jersey, died in 1989.
She began her public-housing activites in the 1920's when she was asked by Ira Robbins, chairman of the housing committee of the United Neighborhood Houses, which represented all the settlement housing in New York City, to help amend the old tenement laws.
She is survived by her husband, David Kelly, chairman of the history department at D'Youville College in Buffalo; two daughters, Jennifer, of Manhattan, and Elizabeth, of Buffalo; her father, Joseph Paradise of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Judith Moskowitz of Manhattan, and a brother, Steven Paradise of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of Hamilton Industries.
      
She was the chairman of Joseph Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival from 1973 to 1987 and underwrote moving several of its productions from the Public Theater to Broadway, including "Two Gentlemen of Verona" and "A Chorus Line.
In recent years, she was chairman of the Joyce Mertz Gilmore Foundation, which supports nonprofit activities in human rights, world security and the environment and New York City cultural and civic programs.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Binghamton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schumann was the principal donor to the Florence and John Schumann Foundation, which she established with her husband, John J. Schumann Jr., a former president and chairman of the General Motors.

        Virginia Mae Brown, who as chairman of the Interstate Commerce Commission became the first woman to head an independent administrative agency of the Federal Government, died Sunday at her home in Charleston, W. Va. She was 67 years old.
commissioner from 1964 to 1979, was vice chairman of the commission in 1968 and was named chairman for a one-year term in 1969.
commissioner from 1964 to 1979, was vice chairman of the commission in 1968 and was named chairman for a one-year term in 1969.
Mrs. Boissevain was born in Chicago and married Camille Dreyfus, the founder and chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, in 1931.
She also served as a patron of the Philharmonic Society of New York and as vice chairman of the Lewisohn Stadium Concerts.
As fine arts chairman of the National Council of Women of the United States, from 1937 to 1954, Mrs. Horch was interested in fostering the work of women artists, and mounted a series of group shows devoted to women of various nationalities, among them Japanese, Canadian and Norwegian.

        Gertrude Ziesing Kemper, chairman of the Kemper Educational and Charitable Foundation of Chicago, died Wednesday at her home in Chicago.
She is survived by her husband, William, chairman of Time Warner Trade Publishing; two sons, Jeffrey and Richard, both of Manhattan, and a daughter, Nancy, also of Manhattan.
      
She and William Randolph Hearst Jr., chairman of the Hearst Corporation, were married in 1948.
"I was Chairman Mao's dog," she said in her defense.
The newspaper, the Hainan Daily, wrote that she "twists her lips, snorts and even says some nonsense like 'This is not the Chairman's revolutionary line.
Her husband, Raymond, is chairman of the resort in the Catskills, the nation's largest independently owned family resort hotel.
She served for a quarter century as chairman for the Boston area of the greeting-card fund-raising campaign for Unicef.
She served for a quarter-century as chairman for the Boston area of the greeting-card fund-raising campaign for Unicef.
"She was elegant, glorious and sparkling," saidOsborne Elliot, who was founding chairman of the Citizens Committee and who, since her resignation, has returned as chairman.
"She was elegant, glorious and sparkling," saidOsborne Elliot, who was founding chairman of the Citizens Committee and who, since her resignation, has returned as chairman.
Correction:  August 17, 1991, Saturday
        An obituary yesterday about Marietta Tree, a former United Nations representative and campaigner for New York City causes, rendered the name of the founding chairman of the Citizens Committee for New York City incorrectly.
While working for Senator McCarran, who was chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, she received an bachelor of laws degree from George Washington University in 1948 and a doctor of laws degree from the university two years later.
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Jacobs Jr., former chairman of Bache Group Inc., now known as Prudential Securities; a daughter, Nancy Jacobs Haneman of Rye, N.Y.; a son, Harry A.
She is survived by her husband, L. Emery Katzenbach, the former chairman of White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm; two daughters, Mrs. Pamela M. Thye of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Caroline N. Sidnam of New York City; a son, Robert D. C. Meeker Jr. of Elizabethtown, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Before that she was an executive assistant to the chairman of Genimar Inc., manufacturers of fabricated masonry wall reinforcements, also in New York.
Omus Hirshbein, vice chairman of the Tisch Center for the Arts at the 92d Street Y.M.H.A., said yesterday that Miss Rosenthal "was an extraordinary woman in the sense that she brought a cultured aspect of the Old World that is gone today, and passed that on to many generations of kids.
Her father, Joseph Richardson Dilworth, is a former chairman and chief executive officer of the Rockefeller Group in New York City.
When she retired in 1971, she was succeeded by John Marion, who is now chairman of the firm, which changed its name to Sotheby's Inc. in 1985.

        Lois Scheerer McGraw, a philanthropist and the widow of a former president and chairman of McGraw-Hill publishers, died on Friday at her home in Jupiter Island, Fla. She was 99 years old.
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M. of New York, chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M., of New York, who is the current chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, who is the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      

        Jeannette E. Kriendler, a philanthropist and the wife of H. Peter Kreindler, the longtime chairman of "21" Club, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Mr. Kriendler was chairman from 1938 to 1989, when he became honorary chairman.
Mr. Kriendler was chairman from 1938 to 1989, when he became honorary chairman.
