
       Elizabeth Chapman Little, chairwoman of the board of the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, Conn., from 1983 until last year, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich Hospital.
Elizabeth Chapman Little, chairwoman of the board of the Bruce Museum in Greenwich, Conn., from 1983 until last year, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich Hospital.
She was the guild's first female president and later served as its chairwoman and honorary chairwoman.
She was the guild's first female president and later served as its chairwoman and honorary chairwoman.
She served as chairwoman of the Allergy Foundation of America and as president of the Women's Medical Association of New York City and of the New York Allergy Association.
She was a former chairwoman of the board of managers of the Clinton Correctional Institution for Women, an agency she joined in 1942.
''
        Mrs. Logan was also a chairwoman and founder of the Actors' Fund blood bank and a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York and the National Corporate Theater Fund, which helps finance regional theaters and neighborhood playhouses.

       Bernice Segal, a former chairwoman of the chemistry department at Barnard College, died of breast cancer Sunday at her home in Tenafly, N.J. She was 59 years old.
Bernice Segal, a former chairwoman of the chemistry department at Barnard College, died of breast cancer Sunday at her home in Tenafly, N.J. She was 59 years old.
She joined Barnard in 1958 and was chairwoman of the chemistry department from 1973 to 1983 and again from 1986 to 1987.
She was chairwoman of the linguistics department at the college from 1969 to 1975.
Mrs. Casselman was honorary chairwoman of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum, which grew from the merger of the National Council on Naturalization and Citizenship and the American Immigration Conference, organizations she had founded in New York.
Energetic Social Life
        The wife of the late Clyde M. Newhouse, a member of the communications industry family and an art gallery owner, Mrs. Newhouse maintained an energetic social life as a moderator of charity fashion shows and chairwoman of balls.

       Marion Pierce Mack, vice chairwoman of the Westchester County Republican Committee for 33 years, died yesterday at a nursing home in Rockport, Mass.
Marion Pierce Mack, vice chairwoman of the Westchester County Republican Committee for 33 years, died yesterday at a nursing home in Rockport, Mass.
Ms. Lerrigo was also a trustee of the Riverside Church in Manhattan and chairwoman of a committee that selected the Rev.
Earlier she had served as executive vice president and as chairwoman of the company's executive committee.
Mrs. Melville had been president of the Stony Brook Community Fund, chairwoman of the Museums at Stony Brook and a trustee of Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C.
        She was the wife of Ward Melville, originator of the Thom McAn brand of shoes.
In 1973, she became chairwoman of Jamaica Hospital's department of ambulatory care.

       Julia McGuire Blewer, a former program chairwoman of the Women's Association of Brick Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died Thursday at New York Hospital.
Julia McGuire Blewer, a former program chairwoman of the Women's Association of Brick Presbyterian Church in Manhattan, died Thursday at New York Hospital.
In 1981 President Jimmy Carter named her chairwoman of the White House Conference on Aging.
They merged when she became the first chairwoman of the Legal Aid Society, an organization she served for more than 50 years.
As Legal Aid's first chairwoman, she nevertheless insisted on being referred to as chairman, rather than chairperson.
In 1939, she was the first chairwoman of a standing committee of the New York County Bar Association.
She was chairwoman of the New York City Committee on Adoptions and often served as a pro bono lawyer for children's aid organizations.
She was also a former trustee of the New York Civil Liberties Union, a former board member of the Citizens Committee for Children, a former chairwoman of Madison House, a former president of the New York Federation of Jewish Charities, a former board member of the Legal Defense Fund and a former member of the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary.
She was a trustee of Mount Holyoke and chairwoman of a committee that planned a health center for the college.
Rita Lenihan of the Navy, who was the director of the Waves and became chairwoman of the regents at Georgetown University after retirement from the service, died of cancer Thursday at Bethesda (Md.
Rita Lenihan of the Navy, who was the director of the Waves and became chairwoman of the regents at Georgetown University after retirement from the service, died of cancer Thursday at Bethesda (Md.
In 1972, two years after leaving the post, she joined the regents at Georgetown, where she was chairwoman from 1975 to 1978.

       Dorothy Stebbins Bowles, a social worker and former chairwoman of the Board of Education in Essex, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Essex.
Dorothy Stebbins Bowles, a social worker and former chairwoman of the Board of Education in Essex, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Essex.
She was also a member of the New York City Health Department's task force on AIDS and was chairwoman of the advisory committee on parasitology for the city's Bureau of Laboratories.
As theater chairwoman of the Westport-Weston (Conn.) Arts Council in the early 1980's, she produced a play-reading series called Works in Progress.
