Miss Martin also was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee.
From 1936 to 1946, she was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee in Washington and head of its women's division.
Mrs. Phipps was a former chairman of the Saratoga Performing Arts Center and a member of its board at the time of her death.
''Hebe revolutionized fashion writing,'' said John Fairchild, chairman of Fairchild Publications.
Walter N. Thayer, chairman of Whitney Communications and president of The Herald Tribune, commented, ''She was a great lady and a wonderful person who had friends in all walks of life.
The House passed a resolution allowing her to be sworn-in at home, and the oath was administered Jan. 7 by the chairman of the California delegation, Don Edwards, also a Democrat.
She was legislative chairman of the Women's National Democratic Club and its liaison to the House.
The House adopted a resolution allowing her to be sworn in at home, and the oath was administered Jan. 7 by the chairman of the California delegation, Don Edwards, also a Democrat.
She was legislative chairman of the Women's National Democratic Club and was its liaison to the House.
She is survived by a daughter, Bernice L. Rudnick of Manhattan, who is vice chairman of the Einstein College board of overseers; a son, Maurice, of Manhattan, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Philip, is chairman of the Surburban Communications Corporation in Livonia, Mich., the publisher of 50 newspapers in the Detroit and Cincinnati areas.
Mrs. Greenberg was the first national chairman of Youth Aliyah, serving in the post from 1936 to 1941.
She was also national chairman of the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Building Fund.
Her father, William Green, served as a United States Representative, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and, later, as a Federal judge.
Mrs. Gill, the wife of Howard Read Gill, the co-founder and chairman of Golf Digest Magazine, taught remedial reading at New Canaan High School in the 1970's.
At the time, she was serving as chairman of the Kennedy campaign committee in Oregon.
Professor Brody served for many years as chairman of the music department at the former University Heights campus of N.Y.U.
Her husband, Llewellyn Watts Jr., longtime chairman of the board of governors of the New York Mercantile Exchange, died in 1975.
She had been an officer of the Scarsdale League of Women Voters and chairman of the Scarsdale Parent-Teachers Association.
Mrs. Warburg was former vice president of the Girl Scouts of America and chairman of its camp committee.
Her husband, Walter N. Rothschild, chairman of the board of Abraham & Straus and a founder of the Federated Department Stores, died in 1960.
Her husband, Walter N. Rothschild, chairman of the board of Abraham & Straus and a founder of the Federated Department Stores, died in 1960.
In 1980, she became the chairman of the Department of Educational and Community Programs in the School of Education at Queens College.
She had been the chairman of the orchestra's board and last year became the executive director, a post she held until the orchestra was dissolved last month because of financial problems.
Mrs. Moss had been on the Scarsdale Planning Board and in 1981 was its chairman.
She also served as honorary chairman of the women's division of United Cerebral Palsy.
Starting as a projectionist, she advanced to instructor, senior instructor and assistant department chairman.
Working with members of the Linnaean Society, she helped re-establish a habitat for the birds on the island and became chairman of the Gull Island Committee.
She was also a member of the board of trustees of Cancer Care and served as co-chairman of the development committee and chairman of the women's committee.
