She was also chairwoman of the Joffrey/New School University degree program in dance.
''Some of the most creative work that many of us artists have done has been with Sarah,'' Beverly Sills, the soprano and former chairwoman of the Metropolitan Opera, said yesterday.
In 1977, Mrs. Connelly was appointed chairwoman of the Assembly Committee on Mental Health, Mental Retardation, Developmental Disabilities, Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.
At her retirement in 1989, she held the Katharine Coman chair in economics at Wellesley and had been departmental chairwoman twice.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
Mrs. Goodman, whose expertise was in early childhood education, joined the board at Teachers College in 1973 and led its committee on development before being elected the board's chairwoman in 1980.
From 1977 to 1983, Ms. Becker was chairwoman of the War Resisters League, the American section of War Resisters International, a group founded in 1923.

        Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
Mrs. Goodman, whose expertise was in early childhood education, joined the board at Teachers College in 1973 and led its committee on development before being elected the board's chairwoman in 1980.
From 1995 to 2000, she was chairwoman of the Rockefeller Foundation.
The same year, she was named chairwoman of the Democratic National Convention, which nominated Bill Clinton for president for the first time.
Her death was announced by the gardens, of which she was founder and former chairwoman.
A year later, Mrs. Boegner -- who by then lived in a somewhat more modest white clapboard home adjacent to the estate -- established and became chairwoman of the nonprofit Old Westbury Gardens.
''
        In 1992, she was chairwoman of the convention that first nominated Bill Clinton.
'' Mrs. Morgenthau put that approach to work as chairwoman of Pact, a coalition with aid programs in 20 nations.
Ms. Elliott was chairwoman of the board at Barnard when she helped organize administrators, faculty members and students there to oppose a Columbia merger.
''If she hadn't held the line, it might well have gone the other way,'' said Helene Kaplan, a board member at the time and its chairwoman in the 1980s.
In the early 1990s, Ms. Elliott was chairwoman of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation in Princeton, N.J., which promotes excellence in teaching, the humanities and women's studies.
