She was a past vice chairman of the Hospitality Committee for United Nations Delegations in New York, a volunteer group for which she worked from 1954 till 1970.
She organized and served as chairman of the Dutchess County branch of the Foreign Policy Association and formerly directed the information center for voluntary organizations at the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.
Her husband, James Stillman Rockefeller, is a former president and chairman of Citibank and is a grandnephew of John D. Rockefeller.
In the 1930's and 1940's, Mrs. Strauswas a member and chairman of the New York State Commission for the Blind.
In her later years she reduced her activities, but at her death she was still president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, honorary president of the American Cancer Society and a trustee and vice chairman of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
For instance, the foundation's prize jury, whose longtime chairman is the heart surgeon Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, chose two winners of 1985 Albert Lasker Medical Research and Public Service awards -- Dr. Michael S. Brown and Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein of the University of Texas, for their studies of cholesterol chemistry in relation to the clogging of coronary arteries.
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger of Manhattan; a son, Jim Lebenthal, the firm's chairman and spokesman, also of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Ted E. Becker Sr., a former chairman of the institute's child analysis committee, said that Dr. Weil's "primary interest and research had to do with the neurological and organic aspects of child development.
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, a daughter, Kimberly Donaldson-Plym, and a son, Matthew, all of New York.
      
Over the years, Mrs. Bissell served as chairman of the collections and garden committees, chairman of the board of regents and, twice, as president of the board.
Over the years, Mrs. Bissell served as chairman of the collections and garden committees, chairman of the board of regents and, twice, as president of the board.
She was a professor of theater and a former chairman of the theater department at Williams College, a trustee of the Williamstown Theater Festival and a director of the Theater Communications Group in New York.
After Pearl Harbor, she served as a director of the National Board of the American Women's Voluntary Service and as chairman of its Chinese unit in New York.
Mrs. Bryant was born in New York, graduated from the Spence School, and in 1941 was a vice chairman of the committee that formed the United Service Organizations, the coalition of groups assisting American military personnel.
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the founder and honorary chairman of Special Olympics International, said, "As we celebrate 25 years of achievement, I continue to reflect on those early days and say a heartfelt thanks to those pioneers such as Dorothy Buehring Phillips, who helped to make it all possible.

        Margaret Brown Klapthor, an expert on White House history and a former department chairman at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at her home in Washington.
She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.
She was also the chairman of the Albright Institute for archeological research in Jerusalem and served on the boards of other cultural and educational institutions.
It included President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy; the philanthropists Brooke Astor and Enid Annenberg Haupt; William S. Paley, the chairman of CBS, and members of the Bronfman, Getty, Mellon, Rockefeller, Vanderbilt and Whitney clans.
Mrs. Roebling retired in 1984 as chairman of the National State Bank in Elizabeth, N.J., which then had assets of $1.2 billion.
It grew substantially and she was its president or chairman or both until 1972, when Trenton Trust was acquired by National State.
She was then elected chairman of the combined institutions.
She went on to serve as its chairman until 1983.
The cause was cancer, said William D. Wixom, chairman of the museum's department of medieval art.
She founded the university's health education department and was its first chairman.
In 1949, Mrs. Kramer and her husband, Benjamin Abrams, the founder and chairman of the Emerson Radio Corporation, visited Israel.
There was a retrospective of her work held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in September, attended by Yuzo Yagi, the chairman of Yagi Tsusho Ltd., the Japanese company that had bought the rights to her name in 1988 and had sponsored the exhibition.
Two years later, she married Jouett Shouse, the chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee.
She also served as vice chairman and continued as an active board member until her death.
She was vice chairman of the Republican Town Committee and a member of the party's State Central and Finance Committees.
She came to Greenwich in 1932 with her first husband, Joseph Wilshire, a future chairman of Standard Brands.
She was chosen to speak at the 1992 convention only after confronting Mr. Clinton's campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, now the United States Trade Representative, at a Los Angeles picnic, and telling him, "I have words inside me that I have to share.
She was chosen to speak at the 1992 convention only after confronting Mr. Clinton's campaign chairman, Mickey Kantor, now the United States trade representative, at a Los Angeles picnic, and telling him, "I have words inside me that I have to share.
