Mrs. Dance was a former president and chairman of the Sigma Gamma Association, a women's volunteer group in the Detroit area.
With Harmon H. Goldstone, a former chairman of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission, Miss Dalrymple wrote "History Preserved: A Guide to New York City Landmarks and Historic Districts" (1974).
Mr. Goldstone, an architect, was a major force in establishing the Landmarks Commission and served as its chairman from 1968 to 1973.
Mrs. Boas's brother, Joseph Cullman 3d of Manhattan, is chairman emeritus of Philip Morris Companies.
Another brother, Edgar, also of Manhattan, is chairman of the Culbro Corporation of Manhattan, a diversified products company.
Later, in Delaware, she was the founding chairman of that state's Mental Health Association and an officer and fund-raiser in the National Association for Mental Health, of which she was a past president.

        Dr. Monica Healea, physics professor emeritus and former chairman of the physics department at Vassar College, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 93.
From 1966 she was the assistant to the chairman and president while Mr. Bernstein held those positions at Random House.
She retired recently as chairman of the Alliance of Resident Theaters-New York, and from the boards of the Professional Children's School and the New York Revels.
He is vice chairman and former chairman of Belding Heminway Company, the Manhattan textile concern.
He is vice chairman and former chairman of Belding Heminway Company, the Manhattan textile concern.
Professor McManus was a native of North Smithfield, R.I.
        She was a past chairman of the nursing council of the Florence Nightingale International Foundation.
She was also a founding member and honorary chairman of the Harlem School of the Arts and for many years was on the advisory board of Young Concert Artists.
Recognized as a leader in the defense of civil and politcal liberties, she was a past chairman of the Latin American section and secretary of the International League for Human Rights.
Dr. Koller, a gifted speaker who joined the Rochester faculty in 1942, was chairman of the English department from 1946 to 1958.
Dr. Biber -- the name she used professionally -- was chairman of the child development faculty of the Bank Street College of Education from 1931 to 1960.
She died of complications from a fall last March, said Dr. Murl G. Barker, a friend, who is chairman of the Russian department at Rutgers University.
Mrs. Stark then married Theodore Silbert, chairman of the board of Sterling National Bank, who died last year.
She was an original member of the National Council on the Arts and the first chairman of its Dance Panel in 1965.
She was a past president and board chairman of the New Canaan Community Nursery School, president of the Southern Connecticut Wellesley Club and an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan.
Eventually, John D. Rockefeller 3d, Lincoln Center's first chairman, persuaded her to allow the hall to be named in her honor.
