She was chairman of the humanities and communications department from 1976 to 1985, and was assistant vice president for research and development before being assigned to her post in program evaluation.
She was an author and lecturer on professional ethics, a past chairman of the Pennsylvania Humanities Council and a member of the National Architectural Accrediting Board.
In the 1940's, she was chairman of the Jewish National Fund department, Hadassah's official Zionist land-buying agency in what was then Palestine.
She also was a past national Hadassah chairman for young people pioneering in Palestine and helped found Kibbutz Hasollelim to train young Zionists.
As Jewish education chairman for Hadassah, she later was an organizer of the seminary's School for Jewish Women.
Formerly a family charity, it became a public community foundation in 1989, and Mrs. Isaacs served as its chairman from 1954 until her death.
Miss Shurr taught at the High School of Performing Arts in New York for more than two decades, serving as chairman of the dance department for three years.
She died of cancer, said Walter Zacharius, the chairman of Kensington Publishing Corporation, which owns Zebra Books.

        Catherine Wolkonsky, a French and Russian teacher for 50 years and founding chairman of the Slavic Department at the State University of New York at Albany, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 96 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
She was chairman and professor of Russian at Vassar College from 1946 to 1961, after which she led the Slavic Department at SUNY, Albany, until 1972.
Mr. Levy was the head of Goldman, Sachs, a leading international investment banking firm, and chairman of the New York Stock Exchange.
At the time of her death, she was a member of the boards of the Brooklyn Museum and the Jewish Museum and chairman of the B'nai B'rith Hillel-Jewish Association for College Youth.
Mr. Mazer was a founder and chairman of the Hudson Pulp and Paper Company, based in New York City and later sold to Georgia-Pacific.
Mrs. Rudin is survived by her sons Jack and Lewis, respectively the chairman and the president of the family business, both residents of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
"Peg Douglas has been one of our secret weapons," Amyas Ames, the chairman of Lincoln Center, said in 1980 when Mrs. Douglas retired from the board of directors.
In 1987 she was named director of public affairs for Con Edison's Westchester customer service unit, and in 1990 she was named assistant to the chairman of Consolidated Edison.
"She was one of the top authorities in the world on thyroid," said Dr. Philip K. Bondy, the retired chairman of the department of medicine at Yale, where she did most of her work.
The order operates Grace Institute, which was founded by William Russell Grace and is now headed by his grandson, J. Peter Grace, the chairman of W. R. Grace & Company.
Mrs. Huttner was vice chairman of the board of directors from then until 1975, and continued as a director into the 1980's.
She became water resources chairman of the Connecticut State Board of the League of Women Voters, which awakened her interest in the coastal waters and oceans.
A housing specialist with the Community Service Society, a civic group, she was appointed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1965 as chairman of the Citizens' Advisory Committee of the Housing and Redevelopment Board.
She was the first woman elected vice chairman.
During a 35-year career from 1937 to 1972, Miss Grand was a history teacher, guidance department chairman and an assistant principal of Samuel J. Tilden High School in Brooklyn.
The objects of the Marquesa's philanthropy included the Venezuelan Red Cross, of which she was chairman for many years, and the National Gallery in Caracas.
During the 1960's and 1970's she was a member and chairman of the Arbitration Association of America.
