In 1989, convinced that puppeteers required their own voice in the acting profession, she founded the Puppeteers Caucus, a working group within the Screen Actors Guild, and was its first chairwoman.
She was president of the American Theater Wing and the American National Theater and Academy and was the national chairwoman of women's activities for the March of Dimes.
She was the executive director and later chairwoman of the Greenacre Foundation, founded by Abby Rockefeller Mauze.

        Barbara Stoler Miller, chairwoman of the Asian and Middle Eastern Cultures Department at Barnard College, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday.
She became clinical professor of radiology in 1950 and was chairwoman of the radiology department from 1959 to 1965, when she became professor emeritus.
Mrs. Everson was a past president, chairwoman, board member or officer of Brooklyn's first Planned Parenthood committee, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, United Neighborhood Houses of New York, Colony House, the Brooklyn Central YWCA, Civitas, the Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Lung Association, the Brooklyn Women's Club, the Brooklyn chapter of the American Red Cross, and the Brooklyn division of the Protestant Council of the City of New York, among others.
Dr. Boone was a vice president and scholarship chairwoman of the Roothbert Fund, which aids students training for education careers.
In New York City, Mrs. Sanford was the longtime national chairwoman of the April in Paris Ball Committee, which raised money for several charities, including the Leukemia Society of America and the Parkinson's Disease Foundation.
She was elected in 1989 to a two-year term as the vice chairwoman of the Republican State Central Committee of Connecticut, becoming its highest-ranking female officer.
She was also a former chairwoman of the Present Day English Section of the Modern Language Association.
She taught for more than 40 years at Brooklyn College and served as chairwoman of its English department.
Mrs. Brown was a founding member and chairwoman of the Friends of the Zoo, which worked with the New York Zoological Society to help renovate the Central Park Zoo and to foster environmental education in city schools.
"
        She was a past chairwoman of the Council of Auxiliaries of the American Association of Dental Schools, president of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York City and an executive board member of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York State.
She soon became chairwoman of the voice department, a position she held until retiring in 1991.
She became president of the National Council of Women in 1960 and was chairwoman of the 75th anniversary of the International Council of Women and the national affiliate, in Washington in 1963.
Mrs. Cooper, who remained active until her death, was the membership chairwoman of the Upper West Manhattan branch of the League of Women Voters.

        Olive A. Beech, a leader in the aviation industry and a co-founder and chairwoman of the Beech Aircraft Company, died yesterday at her home in Wichita, Kan., at the age of 89, her family said.
Upon his death in 1950, she took over as president and chairwoman.
She gave up the presidency in 1968 and remained as chairwoman until 1982, then became chairwoman emeritus.
She gave up the presidency in 1968 and remained as chairwoman until 1982, then became chairwoman emeritus.
Mrs. Lazarus founded the Ohio Arts Council in 1965 and was its chairwoman from 1973 to 1975.
"
        She was a member of the Actors Equity board of governors and the chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater.
      
Three years later she accepted an appointment as professor of medical sciences at Southern Illinois University and also served as department chairwoman from 1974 until her academic retirement in 1977.
She was chairwoman of the physical education department at Jamaica High School in Queens from the early 1960's until 1973, when she retired from the school system.
When the hall was in the planning stages, Miss Tully encouraged the creation of its resident ensemble, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, and was the chairwoman of its board for many years.
