For many years she was the chairwoman of the Keswick Foundation, based in Hong Kong.
She was also a past chairwoman of the special projects committee at Sloan-Kettering and a longtime volunteer at the Buckley, Taft and Episcopal schools.
A past chairwoman of the department of professional studies, she was a professor of education and psychology.
She was a delegate to the World Zionist Congress in 1987 and 1992 and was chairwoman of several Congress committees.
Mrs. Ramsay was a member of the advisory council of the African Wildlife Foundation and founder and chairwoman of the Jordan Conservation and Research Center, an organization dedicated to training African wildlife researchers.
Miss Dorman was a member of the board's executive committee and chairwoman of the board's Brooklyn College administrative committee.

        Shirley Silverman, the mother of Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, the Bronx.
She was chairwoman of the string department at DePaul University in Chicago from 1968 to 1970.
Mrs. Baumann was also a member of the national executive council of the American Jewish Committee and chairwoman of the organization's Westchester chapter.
She was a past president of the Jewish Family Service of Atlantic County and chairwoman of the Lion of Judah for the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.
Mrs. Fogelson was honorary chairwoman and a longtime benefactor of the Jewish Museum in Manhattan.
She was the author of 10 books and several articles, a former chairwoman of the department of Africana studies at the university and a poet.
Mrs. Morgan was a Smith trustee from 1964 to 1971, serving as board chairwoman for four years.

        Ludmilla B. Turkevich, an expert in Russian language and literature who was the first woman to teach at Princeton and then spent 18 years as chairwoman of the Russian department at Douglass College of Rutgers University, died on Friday at the Princeton Medical Center.
Mrs. Goldman was the president of the sisterhood of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue and the chairwoman of the book and author series of UJA-Federation of New York.
A professor of anthropology, she was the chairwoman of the department of anthropology at Ithaca College.
