; she was its chairwoman from 1953 to her retirement in 1977.
As chairwoman of five United Nations committees from 1962 to 1973, all of which dealt with cooperation between the United Nations and nongovernmental organizations, she focused on the coordination of disaster relief.
She was a former chairwoman of a community board in Fluvanna County, Va., that provided services for mental health, mental retardation and drug addiction.
Countess Szapary was chairwoman of the 1995 centennial celebration of the Breakers, for which she created, in the stables of the estate, ''New York Central With the Vanderbilts,'' a small-scale version of the New York Central Lines, founded by Cornelius Vanderbilt.
More recently, the group sponsored informal monthly breakfast meetings, also off the record, for such participants and led by Olara Otunnu, the current president, and Rita Hauser, chairwoman of the board.
After receiving her master's degree and doctorate, Dr. Wakin remained at Columbia as a member of the faculty, attaining tenure as senior lecturer in 1974 and serving as department chairwoman.
'' Dr. Wakin was also editor of the Journal of the American Oriental Society and chairwoman of the Columbia Seminar on Arabic Studies.
She was a past chairwoman of the Newbery Caldecott Committee, which bestows medals each year on the authors and illustrators of the children's books deemed the most distinguished.
She was on many committees and boards of the American Public Health Association and was elected chairwoman in 1995.

        Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
She became chairwoman of the notation bureau in 1994.
Until her death Ms. Skelly served as vice chairwoman of the new firm, DYG Inc., based in Danbury, Conn. (Saatchi & Saatchi sold the former Yankelovich, Skelly & White, now Yankelovich Partners, in 1992.
From 1944 until 1972, Dr. Zeller was the chairwoman of the Legislative Conference of the City Colleges, a lobbying group that later became the first union to represent the permanent faculty in the City University system.
While she was practicing matrimonial law, she became chairwoman of a special committee of the New York County Lawyers Association.
By the time she retired from the board in 1970, Mrs. Shoup had been a member or chairwoman of many board committees and a perennial board secretary who had used her positions to play a key role in growing and nurturing the colleges.
And in 1980, when she became the first woman to serve as chairman of the American Hospital Association, she headed off a move to call her chairwoman or chairperson.
Mrs. Carnegie Rivkin, a native of Tulsa, Okla., was chairwoman of Dale Carnegie Training.
She retired from active management of the closely held company in 1978 in favor of her son-in-law, J. Oliver Crom, though she remained chairwoman.
She was active in the American Federation of Art, where she served as traveling exhibitions chairwoman, started a newsletter and sponsored a book on films about art.

        Jean Andrus Crockett, the first chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and first chairwoman of the finance department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at her home in Media, Pa. She was 79.

        Jean Andrus Crockett, the first chairwoman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and first chairwoman of the finance department at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at her home in Media, Pa. She was 79.
From 1977 to 1982, she served as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, and was appointed chairwoman of the regional bank in 1982.
She was promoted to full professor at Wharton in 1966 and named chairwoman of the finance department in 1977.
At her death, she was chairwoman of Caring Community, which administers programs for the elderly, mainly in Greenwich Village, and the West Side Association of Community Centers.
