She was chairman of the board of its women's division and became a lifetime trustee of its successor organization, the UJA-Federation of New York.
''She worked on all aspects of liver disease and led the most prominent university and hospital department on hepatology in Europe,'' said Dr. Peter Scheuer, former chairman of histopathology at the University of London.
She was the first woman to serve as board chairman of the State University of New York.
She was chairman of the National Council of the U.S.O.
He became the chairman of the mathematics department at Columbia, and in New York and Princeton, N.J., Ms. Bloch often played chamber music with prominent scientists.
In 1960, India's ambassador to Moscow arranged for her to meet the top Soviet leaders, including Aleksei Kosygin, the premier, Andrei Gromyko, the foreign minister, and Anastas Mikoyan, chairman of the Supreme Soviet.
She was the foundation's chairman and chief executive until she died.
Mrs. Untermeyer was associate chairman of the Lewisohn Stadium Concerts in the 1950's and 60's.
She is survived by her son, Thelonious Monk Jr. (known as T. S. Monk) of South Orange, N.J., a drummer, composer and chairman of the Thelonious Monk Institute; a grandson, Thelonious Monk IV; and a granddaughter, Sierra.
      
In a statement released yesterday, Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones, said that Mrs. Cook ''was firm on principles, kind to people and ever modest about herself.
Mrs. Stern had been honorary chairman of the board of directors of Yeshiva University's Stern College for Women.
Mr. Stern was founder and chairman of the board of the Hartz Mountain Products Corporation, a philanthropist and a fund-raiser for Jewish education.

        Edith Merrill Bancroft, a patron of the arts and the widow of Harding F. Bancroft, a vice chairman of The New York Times Company, died last Monday at her home in Washington.
In 1987, she married Mr. Bancroft, a former diplomat and lawyer who, as vice chairman of The Times Company, helped shape the decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971.
In 2000, she played matchmaker between Lawrence M. Small, former vice chairman of Citicorp, and the Smithsonian Institution, where he is now secretary.
She was the widow of Roger Lacey Stevens, the New York real estate magnate, Broadway producer, fund-raiser, arts patron and founding chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinnear, former president and chief executive of Texaco and chairman of the Metropolitan Opera who will step down later this month and become honorary chairman.
Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinnear, former president and chief executive of Texaco and chairman of the Metropolitan Opera who will step down later this month and become honorary chairman.
Mr. Arledge is now the chairman of ABC News.
