At the time of her death, Mrs. Lippert was chairwoman of the Weight Watchers Foundation, which promotes nutritional education.
She also sat on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and was chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Fiscal Policy.

        Frances Stevens Reese, a founder and chairwoman emeritus of the environmental group Scenic Hudson and a veteran of the fight to keep a power plant from being built on Storm King Mountain, died last Wednesday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Hughsonville, a village in Dutchess County, N.Y.
        She was fatally injured in a car accident on Wednesday on Route 9 near Cold Spring when her driver lost control of the car and struck a utility pole, according to the Putnam County sheriff's office.
As chairwoman from 1966 to 1984, she also oversaw the group's legal and educational work.
After being sheriff and lord mayor, Lady Donaldson went on to lead organizations concerned with cancer and the ethics of in-vitro fertilization, to serve on Britain's press complaints commission and to be chairwoman of a committee overseeing the ombudsman appointed to supervise the banking industry.
Mrs. Hicks, then the chairwoman, cast aside the issue when it was brought before the committee, asking that the board ''kindly proceed to educational matters.
Until her death, Mrs. Deane was chairwoman of the Tobe Report, a weekly newsletter sold to retailers, where she had worked since the early 1960's.
For years she was chairwoman of the April in Paris Ball and was a favorite of society columnists, who often mentioned her lunching with such friends as Elsa Maxwell, Mrs. William Paley, Mrs. Earl Smith, Doris Duke and Estée Lauder.
For years she was chairwoman of the April in Paris Ball and was a favorite of society columnists, who often mentioned her lunching with such friends as Elsa Maxwell, Mrs. William Paley, Mrs. Earl Smith, Doris Duke and Estée Lauder.

        Sylvia Sebastiani, who married the boy next door and became the matriarch and later the chairwoman of one of America's most prominent wine families, died on Sunday in Sonoma.
While Mrs. Sebastiani was chairwoman, she had an office, but she also kept a seat in the tasting room of the winery, greeting visitors and signing copies of her cookbook, ''Mangiamo: Let's Eat.
She was a founder and, from 1972 to 1980, chairwoman of the Hunter Institute for Trial Judges.

        Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said.
The Tony Awards were founded by the Theater Wing in 1947 and named for Antoinette Perry, a former chairwoman who ran the organization during World War II.

        Ann Sunstein Kheel, a civic leader and environmentalist whose posts included chairwoman of the State Parks Commission for the City of New York, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan, her family said.
She was chairwoman of the State Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation Commission for the City of New York from 1977-86.
Active in the New York Urban League since the mid-1960's, she was the secretary of its board until 1990 and the founder of its annual Frederick Douglass Awards Dinner; she was the dinner's chairwoman from 1966 to 1990.
