She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
She was a founding chairman, with Dore Schary, of Friends of Democracy, which championed human rights after World War II.
She also was a volunteer for the American Jewish Committee, the United Jewish Appeal and the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, and was an honorary chairman of all three.
She was chairman of the sociology department at Barnard from 1949 to 1968 and was president of the Eastern Sociological Society in 1955 and 1956.
''
        Mrs. Tyng and Mr. Luce, who died in 1967, had two sons: Henry Luce 3d,  chairman and chief executive of the Henry Luce Foundation in New York City, and Peter Paul Luce of Englewood, Colo.
She was a daughter of Sydney Gruson, a former vice chairman of The New York Times Company, who died last year.
She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
Sonny Werblin later became an officer of Monmouth Park race track and president of the New York Jets football team, built the Meadowlands Sports Complex and was chairman of Madison Square Garden.
When S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance Publications, the parent company of Conde Nast, asked her what she would like for her 25th anniversary, she asked that he establish two scholarships in her name at the Newhouse School of Journalism at Syracuse University.
Dr. Allen's group henceforth turned itself into the Committee Against Repressive Legislation, of which she became vice chairman in 1975.
      
She was 94, and her main residence was in Purchase, N.Y.
        After working as an editor of the old Stage magazine, Mrs. Cullman began investing with her husband, Howard S. Cullman, who was chairman of what was then called the Port of New York Authority and was prominent in the tobacco industry, serving on the board of Philip Morris  Inc.
She was also vice chairman of the Lighthouse for the Blind and served on the board of the Spence-Chapin Home for Adoption.
Ms. Rubinstein was predeceased by her husband, Victor Silson, and her brother, Oscar Kolin, who was chairman of Helena Rubinstein Inc. and died in 1995.
''
        In October 1984, a tempest of sorts arose when John Branca, the chairman of the New York State Athletic Commission, announced plans to name three female judges to the Marvelous Marvin Hagler-Mustafa Hamsho middleweight championship bout at the Garden, saying, ''This fight needs some publicity.
Mason Flaine, chairman of C.R.C.
Mrs. Hofmann was the widow of Philip B. Hofmann, a retired chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the health care products company.
Mr. Kekst, who is chairman of the Jewish Theological Seminary, recalled that about eight years ago, when the seminary was in financial straits, Mrs. Resnick joined the board and put everyone at ease.
It was there that Ms. Cage formed a close professional relationship with Morton Baum, who, as chairman of the City Center's finance committee in 1948, extended a crucial invitation to the ballet company to become a resident of the theater.
