Before Dr. Marx, a doctor might or might not have given sedation or pain relief in childbirth, said Dr. Paul L. Goldiner, chairman of the anesthesiology department at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband Joseph F. Cullman III of Manhattan, the chairman emeritus of the Philip Morris Companies in New York; a son, Barney Straus Jr., of Evanston, Ill.; a brother, Leon Paley of Far Rockaway; and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her sons, Leonard A., the chairman of the company, and Ronald S., chairman of Clinique Laboratories; four grandchildren, including William, who will become chief executive of the Estée Lauder Companies on July 1; and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her sons, Leonard A., the chairman of the company, and Ronald S., chairman of Clinique Laboratories; four grandchildren, including William, who will become chief executive of the Estée Lauder Companies on July 1; and six great-grandchildren.
While Mrs. Lauder and her husband were apart she met and became close to Mr. van Ameringen, who became president and chairman of International Flavors and Fragrances, a company that formulates fragrances for many well-known beauty houses and has no connection with the Lauder empire.
''Most Americans' perception of India came through Kamala Markandaya,'' said Charles Larson, chairman of the department of literature at American University in Washington.
Environmentalists like Gaylord Nelson, chairman of the Wilderness Society, accused her of ''a wholesale dismantling'' of environmental advances, but Ms. Burford insisted that she was bringing cost-effective market forces to the regulation of pollution.
From 1974 to 1978 she was chairman of the art history department, the first woman at Yale to become a department chairman.
From 1974 to 1978 she was chairman of the art history department, the first woman at Yale to become a department chairman.
Dr. Myron L. Weisfeldt, chairman of the department of medicine at Johns Hopkins University, said that Dr. Ferrer was ''a leader in electrocardiography at a time when it was the only test we had to judge the heart.
Her death was announced by the chairman of the PaceWildenstein gallery, Arne Glimcher, her friend and longtime dealer.
