She was 71 years old and lived in Wakefield, R.I.
        Miss Bliss was named the museum's curator of invertebrates in 1967, and from 1974 to 1977 she served as chairman of the its department of fossils and living invertebrates.
She was a past chairman of the Children's Library Association, and a member of the National Society of Women Geographers, PEN and the Authors Guild.
Mrs. Anable was chairman emeritus of the committee at her death.
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
During her tenure as chairman, the company won the Queen's Award to Industry three times.
      

       Mae Gurevich, vice chairman of the New York State Democratic Party for many years and more recently an aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Mae Gurevich, vice chairman of the New York State Democratic Party for many years and more recently an aide to Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She joined its staff in 1908 as a secretary to Clark Wissler, the noted ethnologist who was then chairman of the museum's department of anthropology.
Evaluated Campaign Ideas
        Eventually, as chairman of D.F.S.

       Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.

       Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
At Mount Holyoke, where she was named a full professor in 1971, she served for a number of years as chairman of the art department, and in the early 1970's oversaw new construction to house it.
Mrs. Palmer, who was the widow of Carleton Humphreys Palmer, a former president and chairman of E. R. Squibb & Sons, was 88 years old.
Mrs. Palmer, who was the widow of Carleton Humphreys Palmer, a former president and chairman of E. R. Squibb & Sons, was 88 years old.
Mrs. Brock was formerly a trustee of the Green Vale School in Glen Head and chairman of the Women's Division of the Friends of the New York Philharmonic.
She is survived by her son, Edwin, of Southampton, a former chairman of the Suffolk Republican Committee; two daughters, Audrey Aldridge and Beverly Flanagan, both of Delray Beach, Fla.; 8 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
An avid bird watcher in Central Park, Miss Wolf became the informal membership chairman of Friends when it was founded in 1966.
Miss Stimson was dean of women from 1921 to 1947 and associate professor and chairman of the school's history department from 1921 to 1955.
She is survived by her husband, Fredson T. Bowers, of Charlottesville, a former chairman of the English department of the University of Virginia; two sons by previous marriages, William Wertenbaker, of New Haven, Conn., and Mark Hardin; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Wrather held a series of major executive posts in the Wrather Corporation and succeeded her husband as board chairman after his death in 1984, holding the post until last January, when the company was sold to the Walt Disney Company and Industrial Equity (Pacific) Limited, a Hong Kong investment concern.
Civic Appointments
        Mrs. Wrather was the chairman of the American Film Institute, a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Center and of Loyola Marymount University, a director and former president of the Los Angeles Orphanage Guild, a member of the advisory committee of the Children's Bureau of Los Angeles, a founder and board member of the Los Angeles Music Center and a board member of the Women's Council of the Public Broadcasting Service's Channel 28 there.
She was a member of the Labor Party's national executive from 1958 to 1970 and served as party chairman in 1967 and 1968.
She also served as chairman of the New York State Advisory Council on Unemployment Insurance under Governors Cuomo and Hugh L. Carey.
''She did mother's house when I was 15,'' said Mrs. Marion, whose husband, John, is chairman of Sotheby's North America.
Dr. Vane was chairman of the psychology department at Hofstra, where she spent 26 years developing a doctoral program.
