Mrs. Goldman, a San Francisco native and graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was a vice president and past president of the San Francisco Symphony and chairwoman of her city's Memorial to the Six Million Victims of the Holocaust.
Mrs. Rorimer-Dushkin was a founder, in 1964, and past chairwoman of the Harlem School of the Arts, a nonprofit school that offers courses in art, dance, music and drama.
Mrs. Manz, who achieved average proportions in her effort to control her weight, became president and chairwoman of the TOPS board in 1952.
Declining health prompted her to relinquish the presidency in 1991, but she remained chairwoman until her death.
She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.
She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.
She was  a past chairwoman of the American section of the World Jewish Congress and head  of its global commission on anti-Semitism for North America.

        Ruth Chinitz Uris, a New York philanthropist and chairwoman of the Uris Brothers Foundation, died on Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She also served as chairwoman of the department from 1975 to 1980.
Mrs. Vineyard was a member and past chairwoman of the Washington-based Population Institute, an educational organization she represented at conferences in Latin America, Europe, Asia and the Middle East.
She was also a past chairwoman of the New York Statewide Health Coordination  Council and a member of the New York Planning Commission.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
Mrs. Carden was on the Philharmonic board from 1958 to 1978 and was chairwoman of its education committee, which developed programs to bring classical music into New York City public schools.
At her death, Mrs. van Ameringen was the foundation's honorary chairwoman.
A trustee at the Museum of Modern Art since 1971, she served on more than one-third of the museum's many trustee committees, including those of painting and sculpture, drawings and prints and illustrated books, and had been chairwoman of the museum's architecture and design committee since 1981.
Dr. Wofsy was the founding chairwoman of the Women's Health Committee of the  AIDS Clinical Trials Group of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.

        Gioia Marconi Braga, the founder and chairwoman of the privately supported Marconi International Fellowship Council, who promoted scientific and cultural relations between Italy and the United States, died on Monday at Englewood Hospital.

        Katharine Huyck Elmore, the chairwoman of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station in Rensselaerville, N.Y., died Monday at the Meadow  Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. She was 92 and formerly lived in  Rensselaerville.
She joined the board of the preserve, named for her uncle, when it was founded in 1931 and became its chairwoman in 1973.

        Gertrude Crain, who was chairwoman of the Crain Communications publishing company for more than 20 years, died July 20 at her son's summer home on Cape Cod.
Mrs. Crain became chairwoman in 1974, succeeding her husband, who died in 1973.
She attended every Democratic National Convention from 1932 to 1972 and served as vice chairwoman of the Pennsylvania delegation at the 1956 convention.
She dealt, among others, with the Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, and was its chairwoman for a time.
In an interview when she was in her mid-80's, Mrs. Phillips, who was chairwoman of her company -- her daughter was president -- said she had no intention of ever retiring.
She became an associate professor at North Carolina that year, left in 1971 for a seven-year stint at the University of Southern California and then returned to North Carolina as chairwoman of the department of biochemistry and nutrition at the medical school.
She resigned as chairwoman in 1989, but she remained active in research and teaching until her retirement last year.

        Mimi Coleman Thompson, an officer and past board chairwoman of Planned Parenthood of New York City, who also had long associations with Hofstra University and New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died on Wednesday at her home in Old Brookville, L.I.
She then was vice chairwoman of the trustees of Hofstra.
She began her work for Planned Parenthood as a fund-raiser in the 1980's, serving as chairwoman from 1983 to 1987.
Brendan T. Byrne appointed her the first chairwoman of the State Advisory Commission on the Status of Women despite objections to her strong partisan identification as the secretary of the State Democratic Committee.
She was the chairwoman of the commission for 16 years, traveling the state to foster similar bodies at the county level.
As an active member of the Association of the Bar of New York City, she served on its council on criminal justice and as chairwoman of the committee on criminal justice.
She then served as chairwoman of the local housing authority, until the early 1960's.
Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party.
At the time of her death, Ms. Dugan was chairwoman of the Assembly's Committee on Economic Development, Job Creation and Industry and a member of the Governmental Employees Committee, the Labor Committee, the Rules Committee and the Ways and Means Committee.
As chairwoman of the Committee on Economic Development, she was successful in establishing economic development zones in deteriorating neighborhoods.
She was a former chairwoman of Community School Board No.
The library's chairwoman, Elizabeth Rohatyn, said it was hard to imagine the future without Mrs. Astor's involvement.
She served as its longtime chairwoman, raising funds for the state-supported institute.
She was also a faculty member and supervisor in the psychiatry department at Mount Sinai Medical Center's School of Medicine and chairwoman of the New York State Psychological Association's Committee on Public Information.
She was elected guild unit chairwoman at The Post in 1976, while Dorothy Schiff was publisher.
Most recently, her rich, impassioned voice was heard once more in Congress when, as chairwoman of the Commission on Immigration Reform, she spoke out last  year against a proposal to deny automatic citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants born in this country.
At her death she was chairwoman of the Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation of Columbus, a major regional donor to the arts, Christian education, social services, child welfare and community development.
