The cause was cancer, said Craig Werner, chairman of the Afro-American studies department at the University of Wisconsin, where Ms. McKay was Evjue professor of American and African-American literature.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Wasserstein is survived by her mother, Lola Wasserstein; her brothers, Abner and Bruce, the chairman of the investment banking giant Lazard and the owner of New York magazine; and her sister Georgette Levis of Vermont.
That view was lent support by Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of the department of African and African-American studies at Harvard, and a friend of Mr. Appiah's since their student days, who noted that it was a marriage of equals at the highest levels of their societies.
James C. Wright, chairman of Bryn Mawr's department of classical and Near Eastern archaeology, said Dr. Mellink became known for her ''integrated and holistic approach to the larger classical world and the ancient Near East, and was able to make connections between cultures that were widely separated, and show they were actually in contact with each other.
She arrived at Bryn Mawr in 1949, became an associate professor of classical archaeology in 1953 and was appointed chairman of the archaeology department in 1955, a position she held until 1983.
She succeeded her husband as chairman of the foundation and established the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Resource Center, an information clearinghouse.
Two years later she married Robert W. Sarnoff, the chairman of RCA, who was enthralled with his glamorous wife.
As early as 1974, John E. Zuccotti, then chairman of the New York City Planning Commission, called Ms. Jacobs a prophet and himself a ''neo-Jacobean'' when he announced a smaller-scale, more sensitive urban planning approach.
He was chairman and president of the company in New York until 1975.
''Norma was not a speaker, not a writer, but she was always the chief organizer,'' said David McReynolds, a former chairman of the War Resisters International.
Prince III, Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, a mentor as she rose through its legal ranks to become co-general counsel in 2001.
''You might say they were on different sides of the argument,'' said Robert C. Stempel, the former chairman of General Motors who is now chief executive of ECD Ovonics.
Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      
The cause was kidney failure associated with colon cancer, said Thomas H. Bradley III, the chairman of the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show.
Her husband of 48 years, John Elliott Jr., known as Jock, a former chairman of Ogilvy & Mather, the advertising firm, died last year.
