In 1971, when men's and women's colleges everywhere were going coeducational and Barnard was facing pressure to merge into Columbia, Barnard's chairwoman, Eleanor Elliott, turned to Mrs. McIntosh, who suggested that the trustees try to answer three questions: Would a merger produce better education for Barnard and Columbia?
She was the chairwoman and board member of the New York City Y.W.C.A.
She also served as chairwoman of the John Drew Theater in East Hampton.

        Lillemor Taylor Robb, chairwoman of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct from 1975 to 1989, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany.
Its other members elected her as chairwoman for seven successive two-year terms.
''Every psychologist has heard of Anastasi,'' said Dr. Mary Procidano, chairwoman of the psychology department at Fordham.
In 1930, Dr. Anastasi was hired as an instructor of psychology at Barnard, and she remained there until 1939, when she became chairwoman of the psychology department at Queens College of the City University of New York.
Ms. Moyer was also a poet and the chairwoman of the Potter Hill School, a private school near Kingston, R.I..
        Born in Indianapolis, she graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in creative writing from the University of Illinois at Chicago.
She was associate dean of the college for 10 years, chairwoman of its history department for 6 years and the Eloise Ellery professor of history from 1962 to 1968.
When Mrs. Wirth's husband, Oscar Wirth, died in 1968, she assumed the role of the chairwoman of the Hassler Hotel Company.
Mrs. Graham stepped down as chairwoman of the board in 1993, again to be succeeded by her son, but remained on the board as chairwoman of the executive committee.
Mrs. Graham stepped down as chairwoman of the board in 1993, again to be succeeded by her son, but remained on the board as chairwoman of the executive committee.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
As chairwoman of the building committee from 1968 to 1977, she was instrumental in decisions on how to expand the premises.
Chairwoman of the council's membership committee in its early days, she later served as its vice chairwoman and, from 1957 to 1966, as its president.
Chairwoman of the council's membership committee in its early days, she later served as its vice chairwoman and, from 1957 to 1966, as its president.
Another nephew, Jonathan Newhouse, and his wife, Ronnie Cooke Newhouse, have flown in from London, where they live, to be chairman and chairwoman of the benefits.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.
In 1974 she became the chairwoman of the English department at Goucher College in Towson, Md.
