She was also chairman of theater benefits for The Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Club Inc., and served as its treasurer.
Mrs. Schwarz, the widow of Frederick A. O. Schwarz, a lawyer and for many years chairman of the toy store, had also been on the board of the Young Women's Christian Association in Manhattan and of Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn.

       Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 76 years old.
Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 76 years old.
Surviving are her husband, Amyas Ames, the chairman emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the New York Philharmonic; two sons, Oakes and Edward, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Olivia Ames Hoblitzelle and Joan Ames Woodcock, both of Cambridge, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
Mr. Young was chairman of the General Electric Company and founded the Radio Corporation of America.
She became its president in 1934 and held the office until 1950, when she was elected chairman.
Four years later Mrs. Sulzberger was named honorary chairman of the newly formed Central Park Conservancy, a group of private citizens who raise funds for Central Park.
A next step was taken in 1961, when Mr. Sulzberger gave the publisher's post to Mr. Dryfoos and became chairman.
She had been vice chairman and chief administrative officer of the South Carolina National Corporation and senior vice president and general counsel for South Carolina National Bank.
Guest helped found the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and was chairman of the friends of the center for many years.
''She would push and agitate and cause trouble until people wouldn't speak to her,'' said Michael Kinerk, chairman of the Art Deco Weekend festival.

       Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to mass produce Melba toast in 1932 and was honorary chairman of the Devonsheer Melba Corporation when she retired in 1975, died in her sleep on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old.
Marjorie Weil, who devised a way to mass produce Melba toast in 1932 and was honorary chairman of the Devonsheer Melba Corporation when she retired in 1975, died in her sleep on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old.
After Mr. Weil died in 1965, his wife became honorary chairman.
Their son-in-law, Richard Kaufmann, became chairman.
George C. Wallace as chairman in 1971.
Laurence Tisch is now chairman of CBS as well as chairman of the Loews Corporation.
Laurence Tisch is now chairman of CBS as well as chairman of the Loews Corporation.
Preston Robert Tisch, known as Bob, is chairman of the hotel chain and of the Lorillard Corporation and served as United States Postmaster General in the mid-1980's.
'' Her late husband, Richard B. Morris, was an American constitutional historian and a former chairman of the history department at Columbia University.
In 1986 she moved to the University of Texas, where she became chairman of the zoology department.
Her husband went into the food business and became chairman of Hartog Foods International.
In 1938, a year after her return to the United States, she married Mr. Stern, a former chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York who had inherited through an earlier marriage part of the fortune of Julius Rosenwald, the Chicago philanthropist.
Mrs. Inness-Brown, a native of Medford, Mass., was vice chairman of the State Department's International Cultural Exchange Service of the American National Theater and Academy from 1954 to 1963.
In 1966, she was president and chairman of the American corporation for the First Festival of Negro Arts in Dakar, Senegal.
She was also the founding chairman of the women's club of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue.
She was active in a wide range of legislative efforts in family law and adoption as chairman of the Joint Legislative Committee on Matrimonial and Family Law from 1955 to 1962.
She was a chairman of many philanthropies.
Mrs. Ascoli, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, a Chicago clothier who was a chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, devoted most of her adult life to charitable causes, many of them involving child welfare.
Mrs. Ascoli, a native of Chicago, attended Wellesley College for a year before she married Alfred K. Stern, a housing specialist who later became chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York.
In 1974 she joined the department of art at Berkeley, where, said Christopher Brown, the chairman of the department, she consistently won the highest rating as a teacher from faculty members and students.
She died of lung cancer, David Boehm, chairman of the publishing company, said.
