She became a social studies teacher at Seward Park High School on the Lower East Side in 1924 and was later acting chairman of the department.
She was the sister of Chang Chia-ao, who became chairman of the Bank of China, and Carsun Chang, a philosopher who became a high official in the Nationalist Government of Chiang
        Chang Yu-Yi, vice president of the first women's bank in China from 1927 to 1937, died Saturday of cardiac arrest in her sleep at her home in Manhattan.
She was the sister of Chang Chia-ao, who became chairman of the Bank of China, and Carsun Chang, a philosopher who became a high official in the Nationalist Government of Chiang Kai-shek.

       Florence Ryder, chairman of the Times Journal Company, which publishes several weekly newspapers serving members of the armed forces worldwide and a number of suburban newspapers in the vicinity of Washington and San Diego, died in her sleep yesterday at her home in Washington.
Florence Ryder, chairman of the Times Journal Company, which publishes several weekly newspapers serving members of the armed forces worldwide and a number of suburban newspapers in the vicinity of Washington and San Diego, died in her sleep yesterday at her home in Washington.
She became a professor in 1974 and served as chairman of the department of comparative literature from 1974 to 1979 and the department of rhetoric from 1981 to 1986.

       Electra B. McDowell, former board chairman of the New York City School Volunteers Program, died Friday at New York Hospital after a brief illness.
Electra B. McDowell, former board chairman of the New York City School Volunteers Program, died Friday at New York Hospital after a brief illness.
''
        ''Lucille Ball will always be the first lady of CBS,'' William S. Paley, the chairman of the network, said yesterday in a tribute issued by his office.
She was the wife of John C. A. Watkins, the former chairman and publisher of The Providence Journal.
'' In a ceremony on stage after the third act, Mr. Bing presented her with a Steuben glass cup and Lowell Wadmond, the chairman of the Met's board, gave her a silver tray.
She was a former president and chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society's Virginia division.
Her husband, Howard, a chairman of First National City Bank of New York, now Citicorp, and founding chairman of WNET, died in 1980.
Her husband, Howard, a chairman of First National City Bank of New York, now Citicorp, and founding chairman of WNET, died in 1980.
She retired as company president in 1962 but remained honorary chairman of the board.
She had been a member and chairman of the North Salem Planning Board.
Previously, she was chairman of the economics department at Erasmus Hall High School, in Brooklyn.
She was also chairman of the union's women's division for 24 years.
Mrs. Ireland, who was the chairman and a trustee of the Acquisitions Committee of the Thomasville Cultural Center, was a native of Manhattan and attended Bennett College in Millbrook, N.Y.

       Betty B. Linker, vice chairman of the commissioners of Montgomery County, Pa., died of breast cancer Saturday at Chestnut Hill Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was 67 years old and lived in Flourtown, Pa.
        Betty B. Linker, vice chairman of the commissioners of Montgomery County, Pa., died of breast cancer Saturday at Chestnut Hill Hospital in Philadelphia.

       Louise Schmir Hay, chairman of the mathematics department at the University of Illinois at Chicago, died of cancer Saturday at West Suburban Hospital in Oak Park, Ill. She was 54 years old and lived in Oak Park.
Louise Schmir Hay, chairman of the mathematics department at the University of Illinois at Chicago, died of cancer Saturday at West Suburban Hospital in Oak Park, Ill. She was 54 years old and lived in Oak Park.
Professor Hay joined the faculty in 1968 and became chairman in 1980.
''She embodied the concept of public service, and that her profession recognize its responsibility to people unable to represent themselves,'' said Alexander D. Forger, the current chairman of the Legal Aid Society and chairman of the Manhattan law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.
''She embodied the concept of public service, and that her profession recognize its responsibility to people unable to represent themselves,'' said Alexander D. Forger, the current chairman of the Legal Aid Society and chairman of the Manhattan law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.
As Legal Aid's first chairwoman, she nevertheless insisted on being referred to as chairman, rather than chairperson.
She was a director of the American Judicature Society and its board chairman from 1981 to 1983.
She was chairman of the Rhodes Scholar selection committee from 1983 to 1986 and a director of the Citizens Crime Commission in Manhattan.
She was the widow of John P. Stevens, a former chairman and president of J. P. Stevens & Company, the textile manufacturer.
During their 33-year marriage, Mrs. Hammer regularly traveled with her husband, the 91-year-old founder and chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, on trips to foster business, East-West trade, benefactions and art collecting.
