He returned to America and a hero's welcome and became chairman of Remington Rand and then of the Sperry Rand Corporation.
She also worked on behalf of several civic and philanthropic activities, and was honorary chairman of the board of the Gen. Douglas MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk, Va.
She is survived by a son from an early marriage, James E. Mitchell of Philadelphia; a sister, Jeanne C. Fleischmann of Manhattan, who is the widow of Peter F. Fleischmann, a chairman of The New Yorker; and two grandchildren.
      
It was there that Ms. Cage formed a close professional relationship with Morton Baum, who as chairman of the City Center's finance committee in 1948 extended a crucial invitation to the ballet company to become a resident of the theater.
A conservative Republican, she was vice chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1965 to 1976, and honorary chairman of the 1973 Nixon inaugural committee.
      
A conservative Republican, she was vice chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1965 to 1976, and honorary chairman of the 1973 Nixon inaugural committee.
      
She is survived by her stepsons, Donald Bren, chairman of the Irvine Company, a real estate investment firm in Newport Beach, and Peter Bren, president of Koll-Bren-Schreiber, a real estate investment firm in New York.
      
The board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting elected her chairman in 1997 for a two-year term.
In 1962 she married Arthur Cowen Jr., the chairman of the securities firm Cowen & Company.
Miss Young died at the home of her sister, Georgiana Montalban, the wife of the actor Ricardo Montalban, said Norman Brokaw, the chairman of the William Morris agency and her agent for 50 years.
In 1935 she married James Henry Breasted Jr., an art historian who later became chairman of the art and art history department at the Kent School in Kent, Conn.
Bankhead was matron of honor at Miss Rawls's 1941 wedding to Donald Seawell, a lawyer and the founder and chairman of the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, and she later became godmother to the couple's two children.
