
        Dixy Lee Ray, former chairwoman of the Atomic Energy Commission and Governor of Washington, died yesterday at her home on Fox Island, near Tacoma.
Dr. Ray, a marine biologist who championed the nuclear industry, was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the atomic commission in 1972, and served as chairwoman from 1973 to 1975.
She also was a president of the Hortulus Garden Club and a chairwoman of the Red Cross Gray Ladies.
After his death in 1968 she was appointed to the committee on research libraries and later was its chairwoman.
Mrs. Sloan was chairwoman of the library volunteers from 1984 until 1988, and was co-chairwoman of the library's council of conservators.
She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and a chairwoman of the Polonaise Ball.
      
Since 1979, she served as the United States chairwoman of the International Committee for the Dance Library of Israel, which presented her with its documents of dance award last year.

        Dr. Kathryn Frederick Clarenbach, a founding member and the first chairwoman of the National Organization for Women, died on Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 73.
Also active in civic affairs, Mrs. Milberg was a founder and the first chairwoman of the Westport Historic District Commission.
She also leaves a sister-in-law, Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln Center.
      
She was named an honorary chairwoman of the organization in 1978, and later remained active at board meetings and in refugee committees.
Miss Walters, who studied voice at the Peabody Conservatory of Music in Baltimore, was chairwoman of the voice department of the International Institute for Chamber Music at the Richard Strauss Conservatory in Munich, Germany.
At her death, Mrs. Hoffstot was a vice president of the Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach and vice chairwoman of the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation, two groups that she helped found.

        Mary G. Roebling, former chairwoman of the National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest independent banks, and a former governor of the American Stock Exchange, died on Tuesday at her home in Trenton.
But in 1978, when she became chairwoman of the Women's Bank, she argued that there still was a place in the business world for banks that were operated specifically for female customers.
She also served on the board of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and as chairwoman of the Women's Division of the United Jewish Appeal in New York City and Palm Beach.
A lawyer who became the owner and operator of a business school in St. Louis, Miss Hickey was prominent in World War II as chairwoman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the national War Manpower Commission, from 1942 to 1945.
In January 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her chairwoman of the Advisory Council on the Status of Women.
As perennial chairwoman of the hospital's annual benefit, Mrs. Hilson raised more than $15 million.
In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.

        Frances Prince Schuman, the founding chairwoman of the National Friends of Public Broadcasting and the wife of the composer William Schuman, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Schuman was the founder and first chairwoman of the Friends of Thirteen and the National Friends of Public Broadcasting, and served for many years on the board of WNET Channel 13.
