The cause was cancer, said her husband, Marshall Rose, the chairman emeritus of the New York Public Library.
She virtually retired from acting after her 1961 marriage to Robert Six, the  chairman of Continental Airlines, turning her attention to business activities and her family.
She was a past president of the Federal Business Association in New York and  chairman of the Federal Regional Council.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Harry P. Kamen, the chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
She was also a customer services consultant for William J. Catacosinos, the Lilco chairman, from 1987 to 1994.
She was 80 and the wife of David Rockefeller, former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Particularly concerned with agricultural issues and the environment, she was  a founding board member of the American Farmland Trust and the Maine Coast Heritage Trust, serving as chairman for many years.
Correction:  March 28, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Margaret Rockefeller, conservationist and philanthropist, misidentified the museum of which her husband, David Rockefeller, is chairman emeritus.
Mrs. Johnson was divorced from the late Henry Ford 2d, the chairman of the Ford Motor Company, in 1964.
"
        She had served as a chairman of the American Advertising Federation National  Convention.
"In East Harlem, she was probably the strongest advocate for the African-American community," said Eddie Baca, the chairman of Community Board 11.
In 1919, she married Arnold Louis van Ameringen, a founder and later chairman of what has grown into a billion-dollar company, International Flavors and Fragrances, based in Manhattan.
Mrs. Huntington, a native of Manhattan, was a past chairman of the Suffolk County Mental Health Board.
She retired in May and became chairman emeritus.
In 1929, she married Harvey W. Zorbaugh, a university faculty member who became chairman of the department of educational sociology.
She also set up a trustee company to hold all the shares for staff members, giving up pension and dividend rights for herself, but continuing as chairman and joint managing dirctor.
Her father, Frederick C. Miller, who had been captain of Notre Dame's 1928 football team, was the company chairman.
''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.

        Evelyne V. Johnson, widow of Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, the philanthropist and chairman of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at Longleat, her estate in Princeton, N.J.
        Mrs. Johnson's family would not give her age, but a family friend said she had been in her 90's.
General Johnson, a brigadier general during World War II, was chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the international health care company, from 1932 to 1963.
The cause was heart failure, said Fred Powell, chairman of the board of Audelco.
She was a past chairman of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York City, an organization of professional and lay experts active in child welfare work.
He was chairman and president of Potlatch Forests, a forest-products concern based in Lewiston, Idaho.
''Margret lived to the fullest every minute of her long and productive life and enriched the lives of millions,'' said Nader F. Darehshori, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Houghton Mifflin.
''
        Christopher Burge, the chairman of Christie's, said, ''Her apartment was filled with all these treasures of Europe.
''
        Christopher Burge, the chairman of Christie's, said, ''Her apartment was filled with all these treasures of Europe.
; a brother, J. Irwin Miller, the former chairman of Cummins Engine, and a stepgranddaughter.
She attended Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., and in 1944, married Arthur A. Houghton Jr., the chairman of Steuben Glass.
