They included the Children's Association, the Westchester County public schools, Grasslands Hospital, and the Rhodes Home in Westchester County, the Heritage Village Library, in Southport, Conn., and the Hitchcock Center, in Amherst, Mass.
Her death from cancer was announced by Unicef, the United Nations Children's Fund, for which she had been a special ambassador since 1988.
She visited Ethiopia during the drought to call attention to the plight of starving children.
PLAYS  Gigi 1951
        Ondine 1954 FILMS One Wild Oat 1951
        Young Wives' Tale 1951
        Laughter in Paradise 1951
        The Lavender Hill Mob 1951
        Monte Carlo Baby 1951
        The Secret People 1952
        Roman Holiday 1953
        Sabrina 1954
        War and Peace 1956
        Funny Face 1957
        Love in the Afternoon 1957
        Green Mansions 1959
        The Nun's Story 1959
        The Unforgiven 1960
        Breakfast at Tiffany's 1961
        The Children's Hour 1962
        Charade 1963
        Paris When It Sizzles 1964
        My Fair Lady 1964
        How to Steal a Million 1966
        Two for the Road 1967
        Wait Until Dark 1967
        Robin and Marian 1976
        Bloodline 1979
        They All Laughed 1981
        Always 1989
      
Taught at Marymount
        As a learning disabilities specialist, Dr. Clark taught the teaching of reading to children and young adults at the Nightingale-Bamford School and at the Communications and Learning Center of Marymount Manhattan College.

        Adina Blady Szwajger, a pediatrician who struggled to save young lives in the Children's Hospital in the Warsaw ghetto and survived to recount the horrors, died Feb. 18 in Lodz, Poland.
'I Remember Nothing More: The Warsaw Children's Hospital and the Jewish Resistance' proved me wrong.
Some children revived enough to smile -- "except that this was the kind of smile that made your hair stand on end and your flesh crawl.
'Corpses and Living Together'
        Every day she went to a square to looking for stray children, befriending a Ukrainian guard with vodka.
She also decided -- and this secret she kept for 45 years -- to carry out euthanasia on some of the children.
" 'Why I Was Different'
        She told the older children to get into bed, and "this medicine was going to make their pain disappear.
But she arranged an abortion, and also arranged abortions for three other women, because she was convinced that "children had no right to be born" into such a world.
She was an active member of the Zoological Society of New York and of the New York Junior League, and a longtime organizer of Les Boutiques de Noel, which raises funds for Cancer Care, the Children's Aid Society and other organizations.
She began her career as a reporter for The Associated Press in New York City, where she also headed the adoption service of the Children's Aid Society in the early 1960's.
A pioneer in child development, both as a teacher and researcher, she documented young children's suffering and recovery from deprivation and trauma.
Among her many publications, she is best known for her book "Working with Disadvantaged Parents and Their Children" (Yale University Press, 1983).
More than once, she nearly fell into the hands of Elbridge Gerry's Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, which was dedicated to protecting children who worked in sweatshop factories as well as on the stage.
More than once, she nearly fell into the hands of Elbridge Gerry's Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, which was dedicated to protecting children who worked in sweatshop factories as well as on the stage.
A chaplain pronounced them "children of the New Age.

        Claire Huchet Bishop, an author of popular children's books and a leading opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Thursday at her home in Paris at the age of 94.
She began writing for children and adults on spiritual issues and became an advocate in efforts for religious and racial harmony.
In 1924 she opened France's first library for children, L'Heure Joyeuse (The Joyous Hour), and served as its director for five years.
She was in charge of the children's reading room at the New York Public Library in the mid-1930's and was the children's book editor of Commonweal.
She was in charge of the children's reading room at the New York Public Library in the mid-1930's and was the children's book editor of Commonweal.
Two were runners-up for the Maybery Award, the highest honor for children's books, and she won other awards and citations.
Her marriage to Ethan Gologor ended in a divorce that drew publicity for a custody accord in which the children shuttled between the mother's and father's homes on alternating days.
Dedicated in 1960, the center was designed to be a place where Jewish and Arab children could learn about their own and other people's cultures.
The amateur film was distributed nationally by 20th Century Fox and the proceeds went to Children to Palestine, an interfaith group started to save Jewish children in Europe during World War II.
The amateur film was distributed nationally by 20th Century Fox and the proceeds went to Children to Palestine, an interfaith group started to save Jewish children in Europe during World War II.
In addition to her son, she is survived by three other children, Christopher Riger of Myrtle Beach, S.C., Victoria Riger Phillips of New Orleans, and Charlotte Riger Hull of West Tisbury, Mass.
She wrote a number of plays for children sponsored by the Union of American Hebrew Congregations.
Her work drew on her own Quaker background and her discovery of children in southern New Jersey who felt inferior and ashamed of their Italian heritage.
In interviews, Mrs. Everson said she wanted to help those who were less fortunate than she had been, especially to give children a more promising future.
Her work drew on her own Quaker background and her discovery of children in southern New Jersey who felt inferior and ashamed of their Italian heritage.
Miss Anderson was born in Philadelphia, the oldest of three children.
They had no children.
Her many television roles included Aunt Bessie on the soap opera "All My Children" and, most recently, Gram Tee on "The Cosby Show.
Her many volunteer activities over the years included serving as a trustee of the Eagle Hill School in Greenwich, a private day and boarding school for learning-disabled children and teen-agers.
They had no children, but Dame Freya had many godchildren, in many countries.

        Anne M. Johnson, a former vice president of Beginner Books, a children's book division of Random House, died on Sunday at her home in Clifton, N.J. She was 62.
She was a designer of children's furniture and murals when she met and married George Neumann.
She retired recently as chairman of the Alliance of Resident Theaters-New York, and from the boards of the Professional Children's School and the New York Revels.
Cross-Country Trip
        The five children in the family soon split up.
All were parents of children with the disease, including the Hausmans' son Peter, who died last year.
Efforts Raised Millions
        Mrs. Hausman founded the Women's Division of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and oversaw fund-raising campaigns that raised millions of dollars for the agency, which serves adults and children with cerebral palsy and related disabilities.
They had no children.

        Ruth Krauss, the author of "The Carrot Seed," "A Hole Is to Dig: A First Book of First Definitions" and other books for children, died on Saturday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 91.
Over the next four decades, she wrote 34 more books for children, many of them illustrated by her husband, David Johnson Leisk, who wrote children's books under the pen name Crockett Johnson.
Over the next four decades, she wrote 34 more books for children, many of them illustrated by her husband, David Johnson Leisk, who wrote children's books under the pen name Crockett Johnson.
"
        At a time when children's books tended to be didactic, with lots of text, Ms. Krauss pioneered the use of minimal text, concentrating on precise language and working closely with an illustrator.
In addition to children's books, Ms. Krauss wrote verse plays and poetry for adults.

        Margaret Van Doren Bevans, author, editor and illustrator of children's books, died on Wednesday at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, Conn. She was 75 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn.
Mrs. Bevans's most widely distributed work is her illustrations for the original "Pat the Bunny," (Golden Books, 1940), created by Dorothy Kunhardt, the second-best-selling children's book ever, after "Peter Rabbit.
"
        She is author and illustrator of "Thomas Retires," (Viking, 1939) a children's book.
Correction:  July 25, 1993, Sunday
        An obituary last Sunday about Margaret Van Doren Bevans, author and illustrator of children's books, included a work among her credits erroneously.
She was director of health services for the Children's Aid Society and director of the AIDS Training Institute in the New York City Department of Health.
An amateur painter, she served as administrator of the art school at the Museum at the Museum of Modern Art in the 1970's and held private art classes for children.

        Helen Kaplan, who devoted her life to helping retarded children and making the public aware of their needs, died on Wednesday at Central General Hospital in Plainview, L.I.
Mrs. Kaplan was a founder and charter member of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children, Nassau County Chapter.
In the late 1940's retarded children had few opportunities in education, training or recreation.
Son Died of Leukemia
        Mrs. Kaplan's first child, David, was retarded, and died of leukemia at the age of 9 in 1952, two years after she opened the fledgling association's first day camp for 24 children.
She became the guiding force behind the growth of the Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children, whose more than 8,000 members support educational, vocational, residential and other programs to serve 1,400 children and adults and their families.
She became the guiding force behind the growth of the Nassau Association for the Help of Retarded Children, whose more than 8,000 members support educational, vocational, residential and other programs to serve 1,400 children and adults and their families.
Mrs. Martineau was a supporter of the Muscular Dystrophy Research Fund at Children's Hospital in Boston.
Mrs. Paulsen is survived by three other children from her marriage to the late Lowell P. Weicker Sr., who died in 1979: Theodore M. Weicker of San Francisco; the Rev.
They were then joined by their children, Roberta and Peter.
When their parents retired, the children took over the business on Madison Avenue.
Miss Reiman taught children's and beginning point classes from 1945 to 1953 and from 1964 through this summer.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.

        Doris G. Ross, a volunteer worker for children's welfare for half a century and former national president of the Girls Clubs of America, died on Friday at White Plains Hospital.
Her interest in the arts and concern for children came together in the 1970's, when she helped establish the Children's Creative Theater of the Girls Clubs of America and the Theater Arts Players of Temple Emanu-El.
Her interest in the arts and concern for children came together in the 1970's, when she helped establish the Children's Creative Theater of the Girls Clubs of America and the Theater Arts Players of Temple Emanu-El.
She is survived by her husband, Fred Lazarus 3d, and their three children: Fred 4th, of Baltimore; Eleanor, of Watertown, Mass., and Margaret Crawford of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Strauss of Cincinnati; and two children by her previous marriage, to George Rau: Elizabeth Bloch of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and George Rau Jr. of Crested Butte, Colo.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fred Lazarus 3d, and their three children: Fred 4th, of Baltimore; Eleanor, of Watertown, Mass., and Margaret Crawford of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Strauss of Cincinnati; and two children by her previous marriage, to George Rau: Elizabeth Bloch of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and George Rau Jr. of Crested Butte, Colo.
      
Strong Self-Images
        As a teacher, Dr. Biber believed that the best early education programs develop the emotional life of children as well as their intellects, foster strong self-images, encourage responsibility to others, and support imagination and curiosity.
While raising four children, she began a writing career in the 1950's and saw her short stories first published in Seventeen magazine.
In recent decades, she worked with disturbed children and gave private acting lessons.
She had no children.
      
At Clark, she also directed research with children suffering from cerebral palsy.
Ms. Bosworth is survived by her husband, Nicholas Pearson, a sculptor; two children, Lukas and Julia; her parents, Stanley Bosworth, headmaster of Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, and Anne Bosworth, head librarian of the school, which they jointly founded in 1965; a sister, Virginia Frisch of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam Bosworth of Seattle.
      
During her three-year term, she frequently voted in the minority to oppose measures on forced busing of children to further integration of schools.
She collaborated with Dr. Benjamin Spock to develop treatment centers for children in Westchester, which did not exist in the 1940's, and to organize the Mental Health Association of Westchester.
She was associated most prominently with the Neurological Clinic of Children's Hospital as well as Ecole Bilingue in Arlington, Mass., and the Putney School in Vermont.
Ms. Lindbergh was one of six children of her famous parents; she was born eight years after the kidnapping and killing of Charles A. Lindbergh Jr.
        She grew up in Darien, Conn., and, after studying at Radcliffe College for three years, moved to Paris to continue her education.
In her career as a writer, Ms. Lindbergh wrote 14 books, most of them for children.
Miss Loy had no children.
Miss Loy had no children.
She is survived by her husband, Ted Wass, an actor, and their two children, Julian and Tilly.
She is survived by her husband, Ted Wass, an actor, and their two children, Julian and Tilly.

        Phyllis Van Buren Richard Gerrity, a philanthropist and sportswoman who was prominent in nonprofit institutions involving children and young people in the Albany area, died on Saturday at her home in Loudonville, outside Albany.
Mrs. Gerrity, a great-great-great niece of President Martin Van Buren, was a former president of St. Margaret's Center for Children, in Albany.
Returning to New York in 1930, Dr. Briehl resumed her teaching career and also started psychological and psychoanalytic treatment of children privately and at Mount Sinai Hospital.

        Florence Bibo Alexander, a Manhattan agent for illustrators of children's books for many years, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Sandford; four children from an earlier marriage, Joshua, Daniel, Jordanna and Benjamin Abrams; her mother, Pearl Resnick, widow of Jack Resnick, the New York real-estate developer; a sister, Marilyn Katz; and two brothers, Burton and Ira, all of Manhattan.
      
