The couple's children, Billy and Florence, were part of the dodge from the beginning and by the time the family graduated to vaudeville a few years later, they had become the Four Bryants.
Eventually, 9 of the 10 Delany children moved to New York, and all received college educations.
Married for 54 years and the mother of seven children, she was asked on her 90th birthday if she had any regrets.
''
        From the late 1930's she held forth at Carradale, her 300-acre farm on the Mull of Kintyre in Argyllshire, riveting diffuse collections of writers, Labor politicians, African visitors, academics, scientists, local fishermen and hunters, children and grandchildren.

        Dr. Katherine Bain, a pediatrician who became a high-ranking and an outspoken Washington official concerned with the well-being of infants and children, died on Jan. 10 in a Washington nursing home she entered in October.
Dr. Bain's family said that she was the author or a co-author of reports that led to the development of child-proof safety caps for medicines and for chemicals in the home, safety-release standards for the doors of refrigerators in order to keep children from being trapped and suffocated, and some of the first Federal guidelines for the nutrition of children.
Dr. Bain's family said that she was the author or a co-author of reports that led to the development of child-proof safety caps for medicines and for chemicals in the home, safety-release standards for the doors of refrigerators in order to keep children from being trapped and suffocated, and some of the first Federal guidelines for the nutrition of children.
In 1940, she joined the Children's Bureau, an agency that was then part of the Department of Labor and is now part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
She devoted herself to children's welfare issues in foreign countries for the next four years and retired.
In a report in The Journal of Pediatrics in 1954, Dr. Bain presented statistics that pointed up the carelessness of American families in protecting children in the home.
Analyzing data supplied by the National Office of Vital Statistics, she said that 400 children under the age of 5 died each year in the United States from accidental poisoning.
Two-thirds of the deaths from accidental poisoning could be prevented, Dr. Bain said, if aspirin, barbiturates, kerosene, lye, lead and arsenic compounds were kept out of the hands of small children.
Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.
Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.
''
        ''One can only conclude,'' Dr. Bain added, ''that children in Alabama are receiving at the most only one-half as much care as they need.
An accomplished dancer who toured at 11 in a children's musical, ''Daintyland,'' she never let George and Ira forget that when they were grateful for $15 paychecks from Tin Pan Alley, she was the family's first big breadwinner -- never mind that most of her $40 weekly salary went to pay expenses.

        Dr. Judith Silberpfennig Kestenberg, a psychoanalyst specializing in child development and the emotional state of Holocaust survivors and their children, died Saturday at her home in Sands Point, N.Y. She was 88.
With her husband, Milton, she started the research center's International Study of the Organized Persecution of Children.
She and her associates traveled all over the world to collect taped interviews with more than 1,500 child survivors of the Holocaust and their children, as well as the children of Nazis.
She and her associates traveled all over the world to collect taped interviews with more than 1,500 child survivors of the Holocaust and their children, as well as the children of Nazis.
Fluent in French, German and Polish, she wrote two German books used to teach German children about the Holocaust.
He managed real estate in New York and, after World War II, sued in German courts to seek compensation for Holocaust victims and also organized aid for their children.
They were married in the mid-1940's and became a team in their Holocaust pursuits when he started representing the victims, especially children, before the courts and found that many of them had only vague memories of their ordeals.
''
        Professor Komarovsky found that 76 percent of the female students planned, at the time they entered Barnard, on combining career, marriage and children in the coming years.
Before joining the education faculty at Harvard University in September, Dr. Hawkins established her reputation through her work as director of the Center for Children and Technology, an agency founded in 1981 by the Bank Street College of Education in New York.
In her first studies during the early 1980's, she showed that children, especially girls, used computers in sociable and collaborative ways, not in isolation as critics had feared, said Dr. Margaret Honey, a longtime colleague of Dr. Hawkins's at the center.
In 1994, the Center for Children and Technology became a division of the Education Development Center, based in Newton, Mass.
Dr. Hawkins became a vice president of that association, which, like the Center for Children and Technology, is a nonprofit research and development group financed by grants and contracts with foundations and government institutions.
Ms. Elion said she would not have advanced in her career if she had chosen to marry and have children because women were not encouraged then to work while their children were young.
      
Ms. Elion said she would not have advanced in her career if she had chosen to marry and have children because women were not encouraged then to work while their children were young.
      
Mrs. Cohen would later tell her children that after the warning, she went to look for the cheap straw hat she had bought the day before, when she heard a foreman shout to her in Yiddish, ''Bessie, save yourself.
Parks said in a letter to the Durr family: ''I will miss you, old soldier, but the rich legacy you have passed to your children, grandchildren and great-grands lives on.
With Martin Herz, she wrote a children's cookbook, ''The Golden Ladle'' (1945).
Internet shopping may be  efficient, but it's not a way of finding out whose daffodils have popped and whose children have gotten into college.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
''
        Ms. Corio was one of 12 children of Italian immigrants from Naples who settled in Hartford, where, she said, she was once a Sunday school teacher.
''You know, we're really quite mild compared to what children are exposed to on television -- topless bathing suits and all,'' Ms. Corio said.
Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for several decades.
''But they maintained a closeness and were in constant contact, often discussing their children's education and careers, among other things.
As a second-generation descendant of a man who had 13 children (and now has some 200 living descendants) Miss Tolstoy, the youngest of seven surviving siblings, liked to call herself Tolstoy's last granddaughter and never mind that a cousin from the Swedish branch of the family might still be alive.
Besides her memoir, Ms. Anderson also wrote ''Gelbes Licht'' (''Yellow Light'') in 1956 about her railroad work, and short stories, children's books and radio plays.
She was the eldest of the nine children of Zia Hong-lai, a Christian educator and editor, and Sochen Sze.
She and her husband later adopted two children, Robert, now 17, and Christopher, 14.
Dr. Ainsworth's research contributed significantly to attachment theory, which emphasizes the importance of intimate human relationships, or attachments, in shaping children's development.
Shortly after their marriage she moved to London, where she began a lifelong partnership with Dr. Bowlby, who was investigating the impact on institutionalized children of prolonged separation from their mothers in early childhood.
In that capacity she wrote and edited several books for Disney Enterprises, including ''Treasury of Children's Classics,'' ''The Fantasia Book'' and ''Treasury of Stories from Silly Symphonies.
A day after graduating from Bates College, she married Herbert A. Carroll and started writing for children's magazines before  quickly producing three novels, ''As the Earth Turns,'' ''A Few Foolish Ones'' and ''Neighbor to the Sky.
They had two children.
For nearly 20 years, Mrs. Katzander ran her own public relations company, which included among its clients at various times Reading Is Fundamental, a federally funded organization that encouraged reading among inner-city children, and Playboy magazine.

        Virginia Wise Marx, an educator and psychologist who dedicated herself to the care of children and their families, died last Sunday at White Plains Hospital.
Now known as the Virginia Marx Children's Center, it serves nearly 100 children.
Now known as the Virginia Marx Children's Center, it serves nearly 100 children.
Before her marriage in 1930, she  designed children's toys for Macy's and was a contributing editor for Parents magazine.
Among Mrs. Marx's beneficiaries were the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, where she was a trustee for over 40 years and a longtime member of its Child Development Center committee.
Other charities included UJA-Federation of New York, White Plains Hospital Center, Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling Service, and Camp Rainbow, a UJA affiliate serving handicapped children.

        Mae Bertha Carter, who defied gunfire and the loss of employment to send her children to previously all-white public schools in Mississippi, eventually winning a legal battle that confirmed their right to be there, died on April 28 at her home in Drew, Miss.
In the fall of 1965, just after the Carters had enrolled 7 of their 13 children in local white schools, the owner of the plantation told them to withdraw the children, saying they would receive a better education in a black school.
In the fall of 1965, just after the Carters had enrolled 7 of their 13 children in local white schools, the owner of the plantation told them to withdraw the children, saying they would receive a better education in a black school.
''I birthed those children and bore the pain,'' she later told her husband.
Referring to the plantation owner, she said, ''He cannot tell me what to do about my children.
The Carters, however, resolutely kept their children in the once-segregated white schools, even though their house was once riddled with bullets in the middle of the night and they were eventually evicted, losing their income and their house.
From 1965 to 1968, the Carters were the only black family to keep their children in the county's schools.
Eventually, eight of the Carter's children graduated from what had been all-white schools in Sunflower County; five older children graduated from local black schools.
Eventually, eight of the Carter's children graduated from what had been all-white schools in Sunflower County; five older children graduated from local black schools.
For 27 years she championed the causes of women, minority groups, children and small businesses.
Another broadened the statutes on domestic violence to protect more victims and increase services to the children of troubled families.
One of two children of a Navy officer, Ms. Brandel was born in Philadelphia and grew up ''all over the place,'' her brother said, ''but the place that really got under her skin was Hawaii.
Her late brother's five children are her only remaining relatives.
-- well, of course, the nation's children.
Her first major performances were in Bournonville ballets: she made her theatrical debut in a children's role in ''Konservatoriet'' in 1933 and received her first solo part as an adult dancer in ''La Ventana'' in 1941.
Her first major performances were in Bournonville ballets: she made her theatrical debut in a children's role in ''Konservatoriet'' in 1933 and received her first solo part as an adult dancer in ''La Ventana'' in 1941.
After college she traveled widely,  settling for a time in China to teach the children of American missionaries.
She performed publicly until the late 1980's under the stage name La Nina de la Puebla (The Girl From  the Village) and was best known for her rendition of ''Los Campanilleros'' (''The Bell Ringers''), a popular Spanish ballad about children's folkloric choirs.
Their five children --  two of whom, Adelfa and Pepe, are professional flamenco performers --  survive her.
She is survived by Mr. Benedetti and three children.
      
''
        Mrs. Kryzak, who was born on Oct. 15, 1899, was the oldest of six children.
The couple had no children, but at Beeleigh Abbey, their 12th-century home, she kept cats, dogs, peacocks and tortoises.
''Animals are always loyal and love you,'' she said, ''whereas with children you never know where you are''
        When the other woman in British life who was often referred to as the Iron Lady lost her job, Miss Foyle was asked for her reaction.
The couple began investing in Broadway productions in the 1930's because, as their children said yesterday, while Mrs. Cullman worked at Stage she liked to be sure that a play the magazine wrote about would not fold before the next issue appeared.
''
        During the 1940's and 1950's, their children said, the couple's success rate was so high that their participation in a forthcoming show was enough to guarantee its full funding.

        Anne Richardson, former chairwoman of Reading Is Fundamental, the nation's largest organization promoting children's literacy, died on Monday at a hospital in Cheverly, Md.
By the time she stepped down, the number of children the organization was serving had grown to 3.7 million from 3 million, the volunteer force to 219,000 from about 100,000, and Federal financing to $13.2 million from $7.6 million.
Ms. Richardson was born Anne Francis Hazard on Dec. 5, 1929, in Providence, R.I., the fourth of five children of a Rhode Island state senator.
In addition to her husband and her son Henry, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two other children, Nancy Carlson of St. George, Vt., and Michael Richardson of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Mary Conrad of Albuquerque, N.M.; two brothers, T. P. Hazard Jr. of Rockville, Md., and Oliver C. Hazard of Bedford, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
She married Waldo Pizarro in 1962 and settled into a life as a working-class wife and, later, mother of three children.
Two days after Mr. Pizarro vanished, Mrs. Sierra and her children moved in with a sister, Adrina Sierra, whose support allowed her the time to search for her husband and work with the Association for the Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared.
''Working Cotton,'' a 1992 children's tale, won an American Library Association Caldecott Award and a Coretta Scott King Book Award, and was listed among the best books of 1992 by Parents magazine.
Ms. Williams had recently published a second children's book, ''Girls Together.
She was assigned her first column in 1944 when she had to take time away from the office to be with her children.

        Joan Braden, a former State Department official who was a hostess and friend to high-ranking Washington figures and whose eight children inspired the ABC television series ''Eight Is Enough,'' died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. She was 77 and a longtime resident of the Washington area.
The 1975 book ''Eight Is Enough,'' by her husband, Tom Braden, tells of their family of eight children.
''I'm giving it away so that the children won't have to work so hard, like I did,'' she said in July 1995.
Professor Lax was a longtime active member of the New York Academy of Sciences and was instrumental in shaping its program of science education for children.
She is survived by three children, David Bradley of Oakland, Calif.; Patrick Breen of Denver, and Moira Stern of Sparks, Nev.; a brother, Leslie Zimmer of East Greenbush, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      

        Lenon Hoyte, better known as Aunt Len, who shared her dream of a doll museum with Harlem children and  collectors from around the world for two decades, died Aug. 1 at a hospital in New York.
The story has it that after the dollmaker parted from his wife and children he became so sad that he made only crying dolls.
The museum had a modest entrance fee, never exceeding $2 for adults and 50 cents for children.
Lenon Holder Hoyte was born in New York City on July 4, 1905, the first of five children of Moses and Rose Holder.
They had three children: Niklas, a brilliant dancer; Mats, 54, and his twin, the actress Malin Ek.
Ms. Piscator also directed theatrical productions off Broadway and in Europe and was the director and founder of small theater programs in New York for the elderly, children and others.
She worked in a laundry and as a nurse's aid to support her eight children before and after the divorce.
She had eight children.
'' But she readily admitted that she herself would often choose the most abject case in a line of poor children to make her journalistic point.
She wrote several books, including several children's books published in the 1960's.
She was one of 10 children in a working-class family and was reared by her grandmother.
She is survived by Jack Bradford, her husband, their children, Dan and Laura, and four children from previous marriages: Richard, Marcia, Ann and Kenny, as well as eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by Jack Bradford, her husband, their children, Dan and Laura, and four children from previous marriages: Richard, Marcia, Ann and Kenny, as well as eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
But she nurtured the nine black children who faced vicious insults and physical intimidation.
She began by taking black children to white schools to be registered.
In her book, Mrs. Bates tells of waiting for a call from the school superintendent telling her to bring the children the next day.
But the superintendent called after that and said that the next day, Sept. 24, the children should come to school.
The next morning all the children showed up at the Bates home to be picked up by a military convoy.
Some works were aimed at children.
Kraft began giving tennis lessons to her children and their friends on a court behind her house in 1955 and was soon teaching the fundamentals to thousands of amateur players through the Princeton Community Tennis Program.
Mrs. Hofmann, who never had children, often referred to her horses as ''my babies.
They had four children, all of whom survive.
Mr. Farkas wrote that Enrico Caruso had four children from a relationship with Ada Giacchetti, a soprano who had left her husband to live with the tenor before his marriage to Miss Benjamin.
Ms. Allison, a small woman in thick, oversized glasses, materialized to offer to solve crimes including the Patricia Hearst kidnapping, the ''Son of Sam'' killings, the murders of children in Atlanta and the death of JonBenet Ramsey.
In the case of the murders of about a dozen black children in Atlanta in 1979-80, she gave the police 42 names of possible killers, and none of the names were Wayne or Williams.
Rose Elizabeth Bird was born on Nov. 2, 1936, in Tucson, the youngest of three children whose parents ran a chicken farm.
About the same time, the family, with three children, moved into a derelict schoolhouse in the middle of the woods and remodeled it.

        Jeanne S. Chall, a leading expert on how children learn to read and a vociferous antagonist in at least two of the major educational controversies of the last quarter-century, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
Dr. Chall championed both challenging reading material for children and the use of phonics in basic reading instruction, as against limited-vocabulary texts and the so-called whole-language approach.
With the argument that easy is not necessarily good, she was a rigorous opponent of the prevailing view of reading specialists in the mid-1970's that if assigned reading was too difficult, children would become frustrated and give up trying to master it.
