Decades later Miss Gaver summarized what she saw as her mission in the title of a pamphlet she wrote: "Every Child Needs a School Library.
The Mugabes' only child, a boy named Nhanodzenyika, which means "our country has problems" in the their tribal Shona language, died of cerebral malaria at the age of 3.
      
She was also a member of the United States Department of Health and Human Services's expert panel, the New York State Advisory Committee on Refugee Mental Health and the New York City Task Force on Minorities in Child Care.
Born in Riga, Latvia, Miss Shurr came to the United States as a child.

        Shirley Berman, whose daughter, born with Down Syndrome, inspired her to wage a battle for a New Jersey law requiring doctors to inform parents if their unborn child is retarded, died on Feb. 8 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Mrs. Berman contended that her doctor failed to tell her she risked having a retarded child and that the fetus could have been tested for the condition.
In 1979, the New Jersey State Supreme Court ruled that doctors could be sued for "wrongful birth" if their negligence deprived a mother of her right to an abortion and a child was born with defects.
A Childhood Interest
        Mrs. Black often said her interest in folk art stemmed from seeing Erastus Salisbury Field's 19th-century portraits of her ancestors in her grandparents' home when she was a child in Pittsfield, Mass., where she was born.

        Myra de Haven Woodruff, a specialist in child development who helped shape the modern nursery-school system during and after World War II, died on Friday at Medford Leas, a retirement community in Medford, N.J., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
Three years later, she joined the department's Bureau of Child Development and Parent Education.
Both her parents were guitarists, and Ms. Osborne -- whose family name was Orsborn -- became fascinated by stringed instruments as a child.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
They moved to Philadelphia when she was a child, a migration that made her English sound a bit alien in later years to Jews with the accent of East Side New York.
As she recalled in an interview years after the visit, "A woman came up with a child and said, 'My child is 2 years old and she has never heard the sound of laughter.
As she recalled in an interview years after the visit, "A woman came up with a child and said, 'My child is 2 years old and she has never heard the sound of laughter.
Mrs. Montgomery was born in London and moved to New York City as a child with her family.
Dr. Pulaski graduated from Wellesley College in 1938 and earned a Ph.D. in child psychology at City University of New York three decades later.
Her schooling as a child came largely from tutors.
She had also headed the Child Welfare League of America, the Y.M.W.C.A.

        Dr. June Louin-Tapp, a professor at the University of Minnesota's Institute of Child Development, died last Thursday in Osnabruck, Germany, while there for a two-month stay as a visiting professor at the University of Osnabruck.
Mrs. Hamilton was in the forefront of efforts to improve the lives of blacks and the poor through jobs, education, housing, health care and child care.
"
        Mrs. Fisher was the first child of Rex Kennedy, a small-town newspaper owner, and his wife, Edith.
"I was a haughty child," she told an interviewer.
In 1968, Putnam published "With Bold Knife and Fork," and Mrs. Fisher joined Julia Child and Michael Field as consultants to the Time-Life book "The Cooking of Provencal France.
"
        Mrs. Fisher was the first child of Rex Kennedy, a small-town newspaper owner, and his wife, Edith.
"I was a haughty child," she told an interviewer.
"The Cooking of Provencal France," (Time-Life, 1968); Mrs. Fisher served as a consultant with Julia Child and Michael Field.
      
Her schooling as a child came largely from tutors.
She managed to escape and to rescue a child whose parents were among the 52 people killed.
Mrs. Lenhart had been active in charities that included the American Red Cross, Bellevue Hospital and the Child Care Volunteers of New York.
"
        Miss Nirenska, who was born in Warsaw, insisted on a dance career as a child.
Mrs. Santolalla also founded Government institutes for training teachers in Peruvian cities and was a sought-after lecturer throughout Europe and Latin America on family education and child development.
"
        Mrs. Douglas was also a leader in the English-Speaking Union, Women's Volunteer Service in London, Volunteer Parents, Child Adoption Service, a New York State panel on education and the Institute of International Education, an organization for exchange students.
" Hopes Suddenly Dimmed
        An only child, Ms. Gertz was born in Manhattan and grew up on Park Avenue.
She began acting as a child, and first appeared in the United States in "Pickwick" in 1927 and "Napoleon" in 1928.
As a child, she came to know T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Thornton Wilder, Dylan Thomas and others as visitors to the family home.
Mrs. Manning was born in Vienna and was the only child of William E. Suida, an eminent Viennese art historian known for his work on Leonardo da Vinci and Genoese painting.
Dr. Shepherd also served with the New York City Mayor's Advisory Council on Child Health, Physicians for Reproductive Health, the Teen-Age Adolescent Pregnancy Care and Prevention Program and the New York State Advisory Panel on Primary Physicians.
Dr. Eliot became active in the field after World War I, when the first few nursery schools with child study centers were set up in the United States.
That year, the institution was incorporated into Tufts, was moved to Medford, Mass., and was renamed the Eliot-Pearson Department of Child Study at Tufts University.
"
        Roseamond Elaine Whitelaw was born on Nov. 21, 1914, the oldest child of Louis Whitelaw, a wealthy diamond merchant, and his wife, Dora.
Ms. McMurray was a former Commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development and deputy general director for programming of the Community Service Society of New York.
As recently as a few months ago, she kept at least one child in her room, often choosing the neediest one.
Her father was murdered when she was a child, and her mother took in boarders and ran a lunchroom for longshoremen.
Lorraine Hale went on to earn doctorates in developmental psychology and child development.
