She took up her medical training after the birth of her two children and graduated from Cornell University Medical College in 1977.
She was a social worker with the Spence-Chapin Services to Families and Children on a volunteer basis until shortly before her death.
The school offered classes in music, ballet, modern dance, drama and art to poor children for minimal fees, sometimes as little as 50 cents a lesson, and lent or rented instruments to students who did not own one.
In 1977 she raised more than $2 million to build a new facility for the school,  which originally served 20 children and now has more than 1,000 students.
"What I dream of is changing the image held by the children," she said on another occasion.
One colleague described her as a master clinician who  achieved insights into children based not only on formal testing but on observations of a child's personality and an estimation of the relationships with family and friends.
"Children with delayed language development had problems with reading when they got older.
In her clinical work, Ms. de Hirsch put into practice the idea that both children and their parents needed to be educated about the needs of learning-disabled pupils.
"She explained to the parents why the children were having the problems they  were having," Dr. Jansky said.
The emphasis in diagnosis  was always to highlight the children's often very special talents.
She was released  in 1959, and returned to Moscow with her second husband, Fyodor Fadeyev, a fellow prisoner she met in Siberia, and their two children.
All of Mrs. Manz's children live in Milwaukee except for Mrs. von Hof, a resident of Altura, Minn.
      
She is survived by her husband and two children, Diana Dupont of Hudson, N.H., and Jerry P., of New York, and two sisters, Polly Woodrow of San Jose, Calif., and Joanna Brown of Canton, Mass.
      
One of eight children of Hugo Heermann, a German violinist who was discovered by Rossini at age 9 and who introduced several Brahms compositions, Mrs. Kambert was born in Frankfurt in 1892.
She is survived by her husband, Gul Hameed Bhatti; two children, Kamil and Sara; a sister, Fareeda Boudrey, and three brothers, Karim, Rahim and Rafeeg Boudry, all of Karachi.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six children, David Jr., Abby  Rockefeller and Neva Goodwin, all of Masschusetts; Peggy Dulany of New York, Dr. Richard of Maine, and Eileen Growald of California; a brother, Sims McGrath of Tenants Harbor, Me., and 10 grandchildren.
One of 14 children in the prominent New York family of James F. McDonnell, Mrs. Johnson was born in Rye, N.Y., and grew up in a duplex apartment in Manhattan and on the 55-acre family estate in Southampton.
Since 1948, when the third-grade Sunday school class at the Emmanuel Congregational Church in Watertown established a special Christmas tree to collect clothing for poor children, Mrs. Bunce had spent every otherwise spare moment knitting away.
The sets, which included a handwritten tag saying "God Loves You, and So Do I," were distributed to various churches and charities in Watertown and through  Church World Service, the Protestant relief agency, to poor children across the  nation and abroad.
As word of Mrs. Bunce's work spread, people across the country began sending  her yarn in care of the church, and she kept a scrapbook of thank-you notes from children she had helped and photographs showing some of them wearing her handiwork.
She was introduced to the congregation as the  Mitten Lady, and the woman who had once explained that she labored anonymously because the purpose of her work was to help poor children and not to have people say, "Oh, that's wonderful," had to endure a five-minute ovation.
For several years, Ms. Bremer owned a children's dress shop in La Jolla.
She is survived by four children, all of Baja California: two daughters, Christina Battaglia of Cabo San Jose and Karen Rodriguez of Todos Santos, and two sons, Niaholas Rodriguez of @as Cruces and Torre Rodriguez of Cabo San Jose.
She is survived by four children, all of Baja California: two daughters, Christina Battaglia of Cabo San Jose and Karen Rodriguez of Todos Santos, and two sons, Nicholas Rodriguez of Las Cruces and Torre Rodriguez of Cabo San Jose.
In 1964, after the last of her three children started school, she began writing columns.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Paradise Valley, and her mother, Erma Harris, of Sun City, Ariz., Mrs. Bombeck is survived by her three children: Betsy and Andrew, of Phoenix and Matthew, of Los Angeles.
      

        P. L. Travers, who insisted she had never meant to write for children when the magical nanny Mary Poppins leaped from her pen, died on Tuesday at her home  in London.
But she became renowned for "Mary Poppins," which, if not consciously intended for children, has been devoured by generations of them since its publication in 1934.
Her entire body of work, whether for children or adults, is linked by a deep concern with myth and mysticism, a belief in the interconnectedness of human experience, and a ceaseless quest for meaning.
"Her great thing was E. M. Forster's wonderful phrase 'Only connect,' " Jenny Koralek, a children's writer and longtime friend, said by telephone from London  yesterday.
Miss Travers, who demonstrated the gravest consideration for children but often displayed a tart impatience with her adult interrogators, was taciturn to  the point of secrecy about the details of her personal life.
One day she found herself with two bored visiting children to entertain.
"Nothing I had written before 'Mary Poppins' had anything to do with children, and I have always assumed, when I thought about it at all, that she had come out of the same wall of nothingness as the poetry, myth and legend that had absorbed me all my writing life," she wrote in 1978.
In 1919 they moved to Massapequa, where they reared seven children.
She is survived by five children, Katherine Schwarz of San Mateo, Calif., Esther Nichols of Riverdale, Md., Warren Smith of Placerville, Calif., Laura Quigley of Bozeman, Mont., and Jacqueline Cleaver of Medford Lakes, N.J.; 22 grandchildren, 31 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. Badillo, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Loren Liebling of Honolulu and Dr. Mark Liebling of Nashua, N.H., and three grandchildren.
      
She was born in Sykesville, Pa., one of 12 children of a coal miner and grocer who moved the family to Detroit in search of work when she was 15.
"
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
"
        Besides her husband of 69 years, Mrs. Loeb is survived by their five children: Judith L. Chiara of Manhattan and Purchase, John L. Loeb Jr. of Manhattan and Purchase, Ann Loeb Bronfman of Washington, Arthur Lehman Loeb of Manhattan and Deborah Loeb Brice of London; 14 grandchildren, and more than 30 great-grandchildren.
      
Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.
She lived with her husband and three children in Greenwich Village, and was involved in local issues, particularly the effort to stop Robert Moses from putting a road through Washington Square Park.
Before becoming a published novelist, she worked as a children's librarian at the New York Public Library.
Miss Toumanova astonished balletgoers in 1929, at the age of 9, when she appeared at the Paris Opera in "L'Eventail de Jeanne," a ballet with a cast of children.
"
        The sixth of seven children, she was born into a family of Hungarian refugees who had fled Communism and settled in the suburbs north of New York City.
She was named Elizabeth Pintye (pronounced PEN-tya), and because her dour father beat his children frequently, Elizabeth grew up being shuttled between foster homes and her parents' home, being deprived of food, being beaten again,  sometimes running away, knowing bleak Christmases and using alcohol and marijuana.
In cooperation with local school systems, the center evaluated and treated children with educational and developmental problems.
When Dr. Cox started out, children who had trouble keeping up in school were  usually deemed unmotivated or defiant.
She raised awareness that such children often suffered from complex impairments.
In addition to her daughter, Carla, she is survived by two other children, Jenny Wallenda Anderson and Mario Wallenda; six grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
She and her husband had five children, including Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, also a Republican Congressman from north central New Jersey, who was elected in  1994.
Mrs. Randolph is survived by three children from her first marriage, Theodora Hooton of Glen Head, N.Y., Amory Winthrop of Millbrook, N.Y., and Cornelia Bonnie of Prospect, Ky.; five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Justice Amsterdam was one of six children of Joseph Amsterdam, a band leader  from Austria.

        Delia Goetz, whose travels as an education specialist for the United States Government provided her with material for more than a score of children's books, died on June 26 at her home in Washington.

        Natalie Lieberman, the founder and president of Learning Through Art/The Guggenheim Museum Children's Program and a member of the museum's board, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
A new addition, opened three years ago, provided help for former convicts who otherwise would not have had their children restored to them.
She had two young children to look after and, she told the press, she was needed at home.
Jessica Mitford was born on Sept. 11, 1917, at Batsford Mansion in Gloucestershire, England, one of seven children and the youngest daughter born to Lord Redesdale (David Mitford) and Lady Redesdale, the former Sydney Bowles.
Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a secretary in her hometown, Barnesboro, in central Pennsylvania, and later in New York City, where she met her husband, had two children, graduated from law school and became prominent as a network lawyer, first at ABC.
"
        Miss Pupko grew up in Vilna, Lithuania, which was then part of Poland, and became a teacher at a school for Jewish children.
Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in  Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
"
        She is survived by her two children with Mr. Mason: a daughter, Portland, and a son, Morgan.
      
She made her United States debut as a solo dancer in 1928 in New York City and taught dance to the children of wealthy New York families.
She also wrote several novels and biographies for children, including ''Uncle Edgar and the Reluctant Saint'' (1948), ''Ben Franklin of Old Philadelphia'' (1952), ''We Were There at the Battle of the Alamo'' (1958) and ''Thomas Alva Edison'' (1965).

        Myra Cohn Livingston, a poet, anthologist and teacher who wrote  more than 80 books of poetry for children, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles.
As a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College, Mrs. Livingston submitted a collection of poems to Margaret K. McElderry, then the children's book editor of Harcourt Brace.
Within months of her arrival, she began investigating conditions in her children's public school, joined and was elected president of the neighborhood branch of the United Parents Association and led a campaign for smaller schools under greater neighborhood control.
In addition to her parents, residents of Manhattan and Sagaponack, L.I., Mrs. Vreeland is survived by her husband, Alexander Vreeland; her children, Reed and Victoria, and her brothers, Christopher E. and Ralph H. Isham, both of Manhattan.
      
'' The couple had no children.
She is survived by her mother, Zaida De Unamuno of San Francisco; two children, Steve Coty of Stockton, Calif., and Lisa Hansen of Newark, Calif.; two sisters, Hedy Manthey of Delaware and Selma Hurtado of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
In her later years, Mrs. de Lanux continued as an interior decorator and as an illustrator of children's books, the last of which, ''Overheard in a Bubble Chamber,'' by Lillian Morrison, was published in 1981.
She is survived by her children,  Richard Haymes Jr. of New York City and Helen Joanna Santos of Monterey, Calif. (a daughter, Barbara Nugent Haymes, died three years ago); six grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and her brothers, Peter Marshall, the television game-show host, and David Moss of Sedona, Ariz.
      
Mr. Tavernier also directed her in four other movies, including ''Round Midnight'' (1985), a homage to bebop set in 50's Paris,  and ''Spoiled Children'' (1977), about a blocked writer-director who becomes involved with a younger woman.
Mrs. Johnson's own philanthropies, which were extensive, benefited Appalachian children, American Indian tribes and a number of Catholic churches, among others.
The couple were married in 1953, and Mrs. Noyce, who had dreamed of writing novels and short stories, became the most dutiful of corporate wives, bearing four children and following her husband from job to job, including a somewhat reluctant move to California for a woman who never felt comfortable away from her beloved New England.

        Sabina Zlatin, who rescued dozens of Jewish children from the Nazis during World War II, died on Saturday in a Paris hospital.
The Children's Home of Izieu, which she founded, helped more than 100 children elude capture by the occupying Germans before it became one of the more enduring and horrific symbols of Nazi barbarism.
The Children's Home of Izieu, which she founded, helped more than 100 children elude capture by the occupying Germans before it became one of the more enduring and horrific symbols of Nazi barbarism.
One spring morning in 1944, the Gestapo raided the home and plucked 44 Jewish children from their breakfast and trucked them to their eventual deaths in concentration camps.
Soon after, she was drawn to the work of the Children's Rescue Charity, which assisted children endangered by the war.
Soon after, she was drawn to the work of the Children's Rescue Charity, which assisted children endangered by the war.
In 1943, putting herself and her husband at grave risk, she decided to open a home to help these children.
In that idyllic setting, she gave Jewish children of all ages sanctuary while she arranged to shuttle them out of France to safety in Switzerland.
She managed to smuggle some 100 children from the Izieu home over the Swiss border and beyond the grasp of the Gestapo before the day the trucks came.
He had hired a teen-age boy from the children's home, somehow found out that the children were Jewish, then apparently passed the information to German troops garrisoned in a nearby town.
He had hired a teen-age boy from the children's home, somehow found out that the children were Jewish, then apparently passed the information to German troops garrisoned in a nearby town.
On April 6, 1944, as the children were having breakfast, German trucks rolled up in front of the farmhouse.
Mrs. Zlatin was away at the time, arranging for another batch of children to be smuggled to Switzerland.
But 7 teachers and 44 children between the ages of 4 and 17 were arrested.
Witnesses told of the children being kicked and hurled into the trucks like sacks of potatoes.
As they rode along, jounced about in the back of the trucks, the 44 children sang a song declaring their defiance.
At once, Mrs. Zlatin hurried to Vichy to beg for the lives of the children before the collaborationist French government.
Five of the adults and 42 of the children died in gas chambers at Auschwitz.
Mr. Zlatin and the two remaining children were executed by firing squad in Estonia.
They had four children.
''
        She is survived by her brother Candido, her four children, Silvia, Margarita, Isabel, and Salvador, all of whom live in Mexico City, and 16 grandchildren, Mr. Hidalgo said.
      

        Eleanor Frances Cameron, an award-winning writer of children's books, died on Friday at Hospice House in Monterey, Calif. She was 84 and lived in Pebble Beach, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron was the author of 17 children's books.

        Eleanor Frances Cameron, an award-winning writer of children's books, died on Friday at Hospice House in Monterey, Calif. She was 84 and lived in Pebble Beach, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron was the author of 17 children's books.
She began her writing career in 1950 with ''The Unheard Music,'' her one book for adults, and published her first children's book, ''The Wonderful Flight to the Mushroom Planet,'' in 1954.
''The Court of the Stone Children'' (1973), a complex tale involving ghostly apparitions in modern-day San Francisco, won her a National Book Award.

        Millicent Ellis Selsam, an author who filled bookshelf upon bookshelf with primers seeking to still the nagging why's with which children tax their parents' patience and knowledge, died on Saturday at Mary Manning Walsh Home in Manhattan.
Both series introduced inquisitive children to the animal kingdom and the marvels small children discover all around them.
Both series introduced inquisitive children to the animal kingdom and the marvels small children discover all around them.
In the 1960's, she was an officer and board member of what is now the Five Towns Community Center of Lawrence, L.I., a gathering place for underprivileged children.
Mrs. Trocme owed her own prominence in the rescue movement in part to the fact that her husband, Andre Trocme, was the charismatic pacifist pastor of the French Reformed Church in Chambon, a founder of the Cevenol boarding school there and a recognized leader of the rescue effort, which has been credited with saving some 5,000 refugees, about 3,500 of them Jewish, many of them children.
''People used to stand three abreast to get into that store,'' she said with a faraway look in her eyes as she reminisced in 1967, 20 years after she was widowed and left with three children.
When a store ran short of a product, Mrs. Waldbaum, the first woman in her family to have a driver's license, would put her children in the car, drive to a store with a surplus of the product and take some to the needy supermarket.
The event took in $28,000 for a school for handicapped children.
Ruth Lewis, one of five children of Samuel Lewis and the former Jennie Bach, was born in Manhattan in 1906.
(According to the American Carousel Society, which estimates there were once 3,000 to 6,000 carousels in the country, from the famous Flying Horses on Martha's Vineyard, where children still ride on the oldest American carousel, assembled in 1884, to the last carousels produced in the 1920's, there are now only 133 left.
'An Anxious World' Filled With Fears
        A native New Yorker, she was born on July 21, 1905, one of three children of Helene Forbert Rubin and Joseph Rubin, a manufacturer of straw braid.
Her parents were immigrant Polish Jews who moved with their children from Westchester to Brooklyn to Manhattan.
''She broke the color barrier and was constantly evicted once black children were discovered on the premises; she had to move her school seven times.
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
Then, at a time when many women's children are beginning to leave home, Dr. Bernard started having children, the first when she was 39, another when she was 42 and the last when she was 47, three years after she and her husband had joined the Penn State faculty and six months before his death at the age of 69.
Then, at a time when many women's children are beginning to leave home, Dr. Bernard started having children, the first when she was 39, another when she was 42 and the last when she was 47, three years after she and her husband had joined the Penn State faculty and six months before his death at the age of 69.

        Dr. Roma Gans, an emeritus professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University who wrote several classic texts on teaching children to read, died on Oct. 4 at the Springside Nursing Home in Pittsfield, Mass.
In books and lectures, Dr. Gans urged teachers to inspire children by  reading to them, and introducing them to reading materials on hobbies and subjects of interest to them.
Among her books on teaching reading are several texts still in use, including ''Guiding Children's Reaching Through Experience,'' published by Teachers College in 1942, and ''Common Sense in Teaching Reading'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1963).
After retiring from the classroom in 1959, she became a prolific author of children's books in a science series for Crowell Company, ''Let's Read and Find Out,'' many of which remain in print.
She was a past chairman of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York City, an organization of professional and lay experts active in child welfare work.
''
        Mrs. Kerr also compiled ''A Bully Father: Theodore Roosevelt's Letters to His Children'' (1995), for which she wrote the biographical essay and notes.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her twin sister, the artist Carol Anthony of Sante Fe, N.M.; her brother, Jack M. Anthony of Seattle, and three children from her first marriage, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan of Middletown, R.I., Tessa Wohl of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mark Sanchez de Movellan of Hilversum, the Netherlands.
      

        Meridel Le Sueur, who reported on the plight of the poor during the Depression and celebrated the free spirits of early Americans in her fiction for children, died on Nov. 14 in Hudson Memorial Hospital in Hudson, Wis. She was 96 and had lived in the hospital's residential unit in nearby St. Paul, Minn., for the last few years.
Her highly praised children's books, in which she interwove history and regional lore in poetic prose, included ''Little Brother of the Wilderness: The Story of Johnny Appleseed,'' ''Nancy Hanks of Wilderness Road: A Story of Abraham Lincoln's Mother,'' ''Sparrow Hawk'' and ''Chanticleer of Wilderness Road: A Story of Davy Crockett.
In her law practice, Mrs. Rosenberger worked on behalf of youthful offenders, and she later served as a law guardian in the Nassau County Children's Court before the establishment of Family Court in Westbury.
''
        Mrs. Dulles was born in Watertown, N.Y., one of five children of a Presbyterian minister and his wife.

        Louise Bates Ames, a psychologist whose pioneering work on children held that development unfolded in discrete, predictable stages, died last Thursday at her granddaughter's home in Cincinnati.
Thus, at about 2 1/2 years old, for example, children tend to become inflexible and rigid; the result is the ''terrible 2's,'' a term they helped popularize.
The idea that children develop in stages and that parents and doctors should pay attention to them was quite important in its time, said Dr. Sidney M. Baker, who headed the institute from 1978 to 1985.
That research consisted largely of filming children as they played or did certain tasks.
It was cinema of a different sort that caused trouble for Dr. Ames in the mid-1980's, when she was criticized for suggesting in a newspaper interview that parents should not take young children to see the Disney film ''Bambi,'' in which the young deer's mother is killed by hunters.

        Diane Margo Morales, special assistant for families and children to the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, died on Nov. 1 at New York Hospital.
If you have children, like the Rockefellers did, you leave it to your children.
If you have children, like the Rockefellers did, you leave it to your children.
If you have no children, I think it is a nice idea to close it.
''They were the sort of children who wanted to do something but did not have the proper education, and they realized that,'' she said.
during World War II, and oversaw programs to help women and children with problems related to the war.
With Prof. Arthur Boothroyd they researched musical perception by such children as a basis for establishing techniques aimed at getting even the most profoundly deaf among them to play music.
The institute in Princeton, now caring for about 40 autistic children, has grown into a nationally recognized center that has served as a model elsewhere in the country.
From modest beginnings with 17 children, the institute moved into its own home in Princeton, where a further addition was completed this year.
Since then, it has been a financial supporter of the nearby Bonnie Brae Home for Boys, a boarding institution that teaches troubled children academic subjects and trade skills.
Mrs. Pulleyn, an amateur artist, contributed her work and staffed the counter to sell the Magic Shop's wide variety of children's clothing and other handmade materials.

        Margret E. Rey, who teamed with her husband to create the ''Curious George'' children's books featuring the inquisitive little monkey, died on Saturday at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
The tale is designed to put at ease children who might face a similar crisis in real life.
The publisher then asked the couple to collaborate on a book for children.
She also served on charitable boards benefiting children, including the Spence-Chapin Adoption Service, as well as the Norman Rockwell Museum and the Berkshire Botanical Garden.
The book recounts Dr. Denes's ordeal as one of the so-called hidden children, estimated to number from 10,000 to 100,000, who spent World War II in stables and caves and secret rooms like Anne Frank's annex in Amsterdam.
''The hidden children are in a curious position,'' she said.
''Holocaust survivors tend to be totally absorbed with that experience, while hidden children have tried to forget what happened to them.
Most recently, her rich, impassioned voice was heard once more in Congress when, as chairwoman of the Commission on Immigration Reform, she spoke out last  year against a proposal to deny automatic citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants born in this country.
In 1949, Mrs. Albright returned to journalism for three years as the author of a weekly Newsday column, "Life With Junior," which chronicled her foibles and successes in rearing her four children.

        Pam Conrad, the author of "Prairie Songs," "Stonewords: A Ghost Story" and other works for children and young adults, died on Monday at her home in Rockville Center, L.I.
She served as  president of the organization in 1958, when it was known as the National Association for Retarded Children.
Before her death, she was tutoring children at Public School 30 at Lexington  Avenue and 128th Street in Manhattan.
She took a particular interest in its summer camps for children from the inner city, in conservation education and preservation projects intended to protect the system's thousands of acres of parkland.
The Manhattan agency, which has since been renamed the Center for Family Support, provides services and volunteers to help  families keep seriously retarded and handicapped children in the home, a novel approach at the center's founding.
Mrs. Arnold later expanded services to find foster parents for children whose families could not care for them.
She found her calling during the London Blitz in World War II, when she did the legal work that took hundreds of  children away from the air raids to safety in the United States on behalf of Eleanor Roosevelt's Committee for the Care of European Children.
She found her calling during the London Blitz in World War II, when she did the legal work that took hundreds of  children away from the air raids to safety in the United States on behalf of Eleanor Roosevelt's Committee for the Care of European Children.
She joined teams of pediatricians and social workers who collected uprooted children and sent them to the United States.
She also rescued children from Buchenwald and recounted her experiences at the camps in a memoir in the collection of the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
They had no children.
      

        Jane Miller MacRae, an artist who wrote and illustrated children's books, died on Tuesday at her home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 89.
Miss Chukovskaya's "To the Memory of Childhood," also published in 1988, was  a tribute to her father, Kornei Chukovsky, a Russian critic, translator and popular author of children's verse and fairy tales.
For some years she worked as an editor for a children's book publisher in  Moscow.
She noted that women's careers were often interrupted, or ended, when they had children and suggested that employers create policies to help mothers balance career and family responsibilities by giving them more flexibility in work hours and providing high-quality day care.
Catalyst, founded in 1962 after Mrs. Schwartz had spent a decade at home raising her children, focused in its early years on lobbying employers to allow  women to combine family and part-time work.
In 1968, Mrs. Schwartz wrote "How to Go to Work When Your Husband Is Against  It, Your Children Aren't Old Enough and There's Nothing You Can Do Anyhow.
She returned with her three children and Dr. Schwartz spent the next two years flying back and forth on weekends.
While there she published a Jewish songbook for children, "Gateway to Jewish  Song," which was followed by other books of Jewish music and musical history for young people.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by children from two previous marriages: a son, Arthur Debernarde of Minneapolis, and a daughter, Donna Maria  Lynn of Westport, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Chris Maxwell of Los Angeles, and five  grandchildren.
      
Her writings included reviews, essays, children's books and novels.
She left the party with one of his friends, the poet Denis Devlin, and, as Mr. Warren later railed  in recounting the meeting to his children, "a bunch of other drunken Irishmen.
