
        Mary Francis Shura Craig, a writer of mystery novels and children's books, died on Saturday at the Loyola University Medical Burn Center in Maywood, Ill. She was 67 years old and lived in Hinsdale, Ill.
        She died of injuries suffered in a fire in her apartment on Dec. 13, a family spokeswoman said.
She wrote children's books under the name Mary Francis Shura and dozens of adult books and mystery novels under the names M. S. Craig, Mary Francis Craig and Meredith Hill.
      
A Knickerbocker Holiday for You and Your Children" (Duell, Sloan & Pearce, 1946).
Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.
Safeguarding Public Health
        She left for 18 months in the late 1940's to become associate chief of the United States Children's Bureau, returning to the Health Department in 1950 as assistant commissioner.
She was past secretary of the Child Adoption Service of the Children's Aid Society and had been treasurer of the Oyster Bay Visiting Nurse Association on Long Island for many years.
She was born Jan. 5, 1909, the youngest of the five children of King Ferdinand and Queen Marie of Romania, and was a cousin of Queen Elizabeth II of Britain.
She divorced the Archduke, who had served in the German Air Force during World War II, in 1954 and supported herself and her children by giving lectures on such topics as her life, Romania and world peace.
Her second marriage, to Dr. Stefan Issarescu, ended in divorce and then, with her children grown up, she became a nun of the Orthodox Church in the convent of the Protection of the Holy Virgin in Bussy-en-Othe in east-central France before going on to found the convent in Pennsylvania.

        Marion Savage Rosette, a pianist, teacher and composer of children's songs, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday.
"Katie the Kangaroo," "City Mouse and Country Mouse" and "The Monkey Who Wanted to Fly" are among the songs by Mrs. Rosette that were familiar to a generation of children who watched the television show "Captain Kangaroo.

        Rhoda Bacmeister, an authority on early childhood education who directed nursery schools and wrote eight books about children, died on Wednesday at All Saints Catholic Nursing Home in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 97 years old and lived in Clemson, S.C.
        She died of respiratory failure, her family said.
In World War II she set up day-care centers in Philadelphia for children of women working in war plants.
Mrs. Bacmeister wrote four books on early childhood education and four on literature for children.
With her friend Dorothy Fay Little, she founded the Greenwood Music Camp, a summer camp for children in Cummington, Mass., and served as a director there for 50 years.

        Susan Karelitz Ginsberg, a lawyer who devoted her career to working with social agencies dealing with the problems of women and children, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Earlier, when her husband was a foreign correspondent, she was the ORT representative in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, and worked at a clinic for autistic children in London.
Miss Loeser published three collections of stories, most of which first appeared in The New Yorker: "Tomorrow Will Be Monday: Stories of Parents and Children" (1964); "The Archers at Home" (1968), about a suburban couple afflicted with empty-nest syndrome, and "A Thousand Pardons" (1982), stories about a Westport couple who enjoy their lives and the changing seasons.
Miss Loeser is survived by her husband and three children: Jan DeVries of Media, Pa.; Peter Jon, of New York City, and Derek, of Santa Monica, Calif. Another daughter, Emily, died of leukemia in childhood and is remembered in Miss Loeser's story "Whose Little Girl Are You?
In 1979 and 1980, she developed a curriculum for dyslexic elementary school children for New York State.

        Helen Lee Caldwell, a leading designer of children's clothes in Manhattan for three decades under the name Helen Lee, died on Wednesday at Fort Sanders Hospital in Knoxville, Tenn. She was 82 years old and had lived in Knoxville since 1981.
In 1953 she became the first children's designer to win the Coty American Fashion Critics Award, for her designs for Youngland Inc.
The award cited her "significant influence in the development of good taste and charm in children's fashions.
She also created designs for Sears, Roebuck & Company; Saks Fifth Avenue; Alyssa, a children's fashion concern, and for her own company, Designs by Helen Lee Inc.
Despite the reputation of English children's clothes as the best in the world, her designs won accolades from critics at a London fashion show in 1962.
In 1962 she retired from the bureau and worked for two years in the children's psychiatric unit of the Jewish Guild for the Blind.
For more than 30 years, she was a senior psychiatrist with the court system of New York State and dealt with abused children.
She was president of the New York section of the American Camping Association from 1966 to 1968, and a board member of Trail Blazers Camp, which provided camping for disadvantaged children, from 1974 to 1989.
Her particular concerns were with Youth Aliyah, which rescues and rehabilitates displaced children, and the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Centr in Jerusalem.
With her husband, whom she married in 1921, and children she left Germany in 1932, fleeing the rise of Hitler and anti-Semitism.

        Elizabeth Olds, a writer and artist of children's books, died on Monday in Sarasota, Fla., where she lived.
She wrote and illustrated six children's books, four of which became Junior Literary Guild selections.
Mrs. Rich wrote a number of books for adults and children, among them "Only Parent" (1953), "Innocence Under the Elms" (1955) and "The Coast of Maine" (1956).

        Sarah Jane Kinoy, a teacher and social worker who was an early leader in the education of children with cerebral palsy, died on Wednesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan.
At Teachers College she coordinated the special education department for children with cerebral palsy and in the 1950's, in cooperation with the New York City Board of Education, she developed a pilot school for Manhattan children with the disease.
At Teachers College she coordinated the special education department for children with cerebral palsy and in the 1950's, in cooperation with the New York City Board of Education, she developed a pilot school for Manhattan children with the disease.
And if the show's opening act is for the children -- a giant refrigerator is dropped directly on top of the two stars -- then the bit called "Burnin' Luv" is the adults' payoff.
As a child, Ms. Perkins said, she performed in the children's Sailor Circus, along with Emmett Kelly's daughter and a daughter of one of the Flying Wallendas.
At a recent weekend performance full of children, a number of them lined up outside after the show to get the stars' autographs.
In 1976, she was named principal of Intermediate School 383, the Philippa Schuyler Middle School for the Gifted and Talented, a special school she had envisioned for minority-group children.
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She was the author of four children's books published by David McKay.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.
Bland wrote in The New York Times that it was important "for us art teachers to provide the opportunity for children to express their ideas and feelings with confidence that they will be accepted and respected.
"
        Her work at the museum included holding classes for children and also providing instruction for other teachers.
Her writings included the book "The Art of Young Children.

        Jane Cooper Bland, a teacher of art and art appreciation to young children, died on Friday at Hahnemann University Hospital in Philadelphia.
Bland wrote in The New York Times Book Review that it was important "for us art teachers to provide the opportunity for children to express their ideas and feelings with confidence that they will be accepted and respected.
"
        Her work at the museum included holding classes for children and also providing instruction for other teachers.
Her writings included the book "The Art of Young Children.

        Clara Leiser, founder of Youth of All Nations, a nonprofit peace organization that grew out of her experience with refugee children in World War II, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Proceeds will be given to the relief organizations God's Love We Deliver, City Harvest, Manos Unidas and Save the Children.
Early in her career, she wrote 11 books for children.
Imbued with the desire to educate the poor and culturally deprived, Dr. Washington believed that all children, including poor, black, inner-city youngsters, have potential.
Dr. Schachter's primary interest was in developmental psychology, in work with brothers and sisters, language development in young children and parent-toddler relations.
One of Toscanini's three children, Walter, Wally and Wanda, she lived most of her life in Milan.
She devoted much of her time to raising money for orphaned children throughout Italy and for restoring La Scala, where her father was the principal conductor for many years.

        Dr. Marjorie Harley, a psychoanalyst who specialized in treating children and adolescents, died Wednesday at her home in Baltimore.
She is survived by two children, Nicholas, a director, and Eliza, by her third husband, Jeremy Hutchinson, a lawyer.

        Margot Tomes, an artist and illustrator of children's books, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Miss Tomes was an award-winning illustrator of fairy tales, historical stories in verse for children, songbooks and cookbooks.
The American Library Association listed her work among notable books for children, and the American Institute of Graphic Arts included her work in a 1978-79 exhibition entitled "Communicating With Children.
The American Library Association listed her work among notable books for children, and the American Institute of Graphic Arts included her work in a 1978-79 exhibition entitled "Communicating With Children.
" In 1977, "Jack and the Wonder Beans," a book she illustrated, was cited by The New York Times as one of the 10 best children's books of the year.
"
        Miss Tomes began illustrating children's books in 1963 with Barbera Wersba's book "The Brave Balloon of Benjamin Buckley.
Her work has been exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Albright-Knox Museum in Buffalo, the Bronx Museum and the Boston Children's Museum, as well as several galleries in New York City.
The Civic Rep's production of "Peter Pan," with the actress sailing to the balcony on an invisible wire, enchanted masses of children, and Josephine Hutchinson as "Alice in Wonderland" with Miss Le Gallienne as the White Queen enchanted grownups as well.
After observing two barnyard hens, she wrote a children's book, "Flossie and Bossie: A Moral Tale.

        Lorraine Walters Katz, a retired owner of a children's clothing store in Deal, N.J., died on Monday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. She was 66 years old and lived in Deal.
Miss Suckley was the co-author of a children's book about Fala and took part in producing two short films depicting the dog's life in the limelight.

        Patricia Robbins Beatty, an award-winning author of 50 children's books, died on Tuesday at the Riverside (Calif.) Community Hospital.
She graduated from Reed College in Portland and became a children's librarian and a high school teacher of English and history.
She began to write when her children were small and drew on her knowledge of the Quileute Indians for her first book, "The Indian Canoe Maker," published in 1960 by Caxton Press.
In 1974, she received an award for a distinguished body of work from the Southern California Council on Children's Literature.
In 1988, she established the John and Patricia Beatty Award through the California Library Association to encourage the writing of children's books about the culture and heritage of California.
She is survived by three children from her first marriage: a daughter, Aileen Godsick of Manhattan, and two sons, Richard Lewisohn 3d of Manhattan and Clifford Lewisohn of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Anne F. Kohn of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wyzanski was a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the American women's Zionist organization, and worked in Berlin in the Hitler era with Youth Aliah, a group that resettled Jewish children in Palestine and other countries.
Mrs. Wyzanski was a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the American women's Zionist organization, and worked in Berlin in the Hitler era with Youth Aliah, a group that resettled Jewish children in Palestine and other countries.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
The family believed that it was a responsibility to dedicate at least some of one's life to public service, and the message was received by all five of their children.
She appeared on television in the soap operas "The Guiding Light" and "All My Children," and had a small role in the Woody Allen film "Zelig.
Start of a Team
        Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming young performer, George C. Scott.
They had two children, divorced, then later remarried and divorced again.
"The problems that arise when a working woman brings up children forced me to put it off.
Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming performer, George C. Scott.
DIVERSE ROLES, MAJOR AND MINOR
        Theater The Taming of the Shrew, 1956 Children of Darkness, 1958 Antony and Cleopatra, 1959, 1963 Caligula, 1960 All the Way Home, 1961 Desire Under the Elms, 1963 Ballad of the Sad Cafe, 1963 More Stately Mansions, 1967 Hello and Goodbye, 1969 Mourning Becomes Electra, 1973 A Moon for the Misbegotten, 1974 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, 1977 You Can't Take It With You, 1983 My Gene, 1987 Ah, Wilderness!, 1988 Long Day's Journey Into Night, 1988  Television And Those She Left Behind Anne of Avonlea Anne of Green Gables As Is Between Two Women The Crucible Lantern Hill A Moon for the Misbegotten Murphy Brown No Exit The Price The Women's Room  Films The Nun's Story, 1959 Man on a String, 1960 A Fine Madness, 1963 The Last Run, 1971 Cowboys, 1972 McQ, 1974 Annie Hall, 1977 Ice Castles, 1978 When a Stranger Calls, 1979 Final Assignment, 1980 Tribute, 1980 The Dead Zone, 1983 Dying Young, 1991
      
In that position, she authored legislation that raised the amount of financial support that children must receive after their parents divorce to the highest level in the nation.

        Aline (Honi) Pollitzer Weiss, active for more than half a century with organizations concerned with the welfare of children, died on Sunday at her summer home in Stephentown, N.Y. She was 95 years old and lived in Medford, N.J.
        She died in her sleep, her son-in-law, Judge Louis Pollak of Philadelphia, said.
Forced to wear braces, she turned to academic pursuits because, she later recalled, "I couldn't go out and dance and play" like other children.
She was considered one who was ahead of her time, being among the first business leaders in her city to offer paid group hospitalization for employees and an unlimited number of tuition-paid night courses and scholarships for their children at local colleges, according to The Kansas City Star.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      
She was considered one who was ahead of her time, being among the first business leaders in her city to offer paid group hospitalization for employees and an unlimited number of tuition-paid night courses and scholarships for their children at local colleges, according to The Kansas City Star.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.

        Anne Marie Jauss, an author of books for children and an illustrator, died on Friday at a nursing home in Milford, N.J. She was 89 years old.
In 1946, she moved to the United States and began a career as a writer of children's books.
Surviving in addition to her husband are their five children, Mark, of San Francisco; Mindi and Wendy, of Los Angeles; Carrie, of Seattle, and Deena Semler of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Joan Siewert of Lake Forest, Ill.
      
The Chaplins, who had eight children, lived most of their married life in their 18th-century mansion overlooking Lake Geneva.
"
        She is survived by her children: Geraldine, the actress; Michael, Josephine, Victoria, Eugene, Jane, Annette-Emilie and James, and 17 grandchildren.
"
        Ms. Mason is survived by her husband, Stephen Carden, and their two children, Polly, 8, and Clayton, 4.
At a Y nursery school celebration in 1981, Janet Fisher, one of its vice presidents, recalled that in England Miss Rosenthal had turned bomb shelters into nurseries, showing children how to make handicraft items from milk cartons and other materials found in the air-raid rubble.
" She also produced and edited "Assignment Children," a Unicef film that starred her husband.
Hundreds of children studied piano with her before she retired in 1988.
' " Effects of Apartheid
        In her stories and in such novels as "A Guest of Honour," "Burger's Daughter" and "My Son's Story," Miss Gordimer has written of the effects of apartheid on the relationships of men and women, parents and children.
While admiring Manzoni's literary achievements, her study also lays bare Manzoni's shocking indifference to his children.
She is survived by her four children, Alessandra, Carlo, Leone and Susanna.
She died of cancer, said Ellen Morgenstern, a spokeswoman for the Children's Television Workshop, the producer of "Sesame Street.
She joined the Children's Television Workshop in 1970, during the first season of "Sesame Street," and "helped to define the look of the show, which relies heavily on animation," Ms. Morgenstern said.
