A building's height should be limited to the distance that a mother in a window could be heard when calling to a child in a playground below, she said.
Miss Carpenter was born in Bath, England, the daughter of vaudevillians, and began performing as a child.
The institute studied welfare, housing, health care, child neglect and abuse and services for the aged.
She helped to establish the Child Guidance Clinic of the Oranges and Maplewood.

        Laura Dubman Fratti, a child prodigy whose expertise as a classical pianist won her critical acclaim in the 1930's and 40's in San Francisco, New York and Paris, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
I picked up a child, said goodbye to him and walked away -- only I didn't know how to hold the child so that it wouldn't be hit if the Ukrainian shot at me.
I picked up a child, said goodbye to him and walked away -- only I didn't know how to hold the child so that it wouldn't be hit if the Ukrainian shot at me.

        Sally A. Provence, professor emeritus in the Child Study Center and the Pediatrics Department at Yale University, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 76 and lived at Branford.
For 35 years, Dr. Provence was director of the center's Child Development Unit.
A pioneer in child development, both as a teacher and researcher, she documented young children's suffering and recovery from deprivation and trauma.
When Lillian was 5, a Gish boarder, an actress named Alice Niles, persuaded Mrs. Gish to let her take the child with her to act in a production of "In Convict's Stripes," which played one-night stands across the country.
"
        Her survivors include her mother, Dorothy Boroff of Manhattan; her husband, Richard, and two daughters, Molly and Daisy, the Tony-award winning child actress in "The Secret Garden.
Helen Hayes Brown was born on Oct. 10, 1900, in Washington, the only child of Francis Van Arnum Brown, a pork and poultry salesman, and Catherine Estelle Hayes Brown, a sometime actress who remained stagestruck all her life.
Her father died when she was a child, and her mother took in laundry to support the family.
From Canada to Broadway
        Miss Smith was born in Canada, but her family moved to Los Angeles when she was a child and she grew up in Southern California.
She studied the piano and violin briefly as a child and sang in community choirs, but she later told interviewers that she had had very little exposure to classical music when she was growing up.

        Genevieve Millet Landau, former editor in chief of Parents magazine and an expert in child development, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
She resigned from the magazine in 1978 to create the Hasbro Center for Child Development and Education, a nonprofit arm of the Hasbro Toy Company.
Miss Haber was a child of the movie industry.
Son Died of Leukemia
        Mrs. Kaplan's first child, David, was retarded, and died of leukemia at the age of 9 in 1952, two years after she opened the fledgling association's first day camp for 24 children.

        Dr. Barbara Biber Bodansky, a leading researcher in child psychology and early education for nearly half a century, died on Tuesday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center.
Dr. Biber -- the name she used professionally -- was chairman of the child development faculty of the Bank Street College of Education from 1931 to 1960.
In those positions, she played a central role in creating several new graduate and research programs dealing with early education theory, child psychology and social policy.
She also was co-author of two books reporting major research studies: "Child Life in School" (1942) and "The Pyschological Impact of School Experience" (1969).
She was a child prodigy who had small books of poems published while she was still a teen-ager.
In July 1940, her premature daughter, her only child, died in a Honolulu hospital after only 24 hours of life.
A Father's Fortune And a Young Heir
        What made Miss Duke so enormously rich was the fact that she was his only child.
Miss Duke, a shy, golden-haired child, had private tutors and for a time attended the Brearley School in Manhattan, where her father had built a three-story, 54-room mansion on the northeast corner of 78th Street and Fifth Avenue.

        Jane G. Judge, who spent five decades as a social worker, educator and child advocate, died on Wednesday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 91.

        Dr. Marie H. Briehl, one of the country's earliest child psychoanalysts, died on Saturday at her home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 96.
Dr. Briehl was director emeritus of the child analysis section at the Southern California Psychoanalytic Institute in Los Angeles.
She trained with Anna Freud, daughter of Sigmund Freud and herself a founder of child analysis.
Six years later, she and her husband moved to Los Angeles, where she established the training program for child analysis in the Southern California Psychoanalytic Society and Institute and worked as training and supervising analyst.
She became the first director of the institute's section on child analysis, serving for almost 20 years.
