Ms. Eisenberger was born in Vienna to a musical family and came to the United States as a child.
As a child, she sang on the gospel circuit and performed on a weekly radio show, ''The Y Teens.
During the 1940's and 50's, she worked as an illustrator for You and Your Child, which was then a column in The New York Times Magazine.
After the family's move to Long Beach, Calif., she entered a beauty contest -- and though she did not win a prize, Paramount invited her to audition for a child's part in its film version of ''Peter Pan.
A brief marriage to John Thomas O'Brien produced her only child, Sally Newcomb MacDonald.

        Annemarie Schimmel, who became fascinated with the Muslim world after hearing Arabian tales as a child and went on to become one of the 20th century's most influential scholars of Islam, died last Sunday in Bonn.
''
        She was born Evelyn Nadine Henderson into a large, artistic family in Compton, Calif., and studied piano and drama as a child.
''It's kind of like having a child and having to give that child up,'' she said in the Chronicle interview.
''It's kind of like having a child and having to give that child up,'' she said in the Chronicle interview.
''She was a great inspiration to me as a child in Trinidad,'' the dancer and painter Geoffrey Holder said.

        Dr. Judianne Densen-Gerber, a lawyer and psychiatrist who founded the drug treatment program Odyssey House and went on to give widely quoted but sometimes disputed testimony on subjects like child abuse and pornography, died on Sunday in Manhattan.
Her influence extended to areas like child pornography.
When Mrs. Bulah wrote to state education authorities to complain about the lack of a bus for her child, she was eventually told that the state constitution required racially segregated educational facilities and that buses fell under that definition.
''
        Carol Ann Warner was born on June 2, 1935, in Oak Park, Ill., the third child (after fraternal twins) of Robert Elmer, a candy factory manager, and Inez (Selgren) Warner, a schoolteacher.
And because she studied as a child with Jan Chiapusso, a Dutch-Italian concert pianist born in Java, she was introduced to the sounds of the gamelan and a variety of Asian and African instruments decades before the current interest in world music.

        Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!
Mrs. Rogovin's years as a teacher made her a believer in letting a child learn by doing, whether it led to things made or knowledge acquired.
Correction:  July 24, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children and an author of manuals on child rearing, misstated the current name of her alma mater, which was once the State College for Teachers at Buffalo.
Mrs. Warnke, born Jean Farjeon Rowe in Ossining, N.Y., was a member of the board of Family and Child Services Inc. of Washington, serving as its president from 1984 to 1986.
Born Jane Schneider on July 28, 1928, in Florida, she moved with her family to Atlanta as a small child.
The countess first met her future husband while still a child.
She had grown up in a musical household, learning as a child to play the violin and piano, and also began painting early, studying costume and set design in Europe and painting with George Grosz in New York.
The truth was that Ms. Cross was the child of an affair Mrs. Storch had had with Jimmy Cross, a black song-and-dance man who was Stump in the well-known performing team Stump and Stumpy.
For the couple's conservative friends, they concocted an elaborate story about having adopted June, who they said was the abused child of former neighbors.
''
        Carolyn Gold Heilbrun was born on Jan. 13, 1926, in East Orange, N.J., the only child of Archibald Gold, an accountant, and Estelle Roemer Gold, who, her daughter would recall, ''sat at home and was bored out of her mind.
Dr. Whiting and her husband, Dr. John W. M. Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, traveled extensively to study parental practices and child behavior, hoping to identify aspects of human development found in all cultures.
Twelve years later, they founded the Child Development Research Unit at the University of Nairobi to conduct more intensive studies in Kenya.
Marie Eleanor Doherty, an only child, was born in Roxbury, Mass., on May 25, 1914.
Dorothy Jeanne-Therese Farnan was born on June 29, 1919, in Winona, Minn., the only child of James Farnan, a lawyer, and the former Nanneta Von Starck.
Born in Greece, Ms. Stark came to the United States as a child.
Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child following the family gardener around her parents' estate on the North Shore of Boston.
Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child following the family gardener around her parents' estate on the North Shore of Boston.
Lieselotte Heymansohn was born to a well-to-do father in Cologne -- her mother died when she was a child -- and studied modern dance with Mary Wigman in Cologne, against her father's wishes.
The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own.
'' By then, there were two daughters, as well as her sister's child, whom the Stevensons treated as their own.
