Professor McKay, who was divorced as a young woman, is survived by a sister, Constance Prout of Hollywood, Fla.; two children, Patricia Watson of St. Louis and Harry McKay of New York; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild.
      
Ms. Wasserstein also wrote a children's book, ''Pamela's First Musical,'' which she adapted for the stage in collaboration with Cy Coleman and David Zippel, and wrote the libretto for ''The Festival of Regrets,'' one of three one-act operas presented under the collective title ''Central Park'' at the New York City Opera.
She pieced together financing from governments, corporations and children collecting pennies.
Such expressions of pride mattered to Ms. Maynard, whose oft-stated mission was nurturing a sense of identity among black children by concretely linking them to their history.
Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to dealing with her husband's death, which left her with four young children, Mrs. King faced other trials and controversies.
''
        Coretta Scott was born April 27, 1927, the second of three children born to Obadiah and Bernice Scott.
Some of Coretta Scott's earliest insights into the injustice of segregation came as she walked to her one-room schoolhouse each day, watching buses of white children stir up dust as they passed.
With four young children to raise -- Yolanda, born in 1955; Martin III, in 1957; Dexter, in 1961; and Bernice, in 1963 -- and a movement dominated by men, Mrs. King mostly remained away from the front lines of the movement.
Wanting to be there for their children, she also wanted to be active in the movement.
''
        Besides her four children and her sister, Edythe, of Cheyney, Pa., survivors include her brother, Obie Leonard Scott of Greensboro, Ala.
        Mrs. King remained a beloved figure, often compared to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as a woman who overcame tragedy, held her family together and became an inspirational presence around the world.
Edna Lewis was born in a small settlement called Freetown in 1916, one of eight children.
Reared in upper-crust Britain, the youngest of four children of Sir Stafford Cripps, a Labor party leader and cabinet officer in the Clement Attlee government (1945-51), Peggy Cripps caused an international sensation when she announced plans to marry in July 1953.
''
        Born in 1921, Enid Margaret Cripps, who used the name Peggy, was the youngest of four children of Sir Stafford and Lady Isobel Swithenbank Cripps.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
''
        Known to many in Ghana as Auntie Peggy, Mrs. Appiah was a prolific writer of children's books, many of them based on the Ghanaian folk tales her husband told their children, as well as of novels, poetry and most recently a collection of 7,000 Ashanti proverbs, on which she collaborated with her son.
''
        Known to many in Ghana as Auntie Peggy, Mrs. Appiah was a prolific writer of children's books, many of them based on the Ghanaian folk tales her husband told their children, as well as of novels, poetry and most recently a collection of 7,000 Ashanti proverbs, on which she collaborated with her son.
Her husband, Fred, did not want their children to know of her daredevil past for fear it might prove overly inspirational, and she herself did not share her stories until they were adults.
Mrs. Muse and the man who legally changed his name to Fred had four children and owned four homes when he died in 1975.
She also had four children, who, with her husband, survive her.

        Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1998, Ms. Chaifetz joined Advocates for Children, which defends the legal rights of students in public education, and in her time there she quadrupled its staff and budget.
Advocates for Children, which is based in Manhattan, produced many policy papers and reports under Ms. Chaifetz's direction and provided free legal help to students who claimed they were being denied proper educations and services.
In 2003, in one of their most important cases, Ms. Chaifetz and Advocates for Children filed lawsuits against three city high schools, charging that they illegally discharged or turned away students because of their ages, poor grades, poor attendance or pregnancy.
''
        Joel I. Klein, the city schools chancellor, whose administration was almost always on the other side of Ms. Chaifetz's recent arguments, said yesterday: ''Jill was an extraordinarily dedicated and effective children's advocate who worked tirelessly to ensure that school reform reached every child.
She had a special affinity for the most vulnerable and those who most need a voice, especially children with special needs and English-language learners.
Before leading Advocates for Children, Ms. Chaifetz established the legal department at the Door, a youth development agency in Manhattan, where she worked from 1992 to 1998.

        Tana Hoban, an accomplished photographer of children who turned her photography into an innovative kind of illustration for books for the youngest audiences, died on Jan. 27 at a hospice in suburban Paris.
Most were issued by Greenwillow Books, an imprint of the HarperCollins Children's Book Group.
''So Many Circles, So Many Squares'' (1998), illustrated with her photographs, educated children to simple geometric shapes.
Her photographs of children prompted Edward Steichen to display them at the Museum of Modern Art for the first of various exhibitions mounted in Philadelphia, New York, Paris and Berlin.
In 1970 she progressed from photographs of children to photographs for children.
In 1970 she progressed from photographs of children to photographs for children.
''I try to rediscover these things and share them with children.
''
        Correction:  February 6, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about Tana Hoban, a photographer and an illustrator of children's books, misstated the given name of her husband.
''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.
For a typical woman of the 1950's, even a college-educated one, life centered almost exclusively on chores and children.
Yet she was unaccountably tired, impatient with the children, craving something that neither marital sex nor extramarital affairs could satisfy.
I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year.
Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.
For a typical woman of the 1950's, even a college-educated one, life centered almost exclusively on chores and children.
Yet she was unaccountably tired, impatient with the children, craving something that neither marital sex nor extramarital affairs could satisfy.
I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year.
Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
As she made the beds, shopped for groceries, matched slipcover material, ate peanut butter sandwiches with her children, chauffeured Cub Scouts and Brownies, lay beside her husband at night -- she was afraid to ask even of herself the silent question -- ''Is this all?
Experts told them how to catch a man and keep him, how to breastfeed children and handle their toilet training, how to cope with sibling rivalry and adolescent rebellion; how to buy a dishwasher, bake bread, cook gourmet snails, and build a swimming pool with their own hands; how to dress, look, and act more feminineand make marriage more exciting; how to keep their husbands from dying young and their sons from growing into delinquents.
Millions of women lived their lives in the image of those pretty pictures of the American suburban housewife, kissing their husbands goodbye in front of the picture window, depositing their stationwagonsful of children at school, and smiling as they ran the new electric waxer over the spotless kitchen floor.
They baked their own bread, sewed their own and their children's clothes, kept their new washing machines and dryers running all day.
Their only dream was to be perfect wives and mothers; their highest ambition to have five children and a beautiful house, their only fight to get and keep their husbands.
With their young children, they explored the country and began a lifelong love of Italian culture, especially its food.
On television she appeared in shows including ''Law and Order,'' ''Oz'' and ''All My Children,'' and was a co-host for ''Lifetime Live,'' a program on the Lifetime network.
Besides her stepdaughter Rosita, Ms. Moffo is survived by a brother, Nicholas Moffo Jr., of Berwyn, Pa., and two other stepdaughters: Serena Benenson of New Canaan, Conn., and Claudia Sarnoff of Middleburg, Va. She and Mr. Sarnoff, who died in 1997, had no children.
Edythe Pauline Jones was born on Sept. 6, 1922, in Asheville, N.C., one of seven children of Jacob Jones, an Episcopal minister, and the former Jennie Dillard, who taught high school English and Latin.
In that description, she puts out her garbage, children go to school, the dry cleaner and the barber open their shops, women come out to chat, longshoremen visit the local bar, teenagers return from school and change to go out on dates, and another day is played out.
Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United States as a child and grew up in Philadelphia, where she established the Children's Dance Theater in 1944.
Kathleen Isabel Powers was born on Oct. 4, 1915, the fifth of eight children of Harry Lord Powers and Elizabeth Robinson Hazard at Shrewsbury Manor, their agricultural and equestrian estate in Shrewsbury, N.J. She lived there until she was a teenager, when she was sent to school in Paris.
It is this lightness, and a contrived detachment toward her characters, that became the target of the harshest criticism of her work, which at her death included more than 20 novels, several collections of short stories, poetry, criticism, biography, plays and a handful of children's books.
Divine retribution of a sort neatly ties up her book ''Aiding and Abetting'' (2000), a fictional tale of a real man, Lord Lucan, known as Lucky, who killed his children's nanny, whom he apparently mistook for his wife in the dark, severely battered his wife, then disappeared, with the help of his friends.
Her 1985 autobiography, ''Call Me Woman,'' described her beatings by her first husband and her loss of their children to him when they separated, because by law and tradition she was a minor.
''I did not have the strength nor the courage to teach the children of my community what appeared to be very poisonous to their minds,'' she said later.
''The National Party gave them an inferior education so those children were going to remain the slaves of white people.
One of her most common laments was the lasting damage that apartheid and the violent fight against it had done to South Africa's children.
Believe you me, today I cannot do that, because I don't trust the very children who ought to protect me because of the handling of the government of South Africa of those days.
They turned our children into animals.
She is survived by their children, Marcie, of Manhattan; Lloyd, of Key West, Fla.; and Jay, of Arlington, Va.
According to her manager, Nourredine Gafaaiti, she is survived by her 3 children and 18 grandchildren, all of whom live in Algeria.
Rose Elizabeth Thering was born on Aug. 9, 1920, in Plain, Wis., the sixth of 11 children in a German-American farm family that prayed together daily.

        Luba Kadison Buloff, who went from playing children's roles to reigning as a leading lady in the Yiddish theater, helping bring its flavorful blend of wrenching drama and comedic shrug from Europe to the Lower East Side in the 1920's, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Her research focused in particular on the role of women, children and families in the Middle Ages, largely overlooked subjects when she began her career in the 1940's.
Ms. Jacobs, who lectured throughout the world on dollhouse history, also wrote several children's books inspired by her work, among them ''The Doll House Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1958) and ''The Toy Shop Mystery'' (Coward-McCann, 1960).
Their children, Jacob, of Los Angeles, and Helen, of Brooklyn, survive her, as do three grandchildren.
''
        Dorothea Towles was born on July 26, 1922, in Texarkana, Tex., the seventh of eight children in a farming family.
''
        Born on Sept. 29, 1908, Miss Odum was the youngest of five children.
'' In the 1970's Jamaican children adored ''Ring Ding,'' her Saturday morning children's television show.
'' In the 1970's Jamaican children adored ''Ring Ding,'' her Saturday morning children's television show.
In the 1970's a theater for children's productions was named for her; it was refurbished in 1987 to celebrate her 50th anniversary in the theater.
When I left the studio I was already married and had two children, but I felt as sad as a child leaving home for the first time.
'' Miss Allyson recalled being told that because of her childhood accident, she would never be able to have children, so she and Mr. Powell adopted a baby girl, Pamela, in 1948.
'' It generated controversy because it seemed to exploit the real case of Alice Crimmins, who was convicted of murdering her two young children.
After founding the Washington School of Ballet in 1944, both women presented their students in children's ballets, often with the National Symphony Orchestra.
''
        Mrs. Foster taught at the Columbia School of Social Work and was director of mental health for the Children's Aid Society.
Cora Thomasina Walker was born on June 20, 1922, in Charlotte, N.C., one of nine children of William and Benetta Jones Walker.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, and their two children: Laura, a paralegal for the Manhattan district attorney's office; and Eric, a sophomore at Cornell University.
Asked once whether she regretted having had no children, she replied, ''I have 500 children, the songs I sing.
Asked once whether she regretted having had no children, she replied, ''I have 500 children, the songs I sing.
Her first marriage, to Tony Gray, produced three children, Georgie; Tony Jr., who died in 1997; and Cecil, and ended in divorce in 1964.
Some of the couple's noble friends were horrified at additions that they considered shocking intrusions of show business: in addition to snack bars and sailboat rentals, there was a children's zoo with a skunk named Jasmine.
In 1955, the couple separated and Ms. Juda took their three children to London, where she raised them alone, often by working several jobs at once.
Although Balanchine frowned on his ballerinas' having children, Ms. Hayden had two with her husband, Donald Coleman, who survives her.
She reared her four children -- Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen -- in Austin, and they were with her at home when she died, Ms. Bonner said.
The sixth of nine children born to Joseph P. Kennedy and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald, Mrs. Lawford, like her siblings, had a well-honed understanding of politics and of the power of appearances.
Afterward, Mrs. Lawford and her four children moved to New York, where she took on a busy social schedule, befriended artists and writers and became known as a generous benefactor of the arts.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, she was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children.
The sixth of nine children born to Joseph Kennedy and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford, like her siblings, had a well-honed understanding of politics and of the power of appearances.
Afterward, Mrs. Lawford and her four children moved to New York, where she took on a busy social schedule, befriended artists and writers and became known as a generous benefactor of the arts.
Much like her older sister Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to rear their children as Catholics.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, Mrs. Lawford was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children, Caroline and John Jr.
Beth Katz Levine was born on Dec. 31, 1914, in Patchogue, N.Y., the third of five children of Anna and Israel Katz, Lithuanian immigrants who operated a dairy farm.
In an interview quoted in the reference book Major Authors and Illustrators for Children and Young Adults, Ms. Daly recalled the special urgency -- akin to grasping quicksilver -- that gave rise to ''Seventeenth Summer.
Jolly Rancher became a family affair, drawing in the Harmsens' three children, who dipped candy, handled paperwork and, seated at their kitchen table, became influential judges of new flavors and products.
She also investigated factors like exercise and indoor dust mites in producing reactions that can lead to asthma in children.
''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children.
''After the performance, when all of us children in the audience rushed to the apron of the stage, Isadora stood gesturing above us, asking the audience for donations for her Russian school.
Ms. Richard died, surrounded by her four children, of complications from the esophageal cancer, the Associated Press reported.
She raised her four children in Austin.
Survivors, according to The AP, include her children, Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen Richards, and eight grandchildren.
The show followed the lives of the Anderson family in the Midwestern town of Springfield, with Robert Young as Jim Anderson, Ms. Wyatt as his wife, Margaret, and their three children, two of them teenagers.
While at Whitworth, she met and married Nick Chenoweth, and they had two children, Mike and Meg Chenoweth-Keenan, of Boise, Idaho, who survive her, along with several grandchildren.
''One of the few regrets in my life is that I never had children of my own,'' she wrote, three years after the arrival of the first orphan, a boy named Gahungu, whose mother had dropped dead in front of him.
'' In her 20's, she acted and directed in children's theater in Los Angeles; she moved to New York in the 1960's because she wanted to work on original plays.
They had no children.
Ms. Wang spent about 12 years in prison, and her four children were also harshly treated.
Her four children were also punished.
She is survived by four children, some of whom have risen to prominent positions.
She is survived by five children from her marriage to Arthur J. Cohen, who died in 1953, and two stepchildren from her marriage to Philip Lilienthal, who died in 1984: Laurie Cohen, Liza Pike and Thomas Cohen of Mill Valley, Calif., Matthew Royce of San Francisco, Steven Cohen of Berkeley, Calif., Sukey Lilienthal of Oakland, and Andrea Lilienthal of Brooklyn.
' ''
        Ms. Brown was born Ruth Weston on Jan. 12, 1928, in Portsmouth, Va., the oldest of seven children.
Her two sons survive her: Mr. Jackson, who has three children, of Los Angeles, and Mr. Swanson of Las Vegas.
Ms. O'Day had no children or immediate family, he said.
They had two children, a daughter, Susanna, and a son, Alan.
The youngest of six children, Ms. Castanis, born Muriel Brunner, grew up in Greenwich Village and discovered her love for art at Greenwich House, the settlement house where she would go to escape her family's hectic, crowded cold-water apartment.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Castanis is survived by her four children: Thaddeus, of New York; Claudius and Augustus, of Los Angeles; and Phoebe Coombs, of Schwenksville, Pa.; and two grandchildren.

        Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday.
But the thing that always made her proudest was those books that helped so many children learn to read.

        Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday.
But the thing that always made her proudest was those books that helped so many children learn to read.
She also wrote two picture books for children, ''Sometimes My Mommy Gets Angry'' (Putnam, 2003; illustrated by E. B. Lewis); and ''Stompin' at the Savoy'' (Philomel, 2006; illustrated by Richard Yarde).

        Hilda van Stockum, an award-winning children's author and illustrator whose books depicted family life in the Netherlands, Ireland, the United States and Canada, died on Wednesday at her home in Berkhamsted, England.
Ms. Stockum's later books, which were written for children from the ages of 7 to 12, reflected the wanderings of her own families.

        Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif.
Frank Bunker Gilbreth believed that the factory management principles he espoused to his clients could also be applied to his family of six girls and six boys, produced in 17 years; Lillian Moller Gilbreth, who had a Ph.D. from Brown University (earned around 1915, while she had several children at home), was an industrial psychologist and an engineering expert.
Language records were played in the bathrooms while the children washed; they absorbed French and German that was later recited at the dinner table.
She worked as a department-store buyer and in management in New York City for 14 years, marrying Charles E. Carey, who died in 1986, and having two children.
Mrs. Carey is survived by two brothers, Frederick Gilbreth of Larchmont, N.Y., and Robert Gilbreth, of Franklin, N.H.; her children Charles E. Carey of Livermore, Calif., and Lillian Barley of Riverdale, Calif.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
In 1993, Dr. Smith was co-chairman of a federal panel that called for more intensive screening that would include infants and children in families of Middle Eastern, Mediterranean and South American origin.
''
        Mrs. Clark, whose husband died in 1991, had no children and leaves no survivors.
They had no children.
      
) One of 15 children, she picked cotton and helped her mother make quilts for the family.
It is known that Ms. Tompkins was married and divorced twice; survivors include her mother; several children and stepchildren; and many siblings, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
He married again and had four children.
