In 1955, Dr. Bender received the Adolf Meyer Memorial Award for her contributions to the understanding of schizophrenic children.
She became a staff member of Bellevue Hospital in 1930 and later was senior psychiatrist in charge of the Children's Service at the hospital, a post she held for 21 years.
Consulant to Children's Guild
        Also in 1955, Dr. Bender was appointed principal research scientist in child psychiatry, a new post in the State Mental Hygiene Department.
Dr. Bender taught at the University of Maryland and was a consultant to the Children's Guild Inc., a group that works with emotionally disturbed youngsters, and similar organizations.
She was also on the Citizen's Committee for Children of New York City Inc.
        Dr. Bender had been married to Dr. Paul Schilder, a Viennese psychiatrist who was an associate of Freud.

       Helenka Adamowska Pantaleoni, who served for more than 25 years as president of the United States Committee for Unicef, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, died of cardiac arrest Monday at New York Hospital.
Helenka Adamowska Pantaleoni, who served for more than 25 years as president of the United States Committee for Unicef, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, died of cardiac arrest Monday at New York Hospital.

       Ireene Wicker Hammer, who as ''The Singing Lady'' told fairy tales over radio and television to millions of American children, died yesterday in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 86 years old.
Ireene Wicker Hammer, who as ''The Singing Lady'' told fairy tales over radio and television to millions of American children, died yesterday in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 86 years old.
She had been on the air with few interruptions from 1931 to 1975, and the programs led to books and records for children.
More than 25 million children listened to her regularly.
With her first husband, Walter Charles Wicker, a radio writer, producer and actor, she performed in two early soap operas, ''Today's Children'' and ''Harold Teen.
Her debut as a children's radio entertainer came as a direct result of the way she amused her own offspring, telling tales and singing songs.
Her Routine Was Her Own
        According to an account by Val Adams in The New York Times, the sponsoring Kellogg's cornflakes company handed her a list of nursery rhymes and told her to do a children's program.
She is survived by her children, Bruce, Robert and Gail; a brother, Lawrence, and three sisters, Hilda Kahle, Ruth Semple and Anna Dudley.
      
Mrs. Martin is survived by her husband, Robert, and two children, Dr. Brooks Martin, of Lake Tahoe, Calif., and Diana Seaward of Benman Island, British Columbia.
      
During those travels Mrs. Sheean wrote dispatches to The New York Herald Tribune, and before and during World War II she was active in committees raising money and distributing food for Spanish refugee children and victims of Nazism.
Mothers, Children, Guilt'' (1977), ''Lifelines'' (1978) and her last book, tentatively titled ''Lynn Caine's Book for Widows,'' which is to be published next fall.
''She was unbelievably gifted in every way,'' said Emily Rosenthal, who directed the school from 1946 to 1966, ''The children loved her.
Survivors include three other children, nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Hebe (pronounced ay-bay) Dorsey was born March 5, 1925, in Sousse, Tunisia, one of five children of Mary and Clement Halfon.
During her career, she was director of music and theater at the Professional Children's School in Manhattan.
Miss North researched and wrote on medical and historical subjects, and was the author of a children's book, ''The Amazing Adventures of Freddy Fish,'' which she illustrated.
Mrs. Meiman is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Leo Kitrossky, a scientist in Moscow with three children.

       Catharine Wellington Hoppin, an educator and former head of the Professional Children's School in New York, died Feb. 7 at her home in Stonington, Conn. She was 89 years old.
Catharine Wellington Hoppin, an educator and former head of the Professional Children's School in New York, died Feb. 7 at her home in Stonington, Conn. She was 89 years old.
Mrs. Hoppin was director of the Professional Children's School from 1949 until she retired in 1962.
The books and films offered amusing accounts about the father's attempts to use modern management techniques on the 12 children.
The program was the forerunner of today's after-school day-care program for school children of working mothers.
Choice of Church or Family
        The abbess of the convent sent her to become a governess at the villa outside Salzberg of Baron Georg von Trapp, a highly decorated submarine commander during World War I, who had retired with his seven children after his first wife's death.
The young woman quickly won the affection of the children and, when the Baron proposed marriage, she was torn between her devotion to the church and the family.
The couple later had three children.
Franz Waner, came to live with the family and began to tutor the children in Renaissance and Baroque music.
Choice of Church or Family
        The abbess of the convent sent her to become a governess at the villa outside Salzberg of Baron von Trapp, a highly decorated submarine commander during World War I, who had retired with his seven children after his first wife's death.
The young woman quickly won the affection of the children and, when the Baron proposed marriage, she was torn between her devotion to the church and the family.
The couple later had three children.
Franz Waner, came to live with the family and began to tutor the children in Renaissance and Baroque music.

       Marian Gerber Greenberg, who worked closely with Henrietta Szold, the founder of the Hadassah, the Woman's Zionist Organization of America, and its Youth Aliyah to help rescue thousands of Jewish children from Nazi Germany, died of congestive heart failure Feb. 24 at the Cooley-Dickenson Hospital, Northhampton, Mass.
Marian Gerber Greenberg, who worked closely with Henrietta Szold, the founder of the Hadassah, the Woman's Zionist Organization of America, and its Youth Aliyah to help rescue thousands of Jewish children from Nazi Germany, died of congestive heart failure Feb. 24 at the Cooley-Dickenson Hospital, Northhampton, Mass.
Mrs. Berlin is survived by four children, Brigid, Christina and Ritchie, all of New York, and Richard E. Jr., of Beverly Farms, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving Mrs. Frankel besides her husband are her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Brown; a sister, MarionJust of Westwood, Mass., and three children, David, Margot and Jonathan, all of New York.
She is survived by her husband, James Haughton; four children, Elspeth, Claudia Leacock Dougherty, Robert, all of Manhattan, and David, of Golden Meadow, La.
She was a professor emeritus of the University of Southern California Medical School and had been associated with Children's Hospital in Los Angeles for 15 years.
Earlier she was a neighbor on ''Webster'' and was featured in a television movie ''Not in Front of the Children.
Educated as a pianist and music theorist, Ms. Auerbach began her stage career at the Manhattan School of Music, where she at first taught music theory and then founded the school's children's opera program in 1969.
''
        Miss Caspary, the youngest of three children, was born and raised in Chicago, where her father was a buyer in a department store.

       A woman accused of throwing six of her seven children into a bayou, where two of them drowned, was sentenced to probation today after pleading no contest to murder and attempted capital murder.
A woman accused of throwing six of her seven children into a bayou, where two of them drowned, was sentenced to probation today after pleading no contest to murder and attempted capital murder.
''
        Mrs. Leija, 30 years old, said at the time the world was a terrible place, and that her children would be better off dead.
''There are a lot of women out there in difficult circumstances with children, and I would hate to think that anyone would think that this is an appropriate way to solve your problems,'' Ms. Davies said.
Two of Mrs. Leija's children, 5-year-old Juana and 6-year-old Judas Dimas, drowned in the muddy waters of the bayou on April 18, 1986, but nearby workers heard the childrens' screams and rescued the other four.
      
In 1957, while she was principal of St. Scholastica Academy in Covington, La., she designed and put to use an electronic system for teaching children through tape recordings.
In 1957, while she was principal of St. Scholastica Academy in Covington, La., she designed and put to use an electronic system for teaching children through tape recordings.
Children in the same class could listen to one of four taped lessons made by the teacher.
She taught school for four years, working closely with the children of new immigrants.
She is survived by her mother, Phyllis Grainger; her stepfather, Thomas H. Grainger; and three children from a previous marriage, Peter, Brian and Jennifer, all of Princeton, N.J.
      
''
        Miss Page is survived by her third husband, the actor Rip Torn; their three children, Jonathan, Anthony and Angelica Torn-Burkhardt; a grandchild, Elija Burkhardt, and a brother, Donald.

       Ada M. Shearon, a children's book editor, died of cancer Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Ada M. Shearon, a children's book editor, died of cancer Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Ms. Shearon had been managing editor of Greenwillow Books, the children's book division of William Morrow & Company, from its inception in 1974 until her retirement in 1985.
In 1949, she went to work at Macmillan, where she became managing editor of its children's book department in 1964.
      
Miss Harris, who retired last December after nearly 50 years in broadcasting, had been a story editor for the CBS television anthology, ''Studio One,'' a producer of the daytime serial dramas, ''As the World Turns'' and ''Another World'' and a story consultant for ''All My Children.
The program, with the help of such settlement houses as the Hudson Guild, helped to educate the children of working parents during and after regular school hours.

       Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
As a judge, she fought strenuously for an improved Family Court and for better care for the children, especially from poor families, who came before it.
Children's Rights Advocate
        After retiring, she continued her battle for children's rights as a leader of several organizations.
Children's Rights Advocate
        After retiring, she continued her battle for children's rights as a leader of several organizations.
She was the director of the juvenile justice division of the Children's Defense Fund, the president of the Marion E. Kenworthy-Sarah H. Swift Foundation and a director of the Tappanz Foundation.
Judge Polier's counsel was sought by other cities and states in developing court services for children and families and she provided similar help to other countries.
She wrote numerous articles and books about the legal and psychiatric problems of dealing with children and families.
With Mrs. Roosevelt and others, she helped found the nonsectarian Wiltwyck School for disturbed delinquent children in New York City.
While a sophomore at Radcliffe College, she lived at a settlement house in Boston for underprivileged children.
She is survived by two children, Dr. Amy Lowenstein of South Orange and Dr. James Lieberman of Westport, Conn; four grandchildren, and six greatgrandchildren.
      
From 1953 until she retired in 1967, Miss Lynch was director of the Bureau for Children With Retarded Mental Development of the New York City school system.

       Mary Dobkin, whose work kept thousands of children out of trouble and inspired a television movie about her life, died Saturday.
Mary Dobkin, whose work kept thousands of children out of trouble and inspired a television movie about her life, died Saturday.
Ms. Dobkin held annual Christmas parties where she dispensed toys and affection to needy children.
In 1949, with her husband and the novelist Pearl Buck, she was a founder of Welcome House (now Welcome House Adoption Sevices) in Doylestown, Pa., an organization that arranges for the adoption of children of American and Asian parents.
In 1925 she married Henry Jacobson, a New York businessman, with whom she had two children.
The center specializes in treating very young children and families in crisis.
They had no children.
Although she continued to write short stories for children and adolescents in the 1940's, Miss Chute began to concentrate on adult fiction with ''The Fields Are White,'' a 1950 book about marriage and manners.
Over the years, she did volunteer work with poor children and the Police Athletic League.
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Sylvester; a sister, Barbara Hart Fogle of Marietta, Ohio, and three children by a previous marriage, Barbara D. Wick of Northfield, Ill., Beatrice O. Hart of London, and John B. Diebold of Nyack, N.Y.
      
She is survived by 6 children and 15 grandchildren.
She is survived by 6 children and 15 grandchildren.
      
She also taught children with learning disabilities at her home in Manhattan.
Originally called My Weekly Reader, the slim periodical, typically four or eight pages an issue, was read by two-thirds of today's American adults when they were in elementary school, according to the publisher, Fields Publications of Middletown, Conn.
        With its clear, straightforward prose, The Weekly Reader has explained to generations of American children the compelling events of the day: the Depression, World War II, assassinations, the Vietnam War, civil rights struggles and the Iran hostage crisis.
All the while, according to the newspaper's publisher, The Weekly Reader has retained its original aim: ''to present selected, well-written news of interest and value to children with accuracy and fairness, colorful but uncolored.
Miss Johnson, who held master's degrees in education from the University of Chicago and Columbia University, was also a co-author of several children's books, including the Child Story Readers and the Treasury of Literature Readers, and wrote more than 50 elementary school workbooks that offered exercises in reading, arithmetic and geography.

       Elizabeth Mary Gordon, a former supervisor of children's work at the Boston Public Library, died of cancer Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital.
Elizabeth Mary Gordon, a former supervisor of children's work at the Boston Public Library, died of cancer Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital.

       Fay Koshelle, a founder with her husband of a children's camp in the Catskills, died Wednesday at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington in Rockville, Md., where she was a resident.
Fay Koshelle, a founder with her husband of a children's camp in the Catskills, died Wednesday at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington in Rockville, Md., where she was a resident.
At its peak the summer camp served approximately 150 children a season.
While at the museum she wrote, with Catherine M. Pessino, three books for children, ''Collecting Cocoons,'' ''Collecting Small Fossils'' and ''Collecting for the City Naturalist.
She was 83 years old and lived in Little Compton, R.I.
        Dr. Wislocki, who received her bachelor's degree at Vassar and her medical degree at the Johns Hopkins University, was a staff psychiatrist at a children's social services agency in Boston before she joined the Vassar College administration in 1957.
