Elspeth Josceline Huxley was born in July 1907, the only child of Maj. Josceline Grant, a Scot, and his formidable wife, the former Nellie Grosvenor.
In his scheme of things she was an extroverted intuitive, one who had experienced such fierce inter-family battles for her affections as a child that power had become her natural element.
R. M. S. Titanic of Southport, Conn., the company that exhibits artifacts from the ship and that has drawn charges of exploiting the disaster from Ms. Kamuda and others, had the watch attached to a sterling silver plate inscribed with the words, ''What better use for scientific technology than to reunite a father with his child.
The child's mother encouraged her in those efforts.
Born in New Orleans on Dec. 27, 1921, the former Evelyn Aramburo and her family moved to New York when she was a child.
''It's not fair to say to a child, 'Your mother can't hold you,' '' Mrs. Davis said in 1986.
Ms. Hahn married him in 1945, and they had a second child, Amanda.
Her only child, Deborah, nearly died from a brain tumor, and she was estranged from her parents.
In a thousand years, for example, her description of a child and newborn lambs on a yurt floor thick with their droppings will remain as authoritative an account of what things were like in Turkestan in 1935 as her photographs.
An undisciplined child prodigy, Ms. Nyro began writing songs at age 8 and later attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan.
''
        A child of the Depression, Ms. Hanff could afford only a year of college, and throughout her life was an impassioned autodidact, educating herself by reading the great books, which she preferred to procure from London rather than dip into ''Barnes & Noble's grimy, marked-up schoolboy copies.

        Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Carpenter, who left no immediate family survivors, was an only child and never married.
She worked with a Russian translator to stay close to the author's language and spirit while mindful of the American child as the intended reader.

        Maria Weigl Piers, an authority on psychosocial development in childhood and founder of the Erikson Institute for Advanced Study in Child Development in Chicago, died on May 21 at her home in Chicago.
The institute, begun in 1966 with Dr. Piers as its dean, is a private graduate school and research center for advanced study in child development, affiliated with Loyola University in Chicago.

        Dionis Coffin Riggs, a poet, author, newspaper columnist and civic leader who made Martha's Vineyard her home and her passion for the better part of a century, died on April 20 at Cleaveland House, the West Tisbury, Mass., boardinghouse where she had listened to seafaring tales as a child and told them as an old woman.
Her book ''Right From the Start'' (1978), analyzed gender issues as they relate to social justice and child development.
She also ran the District of Columbia Commission on the Status of Women and advised the National Academy of Sciences on child development, working on issues that had been a major concern since she was a child.
She also ran the District of Columbia Commission on the Status of Women and advised the National Academy of Sciences on child development, working on issues that had been a major concern since she was a child.

        Thalassa Cruso, an authority on plants who was known as ''the Julia Child of horticulture'' for her common-sense if often loopy gardening programs on television in the 1960's, died on June 11 at Newton and Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Wellesley, Mass.
And I had watched and admired Julia Child on TV, and suddenly I thought, 'I could do that with plants.
She was the middle child and younger daughter of a Jewish banker who was to die in Auschwitz.
Miss Fratellini was dizzy and outlandish-looking, an overgrown child with a painted-on smile and half-moon eyebrows.
She performed as a child with her family's act, began a solo act at 15 and later performed with her brother, Bob Brown, in a tap act.
''
        Rosina Lawrence was born in Westboro, Ontario, and as a child  moved to Hollywood, where her father was a set builder.
' ''
        She was born in Peterhof, Russia, near St. Petersburg, on Nov. 20, 1903, and orphaned when she was a small child.
She visited St. Petersburg as part of the trip, and was able to attend graduation performances at the Kirov School, the former Imperial Ballet School she had attended as a child.
She began her career at Teachers College as an assistant professor and coordinator of the Special Education Child Study Center in 1974.
They had one child, a daughter, Yvonne, whose marriage to Joseph Billot produced a single child, Frederic Billot, in 1926.
They had one child, a daughter, Yvonne, whose marriage to Joseph Billot produced a single child, Frederic Billot, in 1926.
In a child custody case in 1994 involving a couple who were both lawyers, she ruled for the father.
Her ruling, which was upheld on appeal, also provided for the payment of child support by the mother.
She appeared in a number of movies as a child, including ''Mad About Music'' in 1938 and ''Cheers for Miss Bishop'' in 1941, as well as the Nancy Drew mystery series.
She was born in Constantinople, now Istanbul, in 1915 to Armenian parents, moved with her family to Germany as a child and later lived on the Swiss-French border before coming to the United States at the age of 11.
As a child, she said, her mother took her to suffragist meetings and nurtured her daughter's independent spirit and her wish to become a lawyer, an aspiration hardly befitting a fine Southern lady then.
''The child is the one who needs to be protected,'' Dr. Munk would often remind her staff of clinical social workers in the Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, an affiliate of the New York University School of Medicine and member of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
Dr. Munk, who was director of child and adolescent psychiatry services at the hospital, would personally examine the children entrusted to her care, as well as their mothers, for signs of abuse, including marks on their bodies.
One child, Owen Green, came to Dr. Munk's attention through the city's Child Welfare Administration when he was 7 months old.
One child, Owen Green, came to Dr. Munk's attention through the city's Child Welfare Administration when he was 7 months old.
She completed her residency in Child Psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital in 1959.
She was a psychiatric consultant to the Brooklyn Juvenile Court, the Max Planck Institute in Munich and the New York Foundling Hospital and was a clinical associate professor and supervisor in child psychiatry at New York University Hospital.
She served on the board of the Puerto Rican Family Institute for more than 30 years and on the New York Council on Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for eight years.
The greatest destroyer of peace today is the crime against the unborn child.
She made her debut as a child in the silent film ''Sirens of the Sea'' in 1917.
She could portray a doting nanny and an obstreperous child with equal conviction.
''Some parents still blame themselves when they discover their child is retarded,'' she said, and then go from doctor to doctor looking for a ''cure,'' rather than counseling that will help them teach their children to learn to function with some degree of success.
Young parents, she said, particularly need help in evaluating whether the child can best be cared for at home, as 95 percent were by the 1960's, or in an institution.
If the decision is the home, she said, careful parental training is needed in precise ways of giving consistent directions, for example, in using patterns of speech that the child can easily understand.
''
        Miss Harshaw was born in Philadelphia in 1909 and began singing in church choirs as a child.
As a child, she was considered too frail for school and was tutored instead.
Dr. Stearner had cerebral palsy as a child and used a motorized wheelchair.
She was a senior staff writer of MD Medical Newsmagazine for more than 20 years and the ghostwriter of some 20 books on medical, health and child care as well as educational subjects.
She advocated women's and social issues, drawing attention to inequities in pay, credit and tax policy, including what she considered inadequate deductions for child care.
Her father, Nat, was a zipper salesman to the military who had a nervous breakdown when she was a child; her mother, Lillian, was a formidable businesswoman compelled to work to support the family.
Having married Mr. Roven in 1985, she was in the hospital after the birth of her only child, Rebecca, in March 1987, when she learned that Frank Mancuso, chairman of Paramount, and Mr. Tanen, chairman of the Motion Picture Group, had ousted her.

        Kathy Acker, a child of Sutton Place who rose to prominence as a willfully abrasive novelist and performance artist in the post-punk East Village of the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at an alternative cancer treatment center in Tijuana, Mexico.
As a child, she lived in an enormous 18th-century house that included a miniature theater and a theater museum.
As a child, she studied ballet with a private teacher.
