It occurred to Ms. Plummer, who had been an outstanding student in the late 1970's when she returned as an adult to complete her education at the Richard Arnold Community School in Savannah, that if these children were given a basic book like a dictionary, it would help stimulate their interest in learning and could change their lives.
Annie Oneta Plummer was born on Oct. 17, 1936, in Sylvania, Ga., the fifth of 12 children of a truck driver and a housekeeper.
''
        Mrs. Faircloth married again in 1907 and there were two children of that marriage to Frederick Smith -- Harvard Smith and Donna Angeline Smith.
She shifted to theater in the 1930's, studying at the Pittsburgh Playhouse and in New York at the Neighborhood Playhouse before joining Clare Tree Major's Children's Theater in 1934.
Anne O'Hanlon was a child of the Depression, the youngest of seven children born to Irish immigrant parents in Hell's Kitchen, on the West Side of Manhattan.
She adopted a son, James, and had two children with Loder, a son, Anthony, and a daughter, Denise; they all survive her.

        Frances Messersmith Miner, who for 43 years nurtured tulips, radishes and children at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Monday in Utica, N.Y., her brother said.
Miss Miner learned of the Brooklyn children's garden, the first to be included within a scientific botanic garden, as a freshman at Smith College when her botany professor mentioned it.
''
        Seven years later, in 1930, she began working at the children's garden under the tutelage of its founder, Ellen Eddy Shaw, who began it in 1914 on a single acre of the 52-acre Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
Well-kept children's plots were marked with signs with a white star on a green background; those needing work got a sign with a blue question mark.
Hoes, rakes and trowels dating back more than 80 years can be seen gleaming on the racks of the Children's Garden House, which last year was refurbished and named for Miss Miner.
Once, when tomato stakes needed painting, she bought green paint and asked the children to do it.
Naturally, everybody went home green, but ''she knew that if the children painted the stakes, they would take better care of them,'' said Daphne Welch Day, a longtime colleague.
In addition to writing about botanical topics for publications like the Journal of the Royal Horticultural Society in England, she wrote a 95-page children's book called ''The Adventure Book of Growing Plants.
''
        Ms. Hebert, who never married, often said she would have liked to have had children but could not reconcile the demands of writing with the demands of motherhood.
      
Ms. Haza was born in the poor Hatikva district of Tel Aviv, one of nine children.
She was the oldest of five children.
Ms. Kenner-Jackson, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by four children, Antonio Kenner, Gary Kenner, Tracey Jackson, and Staci Jackson-Richardson, all of Sacramento; two sisters, Ernestine Francies of Passaic and Agnes Coley of Bloomfield, N.J.; a brother, Jeremiah Coley of Paterson, four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      

        Barbara Cooney, an author and illustrator of children's books whose first work was published in 1940 and whose 110th, ''Basket Moon,'' appeared last fall, died on Friday at a hospital in Portland, Me.
She married Dr. Charles Talbot Porter and reared four children while he practiced medicine in Pepperell, Mass., later moving to a house overlooking the sea in Damariscotta.
In 1989 the Maine Library Association created the Lupine Award to honor outstanding children's books by state residents or authors of books about Maine, beginning with Miss Cooney, and in 1996 Gov.
In addition to her husband and four children, she is survived by two brothers, three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
In her 1959 Caldecott acceptance speech she explained: ''How many children will know that the magpie sitting in my pollarded willow in 'Chanticleer and the Fox' is an evil omen?
How many children will realize that every flower and grass in the book grew in Chaucer's time in England?
How many children will know or care?
She earned extra money from various part-time jobs, and was eager to get involved when Florence Churchill, who was trying to raise three children with polio on a $125 monthly pension after her husband died in the line of duty, wrote her in 1960 about forming an organization to fight for higher payments to police widows.

        Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A.
There, many admired her for her work in helping smuggle thousands of children out of Cuba in Operation Pedro Pan, a secret program run by the Catholic Church in the United States with the aid of the State Department.
With her brother, Ramon Grau Alsina, she helped send some 14,000 children to Miami in the early 1960's.
''What Can You Do With a Shoe?,'' an engaging conversation between two children, was illustrated by Maurice Sendak in 1955 using two colors.
In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.
When schoolchildren asked if she had children of her own, Mrs. de Regniers explained that she had vivid memories of her childhood.
''That is why, even though I have no children of my own, I think it is O.K.
for me to write books that children will read or have read to them.
Mrs. Legendre was born in 1902 in Aiken, S.C., the youngest of three children of John and Ethel Sanford.
In 1955, Ms. Patton published ''A Piece of Luck,'' a second collection of stories, set mostly in suburbia, that explored the private worlds of children and women.
Along the way, Mrs. Marriott also raised a family that now numbers two children, eight grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
Her mother's parents had been slaves in Kentucky, and she reared her children to value education and to stand up for their rights.
Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including nonfiction, fiction and science-fiction novels, mostly for children, under her own name, and other science fiction as R. W. Munson (her grandmother's name).
In 1956 she moved to New York to be editor of children's books at Abingdon Press, the publishing house of the Methodist Church, and remained there until she was recruited by Alfred Knopf Jr. to start the children's department at Atheneum.
In 1956 she moved to New York to be editor of children's books at Abingdon Press, the publishing house of the Methodist Church, and remained there until she was recruited by Alfred Knopf Jr. to start the children's department at Atheneum.
Atheneum is now a children's imprint at Simon & Schuster.
The story goes that when an Atheneum executive called her the ''juvenile editor,'' she addressed him as  ''senile editor,'' adding sharply that ''good children's books are never juvenile.
It provides comprehensive neighborhood services to children, young people and families in Sunset Park, a generally poor, largely immigrant neighborhood.
Sister Mary Geraldine was the center's project director, in charge of its afterschool and evening programs for children, in two elementary schools and a middle school in Sunset Park.
In 1939, she  escaped a few months before the war in Europe, taken out by the a Kindertransport program, which rescued Jewish children from Germany.
Ms. Abramowicz was the librarian first of Vilna's Jewish children's library and then, after the Nazis herded Jews into ghettos, of the ghetto library.
She was a member of the Children's Books Committee of the Child Study Association and of the Committee on Childhood Education of the Public Education Association.
Mrs. Carter had a role in the formative stages of the Studio Museum in Harlem and the Children's Art Carnival, an arts education organization in Harlem.

        Verna Aardema Vugteveen, a late-blooming, prolific writer who regaled generations of American children with the folklore of faraway Africa, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88.
She also contributed articles to The Muskegon Chronicle in Michigan and taught Sunday school as she developed into a full-time author and folklorist, retelling the lore of Mexico and, particularly, Africa for children ages 4 to 8.
She chose Africa when she realized that the continent, its people and their traditions remained terra incognita to American children.

        Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1995, with difficult custody decisions being complicated by AIDS, and by relatives who had taken in the children, grown to love them and become unwilling to give them up without a fight, Judge McDonald said: ''A lot of the custody cases in the last few years have been families fighting each other.
''
        In 1987, she said that largely because of drug addiction, more and more of the Family Court cases involved abused or neglected children, who had flooded the court system and in turn had overburdened the foster care system.
But one afternoon, she and a friend watched proceedings in Family Court at time when poor children were not given assigned counsel.
I decided that I wanted to become a lawyer and represent children.
The book, which described a moonlit wedding attended by all the animals of the forest, was intended for children 3 to 7 years of age.
Everything in Ms. Fitzgerald's background ordained her for an intellectual career, and yet for much of her adult life she was beleaguered, coping with a husband who drank and had difficulty keeping a job, and raising three children.
'' (Random House), which recounted the logistical problems of raising 20 children in a modern middle-class American family.
The next year, she married another naval officer, Chief Warrant Officer Francis L. Beardsley, whose wife had recently died of diabetes, leaving him with their 10 children.
The 18 children ranged in age from 6 months to 15 years.
By 1964, the Beardsleys had two additional children of their own.
''
        Teresa Wyble, the youngest of the North children, said that when the families joined, it was as if she had gained a twin.
A bread company used the children in its commercials in the 1960's and delivered 50 loaves to the Beardsleys every two weeks.
Mrs. Beardsley is survived by her husband; 20 children; 44 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
She focused on the social and exploratory skills of infants and young children.

        Sybil Trent, a veteran of the golden age of radio and a star of the Saturday-morning children's radio show ''Let's Pretend,'' died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She was then asked to study children in two German orphanages.
She was amazed to find that children who had been given extra bread, jam and orange juice did worse in terms of development and growth than those who had not.
It helps to outfit and maintain artifical tanks in a number of public schools in which children raise hatchling brown trout.
The program was created to help make the children aware of the clear brooks and rivers in the Catskills and Hudson Valley.

        Rose Wyler, who wrote more than 50 books for children on science and other topics, died on June 12 at her home in Manhattan.

        Judy Angelo Cowen, a photographer who specialized in portraits of children, died on Tuesday in Manhattan.
During the next decade, her portraiture expanded to the children of celebrities and the socially prominent, and for the next 30 years she traveled to sittings across the United States.
Her work, in which children were allowed to roam freely in their own element, was hailed for its subtlety and eloquence.
She held leadership positions in the Orange Association for the Help of Retarded Children, the County Health Organization and local branches of the N.A.A.C.P.
''
        Ms. Goncalves da Silva is survived by four children, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.

        Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
'' She had gone to Mississippi to work with children under a precursor of the Head Start program and diagnosed their bloated stomachs as resulting from acute malnutrition.
Back in New York, she entered a psychiatric residency at Bellevue Hospital and stayed on as a full-time psychiatrist working with children and adolescents.
At the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, she worked with troubled adolescents, homeless families and others who needed help.
All of her identities had their roots in a prosperous Jewish household in Berlin, where she was born Ursula Ruth Kuczynski, one of six children of Robert Rene and Berta Kuczynski.
She is survived by her three children, five grandchildren and three sisters.
      
Mrs. Maxwell published short articles and reminiscences in The New Yorker, and from 1957 to 1965, she wrote year-end reviews of children's books for the magazine's Christmas list.
She also created coats for a number of sports stars, and, on occasion, made identical styles for their wives and children.
In 1997, Mrs. Nickerson was honored by the mayor of New York for her work in behalf of the Children's Aid Society.
She is survived by her second husband, Adams H. Nickerson; her children, Douglas Bateson, Emily Bateson, William Bateson and Rosina Bateson Barker; a brother, Keith Moffat; and six grandchildren.
      

        Rose Marie Thomas, the head of the fund-raising organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, which was founded by her husband, the comedian Danny Thomas, died on Wednesday.
Another later project of hers was the Brain Quest series of question-and-answer games in card deck form for children through seventh grade.
In 1947 she helped found the Little Orchestra Society for children's concerts.
They had no children.

        Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24.
Mrs. Holt first attracted national attention when she and her husband, Harry, adopted eight abandoned children whose fathers were American soldiers.
In 1954, Mrs. Holt, a nurse, and her husband, who was a farmer and a lumberjack, went to a high school auditorium in Eugene, Ore., to watch a film about Amerasian children in South Korean orphanages.
''
        At first, the Holts sent money to South Korean orphanages but soon decided that the children needed families.
They were both about 50 years old, and had already reared six biological children.
Each wanted to adopt eight Korean children, Mrs. Holt later recalled, but each was afraid it would be difficult to persuade the other to take so many.
At the time, federal law prevented any family from adopting more than two foreign-born children.
At the Holt house, soon there were children lined up to get a daily dose of vitamins, and the washing machine ran day and night.
Mr. Holt returned to South Korea for more children, while Mrs. Holt found families in the United States willing to take them.
In 1956, they founded the agency that would become Holt International Children's Services.
The Korean-American children were the first such large group to be adopted.
In all, 16,000 foreign-born children were adopted in the United States last year.
She is also survived by nine other children, Barbara Chambers, Suzanne Peterson, Linda Pack, Robert Holt, Mary Last, Christine Russell, Helen Stampe, Paul Holt and Betty Blankenship; three sisters, Beulah Stronczek, Katherine Stanger and Grace Fisher; a brother, William L. Holt; 19 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
She also worked to improve conditions at the Il San Center in Korea, built by the Holts as an orphanage and now home to 300 disabled children, and she lobbied other countries to set up adoption programs.
But, Ms. Cox said, Mrs. Holt liked to say that she preferred the  photographs that children sent from all over the world.
In letters to agency employees, adopted children and adoptive families, Mrs. Holt spoke frequently of the Lord and quoted the Bible, which she said she had read 40 times.
During the filming for one episode, ''Come to the Stable,'' about two nuns who come to the United States from France to build a hospital for children, Miss Young became so disturbed by swearing on the set that she came up with the idea of a ''swear box.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Montalban, Miss Young is survived by her three children.
She is survived by four children from her marriage to Mr. Kirsten: Captain Kirsten, of Lodi, Roy Kirsten of Stockton and Warren Kirsten of Sacramento, all military veterans, and Mary Botto of Stockton; 12 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; and 29 great-great-grandchildren.
'' In 1974 she joined the writing staff of the ABC soap opera ''All My Children.
A member of the committees on agriculture, children and families, health, insurance, and social services, she was an advocate of allocating more state money to provide mammographies for detection of  breast cancer in women.

        Joan Marsh, who made her film debut when she was 9 months old, played children's roles in silent films opposite Mary Pickford and returned to the screen in the 1930's and 40's as a glamorous blonde, died on Aug. 10 in Ojai, Calif. She was 85.
She served two terms on the national board, and Amnesty International U.S.A. now gives an annual Ginetta Sagan Award for outstanding work on behalf of oppressed women and children.
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
When she ended her dancing career, she founded a ballet school in Brussels and a dance theater for children, which gave performances around Europe.
Mrs. Simmons was the author of more than 20 books, including novels, biographies, and books for her children.
''She was devoted to my children.
But their servants helped the mother and four children escape and they fled to France, eventually settling in Paris.
''
        Her daughter Dorothy Herrmann said Miss Fletcher got the idea for the drama after an obnoxious well-dressed woman refused to permit her to go ahead on a supermarket checkout line on Manhattan's East Side when Miss Fletcher was buying some milk or cereal for one of her children, who was sick.
and the founder of the Manhattan School for Children, one of the most innovative and sought-after alternative public schools in Manhattan, died Saturday at St. Vincents Hospital and Medical Center.
Dr. Wicks was the organizer and chief proponent of the school, which grew out of playground chatter with other neighborhood mothers and now enrolls about 500 children in kindergarten through eighth grade on West 93rd Street.
As Dr.  Wicks's children approached school age, she visited her neighborhood school, at the time suffering from low test scores, demoralized teachers and leaky walls.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her children, Adam, 12, and Eliza, 10; her father, Zeno W. Wicks of Louisville, Ky.; three brothers, Zeno Wicks of Brookings, S.D., David Wicks of Louisville and Douglas Wicks of Pittsburgh; and two sisters, Kayo Wicks of Louisville and Robin Wicks of Mogadore, Ohio.
      
In 1984 she was Mr. Glover's mother in ''And the Children Shall Lead'' on the PBS ''Wonderworks'' series.
Many years later she spoke of being insulted and stoned by white children as she walked to school.
'' She also wrote several books for children, but it was not until she started her television career as a co-presenter of ''The Tube,'' a show about music, that she became a celebrity in her own right, affecting a bubbleheaded, giggly personality that belied her sharp intelligence, friends said.
Miss Shepard was Auntie Mary to Fitzgerald's three children and had only one other relative, Minette Hunt, the daughter of her brother, who was killed in World War II.
Instead, the Fitzgerald children, Maria Fitzgerald, Tina Dooley and Balphy Fitzgerald, have arranged that twin stones be placed next to Knox's.
Because of the long nature of their relationship, there were frequent rumors that the couple had secretly wed.
        For a few months, in 1954, Ms. Peters was married to Stanley W. Cramer 3rd, a Texas oil executive, but it ended in divorce and, like all of her marriages, without children.
Then in 1965, she piled her three children into a Buick station wagon and drove north on the Alaska Highway.
Ms. Fanning is survived by her husband and three children: Mr. Field of Los Angeles, Katherine Stephen of Washington, D.C., and Barbara Field of Boston.
      

        Jacquelyn Reinach, a writer, composer, television producer and co-creator of the ''Sweet Pickles'' series of children's books, which featured characters like Accusing Alligator and Smarty Stork, died on Sept. 30 at her home in Los Angeles.
In her final months Ms. Reinach kept up a busy schedule and signed a contract to publish three new children's books.
Then in 1965, she piled her three children into a Buick station wagon and drove north on the Alaska Highway.
Ms. Fanning is survived by her husband and three children: Mr. Field of Los Angeles, Katherine Stephen of Washington, D.C., and Barbara Field of Boston.
      
Returning to Paris, she became a leader of the Russian Christian Student Movement, taught emigre children and edited two volumes of church school lessons.
Mrs. Koulomzin's books, including ''God Is With Us,'' ''History of the Orthodox Church'' and 'Our Church and Our Children,'' have become classic texts in Orthodox religious education.
Ms. Wolfe played a wide variety of characters during her lifetime but was perhaps best known for her skill at conveying an assortment of wicked witches, evil queens and nasty stepmothers on programs like Nila Mack's ''Let's Pretend,'' a popular Saturday morning children's show on WCBS radio during the 1930's, 40's and early 50's.
Children!
Her television appearances included ABC's daytime serial ''All My Children.
She is survived by a daughter from her marriage to Mr. Webb, Lisa Breen of Manhattan Beach, Calif. She also left three children from her 39-year marriage to Mr. Troupe: a daughter, Kelly Ronick, and twin sons, Jody and Reese, all of Los Angeles.
She was 91 and lived in East Brunswick, N.J.
        Dr. Mayer, who received a doctorate in social work from Columbia University, was chosen in 1983 to head a newly formed Governor's Committee on Children's Services Planning for New Jersey.
It was to make recommendations on children's issues to Gov.
One obstacle she saw was inadequate welfare benefits for the poor, which, she said, made it '' very difficult to provide adequate counseling to families and their children'' who lacked ''the basic needs of food, shelter, good health care.
Bankhead was matron of honor at Miss Rawls's 1941 wedding to Donald Seawell, a lawyer and the founder and chairman of the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, and she later became godmother to the couple's two children.
They had seven children.

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Carter said her mother's strong will was evident when Mr. Dyk was suffering from Parkinson's disease and cancer and she was juggling two jobs and raising two children in the 1950's and 1960's.

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Born Margaret Susan Ryder in 1923 into a prosperous farming family outside Leeds, Sue, as she was called, was the youngest of her mother's five surviving children.
The couple had two children, Jeremy and Elizabeth, who survive.
''Bronzeville Boys and Girls,'' a collection of children's poetry, appeared in 1956, followed by two poetry collections, ''The Bean Eaters'' (1960) and ''Selected Poems'' (1963).
My children were thrilled.
In a case that many found reminiscent of the witchcraft trials of yore, the ensuing investigation soon received lurid reports of children being raped and sodomized, of dead rabbits, satanic rites and drinking blood.
On the basis of testimony from children and doctors but little corroborating evidence, a grand jury in March 1984 indicted Mrs. Buckey; her son, Raymond; her daughter, Peggy Ann Buckey; her mother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the school; and three teachers.
After a lengthy preliminary hearing, the trial judge in January 1986 ordered all seven to stand trial on a total of 135 counts of molesting 14 children.
Experts in the field held that children's accounts of abuse tended to have a basis of truth because they had no reason to invent such events.
But in the McMartin case and others like it, critics contended, zealous prosecutors and poorly trained social workers, faced with anxious parents, may unknowingly coach children to tell stories of abuse or embroider on them.

        Eloise Jarvis McGraw, author of ''The Moorchild,'' a 1996 Newbery Honor book, and other novels for children, died on Thursday in Portland, Ore. She was 84 and lived in Oswego Lake, Ore.
        Mrs. McGraw began writing at the age of 8, shortly after her family moved from Houston, where she was born, to Oklahoma City.
Her first novel, ''Sawdust in His Shoes,'' was published in 1950, and a steady stream of books for children and adults followed, including ''Moccasin Trail'' and ''The Golden Goblet,'' which were also Newbery Honor books.
She was married for 59 years to William Corbin McGraw, who wrote for children as William Corbin.
She also contributed articles to children's magazines and cookbooks and wrote a novel for young adults, ''The Great Venture'' (1963).
''Bronzeville Boys and Girls,'' a collection of children's poetry, appeared in 1956, followed by two poetry collections, ''The Bean Eaters'' (1960) and ''Selected Poems'' (1963).
''
        Ms. Wilkens came to the world of children's wear rather by accident.
While vacationing in Hollywood in the early 1940's, Ms. Wilkens, then an illustrator, was erroneously introduced at a party as a children's fashion designer.
