He was the father of her only child, Nicki Lee Foster, of Sun Valley, Idaho.
''Bertrand Russell has written that a child dreams about power as grown-ups dream sexual wish dreams,'' Mrs. Lindgren said in a 1985 interview.
''This is a child who has power.
The marriage soon broke up; Ms. Morath married Mr. Miller in 1962, and they had one child, Rebecca, who lives in Manhattan.
''As a child I was extraordinarily shy, not at all talkative,'' she recalled in her memoir.
In May 1960 she married Anthony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer who was himself the child of divorced parents.
Professor Borgese was the last surviving child of Thomas Mann.
Pachen Dolma was the only child of a local chieftain from Gonjo in the province of Kham in eastern Tibet.
The commercial -- shown 40,000 times in various forms -- was one of the first local advertisements to run on New York television and was said to be the first to feature a child.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
She thought that the discussion of love was central to sex education, and that spanking could only make the child feel as bad as the angry parent.
'' Raising a child, she said, is like gardening, because each flower develops differently.
She earned a master's degree in child psychology from Clark University in Worcester, Mass.
''I used to be a child psychologist and I love children and I kind of miss that part of my life,'' she said in an interview on ''CBS This Morning'' in 1990.
When she was a child, her mother died of pneumonia at the age of 27 after giving birth to her brother in a Harlem hospital corridor because segregated policies barred her from a room.
She was the fourth daughter and ninth child of Lord Glamis, a Scottish nobleman whose family occupied Glamis Castle in Scotland, said to be the place where Macbeth murdered Duncan in Shakespeare's play.
The commercial -- shown 40,000 times in various forms -- was one of the first local advertisements to run on New York television and was said to be the first to feature a child.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
But Ms. Boreman testified about the dangers of pornography before Congress, courts and city councils in the 1980's, and became a poster child for feminists like Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to her 1986 book with Mike McGrady, ''Out of Bondage.
Wilma Cannon Fairbank was born on April 23, 1909, in Cambridge, Mass., the oldest child of Dr. Walter B. Cannon, a professor at the Harvard Medical School, and the author Cornelia James Cannon.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
At the time, conventional wisdom regarding reading disabilities was that a child's difficulties were rooted in emotional problems, and that not much could be done by the teacher until the problems were addressed.
She concluded that a child's reading deficiencies required special attention regardless of emotional problems.
A precocious child, Flora graduated from high school at 15 and entered the University of California at Los Angeles.
In 1963 the psychologically incisive picture book ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' by Maurice Sendak, was controversial in the way it depicted a child's temper tantrum.
She said: ''He didn't know what to do to try to provide against the failure of his only child in this new land.
Born in Moscow, Ms. Lidova joined the ranks of Russian émigrés in Paris as a child with her family.
A precocious child, Flora graduated from high school at 15 and entered the University of California at Los Angeles, where she earned a bachelor of arts summa cum laude and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
'' And she always made a place in her home for the parents who had not done the same for her when she was a child.
'' And she always made a place in her home for the parents who had not done the same for her when she was a child.
The child was called Norna, because the Bushmen, for all their ability to make unusual vocal sounds, cannot pronounce the letter L.
        Lorna Jean McLean was born in Morenci, a mining town in the Arizona Territory, on Sept. 14, 1898.
A year or so after her 100th birthday party, the child of a Bushman she had known as a child came to visit her.
      
A year or so after her 100th birthday party, the child of a Bushman she had known as a child came to visit her.
      
Rather than the dreaded child in pigtails he expected to meet, she turned out to be an attractive, friendly woman in her mid-20's.
Born Daphne Van Beuren Bayne, the granddaughter of the founder of the Seaboard National Bank, she recalled in a 1990 profile in The New Yorker that as a child she liked to keep bats and armadillos as pets.
She was born in Manhattan, and her mother died when she was a young child.
Tapworks trio with Neil Applebaum, a dance-trained wrestler with a master's degree in child development.

        Erna Furman, an expert on grief in children and a child psychoanalyst who helped develop a teamwork therapy involving teachers, parents and therapists, died on Aug. 9 in Cleveland.
The cause was lung cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Hanna Perkins Center for Child Development, where she worked for about 50 years.
The book ''A Child's Parent Dies: Studies in Childhood Bereavement,'' which she worked on with the psychoanalyst Dr. Anna Freud in the 1970's, challenged the idea that children who lose a parent do not need the same attention that adults do.
She received many honors for her contributions to child psychoanalysis and was made an honorary member of the American Psychoanalytic Association in 1999.
He was known for helping develop the Hannah Perkins Center and the Cleveland Center for Research in Child Development.
Correction:  October 9, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary on Sept. 30 about Erna Furman, a child psychoanalyst and an expert on grief, gave a misspelled name in some references to the center where she practiced.
It is the Hanna Perkins Center for Child Development, not Hannah.
The obituary also misstated the role of the psychoanalyst Anna Freud in Mrs. Furman's book ''A Child's Parent Dies: Studies in Childhood Bereavement.
The couple had one child, Kathryn, now of Stamford, Conn., who took the name of Ms. Hunter's second husband, Robert Emmett.
''
        Her writing career began after her third campaign for Parliament in 1950 and running after having had her eighth child.
A decade later, the young woman, widowed and with a young child, was working as a nurse at the yard.
They adopted Richard Lynn, their only child.
Ms. Toppin, the second child and Ms. Doerr's only survivor, lives in Oakland.

        Leah Harrison, an expert on child abuse, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Butler Child Protection Center of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
The Leah Harrison Educational Center for Child Protection at Montefiore was named in her honor.
