
        Esther Wolf Lopato, a child psychologist who was active in civic affairs in Brooklyn and beyond, particularly on behalf of public libraries, died on Jan. 7 at her home in the Midwood neighborhood of Brooklyn.
A native of Boston who was orphaned as a child, Bernadette Szymczak (pronounced SIM-zak) lived for a while in a home operated by the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent DePaul, the order she later joined.
The pianist and conductor Ossip Gabrilowitsch heard her perform as a child and engaged her for a debut with the Detroit Symphony when she was 7.
''
        Dorothy Hart was born in Los Angeles on Feb. 25, 1908, the only child of Seth Hart, an insurance broker, and the former Dorothy Jones.
The only child of Richard Hall and Chesbrough Lewis, a cafe society beauty famously photographed by Horst and Avedon, she dutifully followed her social destiny: finishing school, Briarcliff Junior College and candle-lighted wedding at St. Thomas Protestant Episcopal Church in Manhattan, in 1952, to William P. Rayner, a stockbroker who later became an executive at Conde Nast Publications.
Dr. Howell trained in pediatrics, psychotherapy, bioethics and geriatrics at various institutions as she pursued her career as a practicing doctor and educator, starting as an instructor in child development at Minnesota in 1962.
A child of her era, she wanted to be a conventional housewife and mother, and for a while she got her wish.
As a child, she used a large silver tray to toboggan down the impressive staircase at the Breakers, a tradition that younger members of the Vanderbilt family are said to have carried on.
''But our initial purpose is to teach the child to listen.

        Once upon a time in a faraway land, where princes once vied and heroes died, where questers set out and there were trolls and the stories seemed to come straight from the stone, a child of the aristocracy was born.
She was given custody of the children, child support, a settlement and further payments until she remarried.
Mrs. Harrington won the right to raise her child in 1976 by demonstrating to a dumbstruck judge what she could manage: she changed the baby's diaper with her teeth.
She immediately threw herself into the issues that consumed her, introducing a bill to tighten regulations on nursery schools and providers of child care; fighting the Government's attempt to stop paying social security benefits to unwed mothers, and working to insure that abandoned wives could obtain financial support from their husbands.
Her educational efforts included a program called Create, an acronym for Collaborative Resources for the Education and Artistic Training of Every Child, and the Brooklyn Children's Chorus.
Dr. Taub collaborated with Kurt Alfred Adler, the psychiatrist, and was dean of child and group therapy at the Alfred Adler Institute in Manhattan, where she was on the faculty for 35 years.
A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
She was also a founder of what is now the Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry.
Ms. Torok's vision of psychoanalysis was liberated from the Freudian framework, including the Oedipus complex -- in which a male child may see the father as a rival for the mother's love.

        Joan Mareskas Kormendi, the longtime artistic director of the Children's Repertory Group, whose child actors performed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 18 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
And what sort of gentleman would take his pleasure, then abandon a woman he had got with child?
Transactional analysis, often done in group therapy, delves into the multiple roles each person plays, as a child or parent, for example.
One of Dr. Boulton's sons, John Bancroft, said, ''She would often say to me, 'Well, that's your child speaking,' or, 'That's your parent speaking.
''
        In another interview, she recalled that the praise she received in 1935 for her performance in the death scene of a child bride in ''David Copperfield'' was not because of her skill, but because of the directorial wizardry of George Cukor.
After studying as a child at the Cornish School in her hometown of Seattle, Ms. Hutchinson left for several years of stock work in New York and Washington before joining Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theater while in her early 20's.
After Miss Southgate gave birth in 1952 to a child who lived only 12 hours, the couple took the precaution of moving to a ground-floor apartment for her next pregnancy, so she would not have to walk up stairs.

        Kay Thompson, an entertainer who became the author of the hugely successful book ''Eloise,'' about a bratty child living at the Plaza Hotel in Manhattan, died on Thursday.
Among their successful projects was the Puffalumps series of dolls made by Fisher-Price Inc. -- now part of Mattel Inc. -- one of the first toys to be made of the synthetic fabric used in parachutes, and, more recently, the company came out with Singing Bouncy Baby, which sings when bounced on a child's knee, and Happy Hugs, which has a ''hug-o-meter'' that measures how hard a child squeezes it.
Among their successful projects was the Puffalumps series of dolls made by Fisher-Price Inc. -- now part of Mattel Inc. -- one of the first toys to be made of the synthetic fabric used in parachutes, and, more recently, the company came out with Singing Bouncy Baby, which sings when bounced on a child's knee, and Happy Hugs, which has a ''hug-o-meter'' that measures how hard a child squeezes it.
''She always understood the connection the child makes with the toy,'' Mr. Byrne said.
''Toys that have long-term value really aren't complete without the child.
''
        Miss West was born on June 2, 1907, in Boston, the only child of Isaac and Rachel West.
Family members ''ranged in color from the blond child to me,'' Miss  West wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' a collection of short stories and essays published in 1995.
In a 1995 interview with The Boston Globe, she said that she never particularly wanted to marry -- ''Seemed like the man just became the woman's child'' -- but had wanted a child.
In a 1995 interview with The Boston Globe, she said that she never particularly wanted to marry -- ''Seemed like the man just became the woman's child'' -- but had wanted a child.
As a child, she liked to fish and shoot, but she especially loved music and dance.
In 1974, Mrs. Harrington suffered two blows, the deaths of both her husband and, a few months later, their only child, Sally Harrington Goldwater, the wife of Robert Goldwater, the younger brother of Senator Barry Goldwater.
''
        Born in St. Louis, Ms. Frann began a career in show business as a child model.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl, who died at home in Leutkirch, in southern Germany, is survived by four of her five children, Eva, Florian, Julian and Manuel; another child, Pia, died in a car accident in 1975, and her husband died in 1991.
      
Because the lightweight duckpin ball, which has no finger holes, is small enough for a child to handle, duckpins has long been cherished as a family sport in Baltimore.
Even so, Mrs. Barger, a Baltimore native who was given her nickname by an aunt, seems not to have played the sport as a child, perhaps because she was born only 13 years after duckpins' storied beginning.
''
        But recognizing that a child's sexual attitudes are often shaped before school age, Dr. Calderone also focused on educating parents.
The following year, she and James W. Ramey were the co-authors of ''Talking With Your Child About Sex,'' published in four languages.
As a child, she had an American tutor, and she graduated from Principia  College in Illinois.
She also was a member of the Vassar child study faculty through 1949.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia Teachers College in 1942, studied child and adult development at the Carolyn Zachary Institute in the late 1940's and pursued doctoral studies at Columbia in the early 1950's.
After joining the full-time staff, she expanded the School for Children beyond the nursery years to include pupils through the eighth grade, developed programs for children and parents and founded the Polly Miller Child Center in Marble Hill.
Among Miss Dalrymple's other books were an autobiography, ''September Child'' (1963), ''Careers and Opportunities in the Theater'' (1969), ''Jean Dalrymple's Pinafore Farm Cookbook'' (1971) and ''The Folklore and Facts of Natural Nutrition'' (1973).
The daughter of a prosperous Latvian businessman, Mrs. Elianoff, a Riga native whose maiden name was Levitt, learned to sew as as child, but her girlhood heart belonged to the theater.
'' Their first child died shortly after birth, at the same time that Ms. Godden's first novel, ''Chinese Puzzle'' (1935), was accepted for publication.
or AIDS, as well as for providing music and fine-arts classes in public elementary schools, for treating abused children and preventing child abuse and for serving hot meals for elderly Greenwich Villagers to eat together.
A precocious child, Margaret learned to read while still a toddler and began writing poetry at 15 when she entered the university.
''
        A devoted daughter who was ever conscious of her responsibility as the sole surviving child, Honoria fulfilled that prophecy.
Earlier, in the Depression, she pursued her interest in public health at the Works Progress Administration and after the war started, she served with the Federal Works Agency, playing an important role in setting up nursery schools and child care centers in 15 Northeastern states to accommodate young mothers working in defense plants.
Dr. Nyswander was married for more than 20 years to George T. Palmer, former director of research for the American Child Health Association in New York.
She could speak with the softness of a shy, reflective child or, in the studio, with the toughness of a drill sergeant.
After she did a composite of Disney characters for McCall's magazine, Doris Dunewald, an editor at Grosset & Dunlap, asked her to illustrate a new edition of Robert Louis Stevenson's ''A Child's Garden of Verses,'' which was published in 1953.
Although I have never had children of my own, and cannot say I had a particularly marvelous childhood, perhaps I can say I am still like a child myself.
Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service.
