''Yet Carolyn Haywood makes the everyday doings of children exciting and funny, entering into them from a child's level.
She had previously auditioned for the prima ballerina Anna Pavlova, who told the child that she had no technique but sufficient grace to become a great dancer.
Miss Gambarelli made her stage debut as an Ethiopian slave child in ''Aida'' at the Metropolitan, where, at age 13, she became the understudy to prima ballerina Rosina Galli.
A Rabbi's Granddaughter
        Born on Sept. 19, 1892, Iphigene Bertha Ochs grew up as the only child of Adolph S. and Iphigenia Wise Ochs.
The child was educated at home until she was 8, when she was sent to Dr. Sachs's School for Girls.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the youngest Sulzberger child and the only son, was named president and publisher.
Mrs. Golub was born in Chicago, where she studied piano as a child.

       Grace O'Brien O'Neill, a child psychologist who developed innovative programs for the New York City Department of Health in the 1950's, died of cardiac arrest on Feb. 15 at Reston Hospital in Virginia.
Grace O'Brien O'Neill, a child psychologist who developed innovative programs for the New York City Department of Health in the 1950's, died of cardiac arrest on Feb. 15 at Reston Hospital in Virginia.
At the Cleveland Child Guidance Institute, which she joined after leaving the university, she made studies that led to acceptance in the United States of the psychological test created by Hermann Rorschach in Switzerland in 1921.
From 1979 to 1982, she was principal investigator of the Adoption Resource Center and Child Welfare Center for Region 2, covering New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
She apprenticed herself to Julia Child and washed dishes for Mrs. Child's cooking classes in the Boston area.
She apprenticed herself to Julia Child and washed dishes for Mrs. Child's cooking classes in the Boston area.
''She was a jolly, lively, good person and a wonderful chef,'' Mrs. Child said yesterday.

       Margaret Carnegie Miller, the only child of Andrew Carnegie, the steel manufacturer and philanthropist, died on April 11 at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old.
Margaret Carnegie Miller, the only child of Andrew Carnegie, the steel manufacturer and philanthropist, died on April 11 at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old.
Mrs. Gee, born in Chicago, was trained there as a child with Mabel Wentworth, and later with Andreas Pavley and Serge Oukrainsky, the ballet master of the Chicago Opera, who renamed her Anna Ludmila.

       Betti S. Whaley, president of the Washington Urban League and a former commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development, died of the effects of diabetes and septicemia on Sunday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
Betti S. Whaley, president of the Washington Urban League and a former commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development, died of the effects of diabetes and septicemia on Sunday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
From 1974 to 1976 she was commissioner of the Agency for Child Development.
After serving as director of community development programs at the New York headquarters of the nonpartisan civil-rights organization, Mrs. Whaley was appointed to the Agency for Child Development post.
It was the name of an imaginary companion she invented as a child when she was bedridden with rheumatic fever.
''As a child, I was a gangly, skinny thing and I had this ugly front tooth that I broke when I was playing dress-up in my mother's clothes.

       Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
Her mother, a professional soprano, gave her singing lessons when she was a child, and she later studied at the Royal Manchester College of Music.
Waving to him at the curtain, Miss Bailey brought the house down with the remark, ''I didn't know this child was going to show up.
Miss Bailey's parents were divorced when she was a child, and her mother remarried and moved to Philadelphia.
Waving to him at the curtain, Miss Bailey brought the house down with the remark, ''I didn't know this child was going to show up.
Miss Bailey's parents were divorced when she was a child, and her mother remarried and moved to Philadelphia.
As a child she was accompanied by a governess when she went skating in Central Park or took walks.
The book dealt with the pressures on young families that affect decisions about child care, as well as guidelines for choosing alternative care.
''
        ''Whether she is writing of the Rheingold girls or the boys in Washington,'' he observed, ''of social-minded mothers and their child victims, of the world of Miltown or the think-room at the United Nations, of the 'half-people' of our automotive age or the heirs of Senator McCarthy, she hews to the line and lets the quips fall where they may.
In 1950, she became the first woman to give birth to a child while serving in the State Legislature.

       Helen Finn Ruder, a specialist in child psychotherapy in Westchester County, died on Sunday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital.
Helen Finn Ruder, a specialist in child psychotherapy in Westchester County, died on Sunday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital.
Mrs. Ascoli, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, a Chicago clothier who was a chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, devoted most of her adult life to charitable causes, many of them involving child welfare.
She was also a former president of the New York Fund for Children and, from 1948 to 1960, was president of the Northside Center for Child Development in Harlem.
She was born in Lithuania and was brought to the United States as a child.

       Dr. Niusia Shimrat, a child psychologist with Mount Sinai Medical Center for two decades before retiring in 1985, died on Saturday at the Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center.
Dr. Niusia Shimrat, a child psychologist with Mount Sinai Medical Center for two decades before retiring in 1985, died on Saturday at the Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center.
After receiving a doctorate in education from Teachers College of Columbia University, Dr. Shimrat joined Mount Sinai in 1965 and later was in charge of child psychology in the center's Department of Psychiatry.
Miss Martin was "a cockeyed optimist" and she was also the eternal child imagined by James M. Barrie.
They had one child, Larry Martin Hagman, who -- as the world knows -- became famous as J. R. on television's "Dallas.
She worked with culinary figures including Julia Child, Wolfgang Puck and Lorenzo De Medici.
"Her talents for creating a kitchen drama in three and a half minutes were awesome," Mrs. Child said yesterday.
She was active throughout her life promoting education and child welfare through many organizations, including the New York Section of the Council of Jewish Women, the National Maternal Child Health Council and the National Scholarship Service Fund for Negro Students.
She was active throughout her life promoting education and child welfare through many organizations, including the New York Section of the Council of Jewish Women, the National Maternal Child Health Council and the National Scholarship Service Fund for Negro Students.
