A Democrat, she championed equal rights for women, environmental protection, and programs for children, the elderly and the poor.
She pedaled to practice with her two children in a bicycle basket behind her.
''I got very many bad letters, people writing that I must stay home with my children and that I should not be allowed to run on a track with -- how do you say it?
''One newspaperman wrote that I was too old to run, that I should stay at home and take care of my children.
Besides Mr. Stone, she is survived by her children: Mr. Kirk-Davidoff of Takoma Park, Md., Susan Davidoff of Newton, Mass., Carla Davidoff of New Paltz, N.Y., and Thomas Davidoff of Oakland, Calif.; her stepchildren Christopher Stone of Brooklyn, Nicholas Stone of Falls Church, Va., and Rebecca Stone of Brookline, Mass.
Mr. Reiss died in the 1960's, and the couple had no children.

        Joan Delano Aiken, a prodigious weaver of tales for adults and children, died on Sunday at her home in Petworth, in West Sussex, England.
Recommended for children in Grades 5 to 9, it was also turned into dramatic versions staged in many schools.
They married in 1945 and had two children, John S. Brown and Elizabeth D. Charlaff, who survive her, along with Ms. Aiken's sister, Jane A. Hodge, and two grandchildren.
In 1999 Queen Elizabeth II made her a member of the Order of the British Empire for her contributions to children's literature.
      
She raised five children and lectured in sociology at Long Island University, Brooklyn, for several years in the late 1960's.
She had no children and is survived by two nieces.

        Susan Schechter, whose books about domestic violence helped to unify the movement to assist battered women and to bridge the gap between programs addressing domestic abuse and those for children's welfare, died Feb. 3 at her home in Iowa City.
In her writing, Mrs. Schechter explored the ways domestic abuse affected children.
In 1986, at Children's Hospital Boston, she started a program for battered women with abused children.
In 1986, at Children's Hospital Boston, she started a program for battered women with abused children.
Her family grew to five children.

        Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
Ms. Diaz's organization, a volunteer group that works to provide a voice for women and children in war zones, is a nongovernmental group that advocates for refugees before the United Nations and around the world.
''
        Irma Lowenthal was born on Oct. 28, 1919, in Poland, the second of three children.
The couple continued living in the Washington Avenue house, where Mrs. Fleck had two children, who survive her, Mrs. Oppenberg, of Marco Island, Fla., and Gary Fleck of Safat, Israel.
She had filled a medium-size bookshelf with children's books, novels and mysteries before she published her blockbuster of a historical romance in 1978.

        Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said.

        Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said.
Mrs. Lash, who worked for the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations before joining the staff of the Citizens Commission for Children, collected data on the status of children in New York for major studies in 1976 and 1980.
Mrs. Lash, who worked for the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations before joining the staff of the Citizens Commission for Children, collected data on the status of children in New York for major studies in 1976 and 1980.
Her commission work, which ranged from studying day care and foster care to juvenile detention, often involved sending volunteers to institutions to see how children were treated.
''All too often we take our most difficult children and we turn over their care to professionals, and we leave the matter,'' Trude Lash said in an interiew with The New York Times in 1972.
What is needed is someone who is primarily interested in the children.
''
        Correction:  February 7, 2004, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Trude Wenzel Lash, an advocate for children in New York City, misstated the name of the organization for which she worked until 1972.
It is the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, not Citizens Commission.
She spent much time visiting the sick, the handicapped, the aged and needy children.
She sent her children to state schools.
One of her chief concerns was what she considered the overmedication of children with psychological disorders.
Another of her interests was what she called ''schlemiel children,'' those who she said dealt with parental pressure by clowning.
''
        After marrying Charles Scardino, a bass player, she put aside her career to raise their four children in Queens.
With the children grown, she took a job playing classics on a grand piano inside the Manhattan Savings Bank branch at Third Avenue and 86th Street.
Emily Marshall Morison was born on Oct. 15, 1915, in Boston, one of four children of Samuel Eliot Morison, the historian, and Elizabeth Greene Shaw.
Mrs. Schott was a major contributor to local charitable causes, including Children's Hospital and the Cincinnati Zoo.
''
        Mrs. Schott had no children, to her great regret.
Her never-disguised devotion to her children struck a responsive chord with many mothers.
After the couple's first two children were born, they moved into a larger Stuyvesant Town residence that cost $83 a month.
Born in Andover, Mass., Dr. Park was the oldest of four children of J. Edgar Park, a minister raised in Ireland who became president of Wheaton College, in Massachusetts, and Grace Burtt Park, who taught Greek and mathematics.
She told parents that they should encourage their children to take courses in advanced mathematics and French, because society would need scientists and linguists.
She received some education at the Manhattan Professional Children's School.
Mildred McWilliams, known as Millie, was born on Dec. 29, 1910, in Alton, Iowa, the eldest of seven children.
Her grandmother, a widow, ran a farm and raised 16 children by herself.
Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family.
She then wrote a powerfully spare account of his funeral:
        ''His old friend, Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who married him, baptized his children and prayed over him in the icy air of his inaugural, said a Low Mass.
If you want to reform campaign spending'' or ''if you want to save children from abuse, or stupid laws, or thickheaded judges, you have my telephone number.
Ms. McGrory did not marry or have children, but had a large extended family, including two nieces, in addition to her nephew; a loyal group of Washington Star veterans; and a longtime relationship as the ultimate volunteer with St. Ann's Infant and Maternity Home.

        Carolyn Lelyveld, who directed a pioneering Bronx day care center for children with AIDS from the poorest neighborhoods and founded programs for children with cancer in hospitals in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

        Carolyn Lelyveld, who directed a pioneering Bronx day care center for children with AIDS from the poorest neighborhoods and founded programs for children with cancer in hospitals in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Ms. Lelyveld's work with AIDS children, at Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, took place from 1987-94.
Its children were picked up by bus each school day, and the center maintained a food pantry for their families, mostly single-parent households headed by women with AIDS.
She then joined programs that prepared children for difficult medical procedures and attended to their nonmedical needs, first at Downstate Medical Center and then at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
From 1981-83, she founded parallel programs for children with cancer at Baragwanath Hospital in the township of Soweto, the largest black hospital in South Africa at the time, and at a white hospital, Johannesburg General.
Referring to Mr. Rushdie's 1981 novel, Mr. Larson said, ''Once 'Midnight's Children' got out there, the more traditional realistic novel wasn't very popular anymore.
''
        Winson Gates was born in Harmony, in central Mississippi, on Nov. 17, 1916, the 10th of 13 children born to John Wesley Gates and Emma Kirkland, neither of whom ever tried to register to vote.
The principal reprimanded her for giving free bread to hungry children.
Ms. Van Engle is survived by her children Herbert H. Hollon of Zarra, Spain, and Marc S. Hollon of Aurora, Ontario; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
The last of nine children of a domestic worker, she sang as a child at churches and hospitals, and then in high school she joined a group that performed in colored townships, which was unusual in those days when apartheid segregated the races on a hierarchical ladder and mixed-race audiences rarely accepted African singers.

        Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.

        Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
The couple had no children.
Mrs. Shub was first hired by Susan Hirschman as a freelance reader in the children's department at Harper & Row.
She became an associate editor there before moving to Charles Scribner's Sons, then followed Mrs. Hirschman to the children's book department at Macmillan.
In the 1960's, when she was an established editor, she suggested to Singer that he consider writing for children.
''Zlateh the Goat, and Other Stories'' appeared in 1966 and was followed by 10 other children's books.
In addition to translating folk tales and Yiddish stories for children, she wrote several children's books herself, including ''The White Stallion'' (1982), a popular novel..
In addition to translating folk tales and Yiddish stories for children, she wrote several children's books herself, including ''The White Stallion'' (1982), a popular novel..
Returning to the kibbutz, she taught rhythm in school and began to write children's songs.
Ms. Hoffman was in more than 20 shows on Broadway from 1940 into the 1990's, including the original casts of Arthur Miller's ''Crucible,'' Tennessee Williams's ''Rose Tattoo,'' Brecht's ''Mother Courage and Her Children'' and the 1961 production of Ionesco's ''Rhinoceros.
In addition to her daughter Patricia, of Manhattan, Ms. Coleman is survived by three other children: Amy and Anthony Coleman, both of Manhattan, and Nathaniel Coleman of Newcastle, England; and two grandchildren.
In an ''Intimate Portrait'' on Lifetime Television last year, Ms. Sanford called herself a survivor: literally, as the youngest of seven children and the only one to survive infancy, and figuratively, as she came to rely on her comedic skills for respite from her poverty-stricken childhood in Harlem.
Still, amid a troubled marriage and the birth of three children, Ms. Sanford joined the Star Players, later the American Negro Theater, in the 1930's and made her stage debut in the company's 1946 production of ''On Strivers Row.
''
        In 1960, she moved with her children to Los Angeles, where the actress Tallulah Bankhead almost immediately asked her to join the national production of ''Here Today'' -- a job that Ms. Sanford said resulted in her first encounter with discrimination, as she found herself relegated to separate sleeping and dining quarters from her white colleagues.
But her interests were increasingly focused on children and the psychology of childhood development.
In 1965 she began working as an educational therapist at the Educational Institute for Learning and Research in New York, where for 19 years she taught children with learning disabilities.
Mrs. Auerbach and her future husband, Walter Auerbach, a stage designer and photographer, moved to Tel Aviv, then part of Palestine, and opened a studio specializing in portraits of children.

        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan.

        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan.

        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan.
A longtime resident of New York City, Ms. Moore was an editor at Scholastic when she suggested in 1957 that the company make its books more accessible by offering low-cost paperbacks through the mail; there were few paperback books for children at the time.
Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children.
Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children.
The council works to discover and encourage minority writers and to confront stereotypes in books for children.
Ms. Moore was also a prolific writer of children's books, including ''Old Rosie, the Horse Nobody Understood'' (1960).
Ms. Moore began writing poetry for children in the late 1960's.
As a part-time teacher working with truants, she discovered her ability to help children learn to read.
She eventually became a reading specialist in the New York City school system and began writing for children soon after, publishing her first stories in Humpty Dumpty's Magazine.
Correction:  August 5, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Lilian Moore, a children's author, misstated her role with Scholastic's Lucky Book Club for younger pupils.
She said that children instinctively knew that the answers they received about their prognoses were lies and that the deceit made them feel punished and alone.
In 1984, she set up another center, in Virginia, to care for children with AIDS.
War as she wrote about it was not ennobling but debasing, a misery that inflicted physical suffering and psychic damage on civilians, children, and soldiers on both sides.
'' They had two children, Vicki and Robert Jr. Riskin had a stroke in 1950 and died five years later.
''
        She lives on Beekman Place with two of her three children -- both attend public schools -- and, despite seeing her husband only on weekends, makes time for Saturday-morning tennis with another female executive, Kathryn Wylde, who heads the Partnership for New York City.
Julia was the oldest of three siblings, each so tall that their mother boasted that she had ''given birth to 18 feet of children.
''
        The introduction showed Mrs. Child at her most direct: ''This is a book for the servantless American cook who can be unconcerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time schedules, children's meals, the parent-chauffeur-den mother syndrome or anything else which might interfere with the enjoyment of producing something wonderful to eat.
By the late 1950's she was recently divorced, teaching art at the University of Buffalo and supporting three small children.
She is survived by her companion, Bernard Hanson, whom she married in 1960 but later divorced; the children of her first marriage, a daughter, Anne Blaine Garson, of Amherst, Mass.
Ms. Schneider was born in Stolpen, Germany, in 1914, the youngest of nine children.
''
        Furthermore, she added, people couldn't accept that this girl ''should know about her father's love affairs, discuss them with him, and thereby reach a kind of complicity with him on subjects that had until then been taboo between parents and children.
Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1983, Nora Johnson praised ''the grace and freshness of her early novels, those slender tales of love between aged children and middle-aged burnouts that seemed so remarkable when they began appearing in the 50's,'' observing that Ms. Sagan ''seemed to know everything then.
After the Weather Girls, Ms. Wash sang, often anonymously, for C and C Music Factory, Black Box and other groups, and Ms. Armstead moved to Germany to found a new Weather Girls group with her daughter Dynell Rhodes, who survives Ms. Armstead, along with six other children and several grandchildren.
      
Dr. Dalton is survived by four children and five grandchildren, according to The Independent, a British daily.
      
Alerted that the secret police were closing in, the Martons and their children were smuggled out of Hungary, first to Vienna and later to the United States.
He survives her, along with a sister, Magda, of Budapest; three children, Kati, of Manhattan, a journalist; Andrew, of Fort Worth; and Julia Marton-Lefevre of London; and four grandchildren.
      
She was abandoned as an infant; grew up poor; danced her way across the cabaret stages of Europe as a teenager; worked with Maurice Chevalier, Josephine Baker and Edith Piaf; was interned during World War II; saved her husband from the Nazis; raised four children; could still dance the cancan in her 60's; smoked a pack of cigarettes every day of her adult life; and was awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Order of the British Empire.
She was on the board of the Society for the Relief of Women and Children for more than 50 years, and she spent 35 years on the board of the Stony Wold-Herbert Fund, which makes grants to fight pulmonary disease.
Besides her niece, survivors include three sisters, two children and three grandchildren.
She and her brother, Nathan S. Kline (author of ''From Sad to Glad,'' about depression), lived in a house full of art, books and music, with parents who wanted their children to be aware of people different from themselves.
In 1938 she married a surgeon, Arthur Dintenfass, and had three children; after World War II they settled in Atlantic City, where she ran her husband's medical office for several years.
In addition to Andrew, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., Ms. Dintenfass is survived by two other children from her first marriage, Dr. John Dintenfass of Manhattan and Susan Subtle Dintenfass of Berkeley, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      
They had eight children before he died.
She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
        Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported.
With that book, the Potter public-relations machine began to hum with a level of intensity and inventiveness rarely seen in children's publishing.
In an unheard-of measure for a children's title, Book 4, ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,'' was tightly embargoed before its publication in 2000.

        Nancy Larrick, an educator whose poetry anthologies and widely used parent's guide helped introduce generations of children not only to reading, but also to literature, died on Nov. 14 in Winchester, Va. She was 93 and lived in Winchester.
An editor of children's books for Random House, she preferred Dr. Seuss and Little Bear and asserted in a book review in The New York Times that children ''can hear the rhythm of beautifully turned phrases and follow the suspense of a good story line.
An editor of children's books for Random House, she preferred Dr. Seuss and Little Bear and asserted in a book review in The New York Times that children ''can hear the rhythm of beautifully turned phrases and follow the suspense of a good story line.
In a 1965 Saturday Review of Literature article, ''The All-White World of Children's Books,'' she criticized the near absence of black characters in children's books.
In a 1965 Saturday Review of Literature article, ''The All-White World of Children's Books,'' she criticized the near absence of black characters in children's books.
Dr. Larrick was a founder and president of the International Reading Association, a literacy group that today has 80,000 members in about 100 countries, and would invite teenagers and children to its annual conferences to give teachers pointers on what they enjoyed reading, though she never indulged their taste for comic books.
Her most popular work, ''A Parent's Guide to Children's Reading,'' was published in 1958 and reprinted six times.
Sequels included ''Your Child and His Reading: How Parents Can Help'' (1960), ''A Teacher's Guide to Children's Books'' (1963) and nine other books for adults.
She wrote or edited almost 30 books for children, including at least 14 poetry anthologies.

        Trina Schart Hyman, who illustrated an entire shelf of children's books and inspired many others who worked in the genre, died on Friday in Lebanon, N.H. She was 65 and lived in Lyme, N.H.
She joined the staff of Cricket magazine for children as an artist and illustrator in 1972 and became its art director.
By the time she left, in 1979, she had established herself as a model for many others looking for a career in children's book publishing.

        Miriam Schlein, whose nearly one hundred books, written over half a century, taught very young children about animals and concepts like time and space, died on Nov. 23 in New York.
She was in the children's department of Simon & Schuster when she decided that her future lay in writing.
'' In the 1950's she also wrote some stories about children and animals that won her wide recognition and awards, including ''Four Little Foxes,'' ''Elephant Herd,'' and ''When Will the World Be Mine?
''
        Some of her books were Junior Literary Guild Selections and several of her natural-science titles received Outstanding Science Books for Children awards.
She never married and had no children.
Your children would not call you Mama, but Renata.
Ms. Truitt is survived by her children, Alexandra, of South Salem, N.Y., Mary, of Annapolis, Md., and Samuel, of New York; and by eight grandchildren.
      
''Perhaps it is because younger women are able to teach, or take the time to raise children.
She wrote and illustrated several children's books, including ''The Zoo of Zeus'' (1964) and ''Gilgamesh'' (1967).
