Mrs. Stein, who was born in Manhattan, was a trustee of several institutions, including Montefiore, Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y., and two New York City advocacy organizations, New Alternatives for Children and Concern for Dying.
Mrs. Stein, who was born in Manhattan, was a trustee of several institutions, including Montefiore, Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y., and two New York City advocacy organizations, New Alternatives for Children and Concern for Dying.
From Portland to New York
        Pegeen Fitzgerald was born Margaret Worrall in Norcatur, Kan., the eldest of seven children of Fred Calvin Worrall and the former Jane Sweeney, who were of French and Irish ancestry.

       Dr. Catharine Deaver Lealtad, a pediatrician who supervised medical services for displaced children in Germany at the end of World War II, died Monday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn.
Dr. Catharine Deaver Lealtad, a pediatrician who supervised medical services for displaced children in Germany at the end of World War II, died Monday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brooklyn.
A psychologist, Dr. Schmidt dealt with children who had learning or adjustment problems in school, working closely with parents and school personnel.
A psychologist, Dr. Schmidt dealt with children who had learning or adjustment problems in school, working closely with parents and school personnel.
Her first book, ''Your School, Your Children,'' published in 1944, was an impassioned plea for schools to propagandize democratic values instead of remaining neutral in the war of ideas.

       Gladys Buchanan North, who helped her husband, Sterling North, write popular and award-winning children's books, died of a stroke early yesterday morning at Morristown Memorial Hospital.
She was 81 years old and lived in Harding Township, N.J.
        Gladys Buchanan North, who helped her husband, Sterling North, write popular and award-winning children's books, died of a stroke early yesterday morning at Morristown Memorial Hospital.
With Nazi Germany looming, she later wrote, her husband ''not unreasonably felt at that time that the world was too unpromising to bring children into.
''After the war, when my husband came home, we had two more children, and domesticity for a while prevailed,'' she wrote later, ''combined with beginning the work I had always wanted to do, which was writing a book.
''
        ''When the children were very small,'' she once recalled in an interview, ''I worked in the morning only and then gradually, as they spent full days at school, I could spend full days at work.

       Helen Halik Beebe, a teacher of deaf children who was a noted speech pathologist, died of heart failure Saturday at Easton Hospital in Pennsylvania.
Helen Halik Beebe, a teacher of deaf children who was a noted speech pathologist, died of heart failure Saturday at Easton Hospital in Pennsylvania.
She taught children until last year, using the ''auditory-verbal'' method, in which the residual hearing of the deaf aids in speech development.
She was a former board member of the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf, which gave her its highest award; a former president of Auditory-Visual International and a former board member of the Foundation for Children's Hearing, Education and Research.
Mrs. Slingerland developed a classroom adaptation of the Orton-Gillingham system for teaching dyslexic children, whose abilty to read is impaired.
'' On television, in addition to continuing roles in ''The Guiding Light,'' ''Love of Life'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' and ''All My Children,'' her credits included ''The Hallmark Hall of Fame,'' ''The Defenders'' and ''The Nurses.
Mrs. Pennoyer was the third of the financier's four children.
Her prizes include the Robert Boardman award of the Painters and Sculptors Society of New Jersey, the American Institute of Graphic Arts Exhibition award and the Outstanding Children's Book Illustration award for ''Little Girl and Her Mother'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regnier.
In recent years, she and Mr. Logan toured widely, often with their children, in a revue called ''Musical Moments,'' which featured songs from major shows Mr. Logan directed, including ''South Pacific,'' ''Paint Your Wagon'' and ''Bus Stop.
She had also taught science in the gifted children program at C. W. Post College, now the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University in Brookville, L.I.
From 1969 to 1971, she served in Vietnam with Catholic Relief Services, assisting in the placement of homeless and orphaned children.
      
The early death of her mother increased her misery, especially when her stepmother expressed her frustrations with poverty in the harshness she showed the children.
They were divorced in 1930 and had no children.
She had previously worked as a children's librarian for the New York Public Library.
I tell my children, 'There's so little time.
In these two series she was joined by her two children, her longtime friend Vivian Vance and Gale Gordon, who succeeded Mr. Arnaz as her masculine foil.
In later movies, she co-starred with Bob Hope in two comedies, ''The Facts of Life'' (1961) and ''Critic's Choice'' (1963), and appeared with Henry Fonda in ''Yours, Mine and Ours,'' a 1968 farce about a couple with nearly a score of children.
Survivors include two children, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Ryerson was known for her portraits of children, and many of her prints are in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Smithsonian Institution, the Brooklyn Museum and other American museums.
Mrs. Slater was the youngest of four children of Leonid Pasternak, a Russian Impressionist painter who was once commissioned by Leo Tolstoy to illustrate one of his books.

       Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
Margot Zemach, an award-winning children's book illustrator and author whose witty, lively works reinterpreted folk tales for younger readers, died of Lou Gehrig's disease Sunday at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 57 years old.
Ms. Zemach was the illustrator or author of more than 40 children's books, including ''Duffy and the Devil,'' ''The Judge,'' ''A Penny a Look,'' ''Salt'' ''Mommy, Buy Me a China Doll,'' ''It Could Always Be Worse'' and ''To Hilda for Helping.
''
        ''Margot not only revivified the American picture book, but was one of the very few who helped elevate it to an art form,'' said Maurice Sendak, the children's book author and illustrator.
'' Won the Caldecott Medal
        ''I consider her the consummate illustrator for children's literature,'' said William Steig, the childrens' book author and illustrator, and a magazine artist for The New Yorker.
''
        In 1974, for ''Duffy and the Devil,'' Ms. Zemach won the Caldecott Medal, the most prestigious American award for children's book illustration, sponsored by the American Library Association.
She was twice selected as the American nominee for the Hans Christian Andersen Medal for illustration, the most prestigious international children's book award.
She was active in such causes as the Southampton Hospital, the Parrish Art Museum, Guideposts for Children, the Police Athletic League and United Cerebral Palsy of New York.
She could not have had children.
''
        Mrs. Weston wrote 10 novels; more than 30 short stories, most of which appeared in The New Yorker magazine; two nonfiction books - on Ceylon and Afghanistan, respectively - and a children's book.
She was married briefly and divorced and had no children.
      
Mrs. Sheperd, a 1917 graduate of DePauw University, had been active with the Westchester County Children's Association, the Grey Ladies, the Lawrence Hospital Auxiliary and the Bronxville Women's Club.
She was 81 years old and lived in Van Nuys, Calif.
        To a generation of children in the late 1940's and the 50's, Miss Allison was the girlfriend, mother and gentle conscience of the Kuklapolitan Players, the puppet troupe created by Burr Tillstrom.
''
        When the program went off the air, it left a group of sad adults and children.
In the 1960's, Miss Allison was host of a show of films for children and appeared in musicals on television.

       Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Duenewald, as she was known professionally, spent her career in children's book publishing.
She was a former member of the board of the Children's Books Council and was elected to the Academy of Women Achievers of the Y.M.C.A.

       Dayal Kaur Khalsa, an author and illustrator of children's books, died of breast cancer Monday at her home in Vancouver, British Columbia.
Dayal Kaur Khalsa, an author and illustrator of children's books, died of breast cancer Monday at her home in Vancouver, British Columbia.
Surviving are her husband, Bingham Morris; a sister, Winifred d'Olier Jr., of Villanova, Pa.; three children, Mrs. Onassis and Mrs. Ross, both of Manhattan, and James Lee Auchincloss of Washington; three stepchildren, Hugh D. Auchincloss Jr. of Manhattan and Newport, Nina Straight of Bethesda, Md., and Thomas Gore Auchincloss of Eagle Bridge, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and stepgrandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      

       Frances Clarke Sayers, a librarian, teacher and author who specialized in children's literature, died after a stroke Monday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She was 91 years old.
Frances Clarke Sayers, a librarian, teacher and author who specialized in children's literature, died after a stroke Monday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She was 91 years old.
She was the author of six children's books and was co-editor, with Edna Johnson and Evelyn R. Sickel, of ''The Anthology of Children's Literature'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1958 and 1970.
She was the author of six children's books and was co-editor, with Edna Johnson and Evelyn R. Sickel, of ''The Anthology of Children's Literature'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1958 and 1970.
) Mrs. Sayers, a graduate of Carnegie Institute of Technology, worked in the children's room at the New York Public Library from 1918 to 1923, when she moved to California.
She was a children's librarian in Los Angeles and lectured at the University of California at Berkeley, the Pratt Institute and the University of Michigan.
Returning to New York in 1941, she worked at the New York Public Library until 1952, becoming superintendent of work with children.
In 1974, she gave up private practice in pediatric orthpedics because of high premiums for medical malpractice insurance but continued as an associate professor of orthpedic surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and as a physician at Columbia-Presbyterian, where she was director of the Children's Foot Clinic.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children, James B. Brickell Jr. of Sykesville, Md., and Allegra Mertz Torrey of Rowayton, Conn.; a brother, Arthur Knapp Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Marina Beach of Rye, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert; two children, Sarah M. and David, both of New Canaan, and two sisters, Eleanor M. Crowe of Granby, Conn., and Georgiana M. Baker of Cary, N.C.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stanley, a retired civil court judge, and two children, Elizabeth and Marc, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived two children, Christopher G., and Fernanda Gilligan, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
'
        Two children, Mortimer and Adele, were born in the first two years, but the marriage quickly turned cold.
Surviving are the children of the first marriage, Mortimer W. Hall of Millbrook, N.Y., and Adele Hall Sweet, of Manhattan; a daughter from the second marriage, Sarah-Ann Kramarsky, also of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frank H.; three children, Judith Thoms of Manhattan, Allan, of Seattle, Deborah, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      

       Dr. Lilian A. Gilbert, a pediatrician who specialized in treating tubercular infants and children, died of a stroke Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Lilian A. Gilbert, a pediatrician who specialized in treating tubercular infants and children, died of a stroke Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Gilbert directed the Bellevue Hospital children's chest service for many years and ran wards for children with tuberculosis.
Dr. Gilbert directed the Bellevue Hospital children's chest service for many years and ran wards for children with tuberculosis.
On the wards, doctors tested drugs like promizole and streptomycin that eventually led to the virtual elimination of the disease in children.

       Josette Frank, an authority on books for children and a consultant on children's programming for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., where she lived.

       Josette Frank, an authority on books for children and a consultant on children's programming for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., where she lived.
Josette Frank, an authority on books for children and a consultant on children's programming for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., where she lived.
Josette Frank, an authority on books for children and a consultant on children's programming for radio and television, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va., where she lived.
Miss Frank, a native New Yorker, was for many years the director of children's books and mass media for the Child Study Association of America.
In her books and in public appearances, Miss Frank offered parents advice on how to plan children's reading.
Her research into what children read led to a list of recommended books for a variety of ages and interests.
George Crumb wrote his ''Ancient Voices of Children'' for her.
Among her most famous disks are Schoenberg's ''Pierrot Lunaire,'' music by Ravel, George Crumb's ''Ancient Voices of Children,'' a Stephen Foster disk and a recent one named ''Songs of America,'' which received rave reviews.
Surviving are her husband; the two children of her first marriage, Mark West of Rochester and Francesca Watson of the Philippines ; her mother, Eleanor Ruetz of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Vera McKenna of Portland.
She was a member of the American Yacht Club in Rye and did charity work at White Plains Hospital and Julia Dyckman Children's Hospital, Yonkers.
Her father divorced her mother when Miss Davis was 7 and her sister, Barbara, was 5, leaving her mother to rear the children alone.
Soon afterward they adopted two children, Margot and Michael.
In 1984, Franz Josef II turned over the running of the country to his son, Hans Adam, oldest of their five children, but he remained head of state.
      
She began her career composing music for children's broadcasting.
Dr. Greenacre wrote several books dealing with the development of infants and small children, including ''Trauma, Growth and Personality,'' (W. W. Norton; 1952) and ''Swift and Carrol: A Psychoanalytic Study of Two Lives,'' (International Universities Press; 1955).
He had a bad heart, and it was prophesied, from the first, that he would die young and leave his wife with a pack of children.
'' The children were made to stand outdoors for three hours at a time in the snow, and they were regularly thrashed with a razor strop; Miss McCarthy recalled being beaten in one instance for receiving a school prize, lest she become ''stuck up.

       Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. She was 84 years old.
Ellen Lewis Buell Cash, former children's books editor of The New York Times Book Review, died yesterday in Chattanooga, Tenn. She was 84 years old.
While working in the world of children's books, she saw the juvenile publishers' annual output of books soar from about 400 titles in the early 1930's to more than 2,300 in 1962.
In 1935, The Times decided to institute a regular weekly page on children's books, and Mrs. Cash was assigned to share responsibility for the page with Anne Thaxter Eaton on alternate weeks.
When Miss Eaton retired in 1946, Mrs. Cash turned full time to the job of children's editor.
She was the author of an anthology for children, ''A Treasury of Little Golden Books,'' and a poetry anthology, ''Read Me a Poem: Children's Favorite Poetry.
She was the author of an anthology for children, ''A Treasury of Little Golden Books,'' and a poetry anthology, ''Read Me a Poem: Children's Favorite Poetry.
Many of her pupils were the children and grandchildren of the people Cather immortalized in her Nebraska stories.
'' A Delicate Child
        Dolores Ibarruri was the 8th of 11 children of a miner's family in the harsh mountains near Bilbao, in northern Spain.
In her memoirs, ''The Only Way,'' published in Paris, Havana and Mexico in 1962-63, La Pasionaria wrote curiously little about her husband, by whom she had six children, including three girls born as triplets in 1923.
Together with Mr. Negrin and other republican leaders she flew to France and then proceeded to Moscow, where she had sent her two surviving children, Ruben and Amaya, in 1934 for schooling.

       Zola Helen Ross, the author of dozens of novels and children's books, died last Tuesday after a long illness.
Zola Helen Ross, the author of dozens of novels and children's books, died last Tuesday after a long illness.
She was chairwoman of the New York City Committee on Adoptions and often served as a pro bono lawyer for children's aid organizations.
Mrs. Buttenwieser and her husband frequently opened their home to foster children.
She was also a former trustee of the New York Civil Liberties Union, a former board member of the Citizens Committee for Children, a former chairwoman of Madison House, a former president of the New York Federation of Jewish Charities, a former board member of the Legal Defense Fund and a former member of the Mayor's Committee on the Judiciary.
In April Eliana went to school for children with special needs, without the enclosure.
      
She came to Manhattan 33 years ago, after her marriage, and worked in administrative capacities for the Citizens Committee for Children of New York City and the Ford Foundation.

       May Garelick McClintock, an author and editor of children's books, died of cancer Wednesday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan.
May Garelick McClintock, an author and editor of children's books, died of cancer Wednesday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan.
She was educated in the New York City public schools and in the early 1950's joined the children's book publishers William R. Scott.
She wrote more than a dozen children's books, mostly in answer to questions posed to her by a child.

       Harriet Reade, a founder of the Children's Psychiatric Center who also helped environmental causes in New Jersey, died of cancer Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
She was 68 years old and lived in Middletown, N.J.
        Harriet Reade, a founder of the Children's Psychiatric Center who also helped environmental causes in New Jersey, died of cancer Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
After World War II, she directed the Salvation Army's European relief staff, 150 people who worked with other church and relief organizations helping repatriate children displaced by war.
In addition to her father, she is survived by her husband, Robert, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, at Stanford University, and by their children, Laura, 21, and John, 20.
      
Miss Mangano was born in Rome on April 21, 1930, one of four children of Amedeo Mangano, a railroad employee, and an Englishwoman, the former Ivy Webb.
Besides her children, survivors include two sisters, Patrizia and Natasha.
In addition to her father, she is survived by her husband, Robert, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, at Stanford University, and by their children, Laura, 21, and John, 20.
      

       Margaret G. Bachner, a retired lawyer who represented the Jewish Board of Guardians in children's cases in the 1950's and 1960's in Manhattan, died on Monday in Palm Beach, Fla., after a long illness.
Margaret G. Bachner, a retired lawyer who represented the Jewish Board of Guardians in children's cases in the 1950's and 1960's in Manhattan, died on Monday in Palm Beach, Fla., after a long illness.
