Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became widely known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became widely known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
''
        From 1959 to 1964, she was an educational consultant in the day care division of the city's bureau of child welfare.
Ms. Frankfurt prepared the recipes, which sounded like a cross between Julia Child and Edward Gorey, and included Omelette Greta Garbo (''always to be eaten alone in a candlelit room'').
Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison House Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison House Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
''She really viewed development at the level of the organism, the whole child, and showed that it's not just the genes or the brain but all these things coming together.
''
        Dr. Thelen also proposed that environmental experiences in the first year of life played an enormous role in shaping the neuronal networks in the brain that determine much of a growing child's abilities -- intellectually, creatively and in other ways.
''
        Gwendolyn Clarine Knight was born in Bridgetown, Barbados, on May 26, 1913, the only child of Malcolm and Miriam Knight.
She grew up in Chicago, where she acted in the theater as a child and briefly attended the University of Chicago.
Her marriage to Frederick A. Packard, also on the magazine's staff, came a year later, and the birth of their only child, Susan, a little more than a year after that.
She was an only child and leaves no immediate survivors.
      
At a time when few people saw the use of educational programs for babies and toddlers, she directed money to studies that eventually convinced policymakers of the benefits of early child development.
Theater, she wrote in a 1990 article, ''is finding recognition as an art that contributes to the emotional, intellectual and social development of the child.
She also created a line of books on child development with Ballantine Books and a series of similar videos.
After a few years in Belgium, Ms. Lympany returned to London, where she heard a child prodigy play a concerto with the conductor Basil Cameron and asked her mother if she could do the same.
Although a city child, born in New York on Nov. 28, 1918, she spent her childhood summers on her grandmother's farm in Wakefield.
Interested in art as a child, she veered toward math and science, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry at the University of Alberta in Edmonton.
Between them, Ms. Bancroft and Ms. Duke tore up the stage as Sullivan struggled to communicate with and calm her raging young charge, eventually breaking through the child's defensive shell.
She began her stage training as a child with the Yiddish Art Theater, run by the impresario Maurice Schwartz.
Her only child, Kathy, died in 1987 at the age of 25 in a fall from Ms. Alexander's Park Avenue apartment building, an apparent suicide.
Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.
She named it for a rock on which she had played as a child.

        Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
The bureau became Special Services for Children in 1974 and the Child Welfare Administration in 1989.
The bureau also instituted the city's first family day care programs, which provided child care at home instead of in an institution.
She worked with members of the Bush administration and members of Congress to write the education law known as No Child Left Behind, which imposed stricter performance standards on all schools receiving federal aid.
Ms. Oppenheimer, whose own mother was a Kindertransport child, said she believed that Mrs. Groszmann was the last surviving mother who had placed a child (the author Lore Segal) on a train from Germany, Austria or Czechoslovakia to seek safety in Britain.
Ms. Oppenheimer, whose own mother was a Kindertransport child, said she believed that Mrs. Groszmann was the last surviving mother who had placed a child (the author Lore Segal) on a train from Germany, Austria or Czechoslovakia to seek safety in Britain.
''In no time, the suitcase was gone, the child was gone, the other children were gone -- just emptiness,'' Mrs. Groszmann said in the film about watching Lore board the train in Vienna.
At that time Lore was their only child.
As a child, she was placed in an orphanage by her father after her mother and sisters died in an epidemic during World War I.
She was not a child.
She traced her interest in horticulture to a pot of huge purple orchids displayed in a friend's house in Milwaukee when she was a child.
Bond also started work on a Ph.D., but left after the birth of her first child.
(The original read, ''If a child lives with criticism, he learns to condemn,'' and so on.
Born in 1931 in Brooklyn, Ms. Jaffe grew up in posh circumstances on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the only child of Samuel Jaffe, an elementary-school principal, and his first wife, Diana, a high-strung socialite who had an independent fortune and a suburban estate in Connecticut.
Her subjects inhabited the seamy side of small-town life: drunken men leaving a bar, a woman roughed up by policemen, an emaciated child in a mother's arms.
