Born in New York in 1945, Ms. Unger began making sculpture as a child in art classes at the Museum of Modern Art.
Ms. Verrill, born in Santa Monica, Calif., was a child of Hollywood, where her parents were musicians.
Sarah Louise Delany, their second child, was  born Sept. 19, 1889, at an aunt's home in Lynch's Station, Va. She grew up with two sisters and six brothers on  the campus of St. Augustine's, where their father was vice principal.
Hearth: ''New York was no piece of cake for a colored person, but it was an improvement over the South, child.
Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.

        Dr. Judith Silberpfennig Kestenberg, a psychoanalyst specializing in child development and the emotional state of Holocaust survivors and their children, died Saturday at her home in Sands Point, N.Y. She was 88.
Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30 years ago, and Holocaust Child Survivor Studies, both based in Sands Point.
Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30 years ago, and Holocaust Child Survivor Studies, both based in Sands Point.
She and her associates traveled all over the world to collect taped interviews with more than 1,500 child survivors of the Holocaust and their children, as well as the children of Nazis.
Her other books in print include ''Sexuality, Body Movement and the Rhythms of Development'' (Aronson, 1995); with Dr. Ira Brenner, ''The Last Witness: The Child Survivor of the Holocaust'' (American Psychiatric Press, 1996), and, as editor with Dr. Eva Fogelman, ''Children During the Nazi Reign: Psychological Perspective on the Interview Process'' (Greenwood, 1994).
Her work at Child Development Research is being continued by Dr. Fogelman and associates.
      
Miriam Kottler Freund-Rosenthal was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Harry Kottler and the former Rebecca Zindler, and lived in Perth Amboy, N.J., and Harlem as a child.
Jean Iris Murdoch was born in Dublin on July 15, 1919, the only child of British and Irish parents.
In interviews she remembered that as a child she had existed ''in a perfect trinity of love.
Her great pleasure in reading, and her early attempts to write stories led to the conviction, which she formed as a child, that she would become a writer.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
Ms. Wann who was born in Monticello, Minn., in 1912, studied the oboe and piano as a child in San Diego and later at the Juilliard School in New York, from which she graduated in 1936.

        Felicia Gizycka Magruder, an American heiress who was kidnapped as a child by her father, a continental count, died on Feb. 26 at the Regency retirement community in Laramie, Wyo.
In 1908, when Felicia was a golden-haired, blue-eyed toddler, The New York Times reported that she had been ''kidnapped in London by the Count,'' who ''is thought to be either in Vienna or St. Petersburg and has concealed the child.
'' The Times said that earlier ''the Countess ran away from him with her child one night after a violent quarrel.
Creating a Setting For Cutting-Edge Work
        At the Theater de Lys, she provided a home for such plays as David Mamet's ''A Life in the Theater,'' Sam Shepard's ''Buried Child'' and ''Getting Out,'' early work by Marsha Norman, Caryl Churchill's ''Cloud Nine'' and Wendy Wasserstein's ''Isn't It Romantic.
Dr. Ainsworth, who lived in Charlottesville, worked closely with Dr. John Bowlby, the British child psychiatrist whose work on separation, attachment and loss provided the foundation for attachment theory.
She argued, on the basis of her research, that picking up a crying baby does not spoil the child; rather, it reduces crying in the future.
As a young child growing up in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, she helped give free food from the family grocery to striking factory workers.
She was the only child of Agatha Erskine (Boyd) Adams and Nicholson Barney Adams.
She set up remedial programs in five school districts and helped establish Westchester County's first full-time child guidance clinic.
She created another center at Teachers College, Columbia University, for training educators in child care.
She and her husband, a New York developer, endowed the Virginia and Leonard Marx Professorship in Child and Parent Development and Education at Teachers College in 1993, as well the Marx Lecture Series at Teachers College.
That program allows the college to give a platform to top researchers in child development.
She  earned a master's in child psychology at Teachers College and spent a fellowship year in clinical psychology at what was then its Child Guidance Institute.
She  earned a master's in child psychology at Teachers College and spent a fellowship year in clinical psychology at what was then its Child Guidance Institute.
Her quarterly articles advised readers about child development.
Among Mrs. Marx's beneficiaries were the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, where she was a trustee for over 40 years and a longtime member of its Child Development Center committee.
She sat on the Governor's Council on AIDS, the Task Force on Child Abuse and Neglect and the New Jersey Court Team on Domestic Violence.
Initially, she gathered wild fruits, nuts and greens for Chez Panisse, Alice Waters's now-famous restaurant in Berkeley, and with Julia Child she organized the Great Chefs of France cooking program at the Robert Mondavi Vineyards.
She had ''this rare attitude toward food, serious and happy at the same time,'' Mrs. Child said yesterday.
Born in Folkestone, England, on Aug. 3, 1926, Ms. Woolliams studied modern dance as a child in Germany and ballet in England with Judith Espinosa, Noreen Bush, George Goncharov and Vera Volkova.
As a child, Anita (born Ina Anita Carter in Maces Springs, Va.) hated to be separated from her mother when the Carter Family left to perform at radio stations, so she was brought along.
When she was 4, she made her radio debut with a singsong child's rhyme.
Andrew Motion, Britain's new poet laureate, reviewing her ''Selected Poems'' in The New Statesman in 1980, said Ms. Beer ''admits to having been 'a child who dared not seem/Gloomy,' but over the years she has become increasingly prepared to say what she feels.
Noel Straus, reviewing the concert in The New York Times, wrote of her performance of a Mendelssohn Etude that ''a child capable of so polished and eloquent an example of pianism has a future worth watching.
She was born into an army family and was unconventional even as a child.
Miss Garland, born in Brooklyn, studied ballet and other forms of dance as a child and was 13 when she performed at Town Hall.
''
        Ms. de Lima fared better with her second work, ''The Swift Cloud'' (1952), about the murder of a disabled child in a California town.
An only child who had outlived her relatives, she lived a solitary existence, surrounded by rows of clothes she made pretty for people who knew her only as the washerwoman.
Her father, Anthony Roman, a carnival barker, died when she was a child, forcing her mother to work as a waitress, cleaning woman and laundress.
So she was ready to complete a journey that had begun when, as a child suffering from the mumps, she picked up ''Secret Tibet'' by Fosco Maraini.
''
        Madeline Gail Kahn was born in Boston and grew up there and in New York, the child of divorced middle-class parents.

        Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.
''
        A year and a half later, Caruso was dead at 48 -- a loss that nourished a popular fantasy that his child would also have an extraordinary voice.
Lucile Petry, the only child of a high school principal and his wife, was born on Jan. 23, 1902, in Frog Heaven, in Preble County, Ohio.
