She called for child care to be elevated to a dignified profession so working mothers could leave children in capable hands.
Ms. Donadio, a child of Italian immigrants, was born in 1929 in Brooklyn and moved to Manhattan in the early 1950's when she began her career as a secretary at the McIntosh & McKee agency.
''
        The paintings and drawings that passed through the Schaeffers' hands included, among many others, Botticelli's ''Madonna and Child with Singing Angels,'' now held by the Staatliche Museen in Berlin; a Cranach in the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art in Kansas City, Mo.
From girlhood, when she repeatedly read Dr. Benjamin Spock's ''Baby and Child Care'' to qualify for a Girl Scout child care merit badge, to grandmotherhood, when she led the weekly new mothers' group at Ansche Chesed Temple on the Upper West Side, she seemed the perfect mother, but her mission was to tell mothers that they did not have to be perfect.
From girlhood, when she repeatedly read Dr. Benjamin Spock's ''Baby and Child Care'' to qualify for a Girl Scout child care merit badge, to grandmotherhood, when she led the weekly new mothers' group at Ansche Chesed Temple on the Upper West Side, she seemed the perfect mother, but her mission was to tell mothers that they did not have to be perfect.
She was overjoyed at the great-granddaughter's birth, and always advised the child's mother, her granddaughter, Dana Walden, who is president of 20th Century Fox Television, not to get caught in grief when loved ones died.
''
        The Lindberghs were soon enveloped in the horror of the kidnapping, the discovery of the child's body on May 12, more than 10 weeks later, and the subsequent arrest, trial, conviction and execution of Bruno Richard Hauptmann, a carpenter, for Charlie's murder in 1936.
The Literary Career She Always Wanted
        Mrs. Lindbergh would never get over her child's death but she went on to bear five more children and to have the literary career she had dreamed of.
It was there that their child was kidnapped.
After the trial, the Lindberghs tried to go on living in the United States, but there were threats on the life of their second child, a son named Jon, who was born on Aug. 16, 1932, and other harassments, largely from cranks and aggressive reporters.
On May 12, 1937, their third child, a boy named Land was born in a London nursing home, where Mrs. Lindbergh had registered under an assumed name.
He was angry at her displays of emotion (even after the kidnapping and murder of their child), and he would scold her if she complained she was having trouble with her writing.
''
        As they sat, Anne Morrow Lindbergh said: ''I never saw my child's body after he died.
Contrary to common practice at the time, when such children were institutionalized, and contrary to Hollywood myth making, in which fans were not to know that perfect couples sometimes had imperfect children, Miss Evans and Rogers had kept Robin, who was their first child, at home with the family.
The following year, John David (Sandy) Rogers, an abused child whom they adopted after one of their many goodwill visits to an orphanage, choked to death in a military hospital in Germany.
''
        They also raised a foster child from Scotland, Marion Fleming, and a Choctaw Indian child, Mary Little Doe, called Dodie.
''
        They also raised a foster child from Scotland, Marion Fleming, and a Choctaw Indian child, Mary Little Doe, called Dodie.
The head of the Tamiment Library and the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives at New York University, Dr. Bernhardt devoted her career to documenting the lives of the largely unsung men and women who built New York City and, day in and day out, nudged it along: sandhogs and seamstresses, pipe fitters and child welfare workers, secretaries and short-order cooks.
One book, ''Hamburgers -- and Ice Cream for Dessert'' (1975), about a boy searching for food on a desert island, was inspired by her son, Adam, who for a time as a child would eat for dinner only hamburgers, mashed potatoes and peas, and ice cream.
''
        Born in Boston on Aug. 30, 1903, she was the oldest child of Lithuanian immigrants.
When she was a child, Ms. Smith says, her love of art and poetry were inspired by reading an illustrated volume of Blake's poetry, ''Songs of Innocence and Experience.
Dr. Hofmann contended that the passage to adulthood and emancipation meant difficult years for both child and parent.
She also wrote ''The Hospitalized Adolescent'' (1976), which received an American Nurses Association award, and ''Consent and Confidentiality in Child and Adolescent Care'' (1984).
The queen, a spokesman said, is both a secular and religious leader, and is ''mother, father and child -- three persons in one.
''
        A child of vaudeville performers who lived out of a trunk and put her on the stage as an 11-year-old song-and-dance girl, Ms. Coca drifted from nightclubs in the 1920's to variety shows and Broadway revues in the 1930's.
An only child, Imogene spent her early years in the theaters where her parents worked.
She tried to support herself and her child by selling toys, but soon realized that the women around her needed advice about birth control.
Miss Welty learned to read before starting public school and began turning out stories as a child.
''I don't think a television program should make a child's life complicated,'' she said in a 1955 interview.
Sometimes very innocently a television program teaches a child a trick that is not socially acceptable and, therefore, gets him into trouble.
She was also the author of ''The Single Parent Experience'' (Walker, 1973), ''The Myth of the Happy Child'' (Harper, 1975), ''How it Feels to Be a Child'' (Harper, 1975) and ''Gramercy Park: An American Bloomsbury'' (Houghton, 1987).
She was also the author of ''The Single Parent Experience'' (Walker, 1973), ''The Myth of the Happy Child'' (Harper, 1975), ''How it Feels to Be a Child'' (Harper, 1975) and ''Gramercy Park: An American Bloomsbury'' (Houghton, 1987).
Exposed to bluegrass music as a child, Ms. Kilgallen was a skillful banjo player.
Often lonely as a child, she wrote poetry and dreamed of becoming an artist or, at the very least, the local May Queen.
The same year, in the British film thriller ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' her portrayal of a sinister London medium who, with her compliant husband (Richard Attenborough), schemes to kidnap a child, won her rave reviews and an Oscar nomination as best actress.
She began singing as a child and performed in Las Vegas with Gladys Knight when she was 11.
They will never
        Hurt a child and never
        Leave justice undone,
        They are justice.
''I found him rather endearing, like a child,''Miss Greer said of Hughes in one interview.
As the child of parents who knew both the New York and Hollywood writing scenes, Ms. Sayre witnessed firsthand the struggles of writers in the crosswinds of America's anti-Communist fervor, which she later insisted both preceded and continued long after the era of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's red-hunting in the early 1950's.
''
        Nora Clemens Sayre was born on Sept. 20, 1932, in Hamilton, Bermuda, the only child of Joel Sayre, a staff writer and war correspondent for The New Yorker and occasional Hollywood screenwriter -- he wrote ''Annie Oakley'' (1935) for Barbara Stanwyck and was a co-writer on ''Gunga Din'' (1939) -- and Gertrude (Lynahan) Sayre, a reporter for The New York World.
As a child growing up on Grant's Farm, once the home of Ulysses S. Grant, Sallie rode horses, and when her father died in 1946, August Busch helped rear her.
The fifth child and third daughter of immigrants from Poland, Isaac Paul Kael and the former Judith Friedman, she was born in Petaluma, Calif., on June 19, 1919.
She received a master's in early childhood education and child development in 1945 and a doctorate in curriculum and teaching in 1948, both at Columbia Teachers College.
Alice Stewart was born on May 8, 1938, in Portchester, N.Y., the only child of Dorothy and James Stewart, a businessman and inventor specializing in the coin changers of vending machines.
Her father moved off the farm to become the sheriff of Hidalgo County, Tex., where he made his wife and only child deputies so they could travel with him over the vast territory on official business.
During World War II, Lady Jean worked in the Child Recovery Bureau of the Women's Voluntary Service finding homes for orphans, while her husband performed secret missions as a soldier in China.
She tried to quiet a crying child by offering him some macaroni and cheese.
A child of international origin -- she was born in Toronto to a Scottish mother and a Dutch father -- Ms. van der Vlis studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London and acted in Canada before moving to New York in the spring of 1956.
She worked for 25 years in direct sales, pitching child psychology books at the outset and later conducting demonstrations for Stanley Home Products at parties organized in private homes.
She worked for 25 years in direct sales, pitching child psychology books at the outset and later conducting demonstrations for Stanley Home Products at parties organized in private homes.
''
        As a child in Lake Placid, N.Y., where Carolyn Gertrude Amelia Donovan was born on March 22, 1928, she craved fashion, and struggled with home economics.
Dr. Orton tested the child and sent him back with what are known as Orton-Gillingham teaching materials devised to overcome such difficulties.
Though she acted as a child and trained in drama at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, Ms. Van Acker made her career in business.

        Louise Steinhart Loeb, a New York benefactor of child welfare agencies and other causes, died Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
In 1962, as president of its Child Development Center, she guided the center's merger with the Jewish Board of Guardians.
Reticent in interviews about her childhood except to say that her parents had ''made no room for children,'' she created an intimate self-portrait on film in the 25-minute ''My Universe Inside Out'' (1996), which hints at child abuse and her parents' burning down the family house.
