Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she was a lifelong writer who made her debut in 1968 with two books of fiction for children, ''Speaking Terms'' and ''The Sixth Seal.
During the 1950's, Ms. Giroud was married briefly and had two children.
Her biggest success after ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' was the sitcom ''Gimme a Break!,'' in which she played Miss Nellie Ruth ''Nell'' Harper, the housekeeper and surrogate mother for a widowed California police chief and his three children.

        Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who made advances in the study of perception and learning processes in children, died on Dec. 30 in Columbia, S.C. She was 92.
She cheerfully acknowledged doing most of her writing in the family car, parked several blocks away from the scrambling chaos of several children and pets (''There is nothing to do but write, after I get the glove compartment tidied up'').
Mrs. Mobley became an outspoken champion for children in poor neighborhoods and spent more than half her life keeping alive the memory of Emmett and the hope of bringing his killers to justice.
It concerns children undergoing typical childhood experiences like the first day of school and the first romance.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosen is survived by three children, Sylve, Gustin and Vera, all of Manhattan; her mother, Claire Gelb of Tucson; and two sisters, Lisa, of Eugene, Ore., and Judy, of Estes Park, Colo.
      
Her family said she recently set up a fund that will raise money for a bronchoscopy suite at Children's Hospital Boston, where she had her transplant.
When Barrymore got his bride a role in a 1940 play, ''My Dear Children,'' the most photographed, talked-about scene occurred when he held her in his lap and spanked her.

        Judy V. Wilson, long a successful publisher of children's books, most recently at Orchard Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc., died in Manhattan on Friday.
Mrs. Wilson was the president and general manager of the Macmillan Publishing Co. Children's Book Group from 1988 to 1994.
Under her leadership, the book group's distinguished children's hardcover imprints -- Macmillan, the Bradbury Press, Margaret K. McElderry Books, Atheneum, Four Winds Press and Scribner's and two paperback lines, Aladdin and Collier -- were integrated into one profitable organization with shared service departments, an innovation for the time.
She also performed in plays like ''Not for Children'' (Belfast, 1955), ''The Seagull'' and ''Saint Joan of the Stockyards'' (London, 1964) and ''The Old Country'' (London, 1977).
Lady Redgrave is survived by three children, the actors Vanessa, Corin and Lynn Redgrave, 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
In 1997, she appeared on Geraldo Rivera's television program to analyze a videotape of JonBenet Ramsey in a children's beauty contest.
Correction:  May 17, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the country music singer and songwriter June Carter Cash yesterday misidentified the father of one of her children, Rozanna Cash.
They had two children and lived quietly in Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire.
They won, and for the first time, a segregated white public school was ordered by an American court to admit black children.
Her husband, who worked as a foreman in a paper mill, had eight children, four of whom survived into adulthood, from his first marriage, but Mrs. Bulah was in her 50's and childless.
She attended English schools and then went to study music in Paris, where someone burst into one of her lessons and demanded that the master hear two children.
Ms. Belle also produced, directed and edited several short films for the Children's Television Workshop.
She married a much older man at 15 or 16, and quickly had four children.
The couple settled in Winnipeg and had five children -- John, Anne, Catherine, Meg and Sara.
Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
She was the middle of three children, the others being brothers.

        Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!
It also prompted her first book, ''Learning by Doing: An Illustrated Handbook for Parents and Teachers of Children Who Learn Slowly'' (Mafex, 1971; Ideal Publications, 1977).
'' with an introduction by Benjamin Spock (1990); ''Dear Parents: Letters to Parents of Young Children'' (Highsmith, 1995); ''1001 Activities for Children,'' with a foreword by Edward Asner (Random House, 1999); and ''Turn Off the TV And .
'' with an introduction by Benjamin Spock (1990); ''Dear Parents: Letters to Parents of Young Children'' (Highsmith, 1995); ''1001 Activities for Children,'' with a foreword by Edward Asner (Random House, 1999); and ''Turn Off the TV And .
Instead, she taught mentally retarded children in the Buffalo region for the state's Board of Cooperative Educational Services for about 30 years, even as her writing career flourished.
Correction:  July 24, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children and an author of manuals on child rearing, misstated the current name of her alma mater, which was once the State College for Teachers at Buffalo.
Dr. Lazarus is survived by her husband; two children, Margaret Ann Lazarus Sirbu and Benjamin James Lazarus Sirbu; her parents, David and Betty Lazarus of Urbana, Ill., and Chilmark, Mass.
She also recorded daily horoscopes as well as a short-lived series of seasonal messages from Mrs. Claus, which was discontinued after out-of-state parents complained about the long-distance charges run up by their children.

        Joan Lowery Nixon, a prolific, award-winning author of mysteries for children and young adults, died on Saturday in Houston.
By the early 1990's most of her books were mysteries for young adults, although she was writing books for children of all ages.
A recent book, ''Gus and Gertie and the Missing Pearl'' (2001), for children 6 to 9, was praised in The New York Times Book Review as ''an easy-to-read comic adventure with a large cast of characters.
Correction:  July 8, 2003, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Joan Lowery Nixon, an author of mysteries for children and young adults, misstated the date of her death.
Mrs. Jacobsen's first poem was printed in a children's magazine when she was 10, but she did not achieve widespread recognition until her 60's and 70's.
Her marriage to Henry Dickson McKenna ended in divorce; there were no children.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Pelosi, who lived in East Hampton, is survived by her two children, Alexa and Grego.
      
She was born Eugenia Lincoln Falkenburg on Jan. 21, 1919, in Barcelona, Spain, one of three children of Eugene Falkenburg, an engineer, and Marguerite Crooks Falkenburg, an accomplished amateur tennis player.
Miss Falkenburg and Mr. McCrary had two children, John Reagan McCrary 3d of Manhattan and Kevin Jock McCrary of Mill Neck.
Four years ago, two 11-year-old children died when they were struck by vehicles along the parade route, and a teenager died afterward after being hit by a parade sound truck.
''
        The Bronanders' client base has grown for many reasons, not the least of which is that, after putting their five children through the school system, they know practically everyone in town.
She is survived by six children: Jose, Manny and Cesar, of Detroit; Vincent, of Richmond; and Nanette Magno-Velayo and Carlo, of Manila; three sisters; a brother; 15 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
They had no children, and she left no immediate survivors.
She had no children.
She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      

        Marilyn E. Marlow, a literary agent who represented and championed many outstanding children's book writers and illustrators, especially those who wrote for teenage readers, died on Aug. 25 at the home of her niece Meg McCabe in Katonah, N.Y. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
In his book on the civil rights movement, ''The Children'' (Random House, 1998), David Halberstam called Mrs. Foster ''one of the heroes of the Selma group.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
Her mother then sneaked away and took her children to Selma.
Mrs. Foster dropped out of high school to marry and had three young children when her husband died.
She conducted reading classes for underprivileged children in a small classroom next to her home, and made it a point to take poor children to Sunday school.
She conducted reading classes for underprivileged children in a small classroom next to her home, and made it a point to take poor children to Sunday school.
Madame Chiang had no children.
She had no children.
''
        Julia Marlene Bedra was born on June 27, 1924, in Old Forge, Pa. She was one of 12 children and her father was a chiropractor, according to The Comprehensive Country Music Encyclopedia.
Born in Boston, Margaret Anne Johns earned her bachelor's degree from Hunter College, but not until she was in her late 30's, after she had raised two children.
In the 1980's, after their retirement from Harvard, the Whitings turned their attention to older children, directing the Comparative Adolescence Project.
She started in children's radio shows and ended up in Manhattan playing the piano on a national radio show for NBC as well as in clubs, under the name Marie Doherty.
''I have guarded your children well,'' she said in announcing her mayoral candidacy in 1967.
She was also a director of the New York Infirmary Hospital and a member of the Committee for Deaf and Dumb Children at Lenox Hill Hospital.
'' Embarking on a writing career relatively late in life, she was the author of books on gardening and a children's book, ''Tiny Green Thumbs.
Guest's death in 1982, the couple was prominent in international social circles, hunting in India with the Maharaja of Jaipur and frequently entertaining the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who subsequently became godparents of their children, Cornelia and Alexander.
Lucy Douglas Cochrane was born in Boston on Feb. 19, 1920, the second of five children of Alexander Lynde Cochrane, an investment banker, and Vivian Cochrane, the former Vivian Wessell.
Guest became interested in volunteer work as a debutante in Boston and was active in numerous charitable organizations over the years, including the Children's Research and Asthma Institute, the Police Athletic League and the March of Dimes.
'' Embarking on a writing career relatively late in life, she was the author of books on gardening and a children's book, ''Tiny Green Thumbs.
Guest's death in 1982, the couple was prominent in international social circles, hunting in India with the Maharaja of Jaipur and frequently entertaining the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who subsequently became godparents of their children, Cornelia and Alexander.
Lucy Douglas Cochrane was born in Boston on Feb. 19, 1920, the second of five children of Alexander Lynde Cochrane, an investment banker, and Vivian Cochrane, the former Vivian Wessell.
Guest became interested in volunteer work as a debutante in Boston and was active in numerous charitable organizations over the years, including the Children's Research and Asthma Institute, the Police Athletic League and the March of Dimes.
She stayed about 20 years in the villages of the Abruzzi region helping to establish 300 nurseries for Save the Children, a nonprofit organization.
Her real adventure began when she met Gianna Thompson, the daughter of a Milanese aristocrat, who ran Save the Children's operation in the Abruzzi region.
She quit after the war, when told she could keep the job if she moved to Tulsa, Okla.
        For many years, she taught swimming to children at the Lexington School for the Deaf in New York.
Of the firing, which started a long family feud, Mrs. Sebastiani would say only that she loved her three children equally, but that she and Sam ''just don't make wine together.
In addition to her children, she is survived by her sister, Rose Scarafoni Millerick of Sonoma; 12 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
Though the agency had accounts from burglar alarms to wallpaper, it specialized in the fashion industry, creating campaigns for clients like Barneys and Kate Greenaway, a maker of children's clothing.
The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own.
Mrs. Stevenson nurtured other Theater Wing programs, including the Hospital Program, which takes plays and cabaret shows to hospitals, nursing homes and AIDS centers and, for many years, a Theater for Children, which produced plays for thousands of New York public-school students each year.
In 1956 when all the children were in school, Mrs. Stevenson joined the board of the American Theater Wing, and when Helen Menken, then the president, died in 1965, she was elected president.
