The house in Houston in which she and her husband lived and raised their five children was open to people of every age, nationality, color and religion.
Some years after they settled in Houston, they asked Philip Johnson to build them a house for them and their five children.
She had been working there at the Children's Consultation Service, in charge of a testing and counseling center for children ages 3 to 16.
She had been working there at the Children's Consultation Service, in charge of a testing and counseling center for children ages 3 to 16.
''
        A soft-spoken woman who herself had worked part time while her children were young, she devoted her life to fighting that waste, to raising expectations among and about women and to creating opportunities for them.
Born in Brooklyn in 1910, she was one of four children of Mary Shotwell Ingraham, who was president of both the Brooklyn Young Women's Christian Association and the Y.W.C.A.
While her four children were young, she spent more time at home, in Bethany, Conn.
But even with young children, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was a 4-H leader, served on the library and school boards and was one of the organizers and directors of the Public Health Nursing Association.
To most of the guests, however, she was a warm and cordial woman who knew the regulars by name, inquired after their children and set such an inspiring standard of scurrying service that it is hardly surprising that the kitchen's two-dozen scurrying volunteers are all former guests.
By the time she got to Brooklyn in 1971, she had spent 25 years working with children in homes in Boston, Buffalo and Philadelphia.
She worked with the Neighborhood Children's Center for more than two decades, was a member of the New York City Human Rights Commission, served on the Hospitality Committee of the United Nations in the 1960's, and became a board member of the Vivian Beaumont Theater, a board member of Lincoln Center in the 1980's and a trustee of Carnegie Hall.
They had no children.
But when her husband, Albert, died at the age of 33 in the early 1940's, leaving her with three young children, she pulled up stakes, moved to Washington and went to work, first as a secretary for Catholic Charities and later as an independent public relations woman.
Besides Mr. Osmundsen, she is survived by twin children, Jonathan Eric, of Washington, and Mirjana Erika Dougherty of Baltimore; her father, Irvin Binns of the Bronx; a sister, Heather Habeger of New City, N.Y.; a brother, Roger Binns of Wayne, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      

        Alice Marie Miel, an educator who was among the earliest to advance the notion that curriculum in the nation's classrooms should have a role in preparing children for the society they will enter as adults, died on Jan. 31 at the North Florida Regional Medical Center in Gainesville.
Her concern was that too many American children were growing up without a clue to their country's social and racial diversity.
In the book ''More Than Social Studies'' (Prentice-Hall, 1957) she coined the term ''social educator,'' whose classroom becomes ''a particular setting in which children can experience democratic living.
''
        She had particular trouble with the way children were being reared in the white suburbs of the 1960's, which she wrote about in a four-year study published in 1967, ''The Shortchanged Children of Suburbia.
''
        She had particular trouble with the way children were being reared in the white suburbs of the 1960's, which she wrote about in a four-year study published in 1967, ''The Shortchanged Children of Suburbia.
'' She concluded that these children were  being deprived of the ''rich diversity of American life,'' never knowing an African-American or poor youngster their own age.
People of all ages said they learned a lot about 20th century history listening to Mrs. Lollis, but it was the children whose eyes would get the widest and who would listen the hardest when Mrs. Lollis stood up and started telling stories about how things were in the old days.
You don't say there's 37 wounded children in this hospital, but maybe there's 38 wounded children on the other side.
You don't say there's 37 wounded children in this hospital, but maybe there's 38 wounded children on the other side.
Mrs. Milbank was born in New Haven on Aug. 23, 1916, one of eight children of Rose Marie and John Day Jackson, owner of the New Haven Register and the New Haven Journal-Courier.
Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
''She was always very concerned about children and the institutional way in which medicine treats them.
She joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School as an instructor in pediatrics in 1969, rising to become an assistant professor of pediatrics and chief of the behavior unit in the Children's Service of the Massachusetts General Hospital.
Based on her experiences there, she wrote another book, ''Healing at Home: A Guide to Health Care for Children'' (Beacon Press, 1978) She returned to the Boston area to practice pediatrics and psychotherapy.
In 1977, during its crackdown on leftists, the military dictatorship that ran Argentina at the time abducted her three adult children, Luis, Lila, and Claudio, and presumably killed them.
Today, the protests at the Plaza de Mayo are still held every Thursday as the elderly mothers don their trademark white head scarfs with the names of missing children scrawled in ink.

        Augusta Braxston Baker, a spellbinding storyteller, editor and former custodian of the children's section at the New York Public Library, died on Feb. 23 at Baptist Medical Center in Columbia, S.C. A Columbia resident since 1980, she was 86 and formerly lived in St. Albans, Queens.
Mrs. Baker was associated with the New York Public Library for 37 years, until her retirement in 1974 as coordinator of children's services and supervisor of storytelling for all its branches.
She also conducted a weekly broadcast, ''The World of Children's Literature,'' on WNYC radio in the 1970's and continued as a visiting lecturer on library sciences at Columbia University until 1979.
Columbia established a yearly storytelling festival in her honor in 1987,  called ''A(ugusta) Baker's Dozen,'' and the Association of Library Services to Children of the American Library Association in 1993 cited her for a Distinguished Services Award, its highest tribute to a member.
Mrs. Baker was admired as someone who could enchant children and their parents alike.
Over the years she also reviewed children's books for The New York Times and was a  judge of its Book Review's list of best-illustrated books.
She was a past chairwoman of the Newbery Caldecott Committee, which bestows medals each year on the authors and illustrators of the children's books deemed the most distinguished.
She joined the New York Public Library in 1937 as a children's librarian for its Countee Cullen Branch in Harlem.
While at the Harlem branch she helped build its James Weldon Johnson Collection of quality books about the black experience and in 1946 compiled a bibliography, ''Books About Negro Life for Children.
''
        She advanced to the main branch in 1961 as assistant coordinator and storytelling expert and was named  coordinator of children's services in 1961.
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      
She was given custody of the children, child support, a settlement and further payments until she remarried.
E. J. Kahn, Mr. Whitney's biographer, reported that years later one of the daughters, Kate, once took her own children on a tour of the White House.
In addition to her husband and three children, Mrs. Harrington is survived by two sisters, Agnes Tate-Sanders and Tamogene Tate, both of Philadelphia, and a brother, Jay-Cee Tate of North Carolina.
''
        Ms. Rysanek was born in Vienna on Nov. 14, 1926, one of six children of a Czech father, a stonecutter, later a chauffeur, and an Austrian mother.

        Baroness Lestor of Eccles, a crusading British politician who spoke out against apartheid in defiance of her Government's policies and who struck a blow on behalf of single mothers when she won the right to adopt two children on her own, died in a hospice in London on Friday.
Lady Lestor had two great causes in her life: the fight against racism and the fight for the rights of children, and was never afraid to criticize her party when she disagreed with its policies.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
With the Conservatives in power through the 1980's and into the 1990's, Ms. Lestor worked as the opposition's chief spokeswoman on a number of issues, including children and the family, juvenile crime and race relations.
A flamboyant, warmhearted woman who listed her hobbies in Who's Who as ''playing with children and animals,'' Lady Lestor relished adversarial politics and was not shy about telling people what she thought, in the plainest possible language.
She wanted children, nonetheless, and fought for the right to adopt them herself, despite being single.
The daughter of a fisherman who operated a hotel, Mrs. Meilleur, whose maiden name was Levesque, was educated at a local convent, married a man named Leclerc and had four children before her husband died of pneumonia in the early years of the century.
In 1915 she married Hector Meilleur and moved to Rapide des Joachims, Quebec, where her husband worked as a forest ranger during the summer and as a lumberman during the winter, while Mrs. Meilleur had six more children, bringing her total to 10.
She later lived in Morgan City and New Orleans, where she met her husband, Joseph Ellis Cormier, who had six children when the couple were married.
Together they had seven more children, but Mrs. Cormier, who brought up all 13, refused to make a distinction between the two sets of children and claimed them all as her own.
Together they had seven more children, but Mrs. Cormier, who brought up all 13, refused to make a distinction between the two sets of children and claimed them all as her own.
In addition to four children, Gabriel Vaugh of Barrie, Olive Therrien of Peterborough, Rita Coote of Deep River and Ernie Meilleur, who lives in the same nursing home his mother lived in, Mrs. Meilleur is survived by 85 grandchildren, 80 great-grandchildren, 57 great-great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-great-grandchildren.
They also aided the homeless with training, jobs in the Greyston Bakery and children's services.
In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
Dr. Lukomnik is survived by her husband, Len Rodberg; two children, Simon and Josie Rodberg of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Lukomnik of the Bronx, and her brothers, David and Jon Lukomnik, both of Manhattan.
      
Notable productions of the company include Puccini's ''Villi,'' Britten's ''Rape of Lucretia,'' ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and ''Noye's Fludde,'' Weill's ''Threepenny Opera'' and an annual staging for children of Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors.
Her educational efforts included a program called Create, an acronym for Collaborative Resources for the Education and Artistic Training of Every Child, and the Brooklyn Children's Chorus.
She specialized in troubled children.

        Dr. Viola Wertheim Bernard, a prominent New York psychiatrist who found ways to help adopted and foster children feel at home in new surroundings, died on March 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Her prescription for easing the way for adopted children into a new home was to arrange for them to visit the new place in advance.
''Helping children to see where they are going reduces the fear of strangeness,'' she advised.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
She was also known for her ''little'' dinners, generally served on small plates on children's furniture, but once, for a visiting niece who really wasn't very hungry, she served up breakfast on doll house china.
Harlem Textile Works began in 1984 as a part of the Children's Art Carnival, a program that teaches children to read and write, using drawing, painting, photography, puppet making and the like during free after-school programs.
Harlem Textile Works began in 1984 as a part of the Children's Art Carnival, a program that teaches children to read and write, using drawing, painting, photography, puppet making and the like during free after-school programs.
Ms. Wolsky joined the staff of Children's Art Carnival 14 years ago.
She was one of nine children of a couple who had emigrated from Eastern Europe to New York, where her father worked in a shoe factory.
She worked first at the Methodist Publishing House in Nashville, then in 1962 joined its children's department, Abingdon Press, in New York City.
She later worked at Viking Press and E. P. Dutton, then led the children's departments at Van Nostrand, J. P. Lippincott and Lothrop, Lee & Shepard.
''
        So she spent the next eight years raising her children and appearing with her husband on a successful Sunday evening radio program, ''The Phil Harris-Alice Faye Show.
''
        So she spent the next eight years raising her children and appearing with her husband on a successful Sunday evening radio program, ''The Phil Harris-Alice Faye Show.
In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.

        Joan Mareskas Kormendi, the longtime artistic director of the Children's Repertory Group, whose child actors performed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 18 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
One critic, Meyer Levin, wrote in the 1960's that Mrs. Kormendi ''lets her children act like children do when they make up their own plays -- only she brings this to the point of art.
One critic, Meyer Levin, wrote in the 1960's that Mrs. Kormendi ''lets her children act like children do when they make up their own plays -- only she brings this to the point of art.
''
        Miss Nolan, one of three children of Ada and Edward Nolan, a union official, was born in Los Angeles in 1911.
''
        Ms. Merritt is survived by her husband of 52 years, Benjamin Hines, and by four children, Norman, Benjamin Jr. and Denise, all of Hollis, and Dennis, of St. Louis.
''
        She retired from full-time filmmaking in 1942 to bring up the children (eventually seven) she had with her husband, John V. Farrow, a movie writer, director and producer, and made only occasional films until 1963.
''
        Woody Allen gave Ms. O'Sullivan her most luminous screen role, when she was 75, in his 1986 hit ''Hannah and Her Sisters,'' in which her children included her daughter Mia.
In addition to Mr. Cushing and Mia Farrow (who lives in Connecticut), she is survived by five other children, Patrick and Theresa, both of  Vermont, John Jr. of Maryland, Prudence of Iowa, and Stephanie of New York City; 32 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
''The real way to bind children to you is to let them go,'' she said.
Eventually, all three of the couple's children worked in the company.
At her death, Mrs. Kraus was the director of general services at the New York City Association for the Help of Retarded Children.
The band grew with the occasional addition of Maybelle's children, including Helen.
She is survived by two children, Lucas and Sara Matthiessen, both of East Northport, and two grandsons.
      
Dr. Timoner was there, too, and, well, it's an old story, and by the time she began giving it her own personal twist, Ms. Timoner had been married at 18, had had two children by the time she graduated and had endured a grin-and-bear-it decade as a distinctly restless housewife and mother.
Her vinyl recast of the formerly all-cloth Cabbage Patch doll in the early 1980's for the toy company Coleco Industries set off a frenzy among parents to obtain the dolls for their children or, perhaps, for themselves.
Her instinct for what would make a doll appeal to children appeared to be innate.

        Lillian Hoban, who illustrated or wrote more than 100 children's books, including those featuring a badger named Frances and a chimpanzee named Arthur, died on July 17 at New York and Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
The cause was heart failure, said her principal publisher, HarperCollins Children's Books.
She first established herself as an illustrator in the 1960's, providing the drawings for the ''Frances'' series written by her husband, Russell Hoban, a prolific author of children's books.
She taught herself to draw still lifes, using crayons and pastels, and started writing stories after she had her own children, basing her tales on their everyday adventures.
She also played a prominent role in the National Arts Club's creative writing program for public-school children, hoping to whet their taste for reading and writing.
As she marched us down our front stairs, she would say what our smiles were on tiptoe to hear, 'Come on, children, let's go out and  drive the white folks crazy.

        Corinne Greenberg Levin, an advocate for children and the director of the independent Teacher Center in New Haven since its founding 27 years ago, died on July 27 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. A New Haven resident, she was 68.

        Shari Lewis, who used her estimable skills as a ventriloquist and puppeteer to win 12 Emmy Awards and the hearts of parents and their children for four decades with a woolly hand puppet named Lamb Chop, died on Sunday at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
'' The series began last January and has been a mainstay of PBS programming for children.
Earlier this year, Ms. Lewis said she got the idea for ''The Charlie Horse Music Pizza'' during a conversation with her husband, the publisher Jeremy Tarcher, in which they decided that what children liked most was music, pizza and the beach.
Although she was never a schoolteacher, she knew how to reach children with her puppet  sidekicks, chief among them being Lamb Chop, an ageless curly- haired creature who would interrupt Ms. Lewis with all manner of observations and questions.
Lamb Chop was arguably her most beloved puppet, but in the eyes of children who watched her shows, Charlie Horse and Hush Puppy weren't far behind.
She was a playmate who loved good music and throughout her career she invented ways to encourage children to love it as she did.
She did not limit herself to using her sock puppets to persuade children that they ought to learn an instrument.
She took to the podium and conducted symphony orchestras in the United States, Canada and Japan, offering music she thought children would like, especially the sounds of Beethoven, Bizet, Mozart and Stravinsky.
She wrote 60 books for children, including ''Magic For Nonmagicians,'' ''Things That Kids Collect,'' ''One-Minute Bedtime Stories,'' ''One-Minute Favorite Fairy Tales'' and ''One-Minute Greek Myths.
'' She also made many recordings, filmstrips and videos for children.
Ms. Lewis returned to children's television in the United States with ''Lamb Chop's Play-Along.
''
        Peggy Charren, a longtime champion of better television programming for children and a close friend of Ms. Lewis's, recalled yesterday what it was like when Ms. Lewis, accompanied by Lamb Chop, showed up in Washington in 1993 to appear before the House Telecommunications Subcommittee, which was holding hearings on how to strengthen the provisions of the Children's Television Act of 1990.
''
        Peggy Charren, a longtime champion of better television programming for children and a close friend of Ms. Lewis's, recalled yesterday what it was like when Ms. Lewis, accompanied by Lamb Chop, showed up in Washington in 1993 to appear before the House Telecommunications Subcommittee, which was holding hearings on how to strengthen the provisions of the Children's Television Act of 1990.
So Ms. Lewis remained and Lamb Chop, who always rose to the occasion, gave an impassioned speech about the need for Government to care about children and children's television and to protect young viewers from junk.
So Ms. Lewis remained and Lamb Chop, who always rose to the occasion, gave an impassioned speech about the need for Government to care about children and children's television and to protect young viewers from junk.
Wayside House offers programs of intensive therapy and rehabilitation for alcohol and drug abuse, along with family and children's counseling.
Based on his experience as a customer and as an acquaintance of her children, Mr. Buffett made the acquisition on a handshake without bothering to audit her books or inventory.
Mrs. Blumkin was born Dec. 3, 1893, in Schidrin, a village near Minsk, one of eight children of Solomon and Chasia Gorelick.
The Blumkins had four children by the time the Depression struck.
Ms. Bernadino, born in Seibo in the Dominican Republic, was the granddaughter of a provincial governor and one of seven children in a family that was unusually liberal on women's rights.
In her long life of fighting for women's and children's rights, Ms. Bernardino won many honors.
The books dealt with serious themes in such detail that it is little wonder that Mrs. Irwin's children, who appear in various guises throughout the series, would want the world to know that their mother did not draw on their experiences in exploring problems like teen-age suicide (''So Long at the Fair''), alcoholism (''Can't Hear You Listening'') or racism (''Kim/Kimi''), let alone incest, the breakthrough subject of the 1985 Hadley Irwin book, ''Abby, My Love.
''
        But Mrs. Irwin really did not need her children as models.
''We were dazzled by her speed, humbled by her talent and captivated by her style,'' President Clinton said yesterday, praising Griffith Joyner's work with disadvantaged children.
Delorez Florence Griffith was born Dec. 21, 1959, in the Watts section of Los Angeles, the seventh of 11 children.

        Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home in Windham, Conn. A resident of Mansfield Hollow, Conn., she was 85 and had been a professor at the University of Connecticut.
Had they been aware of her record of ad hoc social activism, her superiors might have had second thoughts about relegating Dr. Butler, a small woman with a will of steel, to children's literature, a course so scorned by the Connecticut English faculty that it was known derisively as ''kiddie lit.
'' Certainly her superiors would not have been as surprised as they were when Dr. Butler, sensing that the academic disdain for children's literature reflected a disdain both for children and for women as children's traditional caretakers and teachers, proceeded to turn the course into a platform for reform.
'' Certainly her superiors would not have been as surprised as they were when Dr. Butler, sensing that the academic disdain for children's literature reflected a disdain both for children and for women as children's traditional caretakers and teachers, proceeded to turn the course into a platform for reform.
'' Certainly her superiors would not have been as surprised as they were when Dr. Butler, sensing that the academic disdain for children's literature reflected a disdain both for children and for women as children's traditional caretakers and teachers, proceeded to turn the course into a platform for reform.
Although children's literature had been taught in American universities since the turn of the century, generally as part of the library science or education curriculums, it was a reflection of the subject's lowly standing that it had no academic association and no academic journal.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
Some of her colleagues predictably complained that the course's success was based more on showmanship than scholarship, but Dr. Butler, many of whose students went on to to teach children's literature at other colleges, was no slacker as a scholar.
For all the acclaim she won, Dr. Butler chafed at what she saw as Connecticut's indifference or active opposition to her efforts to wrest children's literature from its vocational moorings and place it within the humanities.
(Later, when Connecticut seemed to shun the annual Peace Games Festival she established to teach children conflict resolution through games that rewarded cooperation over competition, she moved it to Harvard.
At her death,  she was a board member emeritus of the Archives of American Art and the Guildhall of East Hampton, N.Y.
        She is survived by two children, Otto L. Spaeth Jr. of Rye, N.Y., and Mary Louise Koon of St. Louis; 16 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
The beneficiaries of her philanthropy included organizations trying to control population growth and to give women the right to choose the number of children they have.
Edey became a psychiatrist after her four children were born and had a remarkable professional career, both as a psychiatrist and as an individual who was very much concerned about women's reproductive health and rights.
Miss Rhinelander was a benefactor of several charities, including Save the Children and the restoration of the Bell Tower of the Church of the Holy Trinity.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl, who died at home in Leutkirch, in southern Germany, is survived by four of her five children, Eva, Florian, Julian and Manuel; another child, Pia, died in a car accident in 1975, and her husband died in 1991.
      
Mrs. Hamerstrom, who was born in Needham, Mass., is survived by two children, Elva Hamerstrom Paulson of Roseburg, Ore., and Alan Hamerstrom of Arnold, Md.
Mrs. Barger, whose husband, Ernest, was a plumber who later operated a bowling alley managed by his wife, was the mother of two children when she joined a housewife's duckpin league in the late 1930's and discovered that she had a rare talent for a difficult game.
She is survived by two children, Pascale and Nicolas, both of Montreal, from her first marriage to Jacques Galipeau, which ended in divorce.
      
Mother Cleusa is survived by three other children as well.
Her theatrical training, coupled with her carriage, poise and authoritative voice, helped her to get her message across that children are born sexual beings and remain so until they die and that people of all ages need and deserve a proper sexual education.
Her imposing appearance combined with her strong personality helped her advance her causes and also to defend them against attacks by groups like the Christian Crusade, the John Birch Society and Moral Majority, who contended that her promotion of sex education in schools was encouraging a premature and unhealthy participation in sexual experience and usurping the role of parents in guiding their children's lives.
'' She reminded her critics that modern children were in desperate need of sex education because they were sexually vulnerable: ''devoid of chaperones, supervision, rules and close family relations and subject to onslaughts of commercial sexual exploitation.
Through Siecus she established Parent Learning Centers to teach adults about their own sexuality as well as their children's.
The writer James Michener introduced her to Edwin O. Reischauer, a widower with three children and a Harvard professor of Japanese Studies.
''
        Ms. Crockett is survived by her husband, Robert O. Crockett Jr.; three children, Jennifer, Elizabeth and Robert, and three grandchildren.
      

        Elizabeth Chapman Gilkeson, an educator associated with the Bank Street College of Education for more than four decades and the founding director of its School for Children, died on Oct. 7 at her home in lower Manhattan.
She joined the staff in 1955 as head of the children's program division; though she retired in the 1970's, she  remained active in the college's affairs, including its seminars on professional development.
The predecessor to the School for Children had its modest start in 1919, three years after Bank Street College opened as the Bureau of Educational Experiments.
Under Mrs. Gilkeson's guidance, what began as an interdisciplinary program with nine toddlers took shape as an innovative learning environment in which young children were encouraged to interact with teachers, parents, their urban surroundings and one another.
After joining the full-time staff, she expanded the School for Children beyond the nursery years to include pupils through the eighth grade, developed programs for children and parents and founded the Polly Miller Child Center in Marble Hill.
After joining the full-time staff, she expanded the School for Children beyond the nursery years to include pupils through the eighth grade, developed programs for children and parents and founded the Polly Miller Child Center in Marble Hill.
She supervised psychiatric residents from Albert Einstein Medical School at the School for Children, developed the multidisciplinary 42d Street Early Childhood Center for children and parents, and directed a national Head Start project as well as Bank Street's participation in the Federal Office of Education's National Follow Through Programs.
She supervised psychiatric residents from Albert Einstein Medical School at the School for Children, developed the multidisciplinary 42d Street Early Childhood Center for children and parents, and directed a national Head Start project as well as Bank Street's participation in the Federal Office of Education's National Follow Through Programs.

        Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Rockland County service organization for the developmentally disabled that she founded in 1969.
And if her refrigerator to-do list was a bit longer than most, she did, after all, have five children with varying needs to take care of.
As the children came along, Mrs. Lukens simply dealt with their needs as a matter of routine, feeding them, keeping them clean, nursing them through childhood illnesses and sending them off to school and camp.
When her fourth son, David, turned out to be autistic, for example, and she discovered there were no camps in Rockland County for children with such developmental disabilities, Mrs. Lukens, who had previously helped start a nursery school for her three older sons, did the obvious thing: She started a camp for David.
She called it Camp Venture, and if at first it was more venture than camp, when it comes to taking care of children, one thing tends to lead to another, and almost before Mrs. Lukens knew it, David had grown up and she had built Camp Venture into a sprawling multiservice organization with an $18 million, largely Medicaid-financed, annual budget that now operates 15 supervised group homes, 4 day service centers and  other programs that serve about 1,000 Rockland County adults and children with an array of developmental disorders, including autism, Down syndrome and cerebral palsy.
She called it Camp Venture, and if at first it was more venture than camp, when it comes to taking care of children, one thing tends to lead to another, and almost before Mrs. Lukens knew it, David had grown up and she had built Camp Venture into a sprawling multiservice organization with an $18 million, largely Medicaid-financed, annual budget that now operates 15 supervised group homes, 4 day service centers and  other programs that serve about 1,000 Rockland County adults and children with an array of developmental disorders, including autism, Down syndrome and cerebral palsy.
To be sure, Mrs. Lukens, who told David's story in a 1989 novella, ''Song of David,'' had some help, including loving assistance from her husband, Dr. John H. Lukens, a clinical psychologist, from David's four siblings, including his little sister, and from other parents, some of whom moved to Rockland County so they could join Mrs. Lukens's enterprise and their children could benefit from Camp Venture.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
David, now 36, has what his family describes as a happy life, living at a Camp Venture group home in New City, N.Y., and participating in activities at a Camp Venture day services center, all thanks to the efforts of a more or less ordinary woman who saw her duty as making sure her children got the care they needed.
      
In time, she advised Francis Cardinal Spellman, the Archbishop of New York, on real estate, her children said.
''It was my decision, and I did it because of the children,'' she told Mr. Isaacson.
Miss Hobson also did volunteer work, for a leprosy relief organization and for children with mental handicaps.
She was the 10th of 18 children and her father was a farmer.
Ms. Rolle's marriage ended in divorce and she had no children, her publicist said.
Among her other inventions, Mr. Malsed said, were large, irregular-shaped interlocking beads sold as ''jewelry'' for children.
''
        ''My mother had always listened carefully to children,'' Mr. Malsed said, ''so she immediately got father to go to the basement, take the wheels off another toy and try to solder them on a Slinky spring.

        Rumer Godden, the prolific British author of ''Black Narcissus'' and  ''The River,'' and a writer of children's books that are enjoyed throughout the world, died on Sunday at her home in Dumfriesshire, Scotland.
In a career that began in 1935, Ms. Godden published some 70 novels, children's books, memoirs, biographies and collections of poetry and  stories, many set in India, where she spent her childhood and had her first success as a writer.
Five years later Jean Renoir, the  French director, made ''The River,'' recognized as one of the great color films, an adaptation of Ms. Godden's novel about English children growing up in Bengal.
She was frequently praised for her rich settings and sensitive psychological portraits of children and headstrong, independent women.
''And she has a wonderful way with fictional children, tender and true and never sentimental.
A Love of Dance And of Children
        Ms. Godden returned to India in 1925 and opened a dancing school for children in Calcutta three years later, one of the first of its kind in that city.
A Love of Dance And of Children
        Ms. Godden returned to India in 1925 and opened a dancing school for children in Calcutta three years later, one of the first of its kind in that city.
Although the couple subsequently had two daughters, their marriage ended in 1941 after Foster joined the army, leaving Ms. Godden with the children and huge gambling debts.
She moved with her children from Calcutta into the mountains of Kashmir, living in an isolated house set amid almond and cherry orchards.
She supported her family through writing, teaching the local children, watching over the children of women doing war work in Calcutta, and selling herbal teas.
She supported her family through writing, teaching the local children, watching over the children of women doing war work in Calcutta, and selling herbal teas.
''Kingfishers Catch Fire,'' a 1953 novel, concerned a widow and her two children living in Kashmir among people so poor that even a nail is worth stealing.
''The Battle of the Villa Fiorita'' (1963), a novel set in Italy about an adulterous affair seen through the eyes of two children who refuse to allow their mother to leave them and establish a new life, was also made into a film.
''The Doll's House,'' the first and perhaps best known of her nearly two dozen children's books, appeared in 1947.
Like children, the dolls cannot act independently, but they can feel and wish for rooms of their own and comfortable feather beds.
''There are several things children  will not put up with in a book,'' she once observed.
''
        Ms. Godden's interest in children's literature also led her to write a biography of Hans Christian Andersen, compile a children's edition of Emily Dickinson's poems and translate two collections of verse by the French poet Carmen Bernos de Gasztold.
''
        Ms. Godden's interest in children's literature also led her to write a biography of Hans Christian Andersen, compile a children's edition of Emily Dickinson's poems and translate two collections of verse by the French poet Carmen Bernos de Gasztold.
She was given many prizes for her children's books and was awarded an Order of the British Empire in 1993.
She continued to write  widely translated children's books like ''The Little Chair'' (1996) and adult romances like ''Pippa Passes'' (1994), the story of a novice ballerina who falls in love with a gondolier in Venice.
or AIDS, as well as for providing music and fine-arts classes in public elementary schools, for treating abused children and preventing child abuse and for serving hot meals for elderly Greenwich Villagers to eat together.
She toured nationally in Robert Patrick's ''Kennedy's Children,'' Neil Simon's ''God's Favorite'' and with Ben Bagley's revue, ''The Decline and Fall of the Entire World as Seen Through the Eyes of Cole Porter.
Young viewers knew her as Midge Smoot on the PBS children's television show, ''Shining Time Station.
Ms. Beriosova performed in children's roles with the Ballet Russe and at 15 became an apprentice with the Marquis de Cuevas's Grand Ballet de Monte Carlo.
Mrs. Donnelly, the eldest of the Murphys' three children and the only one to reach adulthood, published a biography of her parents, ''Sara & Gerald: Villa America and After'' (Times Books) written with Richard N. Billings, in 1982.
) The couple lived in Carmel, Calif., and later in McLean, Va. Mrs. Donnelly, who was widowed in 1988, is survived by their children, John, of Palm Beach Shores; Sherman, of Key Biscayne, Fla., and Laura, of East Hampton, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Because centers could not be created fast enough, Dr. Nyswander advocated the nationwide training of temporary ''foster parents'' who could look after the children of working women.
In 1939, she served as director of the City Health Center in Astoria, Queens, and promoted the idea that New York City should keep close tabs on the health of its children through records that would follow them when they moved to new schools.
They had no children.
)
        What makes her accomplishments even more impressive is that over the course of a a career in which she wrote hundreds of poems, a single collection of short stories, a couple of children's books, a handful of novels, the words to five operas and one acclaimed masterpiece, Miss Lewis pursued a literary life in which the focus was on the life and the life was one of such placid equilibrium and domestic bliss that she had to reach deep down in her psyche -- and far back in the annals of criminal law -- to find the wellspring of tension that produced some of the 20th century's most vividly imagined and finely wrought literature.
As she once observed, women of prodigious literary output, like Willa Cather and Edith Wharton, tended not to have children.
As the mother of two, Miss Lewis willingly put her work aside when her children were young and cheerfully accepted other duties as well.

        Gyo Fujikawa, a prolific author and illustrator of children's books, including some of the first to feature children of many races, died on Nov. 26 at New York Hospital.

        Gyo Fujikawa, a prolific author and illustrator of children's books, including some of the first to feature children of many races, died on Nov. 26 at New York Hospital.
I try to draw children in such a way that they convey the emotion or the action or whatever it is that I'm talking about.
In her autobiographical sketch, written in her later years, she said, ''I am flattered when people ask me how I know so much about how children think and feel.
Although I have never had children of my own, and cannot say I had a particularly marvelous childhood, perhaps I can say I am still like a child myself.
''Never again need you be embarrassed by smearing friends, children, relatives, husband, sweetheart,'' the early advertising said, pointing out that older formulations tended to leave greasy marks on glasses, cigarettes and teeth.
''
        Hazel Bishop was born in Hoboken, N.J.. on Aug. 17, 1906, one of two children of Henry and Mabel Bishop.
Her relief work included arranging for British recipients to get medicine and other supplies from American donors and helping evacuate British children to the United States.
