Anne O'Hanlon was a child of the Depression, the youngest of seven children born to Irish immigrant parents in Hell's Kitchen, on the West Side of Manhattan.
''
        Her joy was seeing a child learn a  lesson about plants.
''
        Despite the distractions of Paris, Ms. Hebert set seven of her eight novels in the rural Quebec she had known as a child.
As a child she was given fabric scraps as playthings and soon began sewing and designing.
Ms. Harris was born in Chicago on Sept. 15, 1943, the only child of Dewey and Clara Townsend Harris.
She became acquainted with a local photographer, who had discovered several child stars, including Ginger Rogers, and believed she had a bright future.
But like many immigrants, the Sokolows prized culture and sent Anna as a child to study dancing at a settlement house.
Shortly after Schmirler gave birth to her second child last summer, following a difficult pregnancy, doctors discovered a malignant tumor in her chest cavity.

        Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, an author whose ability to recreate the sensibilities of a child informed many well-loved books she wrote for young readers, died on March 1 at her home in Washington.
Mrs. de Regniers was born in Lafayette, Ind., and raised in nearby Crawfordsville, a place where, she wrote, a child could ''gather violets, live in a tree, walk in the woods -- be.
In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.
A restless child, she was a frequent truant and runaway.
''
        By that time the center's services, besides family counseling, had come to include child care, a food bank, job placement, a sports league, centers for teenagers, even a thrift shop.
''
        Claire Trevor was born Claire Wemlinger on March 8, 1909, in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, the only child of Noel and Betty Wemlinger.
She was a member of the Children's Books Committee of the Child Study Association and of the Committee on Childhood Education of the Public Education Association.
As both a singer and songwriter, Ms. Robinson, who described herself as a latchkey child with a bohemian upbringing, exemplified the New York musical melting pot in the late 1960's and 70's with its colliding echoes of pop, rock, gospel and Broadway.
'' Ms. Fitzgerald published her first novel, a mystery, ''The Golden Child,'' in 1977, when she was 60.
''At Freddie's,'' 1982, was based on her job teaching child actors.
Mrs. Beardsley's first husband, Lt. Richard Dale North, a Navy pilot, died in a fighter-jet crash in 1960, when she was six months pregnant with their eighth child.
''I was the oldest of the North boys,'' said Nicholas North, who became a middle child.

        Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92.
In 1985 she organized a symposium, ''Toward a Unified Science of Behavioral Development,'' for the Society for Research in Child Development.
''
        A precocious child, Ms. Trent began her career at the age of 3 1/2, when she performed in a short film with Fatty Arbuckle.
'' She never could find books on nature as a child, she said, so at 11 she decided she was going to write them.
In 1932 she married Harry Rubin, who died in 1971; the couple's only child, Michael, died in 1959.
The eldest daughter in her poor family, Ms. Goncalves da Silva was born in 1922 in Madureira, another Rio neighborhood, and moved to Mangueira as a child.
Immersed as she was in music as a child, Ms. Goncalves da Silva, not surprisingly, made samba central to her life, which was always one of economic hardship.
An abandoned New York City child she took under her wing when he was 4 is now a lawyer who will help direct a foundation to be set up in her honor.
In 1964, Dr. Martin took an extended vacation from Bellevue to go south, where she worked in the Mississippi Child Development Center, the forerunner of Head Start.
She accepted an assignment in Poland, this time with her husband, although she was pregnant with Ernst's child.
Ms. Battle began making furs about 10 years ago, though in a sense, she started as a child when she and her sister would take skins given to them by their father, an avid hunter, and turn them into blankets and doll clothes.
''
        So Miss Young, who had studied ballet as a child, asked for a retake in which she entered the set and pirouetted before walking toward the camera.
Miss Young attended a convent school and began appearing as a child extra in movies, often working with her older sisters, Polly Ann and Betty Jane.
She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.
By 1951, she was studying child development at the University of Illinois's Chicago campus, where she met and married Leonard Sagan, a medical student.
In the 1960's she also helped found the Child Development Group of Mississippi.
Mrs. Simmons, who was the adopted child of the English actress Margaret Rutherford, had Parkinson's disease, said her daughter, Natasha.
Gordon was the illegitimate child of Jack Copper, Sackville-West's chauffeur (a grandfather was Rudyard Kipling's gardener) and Marjorie Hall Ticehurst, who came, Mrs. Simmons always said, from a high social class.
''Had she lived a little longer, Vita would have been intrigued to know that the child 'Dinky,' as she called me, would become a real-life Orlando,'' Mrs. Simmons wrote in her memoir, ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend,''(1995, Wyrick & Company).
Ms. Yates and Mr. Hutchence had an intensely passionate affair and one child, a daughter they named Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily.
Ms. Doran, who was born in Amarillo, Tex., was the daughter of Carrie Barnett, an actress who appeared in silent films and had her child performing in front of the cameras almost as soon as she could walk.
The only child of a bank president, she went to private schools, made her debut at a tea dance in 1945 and graduated from Smith College in 1949.
The only child of a bank president, she went to private schools, made her debut at a tea dance in 1945 and graduated from Smith College in 1949.
While at Bard, Ms. Lee had studied child psychology and in 1970 was awarded a Martin Luther King Fellowship for Urban Studies by New York University to develop a curriculum for elementary school students that combined music and dance with academic subjects.
A demonic cackle Ms. Wolfe had mastered as a child sent chills over the airwaves, especially in Mutual Network's radio serial ''The Witch's Tale.
In a recent interview, Anura, the Bandaranaike's youngest child and only son, said their father had been the affectionate, demonstrative parent while their mother was aloof.
''We have to make sure that every child in the state has a maximum opportunity for healthy development,'' she said in an interview later that year.
''You look enough like me to be my own child.
Her grandmother took her to see films with Clara Bow, the ''It Girl,'' as a child.
Her 1969 novel, ''An Estate of Memory,'' based on life in a Polish camp and centering on four prisoners who conspire to save the life of a child, is considered by scholars to be among the most resonant accounts of the Holocaust.
Together with six half-brothers and -sisters, she began acting as a child in plays inspired by anarchist ideas.
Soon after, she was asked to design a wardrobe for Ann Todd, a child star, who needed to be outfitted for a new movie.
