Adele Marcus was born in 1906 in Kansas City, Mo., the 13th and last child of a rabbi of Russian origins.
In 1972, she was a founder with her companion and longtime professional colleague, Dr. Florence H. Erickson of the Maternal Child Care Nursing Journal, the first research journal in the field.
Miss Sampson was born on a farm in Lyle, Minn., where she began painting watercolors as a child.
In her revised pamphlet, as in her book and in a syndicated weekly newspaper column on child care, she promoted a nurturing, down-to-earth way with children even as she showed her awareness of common family problems.
In the 1970's the couple announced that by raising a chimpanzee, Washoe, in the manner of a human child they had taught the ape to communicate using signs similar to those widely used by deaf human beings.
Yes, for example, as a child in Chicago Mrs. Morrow had lived across the street from a woman named Bridey (a common diminutive of Bridget), but so what?
Dr. Swap joined the faculty of Wheelock College in Boston in 1977 and taught courses in child development, special education, consultation and parent studies.
As a child she picked cotton, sewed and ironed to make money for her family.
Their clients were generally so poor that even Mrs. Logan, who delivered virtually every child born in the predominantly black Mobile suburb of Prichard from 1931 to 1984, had to supplement her income by working as a maid.
As director of child and youth services of the New York Office of Civilian Defense, and secretary of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's Committee on the Wartime Care of Children, Miss Keliher helped make day care an accepted staple of American life.
She secured the job with the renowned child psychologist, she later confided, because she was the only applicant who knew how to operate a movie camera, a skill needed in research based on close observation of minute changes in infant behavior.
For all her books, like "Life and Growth" and "A Critical Study of Homogenous Grouping," Miss Keliher stressed a single theme, one she summed up in 1955: "If I could say just one thing to parents, it would be simply that a child needs someone who believes in him no matter what he does.
She used her establishments for fund-raisers to benefit arts organizations and agencies combating AIDS, multiple sclerosis and child abuse.
Their first child, William P. Hobby Jr., was born on Mrs. Hobby's 27th birthday, and her daughter, Jessica, on her 32d.
When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.
As a child, she improvised and acted scenes with her younger sister, Rita, in a small theater their father had built for them in their London garden.
At the time, she was carrying Pasternak's child.
Annie Elizabeth Delany was born on Sept. 3, 1891, in Raleigh, N.C., the third child of a former slave who became the country's first black Episcopal bishop.
" And she often told tales of how as a child she would sneak a sip from the forbidden side of the water fountain.
"
        As a dancer, Ms. Dearing made her own costumes, a skill she said she had learned as a child.
Her father, an alcoholic, abusive man, left the family when her mother was pregnant with their third child.
She studied music, drama and dance as a child and later attended Barnard College, from which she graduated in 1917.
Her only child, Donald Callender, sold the company to Ramada Inn in 1986, when it had annual sales of $175 million.
"
        Born Thelma McQueen in Tampa, Fla., daughter of a housekeeper and a stevedore, Ms. McQueen first developed a fondness for acting as a child, when she would recite whole books of the Bible at home.
"All I knew as a child was church, church, church," she said.
"
        Her community work, including her role as a board member of the Interagency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect, earned her two citations from the Los Angeles City Council.
Louis Massiah, a friend and colleague in Philadelphia, said that as a child, Ms. Bambara would often visit a Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, where she was inspired by two black poets: Gwendolyn Brooks, whose photograph hung there, and Langston Hughes, who she said would often come and talk to children there.
She made her theatrical debut as a child, in a production of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in which her father played the role of Bottom.
Ms. Kelly started as a child model and successful child movie actress.
Ms. Kelly started as a child model and successful child movie actress.
She was regularly employed as a child model and took part in dramatic productions while attending the Bentley School for Girls.
As a child she appeared in some 50 Hollywood movies and from 1938 in leading roles.
Born Vera Huppe in New York City on April 22, 1901, of Viennese parents, she traveled to Europe with them as a child and lived for a while in Vienna.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
" Mrs. Shriver told of geography quizzes and bedtime stories, and said, "She taught us to listen to Dad's dinner table conversations about politics, which seemed too boring to a small child but later became the basis for our life's work.
She turned to community work 27 years ago, helping to develop methods of improving child care and encouraging self-help among the disadvantaged.
In one novel, "Miracle Father" (1952), a couple produced a child by artificial insemination.
In addition, she was active in the Child Care Council of Nassau County and the Nassau / Suffolk Coalition for the Homeless.

        Sister Ann Gillen, executive director of the Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry from 1972 to 1987, died on Jan. 14 at the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus convent in Rosemont, Pa. She was 76.
Sister Ann, who was born in Texas City, entered the Society of the Holy Child Jesus in 1940 and took her final vows in 1948.
She was born in Berlin and came as a child to the United States with her parents.
She also worked with the Women's Christian Alliance Child Welfare Agency and the Upward Bound Project in California before she began teaching at the University of Virginia in 1971.
She had been speaking and reading Russian with an informed passion since she was a child and had added Spanish as a sub-specialty.
Miss O'Shea was born in Cardiff, Wales, where her father was a newsdealer, and began singing and dancing as a child.
But her mother, refusing to deliver a child into a racist society, insisted on returning to her home in Buffalo to give birth.
