Surviving are her husband, Raymond L. Poston of Washington; four children, Jeffrey L., Carol D., Ramsey R. and Katharene J., all of Washington, and a sister, Diane J. Welch of Kansas City, Mo.
      
The center is co-sponsored by Columbia University's School of Social Work and the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Samuel came to the city schools in 1983 with several years of experience in children's educational programs at New York University and the Community Service Society.
The mentoring program became the first citywide initiative of its kind, matching adult volunteers with children in need of role models and guidance.
She joined the tenant cause in 1970 when she began a successful six-year fight against eviction from her home while raising three children by herself.
Mrs. Berman worked for the Westchester Association for Retarded Children.
She wrote radio scripts, short stories, children's books and screenplays, one of which became the 1984 film "The Company of Wolves.
" Her 1991 novel, "Wise Children," was about the illegitimate twin daughters of a celebrated Shakespearean actor.
During her judicial career, she wrote and lectured often on the Constitution, adoption, pornography, alimony and divorce and the rights of children.
In a study on raising children in The New York Times Magazine in March 1985, Dr. Friedman was quoted as saying: "The cultural expectations will always be more powerful than any biological differences.
As part of that effort, Mrs. Clay, a longtime volunteer for children's and other charitable causes, organized Operation Vittles, in which supply planes dropped parachutes bearing packets of candy for West Berlin's children.
As part of that effort, Mrs. Clay, a longtime volunteer for children's and other charitable causes, organized Operation Vittles, in which supply planes dropped parachutes bearing packets of candy for West Berlin's children.
Miss Sherman, a native of New York City, attended Professional Children's School here and later studied ballet and flamenco dancing.
The couple had no children.
      

        Harriet Mandelbaum, who spent decades of her life working in behalf of autistic and other mentally impaired children, died on Thursday at Caledonian Hospital in Brooklyn.
A member of the United States Joint Commission on Mental Health for Children, she toured the country to speak about the special needs of such children.
A member of the United States Joint Commission on Mental Health for Children, she toured the country to speak about the special needs of such children.
In 1951, she helped found the League for Emotionally Disturbed Children, which was dedicated to promoting educational and therapeutic facilities.
The league became the National Organization for Mentally Ill Children in 1955, and Mrs. Mandelbaum was its first president.
For many years, she was involved in the growth of the League Treatment Center, for both children and adults, in Brooklyn, and of the League School.
Her first appearance on Broadway was in 1920 in "The Ouija Board"; her other credits included "Saturday's Children" with Ruth Gordon and "The Good Fairy" with Helen Hayes, as well as "Winterset," "The Women" and "Life With Mother.

        Eve Merriam, an award-winning poet, playwright and author of more than 50 books for adults and children, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
Honors From Teachers
        Most of her books were poetry, fiction and nonfiction for children, and her work was honored by the National Council of Teachers of English.
Feminism Was a Theme
        Feminism was an early and recurring theme in her works, including "After Nora Slammed the Door: the Women's Unfinished Revolution" (World, 1964) and a children's book, "Mommies At Work" (Knopf, 1960).
Ms. Kang was not active in political power struggles, but she appeared periodically to greet children or to congratulate the Women's Federation on various achievements.
Among her books were "Youth in a Soundless World" (New York University, 1956), "Psychology of Deafness" (Columbia University, 1960) and "Lisa and Her Soundless World" (Human Sciences, 1974), which was chosen as the children's book of the year by the Child Study Association of America.
She also was the first to use rifampin, which became a standard drug for TB, to treat children and followed one group of patients from childhood through the next 30 years.
She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
She was also an officer of the Young Men's Christian Association, Brooklyn chapter manager for the American Red Cross and a member of the boards of the Irvington House for Children, the Brooklyn Kindergarten Society and the Willoughby House Settlement.
" She was idolized in Jewish neighborhoods, where children and clubs were named after her during her heyday in the 1920's.
Guests at the funeral included Miss Dietrich's children and grandchildren, along with politicians, diplomats and a handful of longtime friends, among them Maximilian Schell and Hildegard Knef.
During those years she was an active supporter of Blythedale Children's Hospital in White Plains, the Westchester County Parents and Teachers Association, and of the United Way of Westchester.
Mrs. Lee is survived by three children, Judith L. Bulow, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; Thomas M. Lee of Woodland Hills, Calif.; and Catherine L. Schmid of St. Thomas, V.I., and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Estrin, a pediatrician, centered her practice on the care of underprivileged children.

        Dr. Beth Anspach Bernstein, a psychoanalyst for children, died on May 8 at her home in Manhattan.

        Lavinia Faxon Russ, who took up writing at the age of 57 and published eight books for adults and children, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. Russ was a buyer of children's books for a Scribner's bookstore when she decided to try writing.
She also lectured, wrote book reviews, was the host of a children's television show for a year, evaluated manuscripts for publishers and was the juvenile editor of Publisher's Weekly.

        Dr. Mary Ann Spencer Pulaski, a retired children's psychologist, lecturer and author, died on Saturday at Glen Cove Hospital on Long Island.
While her children were in school, she earned master's degrees in education and school psychology and taught at the Buckley Country Day School in Roslyn, L.I.
Awards for Children's Programming
        Ms. Smith was a native of Philadelphia, and attended Antioch College before starting her broadcasting career as a writer and producer at KPIX, the CBS affiliate in San Francisco.
She received three Peabody Awards for children's programming there.
In 1963, the CBS network put her in charge of all its children's programming.
Ms. Smith joined ABC in 1977 and, as a vice president, was responsible for the production, writing and performances on its daytime serials "All My Children," "Ryan's Hope," "One Life to Live" and "General Hospital.
Children and health were her major themes and she was a leading advocate of improving day and foster care.
Her principal work concerned children's and adults' understanding of rules and laws.
After he died in 1969, she opened the restaurant, joined by her children.
After he died in 1969, she opened the restaurant, joined by her children.
She was the author or co-author of six books on Africa and African folk tales and of children's books.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
"The Boss Dog," a book for children, was published by Northpoint in 1991.
She produced the enduring English translation of Brillat-Savarin's book "The Physiology of Taste," as well as a novel, a screenplay, a book for children and dozens of travelogues.
"The Boss Dog," a book for children, was published by Northpoint in 1991.

        Yoshiko Uchida, a writer of children's books about the Japanese-American experience, died on Sunday at the Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Berkeley.
They included 27 books for children, a volume of memoirs "Desert Exile: the Uprooting of a Japanese-American Family," which the University of Washington Press published in 1982, and "The Invisible Thread," an autobiography written for teen-agers and published by Julian Messner in 1991.
Mrs. Leavitt is survived by her husband; three children, Lana Rosenfeld of Manhattan, Allen J. Leavitt of Las Vegas, Nev., and David L. Leavitt of Coatesville, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Sven Ley, of Munich, and two children from a previous marriage, Karin Srb, of Munich, and Kristian Srb, of Water Mill, N.Y.
      
She later headed nonprofit organizations devoted to helping children.
She was executive director of the American Association of Psychiatric Services for Children from 1972 to 1979, which was based in Washington but moved in 1988 to Rochester.
These included "Echo of a Cry" (1945), "Silent Children" (1948), a novel about dispossessed children in an imaginary country, and a philosophical work, "The Tao of Painting" (1960).
These included "Echo of a Cry" (1945), "Silent Children" (1948), a novel about dispossessed children in an imaginary country, and a philosophical work, "The Tao of Painting" (1960).
"
        She was the eldest of five children of Abraham and Sara Parnis, who she said had emigrated from Austria before the turn of the century.

        Mabel Randall Thomas, who led the Big Sisters of New York in the creation of its programs to help troubled children, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
Correction:  July 21, 1992, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Mabel R. Thomas, who led the Big Sisters of New York in helping troubled children, referred incorrectly to the status of the organization.
A native of New York City, she was one of seven children born to immigrant parents.
Foundation beneficiaries included St. Vincent's Hospital School of Nursing, AIDS-related programs, Phoenix House and St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center to public-school children, Lincoln Center and New York University, where the foundation endowed a chair in the humanities.
" Even Lenya Was Pleased
        From jazz, she turned to acting, appearing on British television in "Mother Courage and Her Children" and, in 1955, in "The Threepenny Opera," by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht, in London.
She is survived by six children, Clair Haycraft Johnson of Maui, Hawaii, Sara Haycraft Sparrow of North Branford, Conn., Peter Altman of Boston, Leslie Altman Rescoria of Havertown, Pa., Tamar Jacoby of Manhattan, and Oren Jacoby, also of Manhattan; three brothers, Paul Smith of St. David's Island, Bermuda, and Robert and Sidney Smith, both of Los Angeles; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Santolalla was honored by many governments for her writing on children and adolescents and her efforts to raise awareness of the importance of family relations.
She wrote several books on the conditions faced by children and adolescents and served as an adviser to the United Nations and two of its agencies, Unesco and Unicef.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
After 1945, Mrs. Morgan concentrated on photographing children, trees and plants, and on designing photomontages and light drawings.
Among Mrs. Morgan's other books are "Summer's Children," "Barbara Morgan" and "Barbara Morgan Photomontage," all published by Morgan & Morgan of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
Mrs. Hunnewell is survived by her husband, Richard F. Hunnewell; six children, Joseph J. Haggerty, of Stowe, Vt., Louis D. Haggerty, of San Jose, Calif., Angela B. Haggerty, of Norwalk, Conn., Lucie B. Cook, of Plaistow, N.H., Bryan Haggerty, of Boston, and Leah Clark, of Waccabuc, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
The Kallirs and their two children fled Nazism in 1938, settled in Manhattan in 1939, and founded the gallery at 46 West 57th Street.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four children, Barbara Hallie, Horton Jr., Walter and Daisy, all of New York City.
      
"I was just, as they say, starting out in life," she said, with hopes of marriage and children.
She headed its cosmetics department but quit to raise her children.
Mrs. Fenwick was left with two children and her husband's debts.
She became the editorial director of the Arthritis Foundation, corporate communications director for Lane Bryant, vice president for creative services at the Cancer Society and communications director of the United States Committee for the United Nations Children's Fund.

        Mary Norton, a writer of children's books whose series about the tiny Borrowers was acclaimed by adults and devoured by legions of children, died on Saturday at her home in Hartland, England.

        Mary Norton, a writer of children's books whose series about the tiny Borrowers was acclaimed by adults and devoured by legions of children, died on Saturday at her home in Hartland, England.
A creator of fantasy for children, Mrs. Norton enchanted readers of all ages with her stories of the ingenious family of Borrowers, people barely six inches high who own nothing, share freely and shamelessly borrow whatever they need from human beings.
Winning Literary Acclaim
        The first of the series was "The Borrowers," which won the Library Association Carnegie Medal in England as the outstanding children's book of 1952.
A Witch and a Flying Bed
        Her first book, "The Magic Bed-knob; or, How to Become a Witch in 10 Easy Lessons," published in 1943, was the story of three children, a spinster learning to become a witch and a flying bed.
It was in the United States that she started to write short stories and articles to help support her children.
Encouraged by American editors, she wrote down some of the stories she told her own children.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.
      
"All of these children and their parents grew up with Mother Khadijah being known to them as a focal point of Islam.
"
        "The stage begins to glow the moment she steps on it and the audience melts, like a crowd of children whose imagination has been captured by someone they trust," he continued.
At the age of 50, when her children had grown up, she decided to become an underwater photographer, learned to dive and moved to St. Croix with her husband.

        Maggie Comer Robinson, whose efforts to overcome her own impoverished background and inspire her children to pursue higher education were recounted in a biography and in a television documentary, died Monday at St. Catherine's Hospital in East Chicago, Ind.
Her five children earned a total of 13 undergraduate and graduate degrees, and all seven of her grandchildren are college graduates.
By 1941, she was a member of the board and the council of the Association for Aid for Crippled Children.

        Saundra D. Shepherd, a pediatrician and educator who campaigned for medical care for needy children in New York City and in Africa, died on Thursday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
The harm to children's health from poverty, discrimination and the lack of housing was a major theme of her work.
It taught children and also provided teacher-training in early childhood education.
During the Depression, the Roosevelt Administration's Federal Emergency Relief Administration, with the cooperation of the United States Office of Education, organized what it called emergency nursery schools for needy children.
At the time of her death Mrs. Carrington was on the board of the Youth Counseling League, which aids troubled children.
" Her students were familiar with the command to "feel it, children, don't schlep it.

        Barbara Kauder Cohen, the author of more than 30 books for children and young adults, died on Sunday at her home in Bridgewater, N.J. She was 60 years old.
For four decades, Mrs. Rockefeller was a regal presence in philanthropy, helping to attract financial support and volunteers for causes ranging from children's welfare to the Juilliard School.
By creating a network of volunteers and programs for children and mothers, she made them the backbone of one of the country's most successful charities.
They know they're hungry, their children are hungry.
"She worked from within the Freudian mode and made an important statement about the responsibility of men to raise children from birth.

        Georgia L. McMurray, a leader in developing services for children in New York City, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She was also the president of a consulting firm, the GLM Group, which provides research, training, technical assistance and other management services to governmental and nonprofit organizations concerned with programs for children and families.
This year, too, the Children's Aid Society cited her for distinguished service.
The Lindsay administration tapped her in 1969 to develop services for young children and families as director of an Early Childhood Task Force.
Under her guidance the number of day-care centers multiplied and the number of children served rose from 5,000 to 40,000.
She worked at the Community Service Society from 1978 to 1986, producing reports on homelessness and the changing demographics of urban poverty, and developing model programs for children and youths.
But public support helped her gain government grants and persuade officials to bend rules like the requirement that young children be reared in private homes instead of the group care she provided.
"I'm not an American hero -- I'm simply a person who loves children," Mrs. Hale said recently.
Explaining her approach to the children, she said: "We hold them and touch them.
"
        She said she expected to keep caring for children "until I die.
"
        Hale House's policy is to reunite children with their families after the parents recover from their addiction, and it says it has been able to do so with about 90 percent of the children.
"
        Hale House's policy is to reunite children with their families after the parents recover from their addiction, and it says it has been able to do so with about 90 percent of the children.
Some children remained exceptionally close to Mother Hale, who considered them part of her own family.
Left to Rear 3 Children
        Her husband died of cancer when she was 27, leaving her to rear three children, Nathan, Lorraine and Kenneth.
Left to Rear 3 Children
        Her husband died of cancer when she was 27, leaving her to rear three children, Nathan, Lorraine and Kenneth.
But then, reluctant to leave her youngsters, she started taking in other children for $2 a week and eventually became a licensed foster parent.
She took in seven or eight children at a time.
Eventually she reared 40 foster children, keeping them out of trouble and steering them from the temptations and dangers of the street.
All made it through high school and many went to college, and they rewarded Mrs. Hale with 60 children of their own whom she regarded as her grandchildren.
Throughout the Beame and Koch administrations, Hale House won waivers from state regulations barring group nurseries for children under the age of 5.
But in 1989, saying that the crack epidemic had crested and the city was doing better in finding foster homes for children, the Dinkins administration stopped referring children to Hale House.
But in 1989, saying that the crack epidemic had crested and the city was doing better in finding foster homes for children, the Dinkins administration stopped referring children to Hale House.
The flow of children continued, brought to Hale House by desperate parents, police officers, churches and other groups.
Her list of accounts grew to include Fuller Fabrics, Crane stationery, Health-tex clothing for children, Elizabeth Arden, Reed & Barton silver, Royal Worcester Porcelain.

        Barbara Rollock, an authority on children's literature who worked for 32 years with the New York Public Library, died on Sunday at Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn.
Joining the Public Library as a clerk at the Aguilar Branch Library in Harlem in 1945, Mrs. Rollock rose to become coordinator of Children's Services in 1974, a post she held until retirement.
For nearly a decade, she moderated the weekly show, "World of Children's Literature," on WNYC public radio, receiving the International Reading Association's media award for radio in 1982.
Mrs. Rollock was former president of the New York Black Librarians Caucas and a past president of the children's divisions of the American Library Association and the New York Library Association.
She is the author of two books, "Black Authors and Illustrators of Children's Books," published in 1992 by Garland Publishing, and "Public Library Services for Children," published in 1988 by Library Professional Publications.
She is the author of two books, "Black Authors and Illustrators of Children's Books," published in 1992 by Garland Publishing, and "Public Library Services for Children," published in 1988 by Library Professional Publications.
She also edited the 1974, 1979 and 1984 editions of "The Black Experience in Children's Literature," a bibliography, published by the New York Public Library.

        Several thousand friends, admirers and family members filled Riverside Church yesterday to celebrate the life and to mourn the death of Clara M. Hale, the woman who sheltered and raised hundreds of abandoned and orphaned children in her home.
Standing amid the seasonal red and green of bright poinsettias and fragrant Christmas pines, Mr. Sutton and others recalled Mrs. Hale's capacity for loving each of her children, for placing mirrors at toddler's eye level in Hale House, for taking the frailest of babies into her own room overnight.
"The best tribute we can give is to keep her legacy alive," he added, saying that efforts would be made to fulfill Mrs. Hale's wish to establish a hospice for dying children at Hale House.
"She touched children no one else would touch," Ms. Knight said.
"She showed us that what children really need is a hug and a kiss and a smile.
She had been in declining health for a year, said her son, Ian von Franckenstein of Kentland, Calif.
        Miss Boyle wrote four dozen books, including many works of fiction, seven books of poetry and four books for children.
Over the years, Mrs. Gnichtel, whose surname is pronounced NICK-tell, was a member of the board of the Sheltering Arms Children's Service and the Katherine Herbert Fund, a foundation aiding people with lung ailments, and did volunteer work on behalf of the Welfare Trust Fund of the Junior League.
After practicing general law for four years, she left her career to have her children and rear them.
