Her family moved to Tokyo when she was a child, and at age 15 she joined the Shimbashi Geisha Association.
Alexandra Ripley was born Jan. 8, 1934, in Charleston, S.C., the only child of Alexander and Elizabeth Braid.
Charlotte Mitchell was born on Aug. 15, 1931, in Detroit and developed her affection for film and music as a child by attending an entertainment event in Detroit called ''Big Band and a Movie.
The daughter of a cantor, Ms. Oysher began her career as a child actress in the Yiddish theaters that once dotted Second Avenue on the Lower East Side.
In the dress rehearsal, she said, ''the sacred fire struck, and the child Uta was transported to a region which I well knew she would not set foot in again for many years to come.
In 1999, with Jeffrey L. Edleson, a professor at the University of Minnesota, she wrote a set of guidelines for professionals in civil courts, child welfare services and domestic violence programs.
''When I work at something, it's like my child,'' she said in an interview with Newsday in 1994.
She was principal investigator for the studies' reports, called ''State of the Child: New York City I and II.
After retiring, she continued her advocacy through the Foundation for Child Development and became directly involved in the Roosevelt memorials.
Because of an editing error, the obituary also misstated the name of the organization for which she later worked on reports called ''State of the Child: New York City I and II.
'' It is the Foundation for Child Development, not the committee.
      
Born Janet Kauffman in 1907, Ms. Wood grew up in St. Louis as the only child of Harold M. Kauffman, a wealthy banker, and Jeanette Morton, a socialite and Mayflower descendant.
Born April 30, 1909 in The Hague, Juliana was a princess of the House of Orange-Nassau, the only child of Queen Wilhelmina and Prince Hendrik.
Born in Paris on Oct. 10, 1924, of a Georgian father and a French mother, Monika Tchemerzine, as Ms. Tcherina was baptized, began dancing as a child.
Mrs. Goodhue, who was born in London in 1921, became an American citizen as a child.
In the Senate, Mrs. Goodhue, the chairwoman of the committee on child care, investigated violations at day care centers, delved into minutia of the state's complex school financing formulas, and introduced legislation regulating surrogate mothers.
Dr. Rhoda Fisher's dismay over books about parenting that she thought lacked scientific merit led her and her husband, who died in 1996, to collaborate on ''What We Really Know About Child Rearing: Science in Support of Effective Parenting'' (Basic Books, 1976).
''
        She soon got a job at a nearby nursery school until her first child, now Katharine Lake, of Connecticut, was born.
Ginette Marguérite Auger was born in Paris on April 17, 1920, the first child of Edouard Roger Auger, a prosperous construction contractor whose work often took him to Africa, and Marthe Auger.

        Sylvia Froos, who as a child star in the 1920's sang on early radio broadcasts, starred on the vaudeville stage and appeared in a movie with Shirley Temple, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
A local law allowed child performers to stand and sing, period.
Born Rosemary Timotea Aurro in Chicago, she moved to Los Angeles as a child and began singing in her family's Italian restaurant.
He has been treated like a stubborn and not very bright child.
In 1965, a black child attended a previously all-white school.

        Brenda Fassie, the wild child of South African pop who was beloved as the piercing siren of the dispossessed under apartheid, died on May 9.
The last of nine children of a domestic worker, she sang as a child at churches and hospitals, and then in high school she joined a group that performed in colored townships, which was unusual in those days when apartheid segregated the races on a hierarchical ladder and mixed-race audiences rarely accepted African singers.
While still a child, she began a collection of bird eggs and insects.
Avoiding the subject entirely, particularly when treating the young, physicians and therapists would meet a dying child's questions with comments like, ''Take your medicine, and you'll get well,'' Dr. Kübler-Ross wrote in ''On Death and Dying,'' which incorporated her account of the Chicago seminars.

        Julia Child, who turned the art of French cooking into prime-time television entertainment and brought cassoulet to a casserole culture in the two volumes of her monumental ''Mastering the Art of French Cooking,'' died yesterday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif., two days before her 92nd birthday.
Mrs. Child was a towering figure on the culinary front for more than 40 years.
''
        Mrs. Child was not the first dedicated cook to turn cooking into a spectator sport -- James Beard preceded her on television in 1945, Dione Lucas in 1948 -- but she brought a fresh, breezy approach to daunting material, expressed in her up-the-scales signature signoff, ''Bon appétit!
''
        ''She demystified French cuisine in a way that had not been done before, in an appealing, straightforward way,'' said Jacques Pépin, who teamed up with Mrs. Child in the cooking series ''Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home.
''I fell in love with the public, the public fell in love with me, and I tried to keep it that way,'' Mrs. Child said in an interview last year.
What made Mrs. Child such an influential teacher was her good-humored insistence that competent home cooks, if they followed instructions, would find even complicated French dishes within their grasp.
In fact, minor slips and mishaps were weekly events on ''The French Chef,'' and none of them seemed to faze Mrs. Child.
There she met Paul Child, the head of a chart-making division who was 10 years older and several inches shorter.
They married in 1946 and spent a year in Washington before Mr. Child was sent to Paris by the United States Information Agency.
It was a fateful move, because Mrs. Child by then was struggling to learn to cook and her husband was suffering the consequences.
The three became partners in a cooking school they called L'École de Trois Gourmandes in Paris and set to work on their cookbook, even as Mrs. Child followed her husband to postings in Marseille, Bonn and Oslo.
After nearly a decade, Mrs. Child and her partners produced an 800-page manuscript that Houghton Mifflin, the publisher that had originally contracted for it, rejected as too daunting.
''I was jealous,'' said Mr. Pépin, who met Mrs. Child in 1960 and saw the book in manuscript.
''
        The introduction showed Mrs. Child at her most direct: ''This is a book for the servantless American cook who can be unconcerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time schedules, children's meals, the parent-chauffeur-den mother syndrome or anything else which might interfere with the enjoyment of producing something wonderful to eat.
''
        As revolutionary as the book was, it might have only gathered cobwebs in bookstores alongside ''Escoffier's Guide Culinaire'' if not for Mrs. Child's way with a whisk on camera.
''
        Viewers were so taken with the frenzy of cooking and relaxed chatter that Mrs. Child was hired to put together 26 segments, for $50 apiece.
''I think the secret of her appeal was a combination of joy in what she was doing and a deep desire to teach and to teach well,'' said Geof Drummond, who produced Mrs. Child's cooking programs in the 1990's.
''The French Chef'' became the longest-running program in the history of public television; it was followed by ''Julia Child & Company,'' ''Dinner With Julia'' and other series.
While Mrs. Child has been credited with inspiring a boom in French restaurants, an explosion of fancy food markets and even the arrival of the Food Network, she insisted her original book and program benefited from ''a concatenation of factors'' in the early 1960's.
Over the years, Mrs. Child devoted herself to her television series while writing companion cookbooks, ending with ''Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home,'' in collaboration with Mr. Pépin, in 1999.
'''
        As Mrs. Child aged, her role in more and more programs was to sit by as other cooks did the sautéeing.
Mrs. Child was a breast cancer survivor, a cat lover, a fervent advocate of Planned Parenthood and an unabashed sensualist with a sly sense of humor.
Mrs. Child's obsession with promoting the culinary arts as a profession led to her becoming the first woman inducted into the Culinary Institute of America's hall of fame.
Kitchen Goes to Smithsonian
        Mrs. Child was always a star, never a spokeswoman.
She was awarded a George Foster Peabody Award in 1965, the National Book Award for ''Julia Child and More Company'' in 1980 and the Légion d'Honneur from the French government in 2000.
Paul Child died in 1994 after a long hospitalization.
Julia Child is survived by a sister, Dorothy Cousins, of Mill Valley, Calif., and several nieces and nephews.
To the end, Mrs. Child maintained her image as the ultimate bonne vivante, a California girl with easy French tastes.
Mrs. Child never dropped a chicken or a turkey on ''The French Chef.
She was the third and youngest child of Paul Quoirez, a well-to-do businessman, and his wife, Marie.
Mrs. Stone was a founder and board member of the W. Clement and Jessie V. Stone Foundation, which makes grants for education and child development.
She later worked with a group now known as Prevent Child Abuse America, created by her daughter, Donna J.
A frail child (she was nicknamed Bluebell by a doctor, struck by her wispy frame and piercing blue eyes), Margaret was advised to take dancing lesson to strengthen her legs.
''Madame Sousatzka,'' her 1962 novel about the tenuous bond between an eccentric piano teacher and a child prodigy, was adapted in 1988 into a film with Shirley MacLaine in the title role.
With a child to support, she taught herself transparency retouching, which paid well.
With a child to support, she taught herself transparency retouching, which paid well.
Sequels included ''Your Child and His Reading: How Parents Can Help'' (1960), ''A Teacher's Guide to Children's Books'' (1963) and nine other books for adults.
She won Caldecott honors three times, for ''Little Red Riding Hood''; ''A Child's Calendar,'' with text by John Updike; and ''Hershel and the Hanukkah Goblins'' by Eric A. Kimmel (Holiday House, 1989).
Another more recent favorite was ''A Child's Calendar'' (Holiday House, 1999), in which she illustrated poems by Mr. Updike, one for each month.
A knock-kneed child, she was sent by her doctor to a London school called Miss Thorne's Dancing Academy.
She presented Astafieva with a card bearing the child's name as she had been billed in the pantomimes: ''Little Alicia: The Miniature Pavlova.
The marriage fell apart when Renata, their only child, was 3.
Not long afterward the child woke one morning and could hardly stand.
)
        At first as a child, Miss Tebaldi was drawn to the piano, and she enrolled in studies at the conservatory in Parma, which necessitated a difficult commute.
Ms. Truitt completed her studies in 1949, but though she continued to make art throughout the 50's, it was not until 1961, a year after the birth of her third and last child, that she began to produce sculpture in her own style.
''
        Born Fanya Lipetz on July 23, 1915, in Odessa, Ukraine, Ms. Chaney immigrated with her parents to the Bronx when she was a child.
