'' The couple's only child, also named Robert and called Little Bobbie, was born a year later.
Miss Stolzenberg was born in Zbaraz, Austria, and immigrated to the United States as a child.
Elaine Marie Catherine Fried was born in New York City on March 12, 1920, the oldest child of Charles Frank and Mary Ellen O'Brien Fried.
''Sensible for once, I argued that if we waited for the outlook to improve, we might wait forever, and that if we wanted a child at all we should have it now, regardless of Hitler.
She founded the school's Institute of Human Development, originally called the Institute of Child Welfare, in 1927.

       Frances T. Pennoyer, the last surviving child of J. P. Morgan, died yesterday after a stroke at her home in Locust Valley, L.I.
Frances T. Pennoyer, the last surviving child of J. P. Morgan, died yesterday after a stroke at her home in Locust Valley, L.I.
She also had a private practice for 45 years and taught child care to nurses and medical students at Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y.
        Dr. Koenig graduated from Barnard College in 1918 and was among the first women to graduate from the Johns Hopkins University Medical School in 1929.
It was a major national event when, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy Ricardo gave birth to Little Ricky on the air the same night Lucille Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz y de Acha 4th.
Miss Ball's first child, Lucie Desiree Arnaz, was born July 17, 1951, three months before the show went on the air.
in 1978 from the Dartmouth Medical School and began a residency in maternal and child health at Mary Hitchcok Hospital in Hanover.
She started singing as a child and made her recital debut in Zagreb when she was 15 years old.
''
        For her part, Mrs. Weston once wrote: ''The country of one's childhood is always predominant in one's memory: India is a beautiful, kindly land, and notwithstanding all the perils of life in the tropics, it is a fine country for any child to grow up in.

       Florence Walsh, a field office director with the Child Welfare Administration of New York City's Human Resources Administration, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
In 1986 she was appointed deputy director of one of two Manhattan field offices of the Child Welfare Administration, and a year later she became its director.
Florence Walsh, a field office director with the Child Welfare Administration of New York City's Human Resources Administration, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
In 1986 she was appointed deputy director of one of two Manhattan field offices of the Child Welfare Administration, and a year later she became its director.
She was born in Lithia, Mass., the child of medical missionaries.
Spock's Baby & Child Care'' (E. P. Dutton), which was published in 1946 by Duell, Sloan & Pearce as ''The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care.
Spock's Baby & Child Care'' (E. P. Dutton), which was published in 1946 by Duell, Sloan & Pearce as ''The Common Sense Book of Baby and Child Care.
Mrs. McDonald was born in Washington, the child of Russian immigrants.
''
        Later she would explain her refusal to grant bonuses or congratulations to Post staff members for good work by saying, ''They weren't given to me as a child, and any words I did receive were not ones of praise.
Miss Luce began to study dancing as a child in Ludlow, Mass., and ran away to New York as a teen-ager.
Miss Frank, a native New Yorker, was for many years the director of children's books and mass media for the Child Study Association of America.
Miss Frank was the author of, among other books, ''Your Child's Reading Today,'' published by Doubleday in 1954.
Miss Luce began to study dancing as a child in Ludlow, Mass., and ran away to New York as a teen-ager.
Two years later Miss Davis replied to Mrs. Hyman's charges with her own bestseller, 'This 'N That,'' in which she defended herself as the victim of a lying and ungrateful child.
She was also project director of the comprehensive child care program at Brookdale Hospital Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She came to New York with her family as a child and lived on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
At Mrs. Ibarruri's bedside when she died was her sole surviving child, her daughter Amaya, and other relatives, The Associated Press reported.
      
'' A Delicate Child
        Dolores Ibarruri was the 8th of 11 children of a miner's family in the harsh mountains near Bilbao, in northern Spain.
Then, she worked in child guidance in a settlement house.
In 1930, she was appointed to the Board of Child Welfare.
She left after a year because of the impending birth of a child.

       Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the child be in a glass cage in school classes, died of the disease on Monday.
Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the child be in a glass cage in school classes, died of the disease on Monday.
Officials of the Hillsborough County School Board officials had wanted the child kept home, fearing she posed a health risk.
She decided to study law after being called to testify in many cases involving child abuse.
Mrs. Watson was a member of several boards, including those for the Northside Center for Child Development, the New York Urban League and the United Neighborhood Houses.
She wrote more than a dozen children's books, mostly in answer to questions posed to her by a child.
Born in the Siberian city of Irkutsk, U.S.S.R., Miss Anchutina was a child when she was brought to the United States.
