
       Dr. Lauretta Bender, a child neuro-psychiatrist, researcher and educator, died Jan. 4 in a nursing home in Annapolis, Md.
Dr. Lauretta Bender, a child neuro-psychiatrist, researcher and educator, died Jan. 4 in a nursing home in Annapolis, Md.
She spent many years researching the cause of childhood schizophrenia and was responsible for studies on child suicides and violence.
Consulant to Children's Guild
        Also in 1955, Dr. Bender was appointed principal research scientist in child psychiatry, a new post in the State Mental Hygiene Department.
Dr. Bender was a member of such organizations as the American Psychiatric Association; the American Neurological Association, the American Academy of Child Psychiatry and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Mrs. Siskind was born in Mogilev in Byelorussia and came to the United States as a child.

       Frances Finnell Vandivier, a child care educator, died Thursday at Goergetown University Hospital in Washington of ovarian cancer.
Frances Finnell Vandivier, a child care educator, died Thursday at Goergetown University Hospital in Washington of ovarian cancer.
Mrs. Vandivier founded the child care department of Temple University in Philadelphia, where she developed a curriculum that served as the model for others.
''
        She came to Isadora Duncan's attention as a child dancing in a Christmas pageant.
She was dropped from the pageant by an irate teacher, but the next morning Isadora Duncan appeared at the child's house and invited her to study at the school she had founded in Grunewald, near Berlin.
Read Racine at 8
        Miss Yourcenar was born June 8, 1903, the only child of Michel de Crayencour and the former Fernande de Cartier de Marchienne.

       Anne Gilbreth Barney, the oldest child in the ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' family that was the subject of best-selling books and movies in the late 1940's and early 1950's, died here Feb. 16.
Anne Gilbreth Barney, the oldest child in the ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' family that was the subject of best-selling books and movies in the late 1940's and early 1950's, died here Feb. 16.
Mrs. Meiers worked as a child welfare worker and director of the Mountrail County Welfare Board.
''
        She was performing a spiritual, ''Sometimes I Feel Like a Motherless Child,'' at Cape Town's City Hall Thursday night when she collapsed.
Miss Butcher, born in Fredonia, Kan., moved to Chicago with her family when she was a child and graduated from the University of Chicago in 1910.
'' In Wartime Revue
        Miss Gingold began her career in 1911 as a child actor with Noel Coward in ''Where the Rainbow Ends.

       Daisy C. Schapiro, a lawyer and an early advocate of child care for working parents in New York, died of natural causes Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Daisy C. Schapiro, a lawyer and an early advocate of child care for working parents in New York, died of natural causes Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Born in the Ukraine, Mrs. Nash immigrated to Brooklyn as a child.
''
        Mrs. Peller, who came to the United States from Russia when she was a child, is survived by two daughters and two grandchildren.
      
She was responsible for the publication of ''The Magic Years'' by Selma Fraiberg, dealing with the first six years of a child's life.
Ms. Zaslavsky was born in the Ukraine in 1905 and came to the United States as a child.
''
        Mary Astor was born Lucile Langhanke on May 3, 1906, in Quincy, Ill., the only child of the former Helen Vasconcells, an American, and Otto Ludwig Wilhelm Langhanke, a German immigrant who made an uncertain income from such diverse activities as teaching German and poultry farming until he began to cash in on his daughter's film success.
The child was christened Ann Clare, but she never used the Ann.
'' Shaw supposedly replied, ''And now, let me see, dear child, what was your mother's name?
Miss Johnson, who held master's degrees in education from the University of Chicago and Columbia University, was also a co-author of several children's books, including the Child Story Readers and the Treasury of Literature Readers, and wrote more than 50 elementary school workbooks that offered exercises in reading, arithmetic and geography.
