She is survived by her husband, the actor Robert Foxworth, and three children from an earlier marriage to William Asher, the producer of "Bewitched.
As the eldest of six children in a family of modest means, Margaret was expected to work -- and that she did even as a schoolgirl; she was skillful enough to shave her father's customers when he was busy or away from the shop.
Miss Muir, who had no children, is survived by her husband.

        Dr. Dorothy V. Whipple, who helped to secure the rights of women in the medical profession and advanced the cause of children through her widely influential work in pediatrics, died Friday at her home in Washington.
Dr. Whipple was the first married woman admitted to Johns Hopkins Medical School ("They objected on those grounds but finally took me in," she recalled in an interview decades later) and an early advocate of rearing children by using liberal amounts of cuddling and common sense.
In her revised pamphlet, as in her book and in a syndicated weekly newspaper column on child care, she promoted a nurturing, down-to-earth way with children even as she showed her awareness of common family problems.
"
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      
Although she was eventually eclipsed by her younger siblings, Stella and Luther, Miss Adler, the middle of the five children of Jacob and Sarah Adler, the founding stars of the American Yiddish theater, had her moments in the spotlight.
The Adler children were generally thrust on stage as toddlers, but Julia, who was born on July 4, 1897, almost broke the record.
After her husband died in 1960, she taught at the League Center for Seriously Disturbed Children in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
There was no school for English-speaking children, so she helped start one and served as its first director.

        Vera Aberle Ries, whose living room was lined from floor to ceiling with one of the country's richest private collections of early children's books, died at her home in Forest Hills, Queens, on Monday.
She was trained as a teacher and became the director of social services in the republic's army, an adviser to the Prime Minister on women's issues and a campaigner on behalf of homeless children in Bangui, the republic's capital.
She was married and had five children.
      
Anger lights the fire when I see some people hanging their heads, allowing themselves to be persuaded that government cannot concern itself with the poor, the disabled, the old, the children.
"
        In addition to her husband, of Englewood, Colo., Mrs. Morrow is survived by the three children from her first marriage, Marilou Butler of Valdosta, Ga., Nanci Lee of Hong Kong and Teri Francis of San Jose, Calif.; two stepchildren, Pam Zimmer of El Cajon, Calif., and Randy Morrow of Littleton, Colo., and 10 grandchildren.
      

        Erika Lehnsen, one of the first art therapists to work with children, died on Sunday at the Andrus retirement home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Until recently, Miss Lehnsen, who was 90, was a resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
There, she taught art and art appreciation and discovered her interest in the artwork of young children.

        Susan McAllister Swap, an educator and writer who focused on involving parents in their children's schools, died last Thursday at her home in Winchester, Mass.
Most recently she directed the Center on Families, Communities, Schools and Children's Learning, and the Center on College-School-Community Partnerships, two research programs at Wheelock.
She wrote articles about home-school partnerships and promoting the academic success of children from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Her books in print are "Managing an Effective Interview Program" (Teachers College, 1984), "Parent Involvement and Success for All Children: What We Know Now" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), "Schools Reaching Out and Success for All Children: Two Case Studies" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), and "Developing Home-School Partnerships: From Concept to Practice" (Teachers College, 1993).
Her books in print are "Managing an Effective Interview Program" (Teachers College, 1984), "Parent Involvement and Success for All Children: What We Know Now" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), "Schools Reaching Out and Success for All Children: Two Case Studies" (Institute for Responsive Education, 1990), and "Developing Home-School Partnerships: From Concept to Practice" (Teachers College, 1993).
Mrs. Logan, the 14th of 16 children, was born on a farm in Marengo County, outside Sweet Water, about 120 miles north of Mobile.

        Alice V. Keliher, whose experiences as a lightly trained teacher of ill-prepared first graders led her to become a renowned expert on early childhood education and a champion of giving children unreserved respect and affection, died on Tuesday at the Tucson Medical Center in Arizona.
's faculty, she served on virtually every city, state and national conference devoted to children and wrote widely on the subject.
And in the 1960's, while winding down her wide-ranging academic career as a professor at Wheelock College in Boston, she became the Massachusetts regional training officer for Head Start, the Federal program designed to provide disadvantaged children with the preschool enrichment Miss Keliher had been preaching to parents and educators for decades.
As director of child and youth services of the New York Office of Civilian Defense, and secretary of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's Committee on the Wartime Care of Children, Miss Keliher helped make day care an accepted staple of American life.
Her campaign for day care may have made her a legitimate feminist heroine, but Miss Keliher, who also helped lessen the burden on mothers by spearheading the development of kindergarten and nursery school, made it clear that her focus was not women, but their children.
After four years in the Washington school system, she decided she could serve children better by teaching their teachers how to teach.
" As part of the writing team for the soap opera "All My Children," she won Emmy Awards in 1985 and 1988.
Yes, most of them were sexually abused as children, but that can't be an excuse to go out and abuse other people.
But Mrs. Hobby turned him down, saying that she had a husband, two children and a job.
At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
After the failure of her marriage to Ray Cahill, which produced two children, Mrs. Orr was working in a rooming house in 1929 when she read an advertisement for bronc riders for a wild west show, the precursor of modern rodeos.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
Mrs. Titus is survived by two children of her first marriage, Louis E. Slesin of Manhattan, and Suzanne Slesin Steinberg of Manhattan, an assistant editor in the Home section of The New York Times; and three grandchildren.
      
In the arcane world of children's literature in which 8-to-12-year-olds are termed middle-aged and a 17-year-old is deemed to have one teen-age foot in the grave, the Hadley Irwin books were aimed at audiences aged 12 to 16, known as young adults.
Even those themes were considered tame compared with that of "Abby, My Love," their breakthrough 1985 novel that stunned the industry as the first in children's literature to deal with incest.
Ms. Hadley, a wiry, energetic woman who never married, and the older, plumper Mrs. Irwin, the mother of four children, were a study in contrasts when they took their collaboration on the road with a series of tag-team speeches to education and publishing conferences.
"Before I introduced that technique," she once told an interviewer, "only children in the early grades used their fingers on the printed pages to guide their reading.
It has been owned since September 1993 by Pryor Resources, a business seminar training company in Kansas City, Kan.
        Mrs. Wood continued to teach and was developing a remedial reading program for children when she suffered an incapacitating stroke in 1976.
Her leisure pursuits included skin diving, writing short stories and children's books, and composing music.
Mrs. Roosevelt then moved with her children to Sagamore Hill.
Crippled by polio in 1954 at the age of 31, Ms. Bell spent the next 25 years living at Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island, where she helped to raise her three children.
Ms. Bell is survived by her three children, Cathie, of Manhattan, and Lori and Douglas, both of Staten Island, and seven grandchildren.
      
Ms. Hsu traveled through Asia and Europe, eventually settling in New York, and was eventually reunited with her eight children.
Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children.
With the death of their youngest sister, Laura, in 1993, they were the last survivors among their parents' children.
Dr. Simmons was the youngest of 12 children -- two brothers are dead -- and was 7 when the family moved to a poor section of Houston.

        Carmen Sylva Mathews, an actress, environmentalist and philanthropist who established a summer camp for disadvantaged children, died on Thursday at her farm in Redding, Conn. She was 84 years old.
Also in 1983, she established a summer camp for disadvantaged city children, known as the New Pond Farm Education Center.
"As the men were forcibly separated from the women and children, she heard screams which she said contained all the pain that life and death provide.
She is survived by her husband of 40 years, Dr. Arthur Kriegel; and four children, Maurice, Danielle, Irene and Emmanuel.
      
Mrs. Hazen was the sixth of eight children of Sadie and Moses L. Annenberg, who founded Triangle Publications and whose holdings eventually included The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Philadelphia Daily News, the Daily Racing Form, TV Guide and radio and television interests.
"
        Ms. Graves was the second of three children.
The children did not see him for again for 18 years, when he turned up, unannounced, at the high school graduation of Ms. Graves's younger sister.
Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia.
) She was out of the house before the children were up, and gone most of the day.
At home, her mother dedicated each night of the week to some educational project: one night the children would present oral book reports or speak on assigned topics (like birds, flowers or geography).
The court -- the state's highest -- agreed with the center, ruling in 1990 that the law was still unconstitutional because it did not meet the educational  needs of disadvantaged city children.
Mrs. Gallimard's survivors include her four children, Francoise, Christian, Antoine and Isabelle.
Mrs. Mali was the co-author with Alison Cragin Herzig of eight children's books published in the late 1970's and 1980's.
" (Little Brown, 1980), a photo-documentary of a class in baby care taught at a boys' school in New York won an American Book Award in 1981 for children's hardcover non-fiction.
In the 1970's at the Collegiate School in Manhattan, Mrs. Mali pioneered the ideas of scholarships for nursery school children and a child-care class for boys.
More recently, she and Mrs. Herzig helped establish a reading program at the Children's Aid Society in New York.
And their children went on to musical careers as well: Leonard Slatkin, now in his final season as music director of the St. Louis Symphony and soon to become music director of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, and Frederick Zlotkin, a cellist in New York.
Mrs. Bennett is survived by five children, 29 grandchildren and 74 great-grandchildren.
      
When things went bad in Arkansas, for example, she packed up her children, left her first husband behind and struck out for California in search of a better life.
Mrs. Blackston, who worked in a Los Angeles laundry to support her six children, was not prepared for what she had to endure when she eventually went on welfare, and the system was not prepared for her.
It was the early 1960's, a time, she soon found, when welfare inspectors routinely poked through recipients' refrigerators, demanded to know where they had got the money to buy television sets and staged midnight raids to make sure  they were not harboring men, a violation of the rules for women receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children.
Noting that the vast majority of welfare recipients were women and children and likening welfare to a "supersexist marriage," Mrs. Blackston was unsparing in her analysis in addresses to welfare mothers.
She is survived by her second husband, Harvey Blackston; six children, Marcia Evans of Riverside, Calif., Ronald, Auluavance, Josalyn and Tanya Tillmon of Los Angeles, and Caffie Tillmon of Stockton, Calif.; 20 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Having no children or other immediate survivors, Mrs. Kahn left the bulk of her estate, valued at more than $25 million, to the causes close to her heart.
Throughout her career she was known for giving free lessons to children who could not afford to study.
Mrs. Langley was one of several children staying in an uncle's home when the  mob closed in on a January night.

        Alice Miller Bregman, who edited and wrote about children's books, died last  Wednesday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Until August of this year, Ms. Bregman was editorial director of Artists and Writers Guild Books, a line of picture books for children that she founded at the Western Publishing Company of Racine, Wis., in 1992.
She was a frequent reviewer and contributor to a number of publications about children's literature.
She is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Ramona Hughes of Rosemont, Calif., and Herman Butch Robinson of Los Angeles, and two stepsons, Ronny Robinson of New York City and Ray Robinson Jr. of San Francisco.
      
She is survived by the three children of her marriage to Matisse, Jacqueline, Paul and Peter, and by 12 grandchildren.
      
Fond of children, she worked at the Mount Morris Park Recreation Center as a  receptionist.
Having no children or other immediate survivors, Mrs. Kahn left the bulk of her estate, valued at more than $25 million, to the causes close to her heart.
Louis Massiah, a friend and colleague in Philadelphia, said that as a child, Ms. Bambara would often visit a Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, where she was inspired by two black poets: Gwendolyn Brooks, whose photograph hung there, and Langston Hughes, who she said would often come and talk to children there.
Throughout her life, Mr. Massiah said, Ms. Bambara fought for the rights of minorities, women, children and the homeless.

        Crosby Newell Bonsall, the author and illustrator of more than 40 children's books, died on Jan. 10 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, where she lived.
She wrote the text for the photographer Ylla's "I'll Show You Cats" (1964), an award-winning children's book.
She spent her time reciting the rosary daily, attending Mass celebrated by a priest in her living room on Sundays and sitting on a porch overlooking Nantucket Sound on sunny weekends while her children and grandchildren paid visits and regaled her with their latest adventures.
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.
Four of her nine children died in their prime.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
The assertions prompted a blistering response, published on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times, by four of her children: Senator Kennedy, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Patricia Kennedy Lawford and Jean Kennedy Smith.
"
        In her autobiography, "Times to Remember" (Doubleday, 1974), Mrs. Kennedy said that she had devoted herself to her children and that there had been many satisfactions in her role.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
Meantime, his wife stayed home on Beale Street in Brookline, near Boston, giving birth to and raising her children.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
She spent her time reciting the rosary daily, attending Mass celebrated by a priest in her living room on Sundays and sitting on a porch overlooking Nantucket Sound on sunny weekends while her children and grandchildren paid visits and regaled her with their latest adventures.
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.
Four of her nine children died in their prime.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
The assertions prompted a blistering response, published on the Op-Ed page of The New York Times, by four of her children: Senator Kennedy, Eunice Kennedy Shriver, Patricia Kennedy Lawford and Jean Kennedy Smith.
"
        In her autobiography, "Times to Remember" (Doubleday, 1974), Mrs. Kennedy said that she had devoted herself to her children and that there had been many satisfactions in her role.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
Meantime, his wife stayed home on Beale Street in Brookline, near Boston, giving birth to and raising her children.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy's church, children and grandchildren today celebrated the enduring Catholic faith of the founding mother of a political dynasty at funeral services in the church where she was baptized 104 years ago.
"
        Along with personal friends of Mrs. Kennedy and her children, the congregation of more than 700 included Tipper Gore, the wife of the Vice President, Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston and Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, all Democrats.

        Hilda Cole Espy, an author who wrote about her adventures in rearing five children after an early career as a publicity agent for Kate Smith and Fred Waring, died on Friday at the Pocono Medical Center in East Stroudsburg, Pa. She was 83 and lived in Delaware Water Gap, Pa.
Mrs. Ryan was born on July 4, 1901, at Cedar Court, Kahn's mansion in Morristown, N.J. Kahn's biographer John Kobler wrote that he was closer to her than to his other children.
Mrs. Pincus was a director of the Citizens' Committee for Children, a board member and past president of the Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center and a founder of the Professional Committee of Elem-Youth in Distress in Israel.
She was a director of Women in Need, a nonprofit organization that seeks to keep homeless women and their children together, and a founder of its summer camp, Camp WIN.
After World War II, she taught dance at orphanages for children whose parents had been killed by the Nazis and directed her own ballet school in Paris.
Dr. Taylor, who had been a member of the New York City Board of Education, said the school was founded because many parents felt their children were being "intellectually butchered" by the public school system.
"For these children to get a good opinion of themselves is very important.
She also made recordings for children, including a portrayal of Winnie the Pooh on a recording with Jimmy Stewart.

        Janina Domanska, an author and illustrator of children's books, died on Feb. 2 at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 82 and lived in New Fairfield, Conn.
        She had suffered a stroke recently, said her stepson Robert Nossen.
She came to the United States in 1952 and worked in New York City as a textile designer and freelance artist before turning to creating picture books for children.
After her husband completed his wartime service in England, the couple settled in Philadelphia, where she went to work for the University of Pennsylvania's Children's Hospital.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, who is chairman of Straus Communications, Mrs. Straus is survived by her mother, Louise Mayer Blumenthal Sulzberger of Longboat Key, Fla., and Saranac Lake, N.Y.; four children, Diane Tucker of Bedford, N.Y., Katherine Caple of Wellesley, Mass., Jeanne Tofel of Manhattan and Eric Straus of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; two sisters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann Sand, both of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      

        Ida Gertrude Krebs, whose lifelong interest in children with learning disabilities led her to found a school where she could implement a highly individual approach to such problems, died on Feb. 11 at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia.
In 1968, she founded the Krebs School in Lexington, Mass., where more than 100 children with learning disabilities studied in classes of no more than eight pupils.
She employed unusual techniques to capture the children's interest.
She was a member of the President's Council on Handicapped Children for more than 20 years and worked as a consultant to Governments in Canada, Colombia and Venezuela.
Mrs. Sweeney is survived by her children, Edward Jr., of Black Forest, Colo.; Philip, of Amherst, Mass.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two other children, John Barlow of Winchester, England, and Joseph Cook of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Catherine, of Pearl River, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Dr. Futas took up her duties at the university in Kingston, R.I., in 1986 and during the next decade helped to train a generation of reference and children's book librarians.
Dr. Sadker was the author or co-author of six books and scores of articles on sexism, teacher education and children's books.
In her later years, Mrs. Davis worked closely with her daughter-in-law, Barbara Davis, to raise money for the Children's Diabetes Foundation in Denver and for multiple sclerosis research.
Ms. Hawkins also was a co-writer of "A Guide to the Black Apple" and a writer for the Children's Television Workshop.
They had five children, including two sons, Worth and Jonathan, who died in accidents.
But Mr. Buchman said on Friday in reporting her death that Mrs. Harp once described herself as a "counterculturalist," an apt description for a woman who began her career translating the clothes of the flower children into fashion for counterculture heroines.
She also taught there from 1951 to 1963, establishing a program for children and children's dance teachers that became the Merry-Go-Rounders, a highly successful company that presented dance for children.
She also taught there from 1951 to 1963, establishing a program for children and children's dance teachers that became the Merry-Go-Rounders, a highly successful company that presented dance for children.
She also taught there from 1951 to 1963, establishing a program for children and children's dance teachers that became the Merry-Go-Rounders, a highly successful company that presented dance for children.
