She married in 1932 and reared three children.
Snow, who never remarried, had no children, and there are no immediate survivors.
      
They had 10  children.
As one of his 12 children, Dr. Barbosa, whose mother died when she was a toddler, inherited her father's intelligence and his ideals.
Partly, perhaps, because she and her husband, Jose Ezequiel Rosario, an economics professor who died in 1963, had no children, Dr. Barbosa began receiving her students for informal consultations on Saturday afternoons.
It was, in fact, Ms. Piper's suggestion that Britten base on opera on the Henry James novella about a governess who wrestles with a pair of ghosts she believes are corrupting the children in her care.
From the late 1930's through the early 50's, she worked mainly as her husband's assistant and brought up their four children, of which one son and two daughters survive.
Mrs. Bouteneff was a prominent supporter of the Russian Children's Welfare Society, which was founded in Manhattan in 1926 and still assists needy, ill and orphaned children of Russian parentage all over the world.
Mrs. Bouteneff was a prominent supporter of the Russian Children's Welfare Society, which was founded in Manhattan in 1926 and still assists needy, ill and orphaned children of Russian parentage all over the world.
Mrs. Hurd wrote some 75 books for elementary-school children covering the range of juvenile curiosity.
At Bank Street College she also met Margaret Wise Brown, with whom she wrote several children's books under the joint pseudonym of Juniper Sage.
Mrs. Hurd's first solo writing effort, ''Hurry Hurry,'' was published in 1938 by W.R. Scott, a pioneer modern children's book publisher.
''
        She is survived by a son, John Thacher Hurd of Berkeley, Calif., himself a writer and illustrator of children's books; and a brother, Nicholas Thacher, of San Francisco.
      
Work with children from small villages after the war led her and her husband, Tadeusz Sygietynski, to found the Mazowsze ensemble in 1948.

        Evelyn Payne Davis, a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women and a former vice president at the Children's Television Workshop, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
As vice president of the Children's Television Workshop's Community Education Services, Mrs. Davis led efforts to make ''Sesame Street'' known to inner-city parents and children when the program began appearing in 1969.
As vice president of the Children's Television Workshop's Community Education Services, Mrs. Davis led efforts to make ''Sesame Street'' known to inner-city parents and children when the program began appearing in 1969.
At that time, before cable, ''Sesame Street'' and other public television shows were typically on hard-to-find UHF channels, Joan Ganz Cooney, a Children's Television Workshop founder, said yesterday.
Three years after the program started, surveys showed that the efforts to reach these children had succeeded, Ms. Cooney added.
Working with the Children's Television Workshop, where she served as a consultant after retiring in 1992, Mrs. Davis also helped open scores of children's centers in prisons.
Working with the Children's Television Workshop, where she served as a consultant after retiring in 1992, Mrs. Davis also helped open scores of children's centers in prisons.
The centers offered programs to help prison inmates form better relationships with their visiting children, in part through ''Sesame Street'' and educational games.
'' Desperate for an on-scene voice from Europe, Harold Ross, the magazine's editor, recalling that Miss Panter-Downes had submitted a piece the year before about English families taking in Jewish refugee children, asked her to fill the gap, and she obliged.
She grew up at Minterne Magna, a 50-room stone mansion in Dorset, where despite severe financial pressures, the family's four children were tended to by maids, governesses and tutors.
Hayward had three children from his marriage to the actress Margaret Sullavan, who committed suicide in 1960, 11 years after their divorce.
The children loved their mother and their first stepmother, but not their father's new wife.
His daughters and their children were to share in the remains of a trust after Pamela Harriman's death.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
Ms. Blume, a popular children's author whose books dealing frankly with adolescent sexuality have frequently been the targets of censorship, said: ''When my books were being banned early on, in the 80's, I had nowhere to go, until I found this remarkable woman, this tiny dynamo who had such passion and energy for fighting censorship.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Pryor; two children, Shannon and Ben; a sister, Shannon Snapp Natale of Boston, and her mother, Auntrenette Snapp of Roanoke, Va.
      
Up to the book's publication in 1970, Ms. Hanff was a relatively unheralded freelance writer whose work centered mainly on television screenplays and children's books.
Ms. Hanff's other books include ''Q's Legacy'' (1986), ''Apple of My Eye'' (1977) and the children's titles ''Movers and Shakers'' (1969) and ''Terrible Thomas'' (1964).
Among her many achievements were laying the groundwork for aid to dependent children and for small claims courts.
As the seventh of nine highly articulate children, five of whom became lawyers, Miss Frooks recalled that she was holding her own in animated dinner table conversations on international affairs by the time she was 8 -- two years after she had decided on a legal career.
Miss Frooks, who eventually won a suspended sentence for her client,  became so incensed that the girl's widowed mother had been forced to neglect her children while struggling to eke out a living that she helped prod the legislature into establishing aid to dependent children.
Miss Frooks, who eventually won a suspended sentence for her client,  became so incensed that the girl's widowed mother had been forced to neglect her children while struggling to eke out a living that she helped prod the legislature into establishing aid to dependent children.
She attended Vassar College and, in 1934, married Mr. Rockefeller, the fourth of the six children of John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and a grandson of John D. Rockefeller, the founder of the Standard Oil Company.
She is survived by her husband and four children, Laura R. Chasin of Cambridge, Mass., Marion R. Weber of San Francisco, Lucy R. Waletzky of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Laurance (Larry) Rockefeller of Manhattan.

        Nancy Claster, who entertained and educated a generation of children as Miss Nancy, the prototypical teacher on television's ''Romper Room,'' died on Friday at her home in Baltimore.
For millions of children born, weaned, potty trained and sent off to school between the days of radio's ''Uncle Don'' and the advent of ''Sesame Street'' on television in 1969, ''Romper Room'' was the ultimate baby sitter in a box, created to fill a perceived need for better children's programming.
For millions of children born, weaned, potty trained and sent off to school between the days of radio's ''Uncle Don'' and the advent of ''Sesame Street'' on television in 1969, ''Romper Room'' was the ultimate baby sitter in a box, created to fill a perceived need for better children's programming.
''The core of her curriculum was really the belief that 'Romper Room' was for the children at home,'' Mrs. Bell said, ''and that everything that the children saw on television, whether it was just plain fun or educational -- and a lot of 'Romper Room' was educational -- should be set up so that children at home could participate.
''The core of her curriculum was really the belief that 'Romper Room' was for the children at home,'' Mrs. Bell said, ''and that everything that the children saw on television, whether it was just plain fun or educational -- and a lot of 'Romper Room' was educational -- should be set up so that children at home could participate.
''The core of her curriculum was really the belief that 'Romper Room' was for the children at home,'' Mrs. Bell said, ''and that everything that the children saw on television, whether it was just plain fun or educational -- and a lot of 'Romper Room' was educational -- should be set up so that children at home could participate.
''If children on television were walking on a balance beam for hand-eye coordination, the children at home were shown how to use a string on the floor, so they didn't have to be kids who had to buy equipment to participate.
''If children on television were walking on a balance beam for hand-eye coordination, the children at home were shown how to use a string on the floor, so they didn't have to be kids who had to buy equipment to participate.
Songs, games and health lessons helped ready children for the first grade.
To allay children's fear of the doctor, Miss Nancy got genuine polio shots on the air.
Each broadcast ended with the Magic Mirror, a piece of glittery plastic through which the teacher ''saw'' children at home.
Hundreds of children submitted their names and hoped to hear them when the teacher said: ''Romper stomper bomper boo/Tell me, tell me, tell me do/Magic Mirror, tell me today/ Did all my friends have fun at play?/I see Donnie and Leslie and Peter and Rhonda.
Born in Baltimore, Mrs. Claster was the oldest of three children of L. Edwin Goldman, the managing partner of a law firm, and the former Rita Strauss, who passed on her sense of fun to the future Miss Nancy.
''
        But dissatisfied with what he could see of morning programs for children, he created ''Romper Room.
After retirement, Mrs. Claster spent a good deal of her time reading to and playing with the children at the Maryland School for the Blind in Baltimore.
Mrs. DeWind is survived by her husband, Adrian W. DeWind, a New York City lawyer, and by her four children and seven grandchildren.
      
But then Ann Lane Petry was a surprising woman, one of such enormous empathy and imaginative flair that she did not need to encounter many bereft latchkey children, their desperate, beleaguered mothers or the assortment of opportunistic men who preyed on them to translate her observations into literature.
Neither enjoyed the critical or commercial success of her first novel, however, and from then on Mrs. Petry, by then a mother, turned out books for children and young adults, among them two biographies, ''Tituba of Salem Village,'' and ''Harriet Tubman: Conductor on the Underground Railroad.
Helen Eugenie Moore was born on May 26, 1909, in Adair, Iowa, one of five children of Rev.
''
        Both women married young, bore children, traveled, entertained, served on the boards of charities and collected antique English furniture, Chinese porcelain, American folk paintings and modern art.
While running a household and raising two children, she served as a sounding board and occasional editor and adviser to a man who took neither advice nor editing easily.
After the war, Miss Schonberg's parents separated and her mother returned with her children to the United States and taught music at the University of Oregon in Eugene.
Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book Magazine, a leading review journal of children's literature published in Boston.
She undertook graduate studies at Columbia and Harvard Universities while working as a children's librarian at the New York and Boston Public Libraries from 1938 to 1962.
Mrs. Heins was a founder of the Center for the Study of Children's Literature at Simmons College in Boston, where she also taught as an adjunct professor for 10 years.
She married Edward V. McKeown in 1946, but they had no children and he died in 1951.
Ms. Branscum went on to write 20 books for children and teen-agers, the first of which, ''Me and Jim Luke,'' was published in 1971.
Dr. Piers was internationally recognized for applying psychoanalytic concepts to the care and education of young children.
In the 1960's, Dr. Piers saw a need for educating teachers of small children to the complex and often upsetting turns in their development.
Raising the money and assembling trustees, she founded the Chicago Institute for the Education of Young Children, to which Dr. Erikson later lent his name and support.
It is one of four such institutions in the United States focusing solely on educating leaders in early childhood development and education, with emphasis on urban children and families.
They included ''Infanticide'' (Norton, 1978); ''Growing up With Children'' (Quadrangle, 1966); ''Wages of Neglect,'' with Robert Coles (Quadrangle, 1969) and, with G. M. Landau, ''The Gift of Play'' (Walker, 1980).
''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show.
With her husband, she supported Yeshiva University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicne, Long Island Jewish Medical Center and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel.
Left with two young children after her husband was killed in a car accident, Mrs. Monroe, like millions of other women nationwide, joined the work force both to fulfill a call to arms, so to speak, and to support her family.

        Mary D. Keyserling, an economist who made women and children the focus of her work in and out of government, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in McLean, Va. She was 87 and had been director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau during the era of feminist ferment in the 1960's.
''
        Her work in television included acting in daytime television staples like ''One Life to Live,'' ''Ryan's Hope'' and ''All My Children.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
Despite a longtime interest in finance, Mrs. Talley did not begin her career until 1969, when she was in her late 30's and in the midst of raising three children.
''
        After study in ballet with Anderson-Ivantzova and Spanish dance with Angel Cansino, Ms. Brown taught tap to children at her own school in the Bronx for 25 years.
She was born in Maysville, in northeast Georgia, as the seventh of eight children, and grew up on a corn and cotton farm.
As an editor at Ridge Press, Ms. Keene helped develop children's books for other companies.
In later years she was a consultant for Unesco's multilingual books and was a founder of the Society of Children's Book Writers.
During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
And she ran a home to help poor women and children from 1923 until it was destroyed in an American air raid in 1944.
There were no children.
Both marriages ended in divorce, and Miss Danilova said in ''Choura,'' her autobiography, which was published in 1986: ''I sacrificed marriage, children and country to be a ballerina, and there was never any misunderstanding on my part: I knew the price.
''
        She also wrote, ''In a way I regard American audiences as my children, because I helped to educate them.

        Jeannette E. Fleischner, a professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College who devoted her career to the advancement of children with disabilities, died last Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 57 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y., and on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
Much of her work focused on the role of technology in the education of children with disabilities.
Among other things, she developed strategies to teach skills to the children and programs for screening and evaluating the learning-disabled.
As the babies started coming, a couple of bedrooms were added, and while her three children were in school, Mrs. Stillwell would even spend the week in town, but on weekends and in summers she continued to ride with her husband.
Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations.
She was a trustee of Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., Smith College, the Greenwich Country Day School and the Gunnery, in Washington, Conn.
        She is survived by a sister, Katherine Scranton Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y.; a brother, William W. Scranton, the Governor of Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1967; five children, Ellen S. Linen and Marion M. Dawson Carr, both of Greenwich, Jonathan S. Linen of Summit, N.J., Christopher T. Linen of Redding, Conn., and Worthington W. Linen of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Winship served for some years in the 1970's as the American chairwoman of Girls Town of Italy, an international organization based in Rome that cared for children who had been abandoned.
After Mr. Lopata died of liver disease in 1991, Mrs. Lopata and her children gave $1.5 million to the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, Conn.

        Dr. Barbara D. Munk, an expert in the psychiatry of adolescence who worked with mentally ill mothers and their vulnerable infant children, died on Sept. 12 at New York Hospital after a seven-year battle with cancer.
Confronting one of society's darkest secrets, infanticide, Dr. Munk created a program for the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation with a twofold objective: to help mentally ill mothers who were threatened with losing custody of their children, while protecting the infants and toddlers from neglect and abuse.
Dr. Munk, who was director of child and adolescent psychiatry services at the hospital, would personally examine the children entrusted to her care, as well as their mothers, for signs of abuse, including marks on their bodies.
They would be welcomed together with their children, from birth through age 5, who were at risk of slow development, disturbances or disabilities.
She provided help for more than 1,000 poor and ethnically diverse mothers and their children.
Nearly half the children were less than a year old.
The center was meant to discourage abortions by providing quarters for children waiting to be adopted or put in foster homes.
There was a home for abandoned children, a leper colony and an old people's home.
She went on to set up welfare institutions ranging from a family clinic, to mobile leprosy clinics, to nurseries for abandoned children.
She rescued dozens of mentally ill children from the dangers of warfare in the Muslim part of the city.
It toured for decades, offering solo and group works for adults and children.

        Katherine B. Oettinger, an authority on the care and upbringing of children, who was head of the Federal agency for the care of handicapped and underprivileged children, died on Monday in Carmel, Calif. She was 94.

        Katherine B. Oettinger, an authority on the care and upbringing of children, who was head of the Federal agency for the care of handicapped and underprivileged children, died on Monday in Carmel, Calif. She was 94.
Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Dr. Oettinger served four administrations.
As an expert on retarded children, Dr. Oettinger expounded the view that such children could often be cared for in the home, and should be, though in an earlier time they were routinely sent to institutions.
As an expert on retarded children, Dr. Oettinger expounded the view that such children could often be cared for in the home, and should be, though in an earlier time they were routinely sent to institutions.
She was also intent on educating the nation about the difficult period of adjustment facing most parents of retarded children.
''Some parents still blame themselves when they discover their child is retarded,'' she said, and then go from doctor to doctor looking for a ''cure,'' rather than counseling that will help them teach their children to learn to function with some degree of success.
Ms. Lindley took a break from acting to raise five children with her first husband, Hardy Ulm, but by the 1960's she was appearing in recurring roles in such television soap operas as ''The Edge of Night,'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' and ''Another World.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      

        Merian Lovelace Kirchner, the little girl whose pleadings for just one more bedtime story gave birth to a beloved series of children's books, died on Sept. 25 at a hospital on Staten Island.
''If I had children, I wouldn't have time for all this,'' she said.
''
        But others described her as a dangerous force in 1964, particularly her urgings to keep children out of school as a protest.
He is the founder of the International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and was its first chairman.
She never married and had no children.
      
Mrs. Dick was the author of a book about Mr. Stevenson, ''Volunteers and the Making of Presidents,'' published by Dodd, Mead Inc. She was a trustee of the Menninger Foundation, an advocacy group for the mentally ill; the Children's Home and Aid Society of Illinois, and the Newberry Library in Chicago.
Her interests were social welfare, education, the judicial process for new immigrants, the language barrier and social adjustment, particularly that of children.
She also worked for social service agencies that assisted needy families and their children.
Parks to combine her mother's recollections with her own in what became ''Backstairs,'' and two other books written with Miss Leighton: ''It was Fun Working in the White House,'' a children's book, and ''The Roosevelts: A Family in Turmoil,'' published in 1973.
They had no children.

        Marguerite Henry, the author of the children's book classic ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' one of some four dozen books that introduced young readers to animals in the great outdoors, died on Wednesday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, near San Diego.
After moving to the farm in 1939, she readily took to country ways and showed it in her first book for children, ''Auno and Tauno: A Story of Finland'' (1940).
She was chairwoman of Camp Rainbow for disadvantaged children and the Lexington School for the Deaf.
She also was a volunteer for a United Nations language center, where she tutored children in French and Italian.
In addition to her husband and children, Ms. Hubert Allison is survived by a stepson, Matthew Allison, 32, a record industry executive in Hong Kong.
She was tall, about 5 feet 10 inches, and she wore her long braided gray hair in a distinctive upsweep on the top of her head, a style described by her children as a ''Gretchen braid.
She had no children.
Under her guidance, the foundation supported many classroom and scholarship programs in private and public schools, which offered opportunities to the children of the poor.
She met Winthrop Rockefeller while working with teen-age drug addicts and mentally ill children in New York, and they married in 1956.
After the revolution, when the illustrious Maryinsky Ballet School permitted children of non-Christian backgrounds to enroll, Miss Geva entered as a night student.
Additional aid goes to five children's eye clinics, in New York City, Newark, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, including the Fight For Sight clinic in the Harkness Institute at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
