They sent their daughter and her three sisters to Barbados, where the children lived with a grandmother until 1934.
She argued that early schooling was essential, saying she knew there were experts who maintained that children's eyes were not developed enough for reading.
The first of four children born to a prominent New York family, Ms. Freeman was a member of the first graduating class at Bennington College in Vermont.
''What she used to say at the time was, 'I want to be one of the children as opposed to one of the grown-ups,'' said Mr. Noah, a writer for Slate who frequently showed his wife his own stories.

        Ruth Warrick, who made her movie debut with Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and ended her career with the long-running role of Phoebe Tyler Wallingford on the television soap opera ''All My Children,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Three decades later, her role as Phoebe, the patrician matriarch of the Tyler family on ABC's ''All My Children,'' fixed her most indelibly in the American consciousness.
''
        Susan Lucci, another original cast member of ''All My Children,'' who has played Erica Kane for more than three decades, said Ms. Warrick had little in common with the judgmental, status-driven Phoebe.
Ms. Warrick was active in several charities, including the League School in Walpole, Mass., for autistic children.
Ms. Warrick, who married five times, is survived by three children, Karen Langenwalter, Jon Rolf and Robert McNamara; a grandson; and six great-grandchildren.
In addition to ''All My Children,'' she worked for five years on ''As the World Turns'' and played Hannah Cord in the 1960's prime-time soap opera ''Peyton Place,'' as well as in the 1985 made-for-television movie ''Peyton Place: The Next Generation.
During World War II she tenaciously pressed the British authorities to admit more Jews from Nazi Germany and at one point personally housed 49 Jewish children.
They had four children and adopted two more before divorcing in 1957.
As she raised her children, her late-night attention turned to fleas.
They sent their daughter and her three sisters to Barbados, where the children lived with a grandmother until 1934.
The author or editor of more than 30 books, Ms. Gourse devoted most of her writing to profiles of jazz virtuosos, starting in 1984 with ''Louis' Children: American Jazz Singers,'' a collection of biographical sketches.
The magazine Jazz Times named her biography ''Straight, No Chaser: The Life and Genius of Thelonious Monk'' (1997), one of the top jazz books of the year
        Her many books for children included at least six musical surveys along the lines of her 1998 book for young adults, ''Deep Down in Music: The Art of the Great Jazz Bassists.
'' She also profiled performers like Mahalia Jackson and Gloria Estefan for a series of children's books published by Franklin Watts.
She has credentials, she is married to a successful man'' -- the economist and writer Eliot Janeway -- ''has children; as recently as 1969 she termed the women's movement 'frivolous and gestural.
She was asked by the South Korean government to compose children's songs after Japanese occupation ended and her nation was left with no Korean-language school materials.
Petty was born on April 28, 1918, in Mills County, Tex., the third of six children of Robert Clinton Petty, a farmer, and Willie Mae Petty.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
Taking a job at the Cleveland Public Library, she was assigned to the children's book section, allowing her to become expert in the literature.
Most of her childhood was spent in Budapest and Vienna; she was evacuated and sent to the Netherlands with other children for a year during World War I.
Ms. Dolbeare is survived by her husband, Louis P. Dolbeare; a sister, Alice Lynd of Niles, Ohio; two children, L. Niles Dolbeare of San Francisco and Mary Dolbeare O'Kane of Seattle; and four grandchildren.
      
Slowly progressing Alzheimer's disease restricted her in the 1990's, but she kept an office at the institute and never lost touch with the first crop of children whose lives began in her laboratory.
In 1945, the Goldensons and another couple, Jack and Ethel Hausman, reached out to other parents of children with cerebral palsy by placing an advertisement in The New York Herald Tribune.
In 1965, seeking to finance television programming for children, she helped Joan Ganz Cooney in planning the Children's Television Workshop, maker of ''Sesame Street.
In 1965, seeking to finance television programming for children, she helped Joan Ganz Cooney in planning the Children's Television Workshop, maker of ''Sesame Street.
She followed the book with ''Planting Noah's Garden: Further Adventures in Backyard Ecology'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1997) and ''Noah's Children: Restoring the Ecology of Childhood'' (North Point Press, 2001), a meditation on the role the natural environment plays in childhood development.
Ms. Stein began her career as a toy designer, which led to her writing children's books.
The books were subtitled ''An Open Family Book for Parents and Children Together'' (Walker & Company).
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
She settled in London, where she met Mr. Haycraft; they were married in 1956 and had seven children.

        Nellie McCaslin, a theater historian and educator considered the country's leading authority on children's theater, died on Feb. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
She wrote two college textbooks considered classics in the field: ''Theater for Children in the United States: A History'' (University of Oklahoma, 1971) and ''Creative Drama in the Classroom and Beyond,'' to be published by Allyn & Bacon this spring in its eighth edition.
She also published numerous scholarly articles, as well as books and plays for children.
Though drama by and for children is considered a ghetto by many theater professionals, to Dr. McCaslin it was a serious artistic enterprise.
McCaslin was a past president of the Children's Theater Association of America and in 1996 received the lifetime achievement award of the American Alliance for Theater in Education.
to admit that children could be difficult,'' she said.
Elizabeth Venture Smith was born in Manhattan on July 29, 1946, the eldest of six children of Harrison Venture Smith, a senior executive at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, and Marlis deGreve Smith.
She is survived by their three children, Samuel, of Manhattan; Rachel, of Brooklyn; and Sarah, of Manhattan; two brothers, Spencer Smith of Lee, N.H.; and Oliver Smith of Manhattan; two sisters, Anne Smith Tucker of Philadelphia, and Sarah Smith of Manhattan; and one grandchild.

        Faith McNulty, a New Yorker staff writer who wrote many books about animals and country life for adults and children, died last Sunday at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 86.
She is survived by a sister, Phyllis Kempner; four children from her first marriage: Pamela Davis Kivelson, Nancy Stewart, Alan Davis and Cynthia Kanner; three stepchildren: Bill Beyers, Robbie Beyers and Amy Theorin; and 13 grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Hochberg first worked as a security analyst with Shields & Company, a brokerage house, but later set her career aside to raise three children.

        Clare Lynch O'Brien, an author, editor and consultant to children's television, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. O'Brien was a senior children's editor at Random House and a longtime colleague of Fred Rogers, the children's television host.
Mrs. O'Brien was a senior children's editor at Random House and a longtime colleague of Fred Rogers, the children's television host.
'' She was also a consultant for ''Big Blue Marble,'' a children's show on public television.
In later years, the couple performed with their two children as the Four Bursteins.
When her children left the nest, she turned their rooms into walk-in closets.
After having four children, she entered Radcliffe College, one of the first adults to do so, and graduated in 1946.
The bureau became Special Services for Children in 1974 and the Child Welfare Administration in 1989.
In 1996 the city established the Administration for Children's Services as a separate agency.
During Ms. Beine's tenure the bureau started the city's first protective-services program, which allowed needy children to receive help at home rather than being sent to foster care.
In 1950 Ms. Beine joined the Welfare Department, where she eventually supervised the city's three children's shelters.
She wrote and illustrated two children's books, ''I Like to Be Me'' (Viking, 1963) and ''So Do I'' (Arbor House, 1972).
''Many of her novels offer a clinical dissection of America's failed marriages and of a culture that has not permitted women to have a life apart from their children and husband,'' said the reference book Contemporary Novelists.
She is survived by her husband Stanley Leff; her children, Daniel and Jean Rossner; her sister, Nancy Pike; and three grandchildren.
Constance Baker was born on Sept. 14, 1921, in New Haven, the ninth of 12 children.
She decided that she wanted to be a lawyer, but her family lacked money to send their many children to college.
She said her greatest professional satisfaction came with the reinstatement of 1,100 black children in Birmingham who had been expelled for taking part in street demonstrations in the spring of 1963.
When her children were small, she often took them to out-of-town engagements, presenting what she viewed as a living demonstration of the compatibility of career and family.

        Toni Trent Parker, an author who helped advance the cause of books featuring African-American children, died on Thursday at her home in Stamford, Conn. She was 58.
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!
Guide to Great African American Children's Books.
Children's picture books featuring or including minority children were largely absent before the 1960's, when the first few were published and authors and other advocates began criticizing what they viewed as prejudice in the publishing industry, said Leonard S. Marcus, a book reviewer for Parenting magazine.
Children's picture books featuring or including minority children were largely absent before the 1960's, when the first few were published and authors and other advocates began criticizing what they viewed as prejudice in the publishing industry, said Leonard S. Marcus, a book reviewer for Parenting magazine.
By promoting sales, raising awareness and adding to the literature, Ms. Parker helped bring more books with black children into the mainstream, he said.
In 1998 she established Kids Cultural Books, a nonprofit organization that holds book festivals around the country to bring multicultural books and their authors together with children.
Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children.
Ms. Parker wrote six children's picture books, including holiday books and a keepsake book, all picturing black children.
As head of the American Federation of Teachers, she worked to increase federal and state spending for programs for the youngest children in a program she called Kindergarten Plus.

        Franzi Groszmann, who was believed to be among the last survivors of the parents who put their London-bound children on trains to escape Nazi persecution, in the famed Kindertransport, died on Sept. 20 in Manhattan.
The British government had eased immigration restrictions for children under 17 after the violent attack on Jews in Germany in November 1938 known as Kristallnacht, or Night of the Broken Glass.
''In no time, the suitcase was gone, the child was gone, the other children were gone -- just emptiness,'' Mrs. Groszmann said in the film about watching Lore board the train in Vienna.
Ms. Segal told about the Kindertransport (Children's Transport) in her autobiographical novel, ''Other People's Houses,'' drawing a loving portrait of a charming and capable mother.
From Dec. 2, 1938, until May 14, 1940, 9,000 to 10,000 children, 7,500 of them Jewish, were sent to Britain.
But they found work as domestic servants and could not have children living with them.
With a script by Clare Boothe Luce, the film stars Loretta Young and Celeste Holm as two young nuns trying to build a children's hospital.
Rosa Louise McCauley was born in Tuskegee, Ala., on Feb. 4, 1913, the elder of Leona and James McCauley's two children.
''
        She would laugh in recalling some of her experiences with children whose curiosity often outstripped their grasp of history: ''They want to know if I was alive during slavery times.
Mrs. Haupt was the fourth, and last surviving, of eight children of Sadie and Moses L. Annenberg, the publisher who founded Triangle Publications, whose holdings eventually included The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Philadelphia Daily News, The Daily Racing Form, TV Guide and radio and television stations.
The gift that gave her the most satisfaction, she said, was one of her earliest and least heralded: the Enid A. Haupt Glass Garden, a playground for children who are patients at the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University Medical Center.
''
        Cynthia DeLores Nottage was born in Philadelphia on Oct. 4, 1927, as the 10th of 11 children of the Rev.
The children were raised in a strict religious atmosphere, not allowed to dance, listen to music or date until they were 21.
They had no children but helped raise a number of relatives in their extended families.
Ruth Elizabeth Clement was born in Louisville, Ky., on May 22, 1904, the fourth of seven children of a prominent black family.
Bond is survived by their three children, Jane Clement Bond and J. Max Bond Jr., both of Manhattan, and George Clement Bond of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Emma Clement Walker, of Seattle; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
In 1954, Ms. Pessino helped found the museum's first natural science center for children, directing it through several incarnations.
The center still offers classes for children and families.
What was more, she realized, most city children considered the natural world irrelevant.
It was intended to be a place where children could not only study nature but also handle it, often for the first time.
There were other nature centers for children around the country, but perhaps none focused so intimately on urban life forms.
Considered timeless wisdom by some and undiluted treacle by others, Mrs. Nolte's poem is organized as a series of logical propositions:
        If children live with criticism, they learn to condemn.
If children live with hostility, they learn to fight.
If children live with fear, they learn to be apprehensive.
If children live with pity, they learn to feel sorry for themselves.
It continues:
        If children live with encouragement, they learn confidence.
If children live with tolerance, they learn patience.
If children live with praise, they learn appreciation.
If children live with acceptance, they learn to love.
Mrs. Nolte is survived by two children from her first marriage, Joyce Jameson of Gold Canyon, Ariz., and Gerald Law of Rancho Santa Margarita; a daughter from her second marriage, Lisa Mulvania, of Huntington Beach, Calif.; a stepson, David Nolte, of Kailua, Hawaii; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
      
Survivors of the Maidanek concentration and death camp, near Lublin, told of her whipping women to death, seizing children by the hair and throwing them on trucks to take them to the gas chamber, kicking away a stool to hang a young girl, and stomping old women to death with her jackboots, among other cruelties.
'' When Rubinstein decided that his children were old enough to take piano lessons, he hired Ms. Keene as their teacher.
She next wrote ''Like the Lion's Tooth'' (Farrar, 1972), again drawing from life, to tell about three emotionally disturbed children.
Ms. Hays is survived by her husband, the deputy chairman of Christie's auction house; their three children, Sophie, John and Henry; her parents, of Greenwich; and four siblings, Anne Bertolino of Boxborough, Mass.
One of 12 children, Ms. Arango first studied art at 13 at the rigid Catholic school she attended in Medellín and later at the city's Instituto de Bellas Artes.
Aimed at children 6 to 9 years old, it was based on the exploits of her own three sons.
Mrs. Hodges also wrote biographies and novels for children and young adults.
She also received a master's degree in library science in 1958 from the Carnegie Institute of Technology while working as a volunteer children's librarian at the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
