In 1947, at the request of the federal Children's Bureau, Dr. Whittemore set up the first rheumatic fever and cardiac clinic in New England, at the Yale Medical School.
Rheumatic fever, which can lead to heart failure if untreated, was common in young children then.
In the early 50's, she began a research study in which she examined the health histories of 837 children born to 427 of her former patients and discovered that 10 percent of the children had congenital heart abnormalities.
In the early 50's, she began a research study in which she examined the health histories of 837 children born to 427 of her former patients and discovered that 10 percent of the children had congenital heart abnormalities.
At a time when genetic predisposition to heart disease was not completely understood, Dr. Whittemore's data showed that children whose parents had heart disease were at a higher risk of developing the disease than the general population.
''
        Miss Lee was named Norma Deloris Egstrom at her birth on May 27, 1920, in Jamestown, N.D. She was the sixth of seven children of Marvin and Selma Egstrom.
''
        Her father was Phelan Beale, a Wall Street lawyer, who raised three children at Grey Gardens on Lily Pond Lane.

        Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish writer whose rollicking, anarchic books about Pippi Longstocking rattled some tradition-bound Swedes when they first appeared almost 60 years ago but came to captivate millions of children around the world, died yesterday at her home in Stockholm.
That is wonderful, for children to think, 'Oh, if I were like Pippi!
''
        Mrs. Lindgren was born Astrid Anna Emilia Ericsson on Nov. 14, 1907, the second of four children of Samuel August and Hanna Jonsson Ericsson, in Vimmerby, in southern Sweden.

        Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Riley built the children's division of Crowell and was especially noted for creating the ''Let's Read and Find Out'' series of science primers, started more than 40 years ago.
The books, designed for children from preschool through the early grades, counted well-known science writers among their authors.
Munro Leaf -- a friend who was the creator of ''The Story of Ferdinand,'' the classic children's book about the bull who preferred smelling flowers to fighting other bulls -- recommended her to Crowell, where she started as a general editor.
Ms. Riley was entrusted with creating the publishing house's children's book department, and she built it into one of the best.
But its terms also barred her from working any longer in children's books; she became a volunteer for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, working in textile conservation and helping to organize files and photographs.

        Margaret Loeb Kempner, a philanthropist whose special concerns included the well-being of children, families with children and the elderly, died on Dec. 31 at her home in Purchase, N.Y. She was 102.

        Margaret Loeb Kempner, a philanthropist whose special concerns included the well-being of children, families with children and the elderly, died on Dec. 31 at her home in Purchase, N.Y. She was 102.
She assisted Blythedale Children's Hospital in Valhalla, N.Y., for almost seven decades, raising money and serving on its board.

        Virginia Hamilton, an internationally recognized writer for children whose work celebrated the African-American experience as an essential component of American life, died yesterday in Dayton, Ohio.
In 1995 she became the first children's author to receive a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant.
She grew up on the small farm in Yellow Springs that had been her family's since the 1850's;  she later returned there with her husband and children.
Once a year, she wrote, he gathered his children around him.
At the time the few children's books about black people were mainly ''problem'' novels, which threw into sharp relief issues like segregation and poverty.
''
        Annalee Whitmore was born on May 27, 1916, on the kitchen table of her family's home in Price, Utah, the eldest of four children born to Leland Whitmore, a bank president who built and flew airplanes as a hobby, and Anne Sharp Whitmore, who later became a librarian at the main branch of the New York Public Library.
They were married in 1950, and had two children.
Their tempestuous marriage produced two children, but ended in divorce in 1978.
Even her children were expected to refer to her as ''Princess Margaret'' in front of visitors.
Although the royal couple had made a show of togetherness and were often photographed with their children -- David Albert Charles Armstrong-Jones (Viscount Linley) and Sarah Frances Elizabeth Armstrong-Jones (Lady Sarah Chatto) -- their relations continued to deteriorate.
Five years later, in 1942, Mr. Radley walked out on the marriage, leaving his wife to bring up the two children.
Five years later, in 1942, Mr. Radley walked out on the marriage, leaving his wife to bring up the two children.
When not acting, Ms. Stuart read to children in the public schools of New York as part of a program called Book PALS (Performing Artists for Literacy in Schools), a program of the Screen Actors Guild Foundation to encourage children to read for pleasure.
When not acting, Ms. Stuart read to children in the public schools of New York as part of a program called Book PALS (Performing Artists for Literacy in Schools), a program of the Screen Actors Guild Foundation to encourage children to read for pleasure.
Today, more than 3,300 children in 10 schools are members.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
Ms. LeShan was known for the motherly warmth she brought to books like ''The Conspiracy Against Childhood'' (Atheneum, 1967), her best-known work on raising children; her radio commentaries on CBS; and her show on PBS, ''How Do Your Children Grow?
Ms. LeShan was known for the motherly warmth she brought to books like ''The Conspiracy Against Childhood'' (Atheneum, 1967), her best-known work on raising children; her radio commentaries on CBS; and her show on PBS, ''How Do Your Children Grow?
''
        Her message to harried parents was to ease off on the pressure, and sometimes allow children to just daydream.
''I used to be a child psychologist and I love children and I kind of miss that part of my life,'' she said in an interview on ''CBS This Morning'' in 1990.
Eight years after founding Amas, she added a children's theatrical course to its program.
A political prisoner herself, she suffered separation from her two fatherless children and endured near starvation and constant abuse.
She is survived by their children, Robert Jr., of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Kathleen Reagan of Washington Township, N.J.; and her brother, John, of Newburyport, Mass.
They had two children, Elizabeth, known as Lilibet, and Margaret Rose, and the Duchess settled into a pleasant life of regal domesticity, saying her main duty was ''bringing up her children.
They had two children, Elizabeth, known as Lilibet, and Margaret Rose, and the Duchess settled into a pleasant life of regal domesticity, saying her main duty was ''bringing up her children.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
She once said her children complained that the women she trained competed against her.
She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
They returned to Brooklyn with their two children, and she wrote that she thought of herself as ''one of those furtive, silly housewives with a novel under her apron.
''
        Her first book, ''Unlearning the Lie: Sexism in School'' (Liveright, 1969), grew out of the children's experiences with efforts to quell sexism at what was then the Woodward Park School in Brooklyn.
The youngest of 10 children of Polish immigrants, Ruth Mosko was the daughter of a blacksmith who had settled in Denver.
''
        She had no children by either marriage.
Her mother, Josefina Guereña, bore 16 children, of which 12 survived.
' When the little children lost their lives in the church bombing, the nation cried, 'Where is God?
''
        Born Dorothy McGriff in Birmingham, she was one of seven children of a minister who divorced when Ms. Coates was young.
'' She had her children stuff living wills into envelopes for mailing.
And there are no scleroderma poster children to help.
''
        She was born near Bucharest, Romania, one of 11 children, and received her primary education there.
At once avant-garde and populist, Ms. de Saint Phalle's art had the unusual ability to appeal to a wide range of viewers, from art-world professionals to children.
Each Sunday, she would organize a Yiddish theatrical presentation in a different barracks, said her son, Ben-Ami, who survives her, along with his two children.
Dr. Pantoja directed most of her energies, however, to improving the performance in New York schools of Puerto Rican children, children of Spanish speakers who were taught only in English.
Dr. Pantoja directed most of her energies, however, to improving the performance in New York schools of Puerto Rican children, children of Spanish speakers who were taught only in English.
Her mother, whose designs were prized by the social lights of New York, Hollywood and Europe, was consumed by her passion for her work and her distaste for her children.
They had no children.
She marshaled children in strollers, including her own four sons, to press the case that Greenwich Village's only significant park had no business being a bus turnaround, much less being cut in half by a four-lane road.
She worked with Dr. Jeanne S. Chall, another leading expert on teaching children to read, to devise instructional materials to guide teachers.
When children in her classroom were having trouble learning to read, she asked them to come to school earlier and stay later to help them catch up.
City College offered her a teaching fellowship in 1942, asking her to test children with various reading problems and to supervise student teachers.
Most recently she was a co-author of ''Teaching Children to Read, a Step-by-Step Guide for Volunteer Tutors'' (Continental Press, 1998); and ''Creating Successful Readers'' (Riverside, 1994).
By that time, Miss Lewis and Mr. Gruson were the parents of three children.

        Zena Sutherland, the most prominent reviewer of American children's books for nearly three decades and the author of five editions of ''Children and Books,'' the classic textbook on the subject, died on June 12 in Chicago.
As the editor and reviewer of The Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books, essentially a one-woman operation, she concisely assessed about 30,000 titles, more than 100 a month, from 1958 to 1985.
''No other individual's views had such an impact on children's books then or now,'' said Roger Sutton, the editor of The Horn Book magazine and one of her many protégés.
Mrs. Sutherland led the way in the critical rather than sugary descriptive reviewing that accompanied the flourishing of American children's books.
She explained the great change in the field of children's books that paralleled her career as the lifting of taboos, most of which reflected a sincere wish to protect children.
She explained the great change in the field of children's books that paralleled her career as the lifting of taboos, most of which reflected a sincere wish to protect children.
She accepted children as real and aware individuals and their books as real literature, and she was a stalwart supporter of books that addressed a range of problems and issues that some still find shocking.
She graduated from the University of Chicago in 1937, married Roland Bailey the same year and had three children.
In 1956 she began course work at the Graduate Library School with the vague intention of becoming a medical librarian, took a children's literature course on a whim and was soon asked to take over The Bulletin temporarily.
Mrs. Sutherland also reviewed children's books for The Saturday Review from 1966 to 1972 and for The Chicago Tribune from 1972 to 1984.
She taught at the Library School from 1972 to 1986 and served on all the important library and children's book committees, including those for the Newbery and Caldecott Awards.
She succeeded May Hill Arbuthnot as the author of ''Children and Books,'' the basic college text on children's literature, in 1972, and revised it regularly, most recently in 1996.
Her friendship with Scott O'Dell, the author of ''Island of the Blue Dolphins'' and other historical novels for children, led to the establishment in 1981 of the $5,000 Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction, of which she was the permanent chairwoman.
In 1983 a collection of articles in her honor, ''Celebrating Children's Books,'' generated royalties that were used to establish the Zena Sutherland lecture series, now run by the Chicago Public Library and the University of Chicago Lab School.
''
        She was the author or editor of 28 books, essays and novels for children and the libretto for the 1995 opera by John Adams ''I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky.
Two years later she published a children's book, ''Who Look at Me?

        Maia Wojciechowska, an award-winning author of children's books, died on June 13 in Long Branch, N.J. She was 74.
She made the decision to disclose in her column that Ann Landers, who until the early 1970's continued to advise couples to stay together for the sake of the children, was getting a divorce herself.
She made the decision to disclose in her column that Ann Landers, who until the early 1970's continued to advise couples to stay together for the sake of the children, was getting a divorce herself.
By that time, Miss Lewis and Mr. Gruson were the parents of three children.
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
She was one of five children born to Andrew and Frances Guilfoyle Clooney.
She is survived by her children: the actor Miguel Ferrer; Maria, a designer; Gabriel, a painter married to Debby Boone; Monsita Teresa; Rafael, a voice-over actor, and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, a dancer.
Her decades of membership on charity boards began in 1958 with the Hillcrest Center for Children and ended with the Sept. 11 Fund.
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
She was one of five children born to Andrew and Frances Guilfoyle Clooney.
One of the Clooney children, Andy, drowned as a boy swimming in the Ohio River.
In the early 1960's she and Mr. Ferrer became estranged, she had an affair with the arranger Nelson Riddle that went nowhere (he was married and the father of six children) and she slowly became addicted to sleeping pills.
''
        Mrs. Cook was the last of three children of Jane W. W. Bancroft, the stepdaughter of Clarence W. Barron, who bought Dow Jones from its founders in 1902.
One descendant of each of Jane W. W. Bancroft's children -- Hugh Bancroft Jr. and Jessie Bancroft Cox, who both died years ago, and Mrs. Cook -- now serve on the board.

        Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93.
''Caps for Sale'' was first published in 1938 and still sells steadily, as generation after generation of children demands that the cheerfully repetitive words be read and reread.
She started in children's books by necessity.
Ms. Slobodkina took her responsibility as a children's book author seriously.
In her memoir she wrote: ''The verbal patterns and the patterns of behavior we present to children in these lighthearted confections are likely to influence them for the rest of their lives.
Her survivors include her husband, Waldon Peter Snyder, known as Pete, a former Marine Corps aviator; six children; six grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      

        Dr. Alice M. Stewart, an epidemiologist who first demonstrated the link between X-rays of pregnant women and disease in their children, a finding that changed medical practice, died on June 23 in Oxford, England.
''
        Dr. Stewart, then a member of the social medicine department at Oxford, was surprised to discover when she conducted a survey that children of mothers who had had this X-ray were almost twice as likely to have cancer as other children.
''
        Dr. Stewart, then a member of the social medicine department at Oxford, was surprised to discover when she conducted a survey that children of mothers who had had this X-ray were almost twice as likely to have cancer as other children.
Her mother, Lucy Wellburn Naish, was one of the first British women to become a doctor, and four of the Naish children became doctors as well.
She fled Hitler's forces and traveled to New York City with Mr. Lindenbaum and four children in 1940 from Antwerp, where her father, Moshe Avigdor Amiel, was chief rabbi before he became chief rabbi of Tel Aviv.
She is survived by five children, all residents of the New York area: two daughters, Maidy Jeger and Gloria Kisch; three sons, Armand and Marcel Lindenbaum and Leonard Stern; 24 grandchildren and 37 great-grandchildren; and two sisters, Esther Mann of Tel Aviv and Sully Selbourn of Manchester, England.
      
But she also had many of his least memorable works, like saccharine portraits of Russian children that look like Soviet propaganda.
She is survived by four children from her first marriage, to Mr. Phillips.

        Quail Hawkins, the author of gentle children's books like ''A Puppy for Keeps,'' and ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door,'' both popular in the 1940's, died on Aug. 16 at the retirement home where she lived in Pacific Grove, Calif. She was 97.
She was also a specialist in children's literature.
In Ms. Cleary's memoir, ''My Own Two Feet,'' she wrote how in 1941 Ms. Hawkins hired her to work during the Christmas rush at Sather Gate Book Shop in Berkeley, Calif. She described Ms. Hawkins, then the manager of children's books at the store, as ''a rapid, omnivorous reader with a retentive memory, a love of books and a passion for persuading others to read them.
She also served for seven years as a children's book specialist at the University of California Press.
Quail Hawkins, the oldest of seven children, was born Helena Ann Hawkins on March 29, 1905, in Spokane, Wash. No one in the family today is sure how she came to be called Quail, said a nephew, Mark Hawkins, but the name stuck.
Among her books are ''Prayers and Graces for Small Children'' (Grosset & Dunlap, 1941), and several books for Holiday House, including, ''A Puppy For Keeps'' (1943), ''Don't Run, Apple'' (1944), ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door'' (1947) and ''The Aunt-Sitter'' (1958).
The islanders also work on the Robinsons' sheep and cattle ranch in return for salaries, free housing, food and education for their children.
With some of her children and their spouses, Mrs. Sinclair eventually went to the Sandwich Islands, as Hawaii was then known.
Keith Robinson said the family totally cut off visits to Niihau in the 1930's because of the vulnerability of people to diseases to which they had never been exposed like measles, which had killed 11 children on the island.

        Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57.
Her winning tactic had been persuading federal officials in Washington to temporarily cut off money for the education of disabled children in all California schools until the Richmond situation was remedied.
The result was a new state policy to end the segregation of disabled children.
Ms. Lipton took the issue a step further in 1990 when she and other advocates for the disabled took the Sacramento school district to court to demand the mixing of disabled children into regular classrooms.
In 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco decided the case in Ms. Lipton's favor and defined standards for judging whether school districts were complying with the 1975 federal law requiring that disabled students be educated to the maximum extent possible and with other children as much as possible.
Ms. Lipton became friendly with parents of other disabled children, and Chloe at 3 began to attend a school for orthopedically handicapped children.
Ms. Lipton became friendly with parents of other disabled children, and Chloe at 3 began to attend a school for orthopedically handicapped children.
In addition to Whitaker, whom she married in 1991, she is survived by three children from her marriage to Kiner, the longtime Mets broadcaster; sons Michael and Scott Kiner, and a daughter, Kathryn Freeman, all of Palm Desert, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      
With the feel of a warped bebop children's album, it features Ms. Pamela on all instruments -- piano, accordion, drums, clarinet, and probably various household appliances -- accompanying herself as she tells, with gee-whiz glee, tales of amiable lunar roosters, trips to Mars and blue winds.
Her father, who sold hay and grain, and his six children then moved to Westchester County.
She is survived by four children, Gary, of McLean, Va.; Donald, of Columbus, Ohio; Lauren, of Manhattan; and Tracey Barrentine of Annandale, Va.; five brothers, John Lawler of Yonkers; Lawrence Lawler of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; Robert Lawler of Seaford, N.Y.; Brendan Lawler, of Katonah, N.Y.; and James Lawler, of Staten Island; four sisters, Therese Lawler Stevenson of Bedford, N.Y.; Kathleen Lawler Gerard of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y.; Patricia Lawler Odell of Parlin, N.J.; and Joan Lawler Cirone of San Luis Obispo, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
As experimental theater groups sprung up all over London and all around the world, she once said, as The Guardian reported in its obituary: ''I didn't need to have children.
All over the world I have children.
Mrs. Wilmot had no children, and her sole immediate survivor is her sister, Francice Bushkin, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Mrs. Wilmot rose to prominence the day after Thanksgiving in 1984, when a maid awakened her.

        Erna Furman, an expert on grief in children and a child psychoanalyst who helped develop a teamwork therapy involving teachers, parents and therapists, died on Aug. 9 in Cleveland.
The Perkins Center used psychoanalytic ideas to help children deal with emotional problems and incorporated the idea of team treatment, which helped parents understand children's actions.
The Perkins Center used psychoanalytic ideas to help children deal with emotional problems and incorporated the idea of team treatment, which helped parents understand children's actions.
The book ''A Child's Parent Dies: Studies in Childhood Bereavement,'' which she worked on with the psychoanalyst Dr. Anna Freud in the 1970's, challenged the idea that children who lose a parent do not need the same attention that adults do.
While there, she kept a journal and drew portraits of other captives, many of them children whom she befriended and helped care for.
For additional income, she worked at a university and helped raise the children of a large local family.
She is survived by four children, Shirley Sapp and Mattie McGee, both of Monroe; Willie Lee Toliver of Ahoskie, N.C.; and Tony Toliver of Columbus, Ga.
        A typical homespun advertisement, this one for a bail bondsman, went like this: ''Friend, was you up all night long getting in trouble?
She is also survived by five children, Santiago, Angélica, Marcelo, Mariana and Diego, an internationally known pop star.
      
She is survived by three children, Edith Good of Charlottesville, Va.; Truxtun Brodhead of Niantic, Conn.; and Charles Brodhead of Alexandria, Va.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
She answered questions many readers had never thought to ask, including how to cook a meal for 76 children.
Mrs. Coblentz's columns seemed to be ripped from the pages of a 19th-century church bulletin, with their descriptions of quilting bees, children's funerals, sleigh rides and walking barefoot in warm spring soil.
Gregory Brandon, who is retired; their children, Nicholas and Clare; and her parents, James and Martha McGrath of Sequim, Wash.
      
She is survived by three children, Natalie Babitsky of France, Fyodor Babitsky of Moscow and Yulia Keidan of Italy; 13 grandchildren; two brothers, Andrew Velihan of Northport, N.Y., and Kirill Velikanov of Moscow; and two sisters, Yekaterina Velikanova of Moscow and Mary Velihan Grigorenko of New York City.
      
She remembered the boy shouting ''fire'' over a brass band, mothers and children with clothing on fire leaping into the swirling whirlpools of Hell Gate in the East River, dresses shredded in machinery.
Relatives, fearing the girls might contract tuberculosis, later moved them to a ''preventatorium,'' in New Jersey, where children were boarded to improve their health.
''
        Among her seven surviving children are the writers Antonia Fraser, Rachel Billington and Thomas Pakenham and the poet Judith Kazantzis.
Lady Longford confessed to having ''an addiction to motherhood'' and continued to have children even after her Labor Party handlers said it was getting in the way of her parliamentary career.
She ran for office unsuccessfully twice and had to bow out of a third contest, in which she was the favorite, because of pressure over her intent to have more children.
Her obituary in The Guardian of London said that she advised her children and grandchildren that ''not to study history would be like living in a house with no windows.
She is survived by her husband, Raouf Boudjakdji; four children; three grandchildren; her mother; and a brother.
Ms. Kismaric was married to Charles Mikolaycak, a children' book illustrator.
At the center, local children were encouraged, in a casual setting, to use reading, math and geography programs on the computer.
Ms. Stone attracted her first participants by canvassing the local playgrounds and talking to children about the crucial role that computers played -- and would continue to play -- in society.
''
        Harriet Green Huntington was born in Pasadena on April 8, 1910, the third of six children and two step-children.
They had two children; the first, a son, Michael, died of cancer in 1995.
Butler Child Protection Center of the Children's Hospital at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
She also headed the UJA-Federation Family Violence Task Force's subcommittee on children and worked with leaders in Jordan, Israel and other countries in setting up pilot programs for guarding children against abuse.
She also headed the UJA-Federation Family Violence Task Force's subcommittee on children and worked with leaders in Jordan, Israel and other countries in setting up pilot programs for guarding children against abuse.
There they brought up four children, Albert, Vivien, Miriam and Michael, who survive her, along with her husband, four grandsons and a sister, Anneke Prins Simons of Jersey City.
Before entering government she taught at the University of Cincinnati and was a staff member of the developmental diagnostic center at the Children's Hospital Medical Center in that city.

        CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children.

        CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children.
Pretty phat for an institution that the Association of Children's Museums in Washington recognizes as the nation's oldest children's museum.
Pretty phat for an institution that the Association of Children's Museums in Washington recognizes as the nation's oldest children's museum.
The museum appeals to children, from toddlers to 15-year-olds.
When community leaders opened it in 1899, the visitors were immigrant children, largely from Eastern Europe.
Many children's museums are in high-traffic tourist areas, but, Ms. Enseki said, ''we are firmly planted in a residential neighborhood, and it has shaped who we are.

        Aileen Fisher, who was the author of more than 100 books for children, died Dec. 2 at her home in Boulder, Colo. She was 96.
In 1958 a reviewer for The New York Times, Anzia Yezierska, said of Ms. Fisher's ''Runny Days, Sunny Days'' (Abelard), a collection of poetry for children 4 to 10, ''She lights the commonplace moment with wonder.
Even the children were all gray.
Dawn never married, saying that her music was her husband and children.
She and her twin sister, Sarah Louise, were the youngest of five children, who included her older brothers, Sean and Nicholas, and another sister, Suellen.
Mr. Grealy commuted to work as a producer for ABC and CBS in New York, while Mrs. Grealy stayed home, rearing the children.
