She called for child care to be elevated to a dignified profession so working mothers could leave children in capable hands.
For anyone doubting that it could be done, Mrs. McIntosh was also the ultimate role model as she juggled marriage, five children (including twins) and her own career.
'' At Brearley, she had five children.
She left detailed instructions for her household: menus, shopping lists, activities for the children.
She also respected the individuality of her children, keeping each in a separate school until one year, after attending five separate Christmas pageants, she said, ''I thought if I heard one more 'Silent Night' I would break down.
As Mr. Jamieson went on to play a prominent role in Mr. Rockefeller's campaign for governor in 1958, she taught reading and acting to poor children as a volunteer.
Her husband, William Boone Nauts, who died about a decade ago, was a banker, and Mrs. Nauts raised her children, did volunteer work and some landscape design.
In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burstein served on three different courts in Nassau County, outspokenly voicing her liberal opinions and acting as an advocate for the rights of children and prisoners at a time when the courts and county politics were dominated by conservatives.
She tried to visit every detention facility in her county, and in 1970, pushed for and succeeded in ending the solitary confinement of children.
They were married in 1941 and had seven children, all of whom survive her: three sons (John, Charles and More) and four daughters (Barbara, Mary, Jennifer and Tamsin).
She also insisted on wheat germ and dark bread, prompting her children to envy schoolmates eating white bread in the lunchroom.
Left at 35 with two children to support and little money, Ms. Kushida worked as an insurance saleswomen and magazine reporter.
Mrs. Buck was also admired for her personal style, with some likening her upswept hair, smoky voice and quick wit to those of Lauren Bacall, who bought her children's birthday cakes at Cake Masters.
After her husband's death, in 1959, she went back to work to support her three children, two of whom had polio.
They had three children.
She was born in Orange, N.J., and grew up in Potters Crossing, a black section of Edison Township, N.J.
        She was one of five children.

        Dare Wright, a photographer and children's book author whose best-known work is ''The Lonely Doll,'' died on Jan. 25.
The Literary Career She Always Wanted
        Mrs. Lindbergh would never get over her child's death but she went on to bear five more children and to have the literary career she had dreamed of.
The historian Geoffrey C. Ward wrote in 1998 that '''Gift From the Sea' became a source of inspiration for a whole generation of wives and mothers -- 'the great vacationless class,' she called them -- who, like herself, were beginning to search for more fulfilling lives once their children had grown and moved away.
After the birth of each of their six children, Mr. Berg wrote, Lindbergh would take his wife away on long plane journeys, some lasting weeks, as a way of ''weaning'' her from her children.
After the birth of each of their six children, Mr. Berg wrote, Lindbergh would take his wife away on long plane journeys, some lasting weeks, as a way of ''weaning'' her from her children.
'' He said in a 1998 interview that there was no doubt that Lindbergh ''deeply loved his wife and children, but that love manifested itself in unusual ways.
We must be open to all points of the compass: husband, children, friends, home, community; stretched out, exposed, sensitive like a spider's web to each breeze that blows, to each call that comes.
I am convinced it has nothing inherently to do, as I once supposed, with chastity or children.
The bearing, rearing, feeding and educating of children; the running of a house with its thousand details; human relationships with their myriad pulls -- woman's normal occupations in general run counter to creative life, or contemplative life, or saintly life.
And with the dawn of television, she became a fixture in the minds of millions of children who tuned in to ''The Roy Rogers Show'' and saw her moseying  along on her buckskin horse, Buttermilk, while Rogers rode his beloved golden palomino, Trigger, the Smartest Horse in the Movies.
''Angel Unaware'' sold 400,000 copies in two years; Miss Evans gave the profits to the National Association for Retarded Children.
Contrary to common practice at the time, when such children were institutionalized, and contrary to Hollywood myth making, in which fans were not to know that perfect couples sometimes had imperfect children, Miss Evans and Rogers had kept Robin, who was their first child, at home with the family.
Contrary to common practice at the time, when such children were institutionalized, and contrary to Hollywood myth making, in which fans were not to know that perfect couples sometimes had imperfect children, Miss Evans and Rogers had kept Robin, who was their first child, at home with the family.
Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14.
'' She made 30 children's records, .
The book offered practical advice to make visiting the parks as pleasant as possible for disabled people -- advice that Ms. Roth and Mr. Tompane pointed out was also relevant to older people and for parents visiting with children.
; her parents, Harold and Marcia Bernhardt, of Iron River; and by her husband, Jonathan Bloom, and her children, Alexander and Sonia, all of Brooklyn.
Mrs. Tafoya clearly loved her art, but it was also how she supported her 10 children who survived their first year; 2 others did not.
As she said, ''I have dressed my children with clay.
Five of the couple's eight children became excellent potters, driven and inspired by their perfectionist mother.
In the 1930's and 40's the Tafoyas often exchanged pottery for children's clothing.
Mrs. Tafoya returned to work as soon as possible after the birth of each of her children.
Mrs. Tafoya once said that she learned to make pottery ''just by watching my Grandma,'' and most of her own children and grandchildren learned the same way.
''The children, I'm proud of them because they like to do this pottery,'' she said.
      
'' She was in the original cast of the 1954 musical ''The Golden Apple'' and many years later had a long-running role as Mrs. Gurney, a nanny, on the television soap opera, ''All My Children.
The song was originally written for a 1969 NBC special, ''Debbie Reynolds and the Sound of Children'' and dedicated to Ms. Horne at the birth of her daughter.
'' The youngest of nine children (four of whom died before she was born), she grew up in humble circumstances.

        Eleanor Clymer, who in dozens of children's books contrasted country and city life, died yesterday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. She was 95.
But Mrs. Clymer also explored the lives of children who stay in the city in books like ''My Brother Stevie'' (1967), about a troubled third grader,  and ''The Tiny Little House'' (1964), inspired by a small house that she saw squeezed between two tall buildings in Manhattan.
The story was later adapted into a musical for children, ''The Little House of Cookies.
''
        Whether set in the city or the country, Mrs. Clymer's stories were grounded in reality, despite a children's book industry enthralled with fantasy.
Mrs. Clymer originally wanted to be a science writer, and several of her books sought to teach children about subjects like archaeology.
''She always came up with an interesting idea which no one else had done,'' said Ann Durell, the former publisher of children's books at Dutton, who edited Mrs. Clymer.
''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
The combination of pragmatism and kindliness she brought to the post was suggested by tips she gave Essence magazine in 1992 to help parents and children deal with college rejection.
After Mr. Matisse's death and the closing of the gallery in 1989, she and his three children by his first marriage established the Pierre Matisse Foundation.
She started her professional career in 1927 in the Children's Ballet of the Metropolitan Opera and joined the corps when Ballet Theater, now American Ballet Theater, was founded in 1939.
One of her central messages was that in order to take good care of children, parents must take good care of themselves.
''In my lifetime,'' she once said, ''the two biggest advances in raising children have been the clothes dryer and the disposable diaper.
She is survived by her husband, Frazer; four children from her first marriage, Martin C. Hersey, John R. Hersey, Ann B. Hersey and Baird Hersey; four stepchildren, Frazer P. Dougherty, Rush H. Dougherty, Ariel M. Dougherty and Page D. Delano; and 14 grandchildren.
      
Dr. Davidoff is survived by four children, Helen Hirsch of Englewood, N.J.; Leonore Davidoff of Wivenhoe, Essex, England; Frank, of Philadelphia; and Mary Houts of Hummelstown, Pa.; seven grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In recent years, Ms. McCorkle developed interactive music workshops for children ages 5 to 18, which she gave at Lincoln Center, Borders bookstores and in public schools in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
In recent years, Ms. McCorkle developed interactive music workshops for children ages 5 to 18, which she gave at Lincoln Center, at Borders bookstores and in public schools in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
A PBS series that she produced with the Children's Express News Magazine won Peabody and Emmy Awards.
''
        MS. SMITH grew up in a blue-collar family in South Jersey, the eldest of four children.
''Raising children is one of the hardest tasks there is,'' she says.
Ms. Mendoza is survived by a nephew she reared as a son, Guillermo Valero Mendoza, and his children.
After moving to California, she was affiliated with the Children's Hospital of Orange County and the University of California at Irvine.
Three of the sisters eventually married and had children, later divorcing.
She became a librarian and lobbied the government on behalf of the Duplessis Orphans, children, many of whom were born out of wedlock, who were placed in psychiatric wards in the 1950's, Mr. Tarini said.
Officially, no Modjadji marries a man; like African kings, they take several spouses, but bear children by secret consorts.
''
        She studied mathematics and economics at University College in London, but left before earning her degree to marry Mr. Verey in 1939, and proceeded to raise four children, like a proper English gentlewoman of her day.
Mrs. Graham saw herself at best as only as an interim caretaker who would try to hold on to The Post for her children.
She was scathingly critical and often harsh with her daughter, the fourth of five children.
The children were brought up in the traditions of St. John's Episcopal Church in Washington, the church of presidents, where the Meyers -- Mr. Meyer was Jewish, his wife Lutheran -- had their own pew.
Listening children know stories are there.
When their elders sit and begin, children are just waiting and hoping for one to come out, like a mouse from its hole.
But she returned to Jackson during the 1950's, when her mother and brothers fell seriously ill. For almost 15 years, from the mid-50's to the late 60's, she published just a few short stories, some book reviews and a children's book, ''The Shoe Bird'' (1964).

        Frances R. Horwich, the amiable educator who engaged millions of preschoolers as the host of the pioneering children's program ''Ding Dong School'' in the 1950's, died yesterday.
Unlike many of the children's show hosts of the period, Ms. Horwich ''actually taught kids things,'' Mr. Kisseloff said.
''
        In her era, a far simpler time when there was no Cartoon Network or hip, irony-tinged children's programs, Ms. Horwich won acclaim.
In interviews, Ms. Horwich seemed better at saying what children's programming should not be.
She also deplored the violence of Westerns and crime programs, though added that normal children could handle it.
What television should do is appeal to their interests, open ''new doors and windows'' of enlightenment and help children learn to be resourceful, Ms. Horwich said.
The couple had no children.
But her biggest class was filled with the millions of children in America's living rooms born just a few years after World War II.
Much of her writing reflected her special interest in psychology, especially children, childhood experiences and relationships between parents and children.
Much of her writing reflected her special interest in psychology, especially children, childhood experiences and relationships between parents and children.
She stopped painting nearly 20 years after her children were born, but began again in 1970 with playful, ingeniously composed images, which often combined domestic objects -- needles, buttons, books -- with panoramic landscapes.
They had no children.
      
''
        The daughter of a high-ranking civil servant, Ms. Roy was born in India on Dec. 10, 1915, one of 11 children.
She was born Caroline Robinson, in Benton Harbor, Mich., the third of 10 children and the eldest daughter.

        Tove Jansson, a Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many countries, died on June 27 in Helsinki.
It is about the Moomins' efforts to protect themselves from a comet, and it was called ''a gentle, offbeat fantasy'' by The Horn Book, a Boston-based journal of reviews and essays about children's books.
Her work was seen in exhibitions and included paintings for a children's hospital in Helsinki and decorative commissions in other buildings, among them the town hall in Helsinki.
The many honors she received include the Hans Christian Andersen Medal from the International Board on Books for Young People in 1966 for her contribution to children's literature.
      

        Elizabeth Yates, a writer whose books, many of them for children, were more than enough to fill a library shelf, died on Sunday at a hospice in Concord, N.H. A resident of Peterborough, N.H., she was 95.
In 1974, Mrs. Milstein expanded the business to include children's clothing.
Mrs. Milstein served as vice president of children's wear and juvenile products from 1974 to 1997.
Her children survive her, along with a brother, Justin, and three grandchildren.
She was one of three children raised by her mother after her father, a military officer, was killed in World War I.
She recalled a news release at the time that said Mr. Reagan and his wife Nancy, whom he married in 1952, had had two children, Patti and Ronnie, and did not mention her or her brother Michael.
She was a woman, still a rarity among researchers at the time; she had never quite finished her doctorate (she put it aside to raise her children); and when she published her first findings, the wisdom taking hold was that atherosclerosis was simply the result of high cholesterol.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Wheeler is survived by five children, Sallie M. Motch of Cold Spring, N.Y., Robert Motch of Carthage, Mo., Kenneth M. Wheeler Jr. of Memphis, Gordon L. Wheeler of Harrodsburg, Ky., and Douglas B. Wheeler of Keswick, Va., and nine grandchildren.
      
Dr. Almy's early research convinced her that play was essential to healthy development and an ideal way for children to start learning the ways of the world around them.
These include ''Children's Experiences Prior to First Grade and Success in Beginning Reading,'' ''Young Children's Thinking: Studies of Some Aspects of Piaget's Theory'' and, with Celia Genishi, ''Ways of Studying Children: An Observation Manual for Early Childhood Teachers.
These include ''Children's Experiences Prior to First Grade and Success in Beginning Reading,'' ''Young Children's Thinking: Studies of Some Aspects of Piaget's Theory'' and, with Celia Genishi, ''Ways of Studying Children: An Observation Manual for Early Childhood Teachers.
''
        Ms. Trillin was on the faculty at New York Medical College, and a board member of The Hole in the Wall Gang Fund, which supports camps for children with cancer and blood diseases.
I have two fabulous children, which I always wanted, and we're all so happy.
In the late 1930's she played in the road company of ''My Dear Children'' (a vehicle for John Barrymore) and appeared with Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong and Maxine Sullavan in ''Swingin' the Dream,'' a musical version of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' that flopped.
She produced ''All My Children'' from 1982 to 1986 and ''Loving'' from 1990 until her retirement a year later.

        Mitzi Myers, an internationally recognized authority on children's literature and a longtime lecturer at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Nov. 5 at her temporary residence in Anaheim Hills, Calif. She was 62.
She was an editor of the forthcoming Norton Anthology of Children's Literature and contributed entries on children's literature to the Encylopedia Americana and the Cambridge Companion to Children's Literature.
She was an editor of the forthcoming Norton Anthology of Children's Literature and contributed entries on children's literature to the Encylopedia Americana and the Cambridge Companion to Children's Literature.
She was an editor of the forthcoming Norton Anthology of Children's Literature and contributed entries on children's literature to the Encylopedia Americana and the Cambridge Companion to Children's Literature.
At U.C.L.A., Dr. Myers taught courses on writing as well as on the history of children's literature.
In a paper presented to the Modern Language Association, she urged fellow scholars to study not only the texts of children's books but also the rips, dirt, spills, uncensored comments, drawings, scribbles, rude jokes and missing pages created by the readers because ''in these 'defacements' we discover the hidden history of childhood.
Born into an artistic family, she attended acting workshops and appeared on children's television at age 8.
From 1982 to 1984 she appeared in a children's series, ''Educating Marmelade.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
''
        With three children to support it did, however, set her off on her career.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
''
        With three children to support it did, however, set her off on her career.

        Patricia A. Locke, who worked for decades to preserve American Indian languages and became a pioneer in an effort to grant the tribes greater authority in the education of their children, died on Oct. 20 at a hospital in Phoenix.
She became active in the League of Women Voters, but, with the couple's children in public school, she devoted her energy to the Parents and Teachers Association.
She also held leading positions in the Public Education Association and the Citizens Committee for Children.
Mrs. Rawson conducted one of the longest-running studies of people with neurological language problems, tracking the lives of 56 children from the school for more than 50 years.
These included the 1978 Protection of Children Act, which curbed the pornographic exploitation of minors; the Indecent Displays Acts of 1981, regulating shop window displays and magazine covers; the creation of a Broadcasting Standards Committee in 1988; and the 1990 Broadcasting Act, which dealt with television obscenity.
Her association with the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services spanned more than four decades.
Exploring what she called mythic landscapes, Ms. Hubley used primitive myths, magic and music and, in three classic films, the recorded voices of her four young children to comment on the world as it was, is and should be.
Ms. Hubley once said that the central thread that runs through her impressionistic, dreamlike and often whimsical films is ''human development, with a strong emphasis on the importance of children as people and on the environment people live in.
''One was to eat with the children,'' she said.
They won their first Academy Award in 1959 for ''Moonbird,'' an impressionistic account of young children at play whose unique soundtrack was the recorded voices of their two sons, Mark and Ray.
Reticent in interviews about her childhood except to say that her parents had ''made no room for children,'' she created an intimate self-portrait on film in the 25-minute ''My Universe Inside Out'' (1996), which hints at child abuse and her parents' burning down the family house.
This time the voices of the children were those of their two daughters, Emily and Georgia.
''Step by Step'' (1979) projects mother love against the impossibility of protecting children in a world of foul water and limited food.
In addition to her four children, she is survived by six grandchildren.
''A Megan Boyd fly is a $1,000 fly,'' said Gary Tanner, director of the American Museum of Fly Fishing in Manchester, Vt.
        Rosina Megan Boyd, the youngest of three children, is believed to have been born in England on Jan. 29, 1915.

        Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
The recipients of the largest amounts of the couple's philanthropic support are two medical facilities for children, the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel in Petah Tivka, near Tel Aviv, and Helen & Irving Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park.
The recipients of the largest amounts of the couple's philanthropic support are two medical facilities for children, the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel in Petah Tivka, near Tel Aviv, and Helen & Irving Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park.
The recipients of the largest amounts of the couple's philanthropic support are two medical facilities for children, the Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel in Petah Tivka, near Tel Aviv, and Helen & Irving Schneider Children's Hospital in New Hyde Park.
