)
        Miss Maynor was born in Norfolk, Va., and as a child she sang in the choir of her father's church.
One colleague described her as a master clinician who  achieved insights into children based not only on formal testing but on observations of a child's personality and an estimation of the relationships with family and friends.
"If a child misread an easy word, it looked like  carelessness.

        Esther S. Manz, who was a 208-pound housewife pregnant with her fifth child when a kitchen-table gathering in 1948 inspired her to found TOPS, a weight-loss support group that grew into a 300,000-member nonprofit organization, died on Monday at the Heritage Nursing Home in Milwaukee.
She also supervised the operations of the Health Services and Mental Health  Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Office of Education, the Social and Rehabilitation Service, the Office of Child Development and the Food  and Drug Administration.
In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
She was only a child when her father died, and her first memories were of economic hardship, above all after her mother invested the family's savings in a disastrous rice-farming venture.
Ms. Donaldson, who was born in Chicago, fell in love with ballet as a child.
But although her own sister once described her as an unloved child, her childhood served her well, providing the swirling fox-hunting background and social intrigue she drew on for more than a dozen novels and five plays.
A voracious reader, Miss Travers began writing stories as a young child.

        Luana Patten, a child actress in the 1940's who appeared in the Walt Disney films "Song of the South" and "So Dear to My Heart," died on May 1.
Instead, the study found that having a child can aggravate underlying disturbances in women who are severely maladjusted or mentally ill.
        With her husband, Dr. William A. Horwitz, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, she explored the mechanisms of paranoia and helped broaden the dynamic explanations of that disorder.
"I was a sick child," she said, "and they called me Peter Pan, hoping that I  would live forever.
She was 81  and had moved to London with her parents as a child.
"
        Miss Hyson made her screen debut as a child in the movie "Money Mad" and her  stage debut in London in a 1927 play, "Quality Street," by J. M. Barrie.

        Dr. Rachel Dunaway Cox, an emeritus professor of education and psychology at  Bryn Mawr College who was a leader in the field of child development, died on April 24 at the Quadrangle, a retirement village in Haverford, Pa. She was 92.
When she arrived at Bryn Mawr in 1944, she was appointed director of its Child Study Institute, which grew to national prominence during her tenure.
Mrs. van Ameringen, born Hedwig Pfaltz in Newark, first heard the Philharmonic as a child at Carnegie Hall and became the orchestra's friend for life.
She became fond of singing after she joined the choir of the convent school she attended as a child, and was smitten with zarzuela when she heard it through the earphone of a homemade radio made for her by a neighbor.

        Jan Kerouac, a novelist and the only child of the Beat Generation's icon Jack Kerouac, died on Wednesday at Lovelace Medical Center here.
"Man, woman or child, Ella is the greatest," Crosby once said.
As a child, Miss Fitzgerald dreamed of being a dancer.

        Kathy Ahern, a former child prodigy of a golfer who turned professional while still a teen-ager, died on Saturday at her home in Phoenix.
One of Miss Mitford's five sisters, Pamela, aspired as a child to be a horse.
Miss Colbert was born in Paris on Sept. 13, 1903, and was brought to this country as a child by her parents, Georges and Jeanne Loew Chauchoin.

        Erna Lane, a dancer who as a child was one of the first students of Elizabeth Duncan, Isadora Duncan's sister, died on June 28 at Hillcrest Hospital in Pittsfield, Mass.
She was a director of the Youth Foundation, the N.Y. Genealogical and Biographical Society and the Child Health Foundation.
A senior instructor in the Writers Extension Program at the University of California at Los Angeles from 1973, Mrs. Livingston was the poet-in-residence for the Beverly Hills Unified School District from 1966 to 1984 and the author of the critical texts ''The Child as Poet: Myth or Reality'' and ''Poem-Making: Ways to Begin Writing Poetry.
Mrs. Livingston was given French horn lessons when she was a child.
Ms. Besch was born in Vienna, came to the United States as a child and grew up in the Westchester County towns of Mount Kisco and Chappaqua.
Though the Crown Princess is only 32, there is an old Japanese saying, ''Marry for three years, and bear no child, then it's time to leave!
As a child, she liked to sing and play the violin.
Ms. Lear was born on July 14, 1923, at the Vanderheusen Home for Wayward Girls in Hudson, N.Y., the child of an unwed mother and an unknown father.
Critics described the book, which was named for the child the Burnses never had, as both poetic and brutally specific, full of pain and anger, a plea for understanding and an exhortation to live life, come what may.
Ms. Green, a native of Glendale, Ohio, was also a precocious child who early on encountered the frustrations of writing that would bedevil her the rest of her life.
''
        She described herself as an ''excessively fearful'' child.
Their only child, James, was born shortly thereafter, in 1947.
She was born in Palestine and brought as a child to the United States, where her family settled in Chicago.
Mr. Dickerson, who won major legal battles involving housing segregation in Chicago, took her along as a child when he visited whites-only restaurants, was refused service and sued their owners.
She was a past chairman of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York City, an organization of professional and lay experts active in child welfare work.
But the work was later criticized as being too inflexible and too tied to the idea that a child's development is set in stone by genetics.
Dr. Ames's greatest impact, Dr. Baker said, was in educating parents and teachers about the rhythms of child development.
She also developed several television series on child development, including one in the early days of television, in 1952.
In 1933, she joined the  Yale Clinic of Child Development, working as Dr. Gesell's research assistant.
''
        When Dr. Gesell retired in 1948, the direction of the clinic changed toward a more psychoanalytic view of child development, Dr. Haines said.
''I think this is one of any child's greatest fears, that something will happen to his mother,'' Dr. Ames said in a later interview, defending her position.
She recommended that any parent who felt compelled to take a child under age 5 to see the movie should read the book to the child first, to gauge the reaction.
She recommended that any parent who felt compelled to take a child under age 5 to see the movie should read the book to the child first, to gauge the reaction.
''And I would then wait a few days,'' she advised, ''because sometimes a child cries uncontrollably at the time, and sometimes they seem to stand something O.K.

        Peggy Wattles Pulleyn, whose grandchild's ill fortune moved her to found the Princeton Child Development Institute in 1970, died on Dec. 8 in a freakish accident near her home in Oldwick, N.J. She was 85.
Her search for a suitable program for the child led her, her daughter and some other parents in the Princeton region to start their own school.

        Magda Denes, a psychoanalyst who had just completed a book recounting her torment as a Jewish child hunted by the Nazis in wartime Budapest, was found dead on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Denes's second book, ''Castles Burning: A Child's Life in War,'' is to be published in January by W. W. Norton.
She was 12 before she re-encountered her father, who pronounced her a rather unpleasant child.
Two and possibly three individuals had walked this way 3.7 million years ago: the larger one, presumably a male; the smaller one, presumably female, and an even smaller individual, perhaps their child, whose prints are sometimes superimposed on the others.
Ms. Jordan, whom her students recalled as never being without a copy of the Constitution in her purse, rooted that Watergate speech in her faith in the Constitution's promise and in her personal history as a child of the Jim Crow South.
At her death she was chairwoman of the Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation of Columbus, a major regional donor to the arts, Christian education, social services, child welfare and community development.
When it appeared, Herbert Gorman praised it highly in The New York Times Book Review, writing that Mrs. Davenport "gives a vivid and convincing portrait of the child prodigy who developed into the man-genius, a portrait that does not romanticize Mozart too much and leaves the reader convinced of the reality of the figure with whom he has passed through a career of hard work, poverty, neglect and few (but astounding) triumphs.
While she was still a child, the family moved to  Milan, where at 17 she had her first exhibition as a painter.
" Detractors voiced the fear that by raising  the higher cost issue, women would not be hired and promoted and that all women  would be left with the primary responsibility for child care.
"When a woman is faced with doing all the housework, all the child care and then full-time work in the corporate area, she is stunted.
