She founded the Hill and Hollow Farm, a boarding school for children, in Hyde Park, L.I., in 1933 and operated it until 1950.
Mrs. Shea, known to her family and friends as Nori, was involved in such causes as the National Center for Disability Services, the Foundation for Children with Learning Disabilities, Catholic Charities, Little League Baseball and the American Ireland Fund.
Among her other films were "Beggars on Horseback" (1925), "Old Ironsides" (1926), "Children of Divorce" (1927) and "Betrayal" (1929), with Emil Jannings.
A native of Manhattan, Mrs. Field was also a past director of the Citizens Committee for Children in New York City, and the United Nations Association U.S.A.
She was also a board member of the Citizens Committee for Children and the Dance Theater Foundation at New York City Center.
She is survived by her mother, Florence Lawson of Florida; a brother, Thomas Lawson of Sandy Hook, Conn.; three children, Douglas Sloan of Manhattan, Kathryn Roth of Weston, Mass., and Gillis Bolton of Roxbury, Conn., and three grandchildren.
At the time of her arrest, Mrs. Wallach was married to Robert R. Wallach, a captain in the United States Army, and was living with him and their two children in Paris.
Mrs. Douglas was the author of "Appleseed Farm" (1948), a children's book; "Remember the Ladies" (1966), the story of women who helped shape America, and "Margaret Sanger" (1970), about the pioneer in family planning.

        Flora Stieglitz Straus, a philanthropist long active in nonprofit organizations benefiting children, died on Jan. 24 at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 98.
She was one of nine children and studied teaching at the University of Minnesota until lack of money forced her to leave.
Before writing the book about Mr. Murrow, Miss Sperber was an editor of children's books for Putnam and McGraw-Hill.
She also wrote children's books.
Willie Mae Ford was born in Rolling Fork, Miss., 1 of 14 children in a musical family.

        Doris C. Frankel, a playwright whose work found its way to Broadway, radio and television and who won an Emmy Award for her work on the soap opera "All My Children," died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
"
        In later years she was a head writer for daytime television dramas and wrote scripts for "General Hospital" and "Search for Tomorrow" in addition to "All My Children," for which she received an Emmy in the 1970's.
While much of her work is considered complex if not abstract and the subject of scores of academic articles, her theories led to numerous studies evaluating patients beyond the traditional scope of medical treatment, such as determining the agitation of bed-ridden patients by observing arm and leg movements and the role of nursing in dealing with hyperactive children.
"
        Ms. Zetterling also wrote children's books, short stories and novels, one of which, "Night Games," she adapted and directed for the screen.

        Nancy K. Robinson, an author of children's books and narrations for documentary films, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
During her career Mrs. Robinson wrote more than 20 books for children between the ages of 7 and 12.
She also wrote stories for children published by Scholastic Inc. She was a 1964 graduate of Vassar College.
She trained teachers and oversaw classes for physically handicapped children and directed a Harlem youth poverty program.

        Aida Anthony Whedon, an artist and a teacher to generations of children, died yesterday at her home in Port Washington, L.I.
Her New Orleans accent unaltered despite half a century in New York, Mrs. Whedon was a bustling mother hen for thousands of children at the Whedon School of Art, which she and her husband, Daniel Whedon, a sculptor, operated.
She is survived by her husband; two children, Roger Anthony Whedon and Susan Whedon, and two grandchildren, Arie Daniel Whedon and Amelia Whedon.
      
Mrs. Kgositsile was the executive director of the Council on Interracial Books for Children in New York where she directed the production of documentaries and books.

        Evan Burger Donaldson, president of the board of Spence-Chapin Services to Families and Children in New York, a nonprofit adoption service, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She and her husband, Marcus, managed to flee to France, where she played a role in helping thousands of homeless refugee children.
Americans gradually became familiar with the whispering, intimate quality of her voice, with the head scarf and dark glasses at the taffrail of Honey Fitz on a summer evening on the Potomac, with the bouffant hair and formal smile for the Rose Garden and the barefoot romp with her children on a Cape Cod beach.
Negotiating A Marriage
        There were additional unseemly details -- a prenuptial agreement that covered money and property and children.
Mr. Kennedy, who had only narrowly missed winning the Democratic Vice Presidential nomination in 1956, began to worry that they might not be able to have children.
She published a number of children's books by the singer Carly Simon, a friend and Martha's Vineyard neighbor.
She also headed a poverty law office for children, sat on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union and represented poor people in constitutional cases.
"  Books for Children
        She was born in Wayzata, Minn., the daughter of William Chute, a real estate broker, and Edith Mary Pickburn Chute, who had been a nurse in a London hospital.
After writing a series of books of verse for children, Miss Chute wrote her first biography, "Geoffrey Chaucer of England" (1946), an informal survey of Chaucer's life that was well-enough received to encourage her to write about Shakespeare in London.
A lifelong resident of West 143d Street, Mrs. Smith was a social worker and counselor for many years at Harlem Hospital, the Children's Aid Society and, most recently, the Visiting Nurse Service.
Dr. Woititz's "Adult Children of Alcoholics" offered insights into typical patterns in the families of alcoholics, like lack of self-esteem and difficulty relating to people.
Dr. Woititz's other books include "Healthy Parenting: An Empowering Guide for Adult Children" (1992), "Lifeskills for Adult Children Workbook" (1991), "Healing Your Sexual Self" (1989), "The Self-Sabotage Syndrome: Adult Children in the Workplace" (1989), "Home Away From Home" (1987) and "Marriage on the Rocks" (1986), all in print.
Dr. Woititz's other books include "Healthy Parenting: An Empowering Guide for Adult Children" (1992), "Lifeskills for Adult Children Workbook" (1991), "Healing Your Sexual Self" (1989), "The Self-Sabotage Syndrome: Adult Children in the Workplace" (1989), "Home Away From Home" (1987) and "Marriage on the Rocks" (1986), all in print.
Dr. Woititz's other books include "Healthy Parenting: An Empowering Guide for Adult Children" (1992), "Lifeskills for Adult Children Workbook" (1991), "Healing Your Sexual Self" (1989), "The Self-Sabotage Syndrome: Adult Children in the Workplace" (1989), "Home Away From Home" (1987) and "Marriage on the Rocks" (1986), all in print.

        Marie Janis Emery, who directed school programs countrywide for exceptional and gifted American Indian children before she retired from the Bureau of Indian Affairs last month, died on Tuesday at her home in Centreville, Va. She was 64.
Transferred to Washington as an education specialist in 1974, she administered bilingual and other programs designed for Indian children.
At the time of her retirement last month she was the acting chief of the Branch of Exceptional Education, an office set up to benefit both disabled and especially talented children.
She is survived by her husband of 49 years; two children, Carole Shorenstein-Hays and Douglas Shorenstein, both of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Natchez was an authority on children's reading disabilities and she wrote several professional texts on the subject.
Her first career thoughts were for secretarial work, but when her parents entered her in a talent show in 1938, she won a wristwatch and a chance to sing on a children's radio program in nearby Detroit.
Between 1939 and 1967, she published seven children's books, including "Hoo DeWitt" (1941), "High Hurdles" (1941), "Eeemi, the Story of a Clown" (1946) and "The Quetzal Feather" (1968).
Over the years, she was also on the boards of the Nassau County Youth Board; the New York State Association for Community Services; the New York State Communities Aid Association; Center for Parents and Children, and WLIW/Channel 21.
Throughout her life, Mrs. Turpin worked with children who had learning problems.
She was also a caseworker and case supervisor in agencies for families and children.
She was most widely known for her "small poems" for children, composed in simple free verse.
In 1991, the National Council of Teachers of English honored her with its Poetry Award for Excellence in Poetry for Children, given for a body of work.
Another book of her verses for children, "At Christmastime," was published two years ago.
In 1964 and 1965, she coordinated a conference for 27,000 people involved in Head Start, the early-education program for disadvantaged children.
Christine Todd Whitman is a trustee and former president but the foundation operates with little fanfare,
        Mrs. Williamson was active in many local organizations, including the United Way of Essex and West Hudson, the Association for Children in New Jersey and the Orange Orphan Society.
After that event, she worked to create a permanent New York organization, which now trains and holds competitions for almost 35,000 children and adults statewide.
"
        As Mayor, she had a highly personal style that included enchanting local children by flying in planeloads of snow for Christmas parties.
The eldest of eight children of a lawyer, she was born in Ceiba, 33 miles southeast of San Juan.
Her father died when she was 12 and her mother took clerical and teaching jobs at night to supplement her regular income as headmistress of a school for retarded children.
"
        In 1929 she made her West End debut in "The Rumor," by Charles Kirkpatrick Munro, but it was in 1932, in the role of Manuela in Christa Winsloe's "Children in Uniform," that she became recognized as a gifted actress.
"
        At 15, she was singing, dancing and clowning in a children's act.

        Gertrude Russek Nemerov, whose family founded and ran the Russeks Fifth Avenue department store in Manhattan and whose children won fame in the world of arts and letters, died on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 93.

        Elizabeth S. Freidus, an innovative teacher of children with learning disabilities who included parents and educators in her instruction, died on Oct. 13 in a nursing home in Burlington, Vt. She was 88 and had lived in New York City.
Ms. Freidus, who taught children with learning disabilities for more than 40 years, became interested in ways to overcome learning problems while teaching in private nursery schools and kindergartens in New York City in the 1940's and through her work with physically disabled children.
Ms. Freidus, who taught children with learning disabilities for more than 40 years, became interested in ways to overcome learning problems while teaching in private nursery schools and kindergartens in New York City in the 1940's and through her work with physically disabled children.
"
        During the 60's and 70's she directed the Memphis Ballet and "The Littlest Circus," a touring pantomime show for children, and taught in the Netherlands and at the North Carolina School of the Arts.

        Kathleen L. Schwaninger, an advocate for the disabled who played a critical role in the decade-long effort to close down the Willowbrook State School for the mentally retarded on Staten Island and who went on to help found an agency to aid seriously ill children, died Sunday in a plane crash in Hyannis, Mass.
She wrote two novels -- "To Meet Miss Long" (1943) and "Open House" (1946) -- and four children's books, and edited 11 mystery anthologies.
She was the 20th of 22 children of Ed Rudolph, a railroad porter, from two marriages.
" "With so many children, when you did something with one, you always had another along.
She is survived by her four children with Mr. Eldridge -- daughters Yolanda Jones and Djuana Bowers and sons Robert and Xurry -- five sisters and two brothers, and seven grandchildren.

        Elizabeth George Speare, an author of historical novels for children, died yesterday in Northwest General Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. She was 84.
In 1989, Mrs. Speare was awarded the Laura Ingalls Wilder Medal for her "distinguished, enduring contribution to children's literature.
Correction:  November 18, 1994, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Elizabeth George Speare, an author of historical novels for children, misidentified an award received by her last book, "The Sign of the Beaver" (1983).
Recognizing that diarrhea was the greatest killer of children in poor countries, for example, she aided in the development of a simple oral rehydration therapy consisting of a foiled-packet containing a powder that could be mixed with water to provide nutrients the sick child needed to survive.

        Janet Ahlberg, who created the illustrations for a series of memorable children's books written by her husband, Allan, died on Tuesday in Leicester, England.
Most of Mrs. Spolin's theater work was with children.
She was born in Chicago, where she trained with Neva Boyd, an educator who used games to help children adjust to life in the city.
At the time of her death, she was the president of the board of directors of Child Find America, which tries to find runaways and missing children, and a member of the steering committee of the National Crime Prevention Council, for which the McGruff anti-crime advertisements were designed.
Ms. McRae was born in Harlem on April 8, 1920, one of four children of immigrants from the West Indies.
Dr. Gardner was a former research associate at Children's Hospital in Boston and a staff psychologist at the Judge Baker Center in Boston.
"
        She arrived in the state in 1967 fresh from a course in poverty law at the University of Pennsylvania -- 57 years old and a white-haired mother of five grown children.
Mrs. Stralem, who was born into the Lehman investment banking family, devoted much of her life to the blind and to children with multiple handicaps.
Her private collection included works by Picasso, Matisse, Degas and Renoir, as well as rare first-edition children's books and miniature furniture.
The foundation is also studying why some children infected with H.I.V.
In 1991, she wrote an autobiography, "In The Absence of Angels" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), with Laura Palmer, describing her frustration with the dearth of information on children suffering from AIDS.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
The foundation is also studying why some children infected with H.I.V.
In 1991, she wrote an autobiography, "In the Absence of Angels" (G. P. Putnam's Sons), with Laura Palmer, describing her frustration with the dearth of information on children suffering from AIDS.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
