
        Katharine Reynolds Cooke Greeff, a child psychologist, died on Dec. 26 in her home on Manhattan's Upper East Side.
She graduated from Wellesley College and held a master's degree in child psychology from Vassar College.
For many years, her principal interest lay in the Field Family Foundation, which contributed millions to charities promoting child welfare and improved race relations.
A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Weisbuch worked for the creation of a department of child study at Tufts University.
"  What a Writer Knew
        An avid reader of detective magazines as a child, she once told an interviewer: "They tell you always to write about what you know.

        Dr. Annemarie P. Weil, a child psychiatrist and psychoanalyst, died on Friday at a convalescent home in Bryn Mawr, Pa., near Philadelphia.
Dr. Ted E. Becker Sr., a former chairman of the institute's child analysis committee, said that Dr. Weil's "primary interest and research had to do with the neurological and organic aspects of child development.
Dr. Ted E. Becker Sr., a former chairman of the institute's child analysis committee, said that Dr. Weil's "primary interest and research had to do with the neurological and organic aspects of child development.
Dr. Weil went on to be a junior psychiatrist on the staff of Bellevue Hospital, a senior psychiatrist at the Child Development Center and a member of the faculty of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research.
Her son David was the first child to be born in New York after conception by laboratory methods.
Left Rockefeller Job
        In 1962, she was the hostess of a five-minute radio show called "A Woman's World," in which she talked about food, clothes, child rearing, family relationships, teen-agers and the aged.
Published as High School Student
        A native of Germany, Ms. Raiziss was brought to this country as a child and grew up in Philadelphia.
In 1955 she suffered a miscarriage, and in 1956 she had a stillborn child by Caesarean section.
Three years later she gave birth to John F. Kennedy Jr. A third child, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, lived only 39 hours and died less than four months before President Kennedy's assassination in 1963.

        Dr. Dorothy F. Berezin, a child psychologist who served as a municipal welfare official from 1969 to 1978, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Berezin served as an assistant commissioner and director of child and adolescent services for the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services from 1971 to 1978.
She began acting in plays and films as a child, using the stage name Katherine Stevens.
She was assistant director of the Child Study Association of America before going to the Orthopsychiatric Association.
Ms. Mitty began her career as a child, appearing on Broadway with Shirley Booth in "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" in 1951.
As a child, she studied ballet and, before she was 20, was acting in cabaret and musical comedy.
Much later she would recall the distaste she felt as a child for the furniture her father collected, "that awful English brown," as she put it.
She counseled that to teach a child with learning difficulties, a parent or educator had to be a problem solver who could fit the task to the child's ability.
She counseled that to teach a child with learning difficulties, a parent or educator had to be a problem solver who could fit the task to the child's ability.
Born in Trinidad, she was brought to the United States as a child by her parents.

        Wilma Rudolph, who grew from a sickly child unable to walk into a statuesque athlete of 20 who won three gold medals as a sprinter in the 1960 Olympics in Rome, died yesterday at her home in Brentwood, Tenn., near Nashville.
The child weighed four and a half pounds at birth.
Recognizing that diarrhea was the greatest killer of children in poor countries, for example, she aided in the development of a simple oral rehydration therapy consisting of a foiled-packet containing a powder that could be mixed with water to provide nutrients the sick child needed to survive.
At the time of her death, she was the president of the board of directors of Child Find America, which tries to find runaways and missing children, and a member of the steering committee of the National Crime Prevention Council, for which the McGruff anti-crime advertisements were designed.

        Dr. Judith Krieger Gardner, a child psychologist, teacher and researcher at Brandeis University, died of an aneurysm on Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
She also taught a course on the history of child rearing at Harvard University and lectured at Boston University.
She was co-editor with Howard Gardner, her former husband, of many books, including the multivolume series "Classics in Psychology" and "Classics in Child Psychology" published by Ayer.
She began to press for a comprehensive child-development center as early as 1964, and with expansion and renovations at the Lighthouse in 1994, a Jean Stralem Child Development Center was dedicated on her birthday in October.
Mrs. Glaser, a former teacher, was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus when she was nine months pregnant with Ariel, her first child.
Mrs. Glaser, a former teacher, was infected with the human immunodeficiency virus when she was nine months pregnant with Ariel, her first child.
