After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position.
She was past secretary of the Child Adoption Service of the Children's Aid Society and had been treasurer of the Oyster Bay Visiting Nurse Association on Long Island for many years.
Miss Martin, who died of cancer in November at the age of 76, was recalled as a high-spirited artist who personified some of her signature roles; the eternal child in "Peter Pan," the "cockeyed optimist" in "South Pacific," the ebullient and nurturing protector in "The Sound of Music.
Her other films included "Just a Gigolo," "Fireman, Save My Child," "Beauty and the Boss," "Hot Saturday," "Pick Up," "When Strangers Marry," "Her Splendid Folly" and "The Bishop Misbehaves.
At the audition, Pavlova was fascinated by the way the child moved with the music at a sudden change of rhythm.
Mrs. Peskin was a child actress before attending Pratt Institute, where she received a degree in art.
"  Studied Dance as a Child
        Dame Margot was born Margaret Hookham in Reigate, Surrey, on May 18, 1919.
As a child, she studied at dancing schools in the London area.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
degree in child psychology from Columbia University.
In 1935 she joined the Bureau of Child Guidance of the New York City Board of Education.
Born in Constantinople, Ms. Balakian came to New York as a child.
As a child, Ms. Perkins said, she performed in the children's Sailor Circus, along with Emmett Kelly's daughter and a daughter of one of the Flying Wallendas.
Bond was born in Bradford, Pa., graduated from Skidmore College and did graduate work in child psychology at Yale.
In 1965, Mrs. Pilpel represented Dr. Benjamin Spock in a free-speech suit over whether advertising in his best-seller "Baby and Child Care," violated the public interest.
Ms. Koehn's first book, "Mischling, Second Degree," described her experiences as a child of part-Jewish parentage growing up in Berlin under the Nazis and in evacuation camps during World War II.
Born in a small town near Kiev in the Ukraine, she was brought to the United States as a child and grew up in Brooklyn.

        Dr. Frances Fuchs Schachter, a child psychologist, died on Thursday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
In the 1960's, she was a member of the department of child psychiatry at St. Luke's Hospital.
Her only known child was a daughter, Li Na, fathered by Mao.
She previously worked in child welfare, family assistance and disaster relief.
Earlier she had served with the New York City Bureau of Child Guidance and had maintained a private practice here.
"
        Ms. Remick, who was born in Quincy, Mass., studied dance as a child and won her first acting job at age 16 with a summer-stock company on nearby Cape Cod.
Committed to helping the victims of child abuse and neglect throughout her career, she joined the center as director in 1988.

        Bernice Falk, director of training and staff development for the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
She also helped restructure the summer camp and after-school programs of Minisink Town House, a Harlem settlement house that she attended as a child.
Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
She was also on the board of the Northside Center for Child Development, Louise Wise Services and the Encampment for Citizenship, a youth leadership development group.
She began playing the piano as a child, and she trained as a classical pianist.
She also helped restructure the summer camp and after-school programs of Minisink Town House, a Harlem settlement house that she attended as a child.
Her mother, Julia Thomas Neal Christian, died when Mrs. Preston was a child and she was reared by her grandmother, Anna Morrison Jackson, General Jackson's second wife and widow.
Ms. Mason was infected with the virus that causes AIDS when she received a blood transfusion in 1987 while giving birth to her second child.
I've become an AIDS poster child.
As part of its work-study program, she went to the Institute for Child Guidance in New York City, became a secretary there and never returned to college.
Recipient of Irwin Sizer Award
        Margaret MacVicar was born in Hamilton, Ontario, and moved with her family to Flint, Mich., as a child.
Miss Ginzburg strongly sided with the adoptive parents, arguing that their nurturing the child for 14 months should have entitled them to keep her.
Miss Vandergrift was on the board of the Northside Center for Child Development.

        Simone Beck, a passionate cook, author and teacher who collaborated with Julia Child on the influential cookbook "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," died yesterday at her home in Placassier, a small village in southern France.
As a child, she learned about cooking from the family cook.
She studied cooking in Paris at Cordon Bleu, where she met Julia Child at a cocktail party in 1949.
"We were like sisters," said Mrs. Child, after learning of Miss Beck's death.
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Daisy Dickson of Norfolk, Va.
        Miss Kempton, who was born in Vienna, started painting life-size portraits while still a child.
