As a young child, she said in an interview with Oui magazine in 1976, she was molested by a male babysitter.
She ended the affair when the actor's wife became pregnant with his third child.
The couple divorced in 1954 after the birth of her daughter and only child, Vittoria, who is now a physician working in Connecticut.
''
        In a 1989 interview with The Times, Miss Lewis said: ''As a child in Virginia, I thought all food tasted delicious.
She was Julia Child, not Childs.
      
''
        Joel I. Klein, the city schools chancellor, whose administration was almost always on the other side of Ms. Chaifetz's recent arguments, said yesterday: ''Jill was an extraordinarily dedicated and effective children's advocate who worked tirelessly to ensure that school reform reached every child.
Among Ms. Hoban's early works was an illustrated do-it-yourselfer, ''How to Photograph Your Child'' (Crown, 1953).
I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year.
I wash the dishes, rush the older children off to school, dash out in the yard to cultivate the chrysanthemums, run back in to make a phone call about a committee meeting, help the youngest child build a blockhouse, spend fifteen minutes skimming the newspapers so I can be well-informed, then scamper down to the washing machines where my thrice-weekly laundry includes enough clothes to keep a primitive village going for an entire year.
Octavia Junior began writing stories as a child and soon turned to science fiction, attracted by a genre whose limitless possibilities let her imagine absolutely anything.
Lois Maureen Stapleton was born on June 21, 1925, in Troy, N.Y. She remembered her father, John, as ''a prodigious drinker'' who had endless battles with her mother, Irene, until they separated when Maureen was a child.
As a Jewish child growing up during World War II, Madeleine was acutely conscious of the need for self-protection, something she later discussed in interviews.
An only child who never married, Miss Mars had no immediate survivors.
Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United States as a child and grew up in Philadelphia, where she established the Children's Dance Theater in 1944.
The daughter of immigrants from Hungary, she was born Rosalyn Mayer in 1919 in Port Henry, N.Y. Because she disliked her first name as a child, she had her parents change it to Belle.
''
        They lived in Southern Rhodesia (now Zimbabwe), and their union produced her only child, a son, Robin.
In addition to acting, he directed ''Yoshke Muzicant'' by Osip Dimov, a folk tale told through the eyes of a child.
As a child Ms. Moore was shuttled between her mother and her maternal grandmother, both of whom beat her, she said.
Dika Newlin, an only child, was born in Portland, Ore., on Nov. 22, 1923.
''I feel like a child more than I did as a child,'' she said in an interview with People magazine in 2003.
''I feel like a child more than I did as a child,'' she said in an interview with People magazine in 2003.
Louise Bennett, known to her fans worldwide as Miss Lou, was born on North Street in Kingston on Sept. 7, 1919, the only child of Cornelius Bennett, a baker, and Kerene Robinson, a dressmaker.
When I left the studio I was already married and had two children, but I felt as sad as a child leaving home for the first time.
The family moved to the Bronx when she was a child.
Martha Elizabeth Peterson was born on June 22, 1916, outside Jamestown, Kan., the only child of a wheat farmer and a news reporter.
Her mother, the former Elisabeth Frohling, was an efficient homemaker who took charge of her adored only child's education and budding musical career.
She came by her interest in artists naturally, as the child of two New York painters, Charles Cajori and Anne Child.
She came by her interest in artists naturally, as the child of two New York painters, Charles Cajori and Anne Child.
A child prodigy, Ms. Ruellan first exhibited her work at 9.
Dorothy Ann Willis was born Sept. 1, 1933, an only child, in Lakeview, Tex.
Her other books included a collection of her interviews, ''Interview with History'' (1976); ''If the Sun Dies'' (1966), about the American space program; ''Letter to a Child Unborn'' (1976), a novel about a single woman's conversation with a child she aborted; and ''The Force of Reason'' (2006), on Islam, Europe and the angry reaction to her post-Sept. 11 book ''The Rage and the Pride.
Her other books included a collection of her interviews, ''Interview with History'' (1976); ''If the Sun Dies'' (1966), about the American space program; ''Letter to a Child Unborn'' (1976), a novel about a single woman's conversation with a child she aborted; and ''The Force of Reason'' (2006), on Islam, Europe and the angry reaction to her post-Sept. 11 book ''The Rage and the Pride.
The English title of the book is "Letter to a Child Never Born," not "Letter to a Child Unborn.
The English title of the book is "Letter to a Child Never Born," not "Letter to a Child Unborn.
" It was published in 1975, not 1976, and it is about a single woman's conversation with a child that she ultimately miscarried, not aborted.
      
She came to the United States with her family as a young child.
Dr. Gary S. Rachelefsky, an allergist in private practice in Los Angeles and, with Patricia Garrison, co-author of a book, ''Free Your Child From Asthma,'' said Dr. Shapiro had been instrumental in preparing fresh guidelines to test for asthma, which is sometimes confused with a chronic cough or bronchitis.
As a child, Ms. Levien met Duncan.
Isabel Bigley Barnett was born in the Bronx on Feb. 23, 1926, the only child of Joseph and Isabel Press Bigley.
She was the only child of Colonel Claude Russell-Brown and Beatrice Magdalen Russell-Brown, and grew up in a home in which tradition, and music, ruled.
Emma Mearns, who later changed her name to Petra (pronounced PEE-tra), was an only child born in Philadelphia on Feb. 21, 1907.
How she does so makes her earlier evil deeds look like child's play.
      
Family legend has it that Ginger Rogers got her stage name because as a child, Phyllis had trouble pronouncing her real one, Virginia.
Family legend has it that Ginger Rogers got her stage name because as a child, Phyllis had trouble pronouncing her real one, Virginia.
A year later, with Ms. Shelly in mind, Mr. Hartley revised a script he had written as a film student, ''Trust,'' another dark comedy, which touched on child abuse, abortion and mental illness.
In the 1960s she again began setting her books in the Netherlands, writing ''The Winged Watchman,'' about boys who helped the Dutch resistance during World War II, and ''The Borrowed House'' (1975), about a Jewish child hiding from the Nazis in Amsterdam.
Mrs. Carey, the third child, and Frank, the fifth, plumbed what appeared to be the best of living in a brood that size.
'' In their house in Montclair, N.J., servants took care of cooking and gardening, although every child was assigned to look after a younger sibling and performed other tasks.
The family moved to the Boston area when she was a child.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Arkansas, Ms. Marsh is survived by another child from her first marriage, Albert P. Scott Jr., of Colorado; eight grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
The couple had one child.
