The salon concerts -- up to 18 per season -- developed through her work at the center and served as benefit events for the center and for Camphill Village, a community in Copake, N.Y., for mentally handicapped adults.
She had already helped found the Downtown Community School, a private elementary school in Greenwich Village, in the early 1940's.

        Edith Ferry Hooper, a philanthropist who supported art and educational institutions in Baltimore, died on May 27 at the Brightwood Retirement Community in Brooklandville, near Baltimore.
At her death, she was honorary president of the Samuel and Saidye Bronfman Family Foundation, which supports a variety of charitable and community causes.
As president of the community board of the hospital, Ms. Bell helped to write its patient's bill of rights.
Nearing is survived by a sister, Alice Vaughan of Dorset, Vt.; a niece, Barbara Tuttle, and a nephew, C. B. Vaughan, both of Dorset, and a stepson, Robert Nearing of Troy, Pa.
        A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. on Sunday, Oct. 1, at the Brookville Community Center in South Brookville, Me.
      
In 1985, the Chinese community in New York was in an uproar when Ms. Hsu and her son, Mr. Mo, who was serving as a Deputy Police Commissioner in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, accepted an invitation from the Chinese Government and visited the mainland.
She was a friend of most of the scientists whose institutions she helped, and although she was rarely seen at the glittering social events favored by her peers, she had an active social life centered on the arts and science community.

        Georgia Neese Clark Gray, whose signature -- as Georgia Neese Clark -- appeared on some $30 billion in paper money while she was the first woman to serve as Treasurer of the United States, died on Thursday at the Brewster Place retirement community in Topeka, Kan. She was 95.
Georgia Neese was born in Richland, a rural community of about 200 people 15 miles southeast of Topeka, where her father, Albert, had founded the Richland State Bank in 1892.

        Marie Callender, a California woman who started baking pies at home for a delicatessen and turned that into a chain of 146 restaurants and a frozen-entree business, died on Saturday at the Rossmoor Regency Residential Community here.
She was also a patron of the United Medical Center in Portchester, N.Y., and a member of the board of the Community Synagogue of Rye.

        Helen Duprey Bullock, a historian who specialized in preserving the nation's  architectural, romantic and culinary heritages, died on Nov. 1 at her home at the Thomas House retirement community in Washington.
But Ms. McQueen, who devoted her later years to serving the African-American  community, said she also felt it necessary to acknowledge the history of black slavery in the United States.
But it was upon her return to Harlem one year later that she found a second vocation -- helping her community.
"
        Her community work, including her role as a board member of the Interagency Council on Child Abuse and Neglect, earned her two citations from the Los Angeles City Council.
She  was a past trustee of the Dwight-Englewood School in Englewood, the Social Service Federation of Englewood and other community organizations.
Her many subsequent writings included the books "Britain the the European Community" (1964), "What Kind of Europe?

        Kay Brown Barrett, who bought "Gone With the Wind" for the movie producer David O. Selznick after discovering the novel as his New York representative, died yesterday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where she had lived for the last 14 years.

        Suzanne Storrs Pincus, a community volunteer active in social services and the arts, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She also was a founder of the nonprofit Bronx Community Enterprises, a Montefiore spinoff to encourage local businesses.
She turned to community work 27 years ago, helping to develop methods of improving child care and encouraging self-help among the disadvantaged.

        Janina Domanska, an author and illustrator of children's books, died on Feb. 2 at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 82 and lived in New Fairfield, Conn.
        She had suffered a stroke recently, said her stepson Robert Nossen.
She received the council's Community Service Award last year.
She received the council's Community Service Award last year.
The beneficence of the Binghams is one reason Louisville is such a prosperous cultural community.

        Ruth Caridad Silva, a political scientist and authority on Presidential succession and legislative apportionment, died on Saturday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. She was 74 and lived in State College.
In 1986, Ms. Lopez was appointed mental health administrator for the New York City region of the State Department of Mental Hygiene, coordinating hospital and community services for the mentally ill.
In 1986, Ms. Lopez was appointed mental health administrator for the New York City region of the State Department of Mental Hygiene, coordinating hospital and community services for the mentally ill.
