
        Nancy Carnegie Rockefeller, a community leader and active volunteer in Greenwich, Conn., died at her home there yesterday.

        Andrea Heinemann Simon, a community leader in Riverdale, the Bronx, died yesterday at her home there.
A former resident of River Forest, Ill., Mrs. Wasson moved to the Plymouth Place Retirement Community in La Grange Park 10 years ago.
In 1969, she was among the first district superintendents to be selected by the newly decentralized community school boards.
After teaching for two years at Cape Cod Community College in Hyannis, Mass., she devoted herself to editing the personal correspondence of her daughter, who committed suicide in 1963.

        Margery Beukema Leonard, who was a civic leader and charity volunteer in Seattle, died on Monday in Fort Belvoir, Va., at the Fairfax Retirement Community's health care center.

        Beatrice Card Fulcher, a retired educator with the Protestant Council of New York and the National Council of Churches, died last Sunday at Highland Farms, a retirement community near Black Mountain, N.C. She was 89.
Mrs. Schwartz was active in community affairs as a trustee of the Park East Synagogue and a board member of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation.
Sister Lawlor was a member of the Albany Regional Community of the Religious Sisters of Mercy of the Americas for 48 years.
After her stint as Deputy Attorney General in 1966, she organized the Office for Juveniles at Community Legal Services and headed it for nearly two years.
Mrs. Bernstein was active in community health programs in Brooklyn and in 1982 was given the Mayor's Volunteer Action Award for her work in health education and preventive medicine.

        Rita Webb Smith, a community advocate whose work to rid a neighborhood of drug trafficking gained her national attention, died last Saturday at her home in Harlem.
"She and Walter created the institutions that gave vision and vitality to the community.
In 1974 she became a member of Community School Board District 25 in Flushing and served for 19 years.
board, died on Thursday at the Collington Life Care Community in Mitchellville, Md.
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942.

        Frances Riker Duncombe, a writer long active in Westchester community affairs, died on June 27 at Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. A resident of Cross River, N.Y., she was 93.
Over the years, she was also on the boards of the Nassau County Youth Board; the New York State Association for Community Services; the New York State Communities Aid Association; Center for Parents and Children, and WLIW/Channel 21.

        Sheila Campbell Williamson, the founding director of the Community Foundation of New Jersey in Morristown, died on Sunday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 64.
Mrs. Williamson became the executive director of what began as the Essex County Community Foundation in 1980.
"My biggest fear was how the community would react to me and my kids and my husband," she said at a news conference in Iowa City in which she told her story in the hope that it would warn other health-care workers.
The 1,500 people of Monona, a farming community in northeastern Iowa, gave her family "nothing but support," she said at the time.

        Barbara Drew Hoffstot, an architectural and community preservationist, died on Sept. 18 at her Pittsburgh home.
In 1971, criticized for neglect of its Judaica collection and facing a substantial deficit, the museum's board decided that the institution should devote itself to "a commitment to the Jewish community.

        Sister Mary Margaret Johanning, a lecturer and consultant on theological affairs and the former international community leader of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, died on Saturday at St. Marys Health Center in Jefferson City, Mo.
In that position, she led the community through a revision of its constitution, enabling the nuns to expand on their roles as teachers in Catholic schools to add a variety of activities, including parish ministry.

        Helene Thurman Martin Heinemann, a retired geriatric social worker, died on Thursday at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa., near Philadelphia.
Ms. Schwaninger became executive director of the Willowbrook Review Panel in 1978, three years after it was created under a Federal court order to monitor the release of residents of Willowbrook into community settings.
Willowbrook was then the state's largest treatment center for the mentally retarded, and the panel was criticized for its oversight of the process, which included placing residents in smaller institutions within the community.
She stopped her runs in the van some years ago, but continued to aid prostitutes, whom she called "sex workers," most recently as a consultant to Manhattan's Midtown Community Court.
Then she ran a community center in Indiana for $600 a month.
The cause of death was complications from a stroke, according to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she was an adjunct professor emeritus in community medicine.
She was long associated with the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and its Department of Community Medicine.

        Ella Keats Whiting, an administrator and English literature professor at Wellesley College for 33 years and a great-niece of John Keats, died on Thursday at her home in the Carleton Village retirement community in Bedford, Mass.
In the 1950's, she was instrumental in finding community locations for Lighthouse nursery schools.
After his death in 1958, she made guest appearances in various plays often in community theaters and on college campuses.
She later carried out special projects for the commissioner and served as director of community relations.
