Her friendships in the theatrical community (and out of it) were wide and deep, and she generously gave of her time and resources to benefits of all kinds.

        Joan Maynard, who shepherded the preservation of the remnants of Weeksville, a once-thriving 19th-century community of free blacks in Brooklyn that had faded from maps and memory, died on Sunday at her home in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
It quickly became a thriving community with schools, churches, an orphanage and one of the nation's first black newspapers, The Freedman's Torchlight.
A historian leading a workshop at Pratt Institute, James Hurley, had seen references to the community in archives, but in many walks he had found no sign of it.
Ms. Maynard persisted, taking slides to scores of schools and community groups to win support.
Concerned with empathy and with the need to build community, Ms. Butler's work attracted an audience beyond its genre and was widely praised by critics.
They eventually found their way to Menton, on the French Riviera, where Russian émigrés established an intellectual and artistic community that Vladimir Nabokov described in early novels.
''
        Robert Caro, the historian, said in an interview yesterday that Ms. Jacobs was far from the first urban theorist to stress the importance of neighborhood and community.
At the same time, the New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson saw an old-fashioned vision of community that he compared to Thornton Wilder's fictional Grover's Corners.
She was taken to the Keller Army Community Hospital at West Point and was airlifted to Westchester Medical Center.
Spark's novel ''Reality and Dreams'' in The New York Times in 1997, described the author's approach as a recipe: ''Take a self-enclosed community (of writers, schoolgirls, nuns, rich people, etc.
' ''
        Delving Into School Secrets
        This recipe appears with variations in novels including ''The Ballad of Peckham Rye'' (1960) , in which a truly devilish young man who calls himself an industrial analyst insinuates himself into the life of a community and goes about creating suspicion among neighbors, delving into personal secrets and destroying lives.
It reappears in ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie,'' which provides a memorable example of a small and controlled community -- a girls school in Edinburgh in the 1930's -- in which the imperious teacher molds lives in a way few educators can.
''I did not have the strength nor the courage to teach the children of my community what appeared to be very poisonous to their minds,'' she said later.
Her collection of African and Haitian art became the basis for the community's Katherine Dunham Dynamic Museum, which opened there in the late-1970's.
Lorraine Hunt was born on March 1, 1954, in San Francisco to musical parents: Randolph Hunt, a music teacher and a conductor of community ensembles and operas, and Marcia Hunt, a contralto and a voice teacher.
But Ms. Walker continued drawing up wills and preparing personal-injury claims for the men and women she described as the ''plain, ordinary, not elegant people'' of her Harlem community.
''Martha convened the entire college community -- faculty and students -- in one of the largest rooms on campus to talk about what the college's response should be.
The news of her death sent more shock waves through the tight community of mushers.
