She was also a member of the board of the Croton Community Nursery School.
It now comprises 11 senior colleges, 6 community colleges, a graduate division, a law school, a medical school and an affiliated school of medicine.
In the ruling, she said that voter residency requirements could be satisfied by ''homeless individuals identifying a specific location within a political community which they consider their home base, to which they return regularly, manifest an intent to remain for the present, and from which they can receive messages and be contacted.

        Felicia Gizycka Magruder, an American heiress who was kidnapped as a child by her father, a continental count, died on Feb. 26 at the Regency retirement community in Laramie, Wyo.
''
        Ms. Carroll wrote a total of 23 other works, including ''Dunnybrook,'' a social history of 10 generations of farmers in her community.
Ms. Rathbun was arrested three times and was ordered to perform hundreds of hours of community service, which she spent with AIDS patients.
Her first arrest on marijuana charges and a judge's order to perform community service prompted Ms. Rathbun to join the Shanti project, one of the first AIDS support groups.
Since the early 1930's, Mrs. Marx had been involved in community affairs and a wide array of agencies.
More recently she devoted herself to the creation and expansion of a day care center at Westchester Community College.
He died nine years later, and Mrs. Miller remained in Washington until 1996, when she moved to a retirement community in Salisbury.
''
        The committee stopped asking questions about Community Party membership in 1969, when it went out of business.
She worked for several years as a community worker for the Ministry of Social Development and Planning.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.

        Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa.
        A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulkeways Continuing Care Community in Gwynedd after a stroke in 1980.

        M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where she had lived since 1984.

        M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where she had lived since 1984.
The Camphill community in Kimberton is one of 80 Camphills worldwide based on Steiner's teachings.
''
        President Clinton yesterday called her a dear friend and a heroine and said her death ''will leave a vacuum in the civil rights community, the State of Arkansas and our country.
As an editor she was associated with The New York State Journal of Medicine and The Journal of Community Health.
Kraft began giving tennis lessons to her children and their friends on a court behind her house in 1955 and was soon teaching the fundamentals to thousands of amateur players through the Princeton Community Tennis Program.
''
        Kraft, an enthusiast who kept the notes from her first tennis lesson at age 12, wrote ''The Tennis Workbook,'' a learning and practice guide for beginners, and ''The Tennis Teacher's Guide to Group Instruction and Community Tennis Programming.
