Even as she urged young women to participate in politics and community service and careers, she warned them that combining career and family meant pushing out nearly everything else.
Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C.
We must be open to all points of the compass: husband, children, friends, home, community; stretched out, exposed, sensitive like a spider's web to each breeze that blows, to each call that comes.

        Helen R. Kaufman, a philanthropist and community volunteer who was the widow of Irving R. Kaufman, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York, died on Feb. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.

        Eleanor Clymer, who in dozens of children's books contrasted country and city life, died yesterday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. She was 95.
She attended the Lincoln School in New York and Dartington Hall Community in Devonshire, England, a school founded by her mother and stepfather, Leonard Elmhirst.
She and Ms. Kinsella served as  consultants for projects including  theaters, opera houses and small community theaters as well as the lighting for Niagara Falls.
      

        Louise Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She was named to Community Board No.

        Louise B. Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
She was named to Community Board 8 by former Mayor Edward I. Koch.
Both at The Post and in the wider journalistic community, Mrs. Graham was usually the only woman at meetings and dinners.
''They may become the first age group that on a large scale creates new service roles and gives service to the community without direct financial remuneration.
Ms. Brennan was born in 1921 in Paris, where her parents, Richard and Alice Lee Myers, were well-known figures in the city's expatriate art community.
She also met members of the American community in exile -- targets of Hollywood blacklisting and the United States' anti-communist campaign -- which was centered around Frognal, the house of Donald Ogden Stewart and Ella Winter, his Australian-born wife.
It also was an advocate in the winning fight to persuade Congress to pass the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, which required banks to invest in neighborhoods where they did business.
One of the experiments in greater community control began with an elected local board for the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn.
