"We've made them believe everything beautiful is outside the community.
We would like them to make beauty in our community.
"
        On Jan. 21, 1948, the first meeting of TOPS was held at a Milwaukee community center.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.
She was a founding member of the Long Island Community Foundation and founding president of Planned Parenthood of Suffolk County.

        Marsha Wenk, legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, which prevailed in cases involving school prayer and a law requiring community notification about the presence of paroled sex offenders, died at New York University Medical Center on March 23.

        Margaret Livingston Partridge Burden, a Manhattan philanthropist long associated with the Community Service Society, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side.
Although she was engaged in many charitable activities, her main interest was the Community Service Society.

        Alice Kornegay, a powerful community advocate in East Harlem for the better part of 40 years, died on Tuesday at North General Hospital.
According to Barbara Brown, an adopted daughter, Mrs. Kornegay had a heart attack while attending a board meeting of an addicts rehabilitation organization, one of the many community groups to which she lent her efforts.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
"In East Harlem, she was probably the strongest advocate for the African-American community," said Eddie Baca, the chairman of Community Board 11.
"In East Harlem, she was probably the strongest advocate for the African-American community," said Eddie Baca, the chairman of Community Board 11.
"She saw a need in her community," Ms. Washington said.
She and Dr. Potter also experimented with outpatient services for a child-care agency, a harbinger of community psychiatry.

        Betty Meredith-Jones, a dance educator and a pioneer in the field of movement rehabilitation and community dance in Britain, died last Sunday at her home in Rhosili, Wales.
Directing a staff of nine full-time and six part-time employees, Mrs. Loeb eased cultural shock and fostered amity in a foreign diplomatic community that numbered 35,000 people from 197 missions and 91 consulates.
She was also a conservator of the New York Public Library and a member of the Corporation of Yaddo, the artists' retreat in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
        She was a founding member of the Fashion Group International and the Fashion  Round Table, two organizations for industry executives, and a member of the Soroptomists, an international women's community service alliance.
She was on the board of the Atlanta Community Council and the Community Planning Council.
She was on the board of the Atlanta Community Council and the Community Planning Council.

        Emma Bowen, a lifelong advocate for community causes and the rights of minorities whose reach extended to Washington, where she challenged broadcasters' and politicians' hiring practices, died last Monday at her home in Washington Heights.
She also worked with related local and state agencies, including the State Association of Community Mental Health Boards, of which she was a former president.

        Katharine Huyck Elmore, the chairwoman of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station in Rensselaerville, N.Y., died Monday at the Meadow  Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. She was 92 and formerly lived in  Rensselaerville.
She was also a co-founder and honorary trustee of the Rensselaerville Institute, which organizes conferences, research and demonstration projects dealing with topics like environmental impact, land use and community renewal.
Mrs. Mason was represented by the well-known divorce attorney  Marvin Mitchelson, and one of the terms of her settlement was $1 million in community property.

        Catherine S. East, a little-known Government researcher who became the quiet inspiration for the National Organization for Women and a persistent goad to the nascent feminist movement, died on Saturday at Kendal at Ithaca, a retirement community in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 80.

        Virginia Corwin Brautigam, a scholar who helped pioneer the field of comparative religion and who traveled the world in search of knowledge about Eastern faiths, died on Monday at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. She was 95.
Ms. Rosenblum served for the last six years as the borough historian of Manhattan, and her positions of civic authority included her job as district manager of Community Board 7 on the Upper West Side from 1983 to 1990.
2 train,'' Ronnie Eldridge, the City Council member, said when Ms. Rosenblum retired from Community Board 7 in 1990.
Ms. Rosenblum's base of influence included the Strycker's Bay Neighborhood Council, where she served as a board member and president, and later Community Board 7, where she became a member in 1971.
She was 95 and lived in North Miami, Fla.
        News of her death was relayed by members of the Hungarian community in this country last week.

        Rosina Cotton Quarles, who was the Federal Government's liaison with women's aviation groups in the 1960's, died on Aug. 3 at a hospital in Pensacola, Fla. She was 94 and lived at the Azalea Trace retirement community in Pensacola.
Betita Cabrera Coty, a Nicaraguan-born evangelical minister and community leader who fasted for four weeks in an effort to end a teachers' strike in Oakland, Calif., early this year, died on Saturday at her home in Oakland.
Under California's community property laws she claimed half his Intel stock and all his other assets, including full title to their 50-acre Maine estate, where Mrs. Noyce had been spending summers.
Since 1990 she had also pursued a mission she considered vital: speaking to thousands of high school students about her experience on behalf of Community Services in Westchester, an AIDS-related organization.
Mrs. Thompson, a member of one of New York's most historically prominent families, was a highly visible presence in philanthropy and community service for much of her life, both on Long Island and in New York City.
In the 1960's, she was an officer and board member of what is now the Five Towns Community Center of Lawrence, L.I., a gathering place for underprivileged children.
Most diplomatic work was carried out by her six-member staff, and in the Luxembourg diplomatic community, which then included 13 other ambassadors, Mrs. Farkas, though serious, was not considered a heavyweight.
Later, during two decades with the International Ladies Garment Workers, she directed community relations for the union's eastern region.
And, with the exception of ''Academic Women,'' a 1961 work derived from her own experiences in academia, the dozen or so works on subjects like community organization that had gained her reputation as a respected scholar seemed remote from the suddenly urgent issues raised by the Friedan treatise.

        Rosalie Ulrich Rosenberger, who practiced law in Nassau County for nearly seven decades, starting even before the county bar association admitted women, died on Sunday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I.
She was long active in community affairs, especially low-income housing and the welfare of the elderly.
Her community interests prompted Mrs. Rosenberger to form the Better Housing Committee of Rockville Centre in 1953, which campaigned for affordable housing for less affluent families.
Mrs. Miller, a member of numerous civic and community groups, contributed to causes serving women's causes, Jewish philanthropies and the State of Israel.
She received the American Jewish Committee's Human Relations Award and the Distinguished Community Service Award from Brandeis University.
Perk as director of community development and, later, director of public health and welfare.
Over the years, she worked for the Community Service Society, the State Department of Social Services, the city's Human Resources Administration and the Ryan Community Health Center in Manhattan.
Over the years, she worked for the Community Service Society, the State Department of Social Services, the city's Human Resources Administration and the Ryan Community Health Center in Manhattan.
She was a former chairwoman of Community School Board No.
3 and  was active on Community Board No.

        Mary Cooper Jewett Gaiser, a philanthropist who served on the boards of nonprofit institutions in the fields of education, community service and the arts, died on Sunday at Deaconess Medical Center in Spokane, Wash. She was 95 and lived in Spokane.

        Marjory Banks Grannis, a lecturer and community volunteer, died last Saturday at her home in Lake Bluff, Ill. She was 80 and also had a summer home in Edgartown, Mass.
At her death she was chairwoman of the Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation of Columbus, a major regional donor to the arts, Christian education, social services, child welfare and community development.
At age 32, she decided to return to college; her choice this time was the school she later led, New York City Community College in downtown Brooklyn, part of the City University of New York.
Dr. Schwerin was the first woman to be named president of a City University community college and the second to be president  of any of the system's colleges, after Jacqueline G. Wexler of Hunter.
