After moving to Long Island, she owned and directed the Busy Bee nursery in Amityville from 1976 to 1990, when the press of her community work and public service prompted her to sell the business.
Sister Doris was credited with opening the college to the surrounding community in Riverdale.
She believed a physician's wife should be active in the community in which he worked and in 1956 was a founder of the Claremont Neighborhood Center on East 169th Street.
The new organization took the name of Mr. Klot's organization and found a home at the Bronx Community College, part of the City University of New York.
She was on the boards of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Home and Hospital and was president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York.
She analyzed the material, conducted visual and photometric studies of heavenly bodies, like dwarf novae, and kept the scientific community up to date on them.
She also became director of its community relations department, aligning the union behind many civil rights efforts, and from 1968 to 1976, the year she retired, she headed the union's consumer affairs department.
From inviting civil rights workers to sleep on her floor, to bringing Head Start to the community center she created, Mrs. Hudson achieved much -- but not national fame.
Ms. Lewitzky was born in Llano del Rio, a utopian socialist community in the Mojave Desert.
Elisabeth Kübler-Ross was a true pioneer in raising the awareness among the physician community and the general public about the important issues surrounding death, dying and bereavement,'' Dr. Percy Wooten said when he was president of the American Medical Association in 1998.
Within a year, she moved to the United States; married Dr. Emanuel K. Ross, an American neuropathologist she had met at the university; began her internship at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y.; and become a research fellow at Manhattan State Hospital.
Besides her contributions to causes like housing for the homeless, Greenpeace, the Actors' Fund and animal rights (she often brought home animals that appeared in shows to become family pets), she was involved with Community Board 5 in Midtown Manhattan and was prominent in continuing efforts to acquire landmark status for all the Broadway theaters.
After the Sept. 11 attacks, she became a team leader of the Community Resilience Project, a counseling center in Northern Virginia supported by the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
Victorian explorers had brought back trunkfuls of artifacts, but no scholar before her had studied an Arctic community in depth.
''
        Ms. Sontag's final novel, ''In America,'' was loosely based on the life of the 19th-century Polish actress Helena Modjeska, who immigrated to California to start a utopian community.

        Agnes Martin, an American painter whose luminous fields of pale color traversed by hand-drawn pencil lines preserved the Romantic spirit of Abstract Expressionism and prefigured the austerities of Minimalism, died yesterday in a retirement community in Taos, N.M.
        She was 92 and had lived in New Mexico for many years.
In New York in the 1950's and 60's, Ms. Martin was an integral part of a small, brilliant, diverse community of artists -- Jasper Johns, Ellsworth Kelly and Robert Rauschenberg among them -- who lived in derelict 19th-century shipping lofts in Lower Manhattan and created a new postwar American art.
Several years ago she moved to the retirement community.
