Mrs. Inselbuch began her community work as a leader in Young Judaea, the national Zionist youth movement supported by Hadassah.
Mrs. Isaacs, a member of the family that gave the city of Scranton its name, supported community improvement projects through the Scranton Area Foundation.
Formerly a family charity, it became a public community foundation in 1989, and Mrs. Isaacs served as its chairman from 1954 until her death.
She devoted herself to the affairs of the Community Medical Center in Scranton, Worthington Scranton Campus of Pennsylvania State University, United Way, Community Services of Pennsylvania, Lackawanna County Welfare Council and Pennsylvania Citizens Association, among others.
She devoted herself to the affairs of the Community Medical Center in Scranton, Worthington Scranton Campus of Pennsylvania State University, United Way, Community Services of Pennsylvania, Lackawanna County Welfare Council and Pennsylvania Citizens Association, among others.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Samuel came to the city schools in 1983 with several years of experience in children's educational programs at New York University and the Community Service Society.
She served three consecutive terms as chairwoman of Community Planning Board No.
In the 1960's she was a caseworker for the Suffolk County Social Services Department, worked for the National Council on Aging and was the community relations director for the Long Island chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality.
In the 1970's she was the social-services coordinator for the Community Affairs Department in Islip, L.I., for two years and taught at Adelphi's School of Social Work for six years.

        Elizabeth Man Sarcka, a founder of Spring Lake Ranch in Vermont, one of the earliest halfway houses for the mentally ill, died on Sunday at Hampshire House, a community care home in East Montpelier, Vt. She was 98 years old and lived much of her life in Long Island City and Richmond Hill, Queens.
Retiring to the island of Jamaica in 1961, the Sarckas organized a school for adults in the mountain community of Malvern.
Her father, Alrick H. Man, a Wall Street lawyer, developed the community of Kew Gardens in Queens, on property that had been bought by her grandfather, Alban P. Man.
She was a past president of the Sisterhood of the Community Synagogue, vice president of the Congregation Emanuel Sisterhood and chairwoman of its youth activities and board member of the Young Women's Hebrew Association.

        Myra de Haven Woodruff, a specialist in child development who helped shape the modern nursery-school system during and after World War II, died on Friday at Medford Leas, a retirement community in Medford, N.J., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
She grew up in the Acoma pueblo, a Pueblo Indian community and the oldest continuously inhabited settlement in North America.
She was active both in her community and on the national level.
Mrs. Hausner, a 1944 graduate of Hunter College, was a founding director of the social services division at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, and chief social worker for the Westchester County Community Health Board.

        Louise Leonard Wright, who was active for many years in women's and foreign affairs, died on April 17 at Crosslands, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 95 years old and had previously lived in Charlottesville, Va., and, until 1956, in Chicago.
Her interest led to efforts to use television teaching on a wider scale and ultimately led her in the late 1960's to organize Open Channel, a nonprofit organization that lobbied for community access to cable systems and public programming.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
Last year, President Bush appointed her to the National Community and Service Commission.
When she considered becoming a social worker, she said Dr. Alex Rosen, dean of New York University's School of Social Work, had told her, "You will do a lot more good going on boards, raising money and getting involved in direct service to meet community needs.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
Ms. Bennett was born in Tampa, Fla. After graduating from the University of Florida, she earned a master's degree in psychology at West Georgia College in Carrolton, Ga. and taught psychology at Santa Fe Community College in Gainesville, Fla.
She had Alzheimer's disease and died of pneumonia, said Sister Eileen Fane, prioress of the Convent of St. Teresa, an Ursuline community in New Rochelle.
She sang with the American Opera Company and was a member of the Community Concert Series, which presented concerts around New York City.
Mrs. Holden, the daughter of Gladys Mills and Henry Carnegie Phipps, was a board member of Phipps Community Development Corporation, a foundation involved in building low-income housing in the New York area.
Under the name Caroline Miller, Mrs. Ray burst upon the national scene with the publication of the prize-winning book "Lamb in His Bosom," a tale, derived from the history of her extended family, about a backwoods community in pre-Civil War Georgia.
Her efforts won awards from the City Bar Association in New York and Community Trust.
Studied Greek Jewish Group
        Dr. Dalven's special interest was the history of Jews in Greece, especially the community in Ioannina in northern Greece, most of whose members were driven out during World War II.
She also led private social service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services.
She also led private social-service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services.
She also served as an officer of the Community Service Society, one of the city's oldest and most prestigious civic organizations.

        Julie Desloge Haggerty Hunnewell, a patron of the arts and civic figure on Long Island, died Aug. 19 at North Shore Community Hospital, in Glen Cove, L.I.
Dr. Dalven's special interest was the history of Jews in Greece, especially the community in Ioannina in northern Greece, most of whose members were driven out during World War II.
She inherited a fortune when her father died in 1956 but remained frugal, counting her change from coffee, using one lamp to work by and driving a Chevrolet that stood out in a community of luxury automobiles.
" Filed Her Early Data
        Concluding that she could never convince the scientific community, Dr. McClintock doggedly carried on with her work, carefully filing her data away and writing them up only in her annual reports to the Carnegie Institution of Washington, which supported her work.
She started the league's popular reference booklet "They Represent You and Your Community," listing elected officials with their addresses and telephone numbers and district maps.
When the city created community boards, she produced an explanatory pamphlet.

        Elinor Kridel Bernheim, a social-welfare volunteer whose widely cast interests ranged from the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and Columbia University's School of Social Work to a community center she founded in the Bronx, died yesterday at her Upper East Side home.
Among those lasting interests were the Mosholu Montefiore Community Center, which she began in the 1950's and presided over until 1970.
She was also involved with the Community Council of Greater New York, the Community Service Society, the National Homemakers Service Council and the Brookdale Institute on Aging, among others.
She was also involved with the Community Council of Greater New York, the Community Service Society, the National Homemakers Service Council and the Brookdale Institute on Aging, among others.
She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
Then she worked for the Young Women's Christian Association in St. Louis, New York City and San Francisco in programs for youth and community relations.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
Then she worked for the Young Women's Christian Association in St. Louis, New York City and San Francisco in programs for youth and community relations.
She served in various capacities on the Governor's Committee on Scholastic Achievement, Just One Break Inc., Manhattan Industrial Home for the Blind, Community Board No.

        Charlotte Jones, an actress who appeared in plays and musicals on and Off Broadway and in regional theater, died on Nov. 6 at Community Medical Center in Toms River, N.J. She was 76 years old and lived in Toms River.
A housing specialist with the Community Service Society, a civic group, she was appointed by Mayor Robert F. Wagner in 1965 as chairman of the Citizens' Advisory Committee of the Housing and Redevelopment Board.
A year later, she married Mr. Rockefeller, the eldest of the five sons of John D. Rockefeller Jr.
        At 24, and newly married, she began her involvement in the city's charitable and civic activities, joining the Central Council of the Community Service Society, one of the country's oldest and largest private family and health agencies.
Beyond the Rutgers community, Dr. Dinnerstein was best known for her book "The Mermaid and the Minotaur" (Harper & Row, 1976).
Ms. McMurray was a former Commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development and deputy general director for programming of the Community Service Society of New York.
She worked at the Community Service Society from 1978 to 1986, producing reports on homelessness and the changing demographics of urban poverty, and developing model programs for children and youths.
"
        The service, which lasted 100 minutes, opened with a procession of so many politicians, community leaders and members of Mrs. Hale's extended family that it took more than 10 minutes for them just to file in and be seated.

        Kay Boyle, a short-story writer and novelist renowned for her deft and powerful style and her keen insights into human nature, died on Sunday night at the Redwoods, a retirement community in Mill Valley, Calif. She was 90 years old and lived at the Redwoods, where she had moved from San Francisco several years ago.
She was also an officer in the United Community Services, American Red Cross, International Council of Nurses and Nursing Advisory Council of the Veterans Administration.
