It occurred to Ms. Plummer, who had been an outstanding student in the late 1970's when she returned as an adult to complete her education at the Richard Arnold Community School in Savannah, that if these children were given a basic book like a dictionary, it would help stimulate their interest in learning and could change their lives.
Churches and community organizations chipped in to buy and distribute still more dictionaries.

        Anne Devenney, the spark plug of community organization who helped keep the tidy, solid neighborhoods of the northwest Bronx from turning into another burned-out urban slum, died Jan. 9 in the Bronx.
Mrs. Devenney was a founder, president emeritus and living legend of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, which started in the mid-1970's.
An umbrella organization for nine community groups, it champions home ownership, tenant-controlled housing, street safety and local investment.
''She was a no-nonsense Bronx grandmother who took leadership of a whole part of the Bronx in some of its darkest times as the head of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition,'' said the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, who had known her for some 20 years.
But Mrs. Devenney's upbringing among people of different races and creeds had taught her that the struggle against community destruction knew no color.
Banding together with members of the clergy and young community organizers, she began to haunt hallways and community centers, trying to shake people out of their complacency and into partnerships with residents of surrounding areas where the blight was setting in.
Banding together with members of the clergy and young community organizers, she began to haunt hallways and community centers, trying to shake people out of their complacency and into partnerships with residents of surrounding areas where the blight was setting in.
The result was the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition.
They homed in on redlining by insurers that refused to write policies in their neighborhoods for fear of losses and by banks that denied mortgages in the community despite the large amounts of deposits that they held from its residents.
Especially in the Seattle region, but also beyond, she was elder stateswoman in a community of intersecting social causes, recognized by the Association of Biologists and Ecologists of Nicaragua for conservation work there, by the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility with their Paul Beeson Peace Award, by the National Audubon Society with its medal of excellence and last year by Seattle with its Spirit of America Award.
''
        In 1982 France awarded the Prix Femina to this book, a dark tale about the disappearance of two teenage girls from an isolated English-speaking community in Quebec's Gaspe peninsula in the 1930's.
For years Ms. Clark continued to fight for civic improvements, as a member of her Upper East Side community board and in other forums.
It surprised no one in the dance community that in 1966 she  was one of seven choreographers who were awarded the initial dance grants made by the recently established National Council on the Arts.
Developed from her story ''The Terrible Miss Dove,'' first published in Ladies' Home Journal, the work chronicled the life of a strict but beloved geography teacher in a small American town whose sudden illness shocks the community.
Her mother, Margaret Sallee Barnes, was active in community and civil rights groups, and her father, James D. Barnes, worked as a chef.
Bishop Joseph M. Sullivan, auxiliary Roman Catholic bishop of Brooklyn for human services, said Sister Mary Geraldine ''was a woman of extraordinary energy and very upbeat mentality and believed in hands-on dealing with community problems and issues.
Sister Mary Geraldine was born and raised in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1967 from Fordham, a master's degree in 1976 from the family and community relations department of Teachers College at Columbia, and a master's degree in 1985 from Columbia's School of Social Work.
''She was particularly active in community outreach,'' he said.

        Eva BobrowEva Bobrow, who earned the first of three associate's degrees from Queensborough Community College in Bayside, Queens, when she was 64 and went on to become the institution's most important private benefactor, died May 12 at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens.

        Emily W. ReedEmily W. Reed, who in 1959 enraged Alabama segregationists by allowing a book about a fuzzy white rabbit marrying a fuzzy black rabbit onto the shelves of the state's central library, died on May 19 at a retirement community in Cockeysville, Md.
In 1973, Mrs. Beardsley went to work for the Carmel Community Hospital.

        Elizabeth Wilcox, who took more than 100,000 sensitive photographs chronicling 35 years of medical care at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and then gave them to the center, died on May 6 at a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. She was 84 and had lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and in Redding, Conn.
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.
''Eastern European Yiddish folk song,'' Mrs. Rubin wrote in the preface to ''Voices of a People,''  ''reflects vividly the life of a community of many millions over a period of many generations.

        Eva Gatling, an art historian and curator who for many years was the director of the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Westminister-Canterbury, a continuing care community in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived in recent years.
They also gave buildings to the National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey and to Community Mainstreaming Associates of Great Neck, N.Y., which provides homes for the disabled.
''In Puerto Rico, her community service centers, the Centros Isolina Ferre, transformed ravaged neighborhoods by operating clinics and helping residents to empower themselves.
Bejart, democratically, has included both a man and a woman as the community's ritual offering,'' Mr. McDonagh added, and ''created a dance about survival,'' with ''Miss Albrecht, all shyness and fright,'' showing tremendous energy ''as the surging score whipped the groups of men and women into their frenzy.
Under its aegis she was a longtime volunteer in the Head Start program, involving parents and marshaling community support.
Lena Younger was, in fact, an archetypal Richards character, a woman who bravely moves from a slum into a lily white community in Chicago.
A new theater is to be named for her at the Auraria Higher Education Center, home to the University of Colorado at Denver, Metropolitan State College and Denver Community College.
Mrs. Addiss became a home economist at what is now the Community Service Society of New York and retired from the society after 40 years, when she was 65.
''Her devotion to her family, her profession and her work in both the local and global community is an example for women everywhere,'' the first lady said.
''
        Emily Marie Bertelsen was born on Dec. 11, 1919, in Marysvale, Utah, a small farming community where her father was a mechanic.
Next June, Mrs. Ireys was to receive the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Better Earth Award, recognizing people who are engaged in important environmental work in the community that benefits the planet.
As a lecturer and designer at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden for more than 50 years, Mrs. Ireys considered the garden her true home and did her most important community project for it.
They decided to take the Panthers to a community on the island for a dinner at a restaurant that did not accept blacks or Jews.
The family talked to her while the community barred The Compass's white reporter, Ms. Cooke told Kay Mills in an interview for a 1988 book, ''A Place in the News: From the Women's Pages to the Front Page.
