The couple lived in Paris until the outbreak of World War II, after which they joined the artistic émigré community in Hollywood and became United States citizens in 1946.
''
        Her success also made her more acceptable to an initially chilly Hollywood film community, which had held her suspect for wartime adventures, later described in her searing memoir, ''The Gift Horse'' (McGraw-Hill, 1971).
Pat Bumgardner of the Metropolitan Community Church of New York, where Ms. Rivera was coordinator of the food pantry.
She pleaded no contest to the charges, which investigators said resulted from attempts to influence stock prices, and was fined and sentenced to community service.
It had a solemn induction ceremony, based on a Taino Indian ritual, in which ''aspirantes'' held candles and pledged to pursue educational excellence and to dedicate their success to their community.
She joined the faculty of San Diego State University's School of Social Work in 1978, and later founded the Graduate School for Community Development.
'' In that role she covered the emerging European Economic Community, now the European Union.
At the University of California, Berkeley, where she was a professor of African-American Studies, she founded Poetry for the People, which trains undergraduates to take poetry to community groups as a form of political empowerment.
'' In that role she covered the emerging European Economic Community, now the European Union.
She had also been on the boards of the New York Community Trust and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, among many others.
At the Cambridge Community Center, she organized women to salvage tungsten wire from radio tubes that Raytheon could re-use in making electronic devices.
'' She continued: ''My idea is to open doors, to create a community, a meeting place.
Starting in 1952, she wrote community news for a nationally distributed Amish newspaper.
St. Mark's Lutheran Church on East Sixth Street was the place of worship for much of the community.
Playing to Win, renamed the Community Technology Centers' Network, caught on and eventually opened affiliates across the country and in Europe, Central America and Japan.
In 1982, she complemented it with ''Family Time and Industrial Time: The Relationship Between the Family and Work in a New England Industrial Community.
''In this community, we are more than just a museum.
When community leaders opened it in 1899, the visitors were immigrant children, largely from Eastern Europe.

        Fay Bennett Watts, who led national efforts to help farm laborers and the rural poor, died on Dec. 19 in Shelburne, Vt.
        She was 88 and lived in Wake Robin, a retirement community in Vermont.
