Returning to New Haven, Mrs. Cahn served as associate general counsel for the New Haven Redevelopment Agency and in the country's first neighborhood legal services program, the Dixwell offices of Community Progress Inc., financed by the Ford Foundation.
She also held positions with the National Council of Churches and the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization.
Throughout her career, she worked to make the public and legislators aware of the need for community improvement and planning.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred, professor of the humanities at Quinsigamond Community College in Worcester; her mother, Beth Arick of Brookline, Mass.
An aunt of former King Michael of Romania, she was 82 years old and had been a nun at the monastery, which is a community of nuns of the Orthodox Church in America in Ellwood City in western Pennsylvania, for 22 years.

        Ruth Baldwin Folinsbee, a community leader and former government official in New Hope, Pa., died Wednesday at her home in New Hope.
Mrs. Folinsbee was involved in civic activities in her community and was a founder of the New Hope Public Health Association.

        Florence Ford Schumann, a founder of a major philanthropic foundation in New Jersey and a generous contributor to health, education and community development causes, died on Friday at her winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mrs. Schumann, who also lived in Montclair, N.J., and Madison, Conn., was 99 years old.
Later she worked for the Community Service Society as a part-time counselor for the elderly.

        Mary C. O'Connor, a former chairwoman of Community Board 6 on the East Side of Manhattan, died on Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center, where she was taken after she was hit by a truck at Second Avenue and 45th Street.
Ms. O'Connor was a member of the community board for many years and its chairwoman in 1983 and 1984.
She was a founder of the Brooklyn Community School in the early 1940's and was executive director of the New York Service for Orthopedic Handicapped.

        Marjorie Hyde Bond, a fund-raising consultant, died on Sunday at the Community Hospital of Western Suffolk in Smithtown, L.I.
Throughout her career, Ms. Goodman worked in community and government organizations promoting the fashion industry.
She participated in community affairs throughout her life.

        Alison Stilwell Cameron, a daughter of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell who became an artist, author and lecturer on China, died Thursday at the Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron died of pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.

        Friedelind Wagner, a granddaughter of the composer Richard Wagner who won fame for her courageous opposition to Nazism, died early yesterday evening at the Community Hospital in Herdecke, Germany, in the Ruhr.
In 1979 she received the community leadership award of the Jewish Theological Seminary and in 1986 she received the seminary's Solomon Schechter Medal for service in the field of Jewish education.

        Jacqueline Murray, a lawyer who was active in community affairs in Rye, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Rye.
" Her arrival on the economic scene came at a propitious time: the public was slowly recovering from deep disillusionment with a Wall Street community that many blamed for plunging the country into the Great Depression.
Her activities were directed at both art and broader community development.

        Patricia Robbins Beatty, an award-winning author of 50 children's books, died on Tuesday at the Riverside (Calif.) Community Hospital.

        Alline Elizabeth Davis, a past director of the Gramercy Park Neighborhood Association who was active in community affairs, died on June 18 at her son's home in Vista, Calif. She was 83 years old and until recently lived in the Gramercy Park section of Manhattan.
Under the Local 237 retiree program, which Mrs. Feinstein founded in 1980, more than 5,000 members participate in classes, community projects and political activities as well as the customary social activities, trips and health-care seminars offered by labor unions.

        Sylvia Petit Maples, the director of community services at the National Association of Drug Abuse Problems in New York, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
"I work in the political field because I believe that everyone in a community has duties as well as rights," Mrs. Tree said in 1961.
"I am impelled by a feeling that I have so many blessings I must somehow try to pay for them in hard
        work for the community and in gratitude for being an American.
As chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater in 1950, she organized productions for community theaters.
Mrs. Perry, a fifth-generation Harlem resident and a graduate of Bronx Community College and Fordham University, was a teacher for the Lenox Hill Association.
She was a past president of Community School Board 3 and of the Parent-Teacher Association of Wadleigh Junior High School and was a member of the Sojourner Truth Democratic Club.
As chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater in 1950, she organized productions for community theaters.

        Edith Zornow, a prominent figure in the New York independent film and video community who produced the animation for "Sesame Street" and "The Electric Company" on public television, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
For 50 years she lived in Teaneck, N.J., where she was a co-founder of the Senior Services Center and was chairwoman of the Friendship House, the Advisory Board on Senior Citizens and the Advisory Board on Community Relations.
