
        Katherine Pollak Ellickson, a retired labor economist with a lifelong commitment to the women's and union movements, died on Dec. 28 at the White Sands retirement community in La Jolla, Calif. She was 91 and had lived in Washington until 1978.
She worked as a magazine caption writer, an administrator at the Downtown Community School and as the director of the June Taylor School before moving on to Clark Center in 1970.
As vice president of the Children's Television Workshop's Community Education Services, Mrs. Davis led efforts to make ''Sesame Street'' known to inner-city parents and children when the program began appearing in 1969.
In the early 1970's, Mrs. Davis also helped found the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, which urged black women to become involved in politics and community affairs.
She was a founder of the executive committee of the Lexington Democratic Club, a State Committeewoman, co-leader of the 73d Assembly District and an officer of Community Planning Board 8.
She was, too, a member of the Distribution Committee of the New York Community Trust and the Women's Administrative board of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
For all his stature, Boas was a figure of some controversy within the anthropology community.
''
        She earned a master's degree in public health and took a residency in community and preventive health at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
In 1922 she graduated from the Berlin Landwirtschaftliche Hochschule, and she and her parents emigrated to the United States and settled in a largely Mennonite community in Reedley, Calif., near Fresno.
He lives in the burakumin slum, separated from the main town by a river, and becomes a community leader after encountering the abuse and discrimination that were routine for burakumin in those days.
With her husband, Norman, she was also active in community affairs and in educational matters.
''If you're charting the coming of a big, sleepy, conservative community into the modern, affluent, increasingly sophisticated metropolis that exists today, she may be the single most important player.

        Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        Betsy Howell, as she was known, was a director of Goddard Riverside, a community center for people in need, for five decades.

        Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        Betsy Howell, as she was known, was a director of Goddard Riverside, a community center for people in need, for five decades.

        Gertrude S. Lookstein, who with her husband, Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, was a leader in the New York Orthodox community and active in a number of organizations, died on Sept. 9 at Mt.
The exhibit's main feature was a 30-foot-wide, three-dimensional panorama depicting an ideal, two-square-mile community for 20,000 people with such then-modern features as pedestrian overpasses at main thoroughfares, and garden apartment houses and office buildings, both built low to give residents a feeling of country living.
After her work in Scranton, she became director of community services in the Pennsylvania welfare department, working to improve mental health clinics and the training of welfare workers and ministers.
Women remained something of a rarity at that level in the scientific community, but she -- as  Marie Curie, Lisa Meitner and Dr. Margaret Mead before her -- had proved that scientific creativity was not just for men.

        Esther G. Gottesman, whose service to the Jewish community spanned more than 60 years and who played an important role in the acquisition of the Dead Sea Scrolls for Israel, died yesterday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Manhattan.

        Dorothy Kingsley, a leading screenwriter in Hollywood in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sept. 26 at the Community Hospital of the Monterey Peninsula, in Monterey, Calif. She was 87 and lived in Carmel.
Ms. Gunning was known for her strong speaking style, clear arguments and intense community involvement as she became a founder of the state Conservative Party and the first woman to run for citywide office, in 1965, for City Council President on a ticket headed by William F. Buckley Jr. in the mayoral slot.

        Gloria Cestero Diaz, a champion of New York's Puerto Rican community since its early days some 60 years ago, died on Oct. 24 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged.
She practiced in Garden City, Long Island, and held faculty positions at Queens and Brooklyn Colleges and at Kingsborough Community College.
Mr. Meyner began a law practice, and Mrs. Meyner continued her community service.

        Louise Loewenstein Ottinger, a New York philanthropist who supported the arts, community development and family planning, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Disney was a full-time partner to Walt and we are all grateful for her contributions in the creation of Mickey Mouse and the Disney Company and the example she set for family life and community service.
