In recent years, she was vice chairman of Community Planning Board 14 and was on the executive board of the Midwood-Kings Highway Development Corporation and on the board of the Brooklyn College Performing Arts Center, which gave her its Distinguished Community Service Award in 1995.
In recent years, she was vice chairman of Community Planning Board 14 and was on the executive board of the Midwood-Kings Highway Development Corporation and on the board of the Brooklyn College Performing Arts Center, which gave her its Distinguished Community Service Award in 1995.

        Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuing care community in New Hampshire.
Is there a significant community impact?
Although she participated in a number of social projects throughout her life, raising money to build a nursery school in Harlem, for instance, and serving as a guidance counselor at the Downtown Community School in the 1940's, she became more involved in philanthropic and community activities in the last 40 years.
Although she participated in a number of social projects throughout her life, raising money to build a nursery school in Harlem, for instance, and serving as a guidance counselor at the Downtown Community School in the 1940's, she became more involved in philanthropic and community activities in the last 40 years.
She was 97 and lived in the fund's retirement community.
''At a moment of great despair among Arab-Americans,'' Dr. Maksud said yesterday, ''she helped mobilize and organize the community.
''
        As she became increasingly active, she shared speakers' platforms with Jane Addams, the founder of Hull House in Chicago; worked in St. Louis with a social welfare agency, and taught at a cooperative farming community in Arkansas.
Later, she was associated in community affairs and education with the Brotherhood of Locomotive Enginemen and Firemen, the Amalgamated Meat Cutters and Butcher Workmen, and the Marine and Shipbuilding Workers.
She promoted the concept that education should be a vehicle toward a world community and intercultural understanding, beginning at home.
She was a former chairwoman of a community board in Fluvanna County, Va., that provided services for mental health, mental retardation and drug addiction.
She also began working with community and regional orchestras, and was director for several years of the Kenosha Civic Orchestra, the Chicago Civic Orchestra and the Elgin Symphony.
Mrs. Santangelo was the widow of the former United States Representative, Alfred E. Santangelo, a Democrat of the Bronx and a strong voice for the Italian-American community.
In a career in which she worked as a social worker at hospitals, community centers and drug treatment programs before turning to teaching, Mrs. Coltoff, a native of Mount Vernon, N.Y., who graduated from Emerson College and received her master's in social work from Adelphi University, may have done her most inspired work simply because she developed breast cancer in 1981.
Mrs. Whitney established the Greentree Foundation in 1983 to assist local community groups, and she was its president.
She and her husband then founded the Zen Peacemaking Order, an international community that pursues meditation and interfaith expression and whose headquarters they recently moved to New Mexico.

        Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
In an association with Columbia University that spanned five decades, she founded its Division of Community and Social Psychiatry and directed it from 1956 to 1969.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
The organization also conducts workshops for about 400 students, organizes exhibitions and provides custom screen-printing for dozens of businesses and community groups.
As a teen-ager, she sang in church and community choirs and appeared on a radio show aimed at black audiences, ''Parisian Tailor's Colored Kiddie Hour.
Then she made the mistake of dropping by a local Jewish community center one night.
In 1957, the city opened the first two-year community college on Staten Island and a short time later those in the Bronx and Queens.
''
        Set in the black community on Martha's Vineyard during the 1950's, the novel is a gently ironic story of a beautiful, blond, privileged young black woman, Shelby Coles, who is torn about her planned marriage to a white jazz musician.
She derived enormous delight a few years ago when she received a proposal from an admirer at her Hartford retirement community on the very day the Social Security Administration notified her that she had died -- as, it turned out, another Mildred Smith had done.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
''
        Her remarks stirred open hostility and brought about an almost complete break with Mexico's literary community.

        Aline Mosby, a former correspondent for United Press International who reported from Hollywood, Paris, Beijing and points between for more than 50 years, died on Aug. 7 at Palomar Medical Center in Escondido, Calif. She was 76 and had moved from Europe to the Silvergate retirement community in San Marcos, Calif., this year.
Dr. Edey was long active in, and on the boards of, the Scherman Foundation, which works in various fields; the Edey Foundation, set up by her husband, Maitland A. Edey, an editor at Time Inc. and an author, which supports conservation activities on Martha's Vineyard, and the Martha's Vineyard Community Foundation.
She was particularly praised for her role as a show-business fan in Emlyn Williams's ''Light of Heart'' (1940) and for her portrayal of the mother of a possible second messiah in a Welsh farming community during the Crimean War in another Emlyn Williams play, ''The Wind of Heaven'' (1945).
Under her guidance, Siecus became the moving force for education about human sexuality in the schools as well as in the community.
To support the gallery, Mrs. Benson worked as director of community relations at Southampton Hospital for 25 years.
From the time she arrived in America in 1940 with her husband and two young sons until the time she died, Mrs. Kissinger lived in the same apartment in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, where  she was well known and well regarded by the once large German-Jewish  emigre community there.
A longtime member of Manhattan Community Board No.
''Her philosophy was an involved community is the best protection against abuse of the elderly,'' said Ann Wyatt, a friend.
''
        Ms. Rolle was born in Pompano Beach, Fla., a retirement community that was once a bucolic farming town with the character of the deep South.

        Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
At her death, she was chairwoman of Caring Community, which administers programs for the elderly, mainly in Greenwich Village, and the West Side Association of Community Centers.
At her death, she was chairwoman of Caring Community, which administers programs for the elderly, mainly in Greenwich Village, and the West Side Association of Community Centers.

        Janet Brewster Murrow, a radio broadcaster and relief worker during World War II in London, where her husband, Edward R. Murrow, was CBS's star war correspondent, died on Friday at the North Hill retirement community in Needham, Mass., where she lived.
