
        Beth Robertson Cosnow, a longtime community leader on the East Side of Manhattan, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She was the founding president of the Friends of the Vienna Philharmonic and served on the boards of the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Community Arts Music Association of Santa Barbara.
Her half century of volunteer work also included service on the board of the United Community Services in Detroit.

        Marian W. Freedman, a civic leader in central New Jersey, died on Tuesday at the Applewood Estates retirement community in Freehold Township.
She taught about them at New York University and at La Guardia, Manhattan Community and Hunter Colleges.
Mrs. Everson was a past president, chairwoman, board member or officer of Brooklyn's first Planned Parenthood committee, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, United Neighborhood Houses of New York, Colony House, the Brooklyn Central YWCA, Civitas, the Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Lung Association, the Brooklyn Women's Club, the Brooklyn chapter of the American Red Cross, and the Brooklyn division of the Protestant Council of the City of New York, among others.
From 1972 to 1984 she produced and acted at various community centers, colleges and libraries, including the Mid-Hudson Arts and Science Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and the Katonah Community Theater.
From 1972 to 1984 she produced and acted at various community centers, colleges and libraries, including the Mid-Hudson Arts and Science Center in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and the Katonah Community Theater.

        Florence W. Hartstein, a leader in Jewish community organizations in this country and in Israel, died on Friday at the Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
She studied the piano and violin briefly as a child and sang in community choirs, but she later told interviewers that she had had very little exposure to classical music when she was growing up.

        Dr. Gladys Lounsbury Hobby, a microbiologist who helped to move penicillin from a laboratory discovery to mass production during World War II, died on Sunday at her home at the Crosslands retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 82.
This monthly newspaper of community news is distributed free to all Cornwall residents and many out-of-town subscribers.
New Career at College
        She started a new career in 1980 as the director of community affairs at William Paterson College in Wayne, N.J.

        Florence Cooper, a Manhattan community organizer of child-care and women's-support services, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital.

        Leona Dubnick, coordinator of the gifted-education program for the Huntington, L.I., public schools until her retirement in 1985, died on her 65th birthday Friday at the Williamsburg (Va.) Community Hospital.

        Rosamond Cross, a retired head of the Baldwin School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., died on Tuesday at the Waverly Heights retirement community in Gladwyne, Pa. She was 86.

        Dr. Daphne A. Roe, a dermatologist and nutrition expert, died on Wednesday at a community hospital in Ithaca, N.Y., after having been injured earlier in the day in an automobile accident near Trumansburg, N.Y. She was 70.
Mrs. Eckart received a master's degree in social work from the University of Texas and co-founded the Community Psychotherapy Center, a nonprofit institution in Dallas.
From 1980 until 1984, she was director of the West Philadelphia Community Mental Health Consortium in Philadelphia.
She also taught speech and writing at Brookdale Community College in Lincroft, N.J.
But he praised Adapt as a "group that clearly has a great deal of expertise, the most credible community action group in New York City, a very responsible group.
For many years Mrs. Judge was associated with Sarah Lawrence College, where she was professor emeritus of childhood development, and the Community Service Society of New York.
A vivacious woman who cared passionately about her causes, she came to the Community Service Society in 1932 and worked there into the 1950's, finally as a consultant on its child-care program.
Appalled that the office was staffed entirely by white social workers trying to serve a mostly black community, she convinced the board of the need to bring in trained black workers.
Efforts on West Side
        Along with her husband, Dr. Arthur C. Logan, a surgeon, she was involved in efforts to stabilize the West Side as an integrated community during urban-renewal efforts there.

        Joan Weidemann Harris, a retired Brooklyn community worker and former board member and executive director of the Y.W.C.A.
Over the years, she worked at the Maimonides Community Mental Health Center, the Mayor's Office for the Aging, community groups assisting the elderly and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
Over the years, she worked at the Maimonides Community Mental Health Center, the Mayor's Office for the Aging, community groups assisting the elderly and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
During her years in Brooklyn she was active on community boards, including those of the Colony South Brooklyn Houses, the Brooklyn Heights Association and the Brooklyn Teen-age Pregnancy Network.

        Elizabeth L. R. Coates, a Connecticut lawyer active in community affairs, died on Thursday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
She was a past president and board chairman of the New Canaan Community Nursery School, president of the Southern Connecticut Wellesley Club and an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan.
