''Black people in my community crucified me,'' she recalled.
''Black people in my community crucified me,'' she recalled.
DuBois, Ms. Grant sought to profile the struggle for civil rights through its community leaders.

        Yolanda Garcia, a South Bronx community advocate who forced planners and politicians to rethink how they would rebuild a sprawling swath of the Melrose section, died on Thursday.
She was stricken at the office of Nos Quedamos/We Stay, the community group she helped found in the early 1990's to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people who lived and worked in the neighborhood.
She closed the carpet business several years ago to devote herself full time to her community work.
She is survived by her daughter, and one relentless community group.
      
While taking classes at the Harlem Community Art Center she met Mr. Lawrence, whom she married in 1941.
''
        After retiring, Colonel Hallaren helped organize Women in Community Service, an outgrowth of the civil rights and women's rights movements and the War Against Poverty of the 1960's.
In 1982 Ms. Benedict ran for governor as a member of the Unity Party, a coalition of community, labor and tenants' groups.

        Ernesta Drinker Ballard, who saved the Philadelphia Flower Show and transformed it from a horticultural beauty show into a spectacular international educational event, died Aug. 11 at the Cathedral Village retirement community in Philadelphia.
Under Mrs. Ballard's guidance, the event began to produce a financial surplus, which she used to start the Horticultural Society's community gardening program, Philadelphia Green.
She attended local schools in what was then an overwhelmingly white community.
She was also executive secretary of the city Department of Labor and later held executive posts with the city's Community Mental Health Board.
As a 29-year-old union field representative, she was often at Mr. Shanker's side in 1968 when he locked horns with an experimental, largely black community school district in Ocean Hill-Brownsville, Brooklyn, that tried to transfer 13 white, mostly Jewish teachers and administrators.
Although the battle culminated in legislation creating a diluted version of community control in a decentralized school system, the union, by going on strike three times, had proved it could shut down the schools at will and, in a fragmented system, it emerged more powerful than ever with increased job protections for its members.
Situated on 400 acres, it is home to a contemplative community of 37 women who farm, run a dairy and practice traditional crafts like weaving, bookbinding and ironworking.
The community, whose name is Latin for Queen of Praise, follows the Benedictine principles of prayer, hospitality and stewardship of the land.
During the war, she quietly continued her work as a community doctor.
After Allied forces liberated the abbey in August 1944, she resolved to start a Benedictine community in the United States.
In 1994, Father Prokes was removed as the community's spiritual adviser.
''That was a discernment of Rome, and this community has the greatest respect for that discernment,'' Sister Angèle said in a telephone interview last week.
