Transition Into Teaching
        She began teaching at the School of American Ballet while still a member of the company.
" She later headed her own television and motion picture production company, Juno Productions, and worked in the development department of Telepictures Productions.
Her gifts to the company included new productions of "Parsifal," "Elektra" and "Lucia di Lammermoor"; the 1990 telecast of Wagner's "Ring" cycle, and underwriting for future new productions.
In 1975 she joined the Hartman Theater Company in Stamford, Conn., where she took the role of Marya in the theater's first production, "The Government Inspector," and met her husband, also an actor.
Ms. Britten was best known for her work in the mid-1970's with the Ailey company; she stood out for the emotional range of her dancing.
She was on the Westport Public Library staff before founding her company in 1985, providing computerized information to clients.
The Gishes were separated at least half of each year, and life was lonely for Lillian as she traveled constantly and shared squalid hotel rooms with other company members to save money.
During most of her years with Griffith, Miss Gish and the rest of the Griffith company of actors and technicians divided their time between New York and Los Angeles.
By that time, Griffith had joined Adolph Zukor's company, which later became Paramount Pictures.
In the fall of 1919, Griffith moved his entire company to Mamaroneck, N.Y., where he built his own movie studio on a huge estate.

        Mildred Collins, president of Mildred Collins Inc., a Manhattan-based sales promotion and publicity company, died on Sunday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
In her later years, she appeared on television and undertook repertory with the APA-Phoenix company in works ranging from Sheridan to Pirandello to George Kelly.
Her mother, Lilian Braithwaite, was a star on the London stage, and her father, Gerald Lawrence, was a matinee idol who began his acting career as a juvenile in the company of Sir Henry Irving.
She taught in the public schools and at one time worked for Merck & Company, writing abstracts on new drugs.
Her father, Herbert, owned a furniture manufacturing company.
"
        After being selected by Moss Hart for the role of Mrs. Pearce, the housekeeper, in "My Fair Lady," she toured with the National Company in the United States and the Soviet Union from 1956 to 1962.
In the 1950's and 60's, Miss Peardon toured with Arnold Moss's Shakespeare Festival Players in "The Tempest," "Measure for Measure," "Twelfth Night," "King Lear" and "Love's Labour's Lost," and performed in the 1960's at the American Festival Theater at Stratford, Conn.  As a Sculptor
        In 1966, she began exhibiting and selling cast bronze sculptures, which were displayed three times in the windows at Tiffany & Company in Manhattan.
Mrs. Everson's husband, an engineer and executive in her father's Higgins Ink Company, died in 1969.
Mrs. Lambert was the widow of Gerard Barnes Lambert, her second husband, whose family's fortune was built on Listerine mouthwash and the manufacturing concern that became part of the Warner-Lambert Company.
Another brother, Edgar, also of Manhattan, is chairman of the Culbro Corporation of Manhattan, a diversified products company.
Her brother Lewis, of Manhattan, is president of Cullman Ventures Inc., a private holding company.
She arrived in Palm Beach in 1933, newly wed to Stephen Sanford, an international polo star and a director of the Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Company Inc.

        Elizabeth Montgomery, a costume and set designer and a founding partner of the design company Motley, died on Saturday at her home in London.
"
        Motley created its first costumes for "Romeo and Juliet," directed by John Gielgud at Oxford University, and the company soon made its mark with costumes for his production of "Richard of Bordeaux.
The company created sets and costumes for more than 30 Old Vic productions.
She began her career at M. Evans & Company in 1967 and later headed the publicity department at William Morrow & Company.
She began her career at M. Evans & Company in 1967 and later headed the publicity department at William Morrow & Company.
Mrs. Rader was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Edward G. Sperry, who was for some years president of the Sperry Products Company, which manufactured railroad and subway track-testing equipment and other products in Connecticut and on Long Island, and the former Mary Elizabeth Garvin, who was a company director.
Mrs. Rader was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Edward G. Sperry, who was for some years president of the Sperry Products Company, which manufactured railroad and subway track-testing equipment and other products in Connecticut and on Long Island, and the former Mary Elizabeth Garvin, who was a company director.
Her other books were "Eighty Puerto Rican Families in New York City," a study of the families in her East Harlem clinic, published by Columbia University Press in 1958, and "A Life in Two Worlds," an autobiography published in in 1983 by Walker & Company.
Mrs. Johnson, a native of Staten Island, graduated from Hunter College and briefly worked for Doubleday & Company before joining Random House in 1956 as a secretary.
The company had been bought 10 years earlier for $5 million by Manhattan Industries and has been a division of Salant Corporation since 1988.
Mrs. Buell sold her copyrights to Western Publishing Company when she retired in 1971.
He is vice chairman and former chairman of Belding Heminway Company, the Manhattan textile concern.
"I was at a May Company store in California when I noticed women pulling at their shoulders and waistlines and saw that most dresses didn't fit properly," she recalled from the late 1940's.
After graduating as the valedictorian at Erasmus Hall High School, she worked at a blouse company, then opened her business.
"
        She was born in Newport News, Va., where her father was the president of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock Company.
That company's director, Josef Krips, heard Miss Auger's audition at the smaller Volksoper, and offered her a contract.
When she joined the company, she later said, she knew only the one role, had no stage experience and did not speak German.
During her first two years she added a dozen roles to her repertory, and she remained with the company until 1974, when she began to find the State Opera's repertory expectations too constricting.
When she left the company she began singing more frequently at other European houses, including La Scala.
She resigned from the magazine in 1978 to create the Hasbro Center for Child Development and Education, a nonprofit arm of the Hasbro Toy Company.
Besides numerous articles, she was the author of a book, "The Gift of Play," (Walker & Company, 1980), with Maria W. Piers.
She subsequently joined Judy Wald Associates, a recruiting firm for the advertising industry, and then went to London where she founded that company's London office.
She was associated with Presbyterian Hospital and the Columbia Medical School from 1934 to 1943, after which she joined Chas Pfizer & Company to continue her research.
After the liberation of Austria in World War II, she joined a company entertaining American troops.
Ms. Rubstein performed with the Opera Company of Boston, the Houston Grand Opera, the Portland Opera and other ensembles throughout the United States.

        Elizabeth Hannah Waters, a modern dancer and choreographer who performed with Hanya Holm's company in the 1930's and who founded the dance program at the University of New Mexico, died on June 5 at her home in Echo Canyon, N.M. She was 83.
She was a soloist in the Holm company from 1935 to 1939 and was Ms. Holm's teaching assistant at the Bennington School of the Dance in Vermont.
In 1940, she formed her own company, Dancers en Route, with Alwin Nikolais.
Waters taught at the University of New Mexico from 1946 to 1973; among her students was Tim Wengerd, a principal in the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's and 1980's.

        Olive A. Beech, a leader in the aviation industry and a co-founder and chairwoman of the Beech Aircraft Company, died yesterday at her home in Wichita, Kan., at the age of 89, her family said.
As a young woman, she was hired in 1925 as the secretary to Walter Beech, the director of the Travel Air Manufacturing Company in Wichita.
In 1932 they formed their company as the Beechcraft company, with Mrs. Beech as the secretary-treasurer.
In 1932 they formed their company as the Beechcraft company, with Mrs. Beech as the secretary-treasurer.
The company grew from having a handful of employees to a payroll of more than 10,000 and annual sales exceeding $900 million.
The Raytheon Company bought Beech Aircraft in 1980, and she was elected to the parent company's board and executive committee.
The Raytheon Company bought Beech Aircraft in 1980, and she was elected to the parent company's board and executive committee.
Her grandfather, Aaron, founded the Streit Matzoh Company.
She was married for 30 years to Stanley Yagoda, who was president of the Hot Dogger clothing company.
Her 11 books included an "Update" series that went through several editions, most of them issued by her own company, Overseas Briefing Associates, and by Intercultural Press.

        Charlotte Singer Morrell, co-founder of Morrell & Company, wine and liquor merchants in New York City, died on Thursday at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan.
She took an interest in the business and sat in on family discussions guiding the growth of the company, said her grandson, Mark Shwayder.
Mr. Shwayder, who invented devices for the company, was its president.
She took an interest in the business and sat in on family discussions guiding the growth of the company, said her grandson, Mark Shwayder.
From 1946 to 1948 she was a principal dancer with the Jose Limon Dance Company, creating roles in "Lament for Ignacio Sanchez Mejias" and "Day on Earth," both by Humphrey.
She is featured in a 1959 film of "Lament" and returned to the company to perform her role, the Figure of Destiny, in a 1964 revival of the dance.

        Susan K. Johnson, the senior vice president for account management at Mediamark Research Inc., a Manhattan-based media and market research company, died on Friday at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens.
Ms. Johnson joined the company, which carries out research on subjects like magazine readership, in 1989.
Mrs. Coker was the widow of James Lide Coker 3d, former president of the Sonoco Products Company.
Ms. Kessler founded the company in 1946.
The company caters primarily to decorators and their clientele, and has provided carpet designs for the White House, the Smithsonian Institution and Gracie Mansion.
Mrs. Stark was active in the operation of the company until her illness forced her to retire early this year.
Her sons, Steven and John, now run the company, which also imports rugs and manufactures other types of floor coverings.
The company's popular silk jersey body dresses were sold in stores like Saks Fifth Avenue and Neiman Marcus, and private customers included Jacqueline Onassis, Babe Paley and Candice Bergen.
Ms. Sibley went on to work as associate designer for Ellen Tracy until 1980, when she left to work as a display designer and sales representative for Yale Burg, an antiques importing company in Manhattan.
She also sued her insurance company and won the right to medical benefits up to $1 million.
Miss Carlon began her career in the early 1930's, playing Little Eva in a touring company of "Uncle Tom's Cabin.
Fenced with barbed wire and guarded, Rough Point was part of her inheritance from her father, known as Buck, who was president of the American Tobacco Company and had other extensive business interests.
Tobacco Queen As Married Woman
        Soon after turning 21, Miss Duke began being seen in the company of a dashing, strong-jawed older man.
It was James Cromwell, the son and grandson of prominent yachtsmen and the stepson of a partner in the banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company.
The company exports equipment for industrial and food processing.

        Josephine Jablons, a board member of the New York City Opera Company, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She was elected a director of the City Opera Company in July.
" She was invited to choreograph for Ballet Theater -- a company now known as American Ballet Theater -- for the group's first season in 1940.
Also in 1941, Miss de Mille choreographed "Drums Sound in Hackensack" for the Ballets Jooss, a modern-dance company.
In 1973 she established the Heritage Dance Theater, a folk-oriented company that toured widely until 1975.
Born in Pittsfield, Mass., Mrs. Luke, whose original name was Mary Munger, graduated from Berkshire Business School and worked in advertising in New York, and later for a documentary film company and RKO Studios in Hollywood.
She helped found Boston Newsreel, a documentary company, and worked at WCBN radio and WCVB television in Boston.
After attending Vassar College and the University of Cincinnati, she played Shakespearean roles in a theater company headed by Walter Hampden.
The same year she made her debut as Barbarina in Mozart's "Marriage of Figaro" at the Vienna State Opera, and remained a mainstay of that company's roster for the rest of her life.
Miss Raedler's company, which began as Masque and Lyre Light Opera in 1939 and became the American Savoyards in 1952, was a highly regarded fixture in the New York musical world through the late 1960's.
Miss Raedler began her work modestly, first directing her Gilbert and Sullivan productions in the homes of company members, then moving to the basement of the Jan Hus House on East 74th Street, and eventually to larger theaters.
In the 1960's, she directed productions for the City Center Gilbert and Sullivan Company, the New York City Opera and the Baltimore Civic Opera.
She organized the Masque and Lyre company as an amateur troupe during her student years at Hunter College and reorganized it as a semi-professional company in 1948.
She organized the Masque and Lyre company as an amateur troupe during her student years at Hunter College and reorganized it as a semi-professional company in 1948.
From the start, the company earned enthusiastic reviews from both music and drama critics, and it began to operate year round.
In 1952, after a visit to England to research Gilbert and Sullivan traditions, she renamed the company the American Savoyards and took "The Mikado" and "Patience" on a cross-country tour.
She worked for the General Electric Company as a lawyer for seven years before going into private practice in Greenwich, most recently with the firm of Hopper & Krause.
"
        Later, after much personal research in Europe, she was deeply involved in selecting the Theodore Kuhn Company to build the hall's organ, which experts said cost well over $250,000.
She gave generously to the Martha Graham Dance Company and Eliot Feld's ballet troupe, and she was a board member of numerous other arts and educational institutions.
When Mr. Tully became general counsel to the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company in 1908, the family moved to New York City, where Miss Tully attended Mrs. J. D. Randall MacIvor's School.
