" Two years later, she cracked Broadway as a composer with "Can't We Be Friends?
An authority on the composer Boccherini, she helped uncover some of his chamber works and founded the Boccherini Quintet and the Carmirelli Quartet, which specialized in Boccherini's music.
During a Scandinavian tour in 1930 she met the composer Jean Sibelius, who spoke glowingly of her voice and dedicated the song "Solitude" to her.
Popular With Crews
        One of her most successful films was "Night and Day" (1946), in which she played the wife of the composer Cole Porter, opposite Cary Grant.
"I ended up being the wife of Cole Porter sitting in the audience applauding the composer," she added ruefully.
But her first major appearances were at Aix-en-Provence, France, where she made her debut in 1966 as the Composer in Strauss's "Ariadne auf Naxos," and at Covent Garden, where she performed her first Octavian in 1969, learning the role in a week to fill in for another singer.
Among the many roles she sang there were the Countess Geschwitz in Berg's "Lulu," Sesto in Mozart's "Clemenza di Tito," Charlotte in "Werther," Adalgisa in "Norma," and her regular showpieces, Carmen, Kundry, Santuzza and the Composer.
She wrote four novels and "Tchaikovsky," a biography of the composer.
Appearing in 1937, the book created a sensation because it dealt openly with the composer's homosexuality.

        Helen Adam, a poet and composer of Scottish ballads, died on Sept. 19 at a nursing home in Fort Greene, Brooklyn.
Among those excited by the work were Theresa Helburn and Lawrence Langner of the Theater Guild, the composer Richard Rodgers and the lyricist Oscar Hammerstein 2d.
She impressed the jury, which included the composer Dmitri Shostakovich, by offering to play not merely the Bach prelude and fugue required, but any of the 48 preludes and fugues of Bach's "Well-Tempered Clavier," from memory.
She gave the work's premiere, in 1952 in Leningrad, and developed a close friendship with the composer.
Having also studied composition at the Moscow Conservatory, she herself became a composer as well as a performer.
She later married Jerzy Sapieyevski, a composer and conductor she met in Europe and with whom she moved to Washington.
