Ms. Frankfurt was born Suzanne Allen on Aug. 21, 1931, in Los Angeles, the daughter of Eva and Isidore Allen, the owner of a linen distribution company.
Her operatic debut in New York was in a production of ''Aida'' at the Salmaggi Opera Company, in Brooklyn, in which she sang Amneris and her sister sang the title role.
In 1948, Ms. Rankin joined the Zurich Opera Company, where she made her debut as Ortrud in ''Lohengrin'' in 1949, and went on to sing 126 performances in her first year.
Ms. Leff also designed the company's planes, a Gulfstream III and a Gulfstream IV.
      
C. Brown Company Publishers, Iowa, in 1950.
After moving to Dallas, she opened a school and founded a student company, Krassovska Ballet Jeunesse.
      
Her husband of 44 years, Alan R. Finberg, former general counsel of The Washington Post Company, died in 1995.
The books were subtitled ''An Open Family Book for Parents and Children Together'' (Walker & Company).
There she redesigned all seven of Gruner & Jahr's magazines; the company's revenues rose by more than 50 percent.
Elizabeth Venture Smith was born in Manhattan on July 29, 1946, the eldest of six children of Harrison Venture Smith, a senior executive at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, and Marlis deGreve Smith.
Ms. Stutz put her knowledge to practical use when she went to work for several footwear manufacturers, including I. Miller, the company for which Andy Warhol designed advertisements, after it was sold to the conglomerate Genesco.
He designed windows for the company in the 1970's, and recalled Ms. Stutz's ability to intermingle her interests in art and film with fashion.

        Raisa Struchkova, one of the Soviet Union's leading ballerinas in the Bolshoi Ballet when that company first took audiences abroad by storm in the 1950's and 60's, died in Moscow on Monday, the Bolshoi Theater announced.
She joined the company that year.
She built the company into a $6 million business before selling it in 1969.
Ms. O'Neil's productions elsewhere included ''Tovah: Out of Her Mind,'' starring Tovah Feldshuh, at the Jewish Repertory Theater in 1996; and the musical ''Poppy,'' by Peter Nichols, staged by the Royal Shakespeare Company in London in 1982.
She was later artistic director of Theater of the Open Eye, a New York-based company founded by the choreographer Jean Erdman and her husband, the mythologist Joseph Campbell.
Ms. Hochberg first worked as a security analyst with Shields & Company, a brokerage house, but later set her career aside to raise three children.

        Pamela May, a leading British dancer in the early years of the Royal Ballet who helped that company, then called Sadler's Wells Ballet, take New York by storm in 1949, died on Monday, the Royal Ballet announced in London.
''
        Born Doris May in San Fernando, Trinidad, on May 30, 1917, Ms. May entered de Valois's ballet school in London and made her debut in 1934 with the Vic-Wells Ballet, the precursor to the Sadler's Wells Ballet (the company was renamed the Royal Ballet in 1956).
De Valois changed the young dancer's first name to Pamela and wrote that although initially in need of discipline, ''Pamela settled down -- first to a long and distinguished career in the company and then to pass her knowledge on to the younger Wells generation.
The New York debut of Sadler's Wells in 1949 may have been a triumph for Fonteyn in ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' but Ms. May was one of the leading ballerinas who showed off the company's range.
In the 1960's, she was a special editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine; in the early 70's, she was a design consultant for Tiffany & Company; and in the 1980's, she was a correspondent for French Vogue.
Revlon introduced a Hildegarde shade of lipstick and nail polish, a nursery named a rose for her, and a linen company, picking up on the way she signed her autograph, introduced a ''Bless You'' handkerchief.
From the 1950's through the 70's, in addition to her cabaret appearances and record albums, she appeared in a number of television specials and toured with the national company of the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies.
Revlon introduced a Hildegarde shade of lipstick and nail polish, a nursery named a rose for her, and a linen company, picking up on the way she signed her autograph, introduced a ''Bless You'' handkerchief.
From the 1950's through the 70's, in addition to working in cabaret and recording albums, she appeared in a number of television specials and toured with the national company of the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies.
Bowker, then the parent company of Publishers Weekly, the book-industry trade magazine.

        Joyce Wein, a former vice president of the company that produced the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals and numerous other events, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital on the Upper East Side.
The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company, Festival Productions, which was founded by her husband, George Wein
        Mrs. Wein was a biochemist but became professionally involved in music through her marriage in 1959 to Mr. Wein, the founder of the Newport festivals and the chief executive of Festival Productions.
Mrs. Wein was a vice president of the company from shortly after it was established in the early 1960's to the late 1990's, and remained involved in its operations until her death.
But as tributes poured in from across the political spectrum on Friday, the prime minister called Ms. Mowlam ''one of the shrewdest political minds I ever encountered'' and said she was ''great company, utterly irreverent, full of life and fun.
''The Love Eaters'' (1954) was about a small-town theater company.
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!

        Sara Levi-Tanai, the choreographer and founding director of Inbal Dance Theater, whose pioneering mix of Yemenite Jewish traditions and contemporary dance long made it Israel's premier dance company, died on Monday in Ramat Gan, Israel.
So strong was this impact that the American choreographers Jerome Robbins and Anna Sokolow went to Israel several times in the early 1950's to help Ms. Levi-Tanai professionalize the company further.
Earlier she had studied at Habimah, the famed theater company, and married Israel Tanai.
When she met the new immigrants from Yemen, she used the singers as the nucleus for the Sara Levi-Tanai Company in 1949, which became Inbal.
With her strong musical and theatrical values as well as an innate poetic sense, she knew how to make a signature piece like ''Yemenite Wedding'' a classic that remained in the repertory on the company's later tours, including New York in 2002.
In 1991 she was ousted as artistic director of Inbal, and the company was eventually made part of a larger organization, the Inbal Interdisciplinary Ethnic Center.
''Sara used her artistry to create a unique contemporary dance company,'' Ms. Ingber, the dance historian, said on Wednesday.
The business was renamed Hunt/Pucci Associates three years after Ms. Pucci joined the company.
The company built up her career all over again over the course of 11 albums, including ''You Won't Forget Me'' (1990), which featured guest appearances by Miles Davis and Wynton Marsalis; ''I Remember Miles'' (1998), which won a Grammy Award; and a few that featured string sections.
'' At one point, she bought 20 shares of Time-Warner stock and rose at an annual meeting to demand the company's leaders read aloud the lyrics on records one of their subsidiaries was selling.
Today, Kraft Foods, which now owns the brand, sells about 60 million boxes of it at Thanksgiving, a company spokeswoman said.
She moved to the company's technical center in Tarrytown, N.Y., not long afterward.
Ms. Hays also wrote ''The Real Thing: Truth and Power at the Coca-Cola Company'' (Random House, 2004).
She grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and in Hong Kong, where her father was an executive with the Exxon Chemical Company.
She edited other work, especially travel books for young people, before writing her first book, ''One Little Drum'' (Follet Publishing Company, 1958).
