She became the first woman product-group manager at the General Foods Corporation, in 1969; the first woman president of a division of the American Express Company, in 1980, and the first woman senior officer to run corporate affairs at Citicorp, in 1989.
At Citicorp, as senior officer for corporate affairs and a member of the company's senior management team, Mrs. Meyer was widely credited with restoring the reputation of the banking company after it had gone through a financial crisis.
At Citicorp, as senior officer for corporate affairs and a member of the company's senior management team, Mrs. Meyer was widely credited with restoring the reputation of the banking company after it had gone through a financial crisis.
The company was sold to the Pulitzer Publishing Company in 1996.
The company was sold to the Pulitzer Publishing Company in 1996.
Mica Ertegun, her partner in the design company MAC II, said that Mrs. Rayner died of lung cancer.
Though House and Garden hailed the company for its ''consistently clean and crisp adaptations of shifting modes,'' initially, fellow designers looked upon the two young stylish women with disdain.
A native of Earlville, N.Y., Mrs. Burnham attended the Utica School of Commerce and moved to Mattydale, a Salina hamlet, in 1952 when her husband, who was a lawyer, took a job with an insurance company in Syracuse before starting a private practice there.
''The impact of the Bolshoi has been overwhelming,'' wrote John Martin, The New York Times's dance critic, when the company traveled for the first time to New York in 1959.
She danced with the Bolshoi until 1960, and for most of that time she was the company's and the Soviet Union's chief soloist.
Later that day, when the President took the King and Queen for a drive along the Hudson River, the President asked Betsey Roosevelt to go along for company in the car.
In 1983 she took the role of Grizabella in the national touring company of ''Cats'' with the proviso that she step into the part on Broadway when Betty Buckley departed.
Despite her illness, she joined the national touring company of ''Les Miserables'' in the role of Fantine, performing in the touring production of ''The Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber: The Sunset Edition,'' and singing ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' at President Clinton's 1997 inaugural gala.
A native of St. Charles, Ill., where her father, Oscar Johnson, was a newspaper editor, she moved to nearby Elgin, working for a while at the Elgin Watch Company before becoming a telephone operator until she retired in 1962.
A woman who cherished her Ukrainian heritage, Miss Cisyk formed her own production company in 1988 and recorded two C.D.

        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Elliott started her company in 1984 with the idea of nurturing young singers and developing new audiences.
Other singers who worked with the company on their way to establishing their international careers were Douglas Perry and Jianyi Zhang.
Notable productions of the company include Puccini's ''Villi,'' Britten's ''Rape of Lucretia,'' ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and ''Noye's Fludde,'' Weill's ''Threepenny Opera'' and an annual staging for children of Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors.
Correction:  April 27, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Barbara Burton Elliott, executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell' Opera, misidentified a church in Manhattan where the company has performed.
In 1957 and 1958, Ms. Grandy was a dancer in the Robert Joffrey Theater Ballet, as the company was then called.
Because of her teaching ability, she was asked in 1972 to help guide Joffrey II, the organization's second company.
She came to New York with that company, and later danced with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
Two years ago, she advised Mercury Finance through a high-profile financial scandal that nearly bankrupted the company, which at the time was the leading provider of auto loans to consumers with poor credit.
'' For more than 30 years, her company was known for presenting challenging theater.
'' There were some novelties along the way, including the role of Mercurius in Bach's secular cantata ''Phoebus and Pan,'' which the conductor Sir Thomas Beecham dressed up for the stage as part of a double bill when he made his company debut in 1942.
In 1936 she was a co-winner of the Met's Auditions of the Air, which led to her joining the company.
In 1986, two years after the firm was bought by the  Saatchi & Saatchi Company, the advertising concern, Mr. Yankelovich, Ms. Skelly and Mr. White left to start another firm, citing policy disagreements.
Ms. Wolsky was also a consultant for the design of gift-shop items for many local institutions, including Riverside Church, Harlem Theater Company, Studio Museum in Harlem and Boys Harbor.
The novelist John Hersey, reviewing the book for The New York Herald Tribune, called it ''a remarkable almost poem'' and said that in the years to come, it would remain ''unique in any company.
In 1958, after obtaining a small grant from a drug company, Mrs. Maxwell made a special expedition, obtaining samples of many of the plants whose medicinal properties she had been carefully cataloguing.
When she returned and shipped her plants, including what she said was a variety of highly effective contraceptives, to the drug company, she was dismayed to discover that the company had regarded her trek as a publicity stunt and had no scientific interest in her findings.
When she returned and shipped her plants, including what she said was a variety of highly effective contraceptives, to the drug company, she was dismayed to discover that the company had regarded her trek as a publicity stunt and had no scientific interest in her findings.
Dance was her passion and she witnessed the final days of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, the birth of the company that became the Royal Ballet and the formative years of the New York City Ballet.
She attracted widespread attention in 1942 with ''Vic-Wells: A Ballet Progress,'' a book appraising the company now known as the Royal Ballet.
The work was considered so shrewd that Miss Manchester was often asked if she had personal connections to the company's staff.

        Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City.
Jacques Gelman was in Mexico as the representative of a French film company.
Mr. Gelman at once recognized his potential, and became both the producer of his prodigiously successful movies and a full partner in the company that they formed together.
In addition to her fashion collections, Miss Connolly designed fabrics and wallcoverings for Brunschwig & Fils and Schumacher, and crystal and china for Tiffany & Company.
The cause was cancer, according to her publicity company, Jewel Baxter, which said she had had two stomach tumors removed last month.
When he was hired to direct the next summer at Lakewood, he was told he could choose his own company, except for the ingenue, a role reserved for the popular Miss Stickney.
In 1983, she was married a second time, to James Cushing, a construction company executive.
But when the presidency eluded him, he left and formed his own oil company.
He also ran American President Lines and the Natomas Company.
For Mr. Ludlam and the Ridiculous Theatrical Company, her designs were fiendish (''Bluebeard''), startlingly hermaphroditic (''The Grand Tarot'') and lavish (''Camille'').
Ms. Snyder, who headed the financial operations of the company and was responsible for developing the inventory system, held the titles of senior vice president and secretary.
Eventually, all three of the couple's children worked in the company.
Biocraft, which Mr. Snyder said became the first generic pharmaceutical company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1985, had annual sales of $150 million when it was bought by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries in 1996.
As director of instruction, Ms. Peterka supervised students enrolled in the school's two-year professional training program and served as artistic director of the Academy Company.
Upon her graduation from the academy in 1958, she won  the Charles Jehlinger Award, the school's highest student honor, and toured professionally as a member of the Academy Repertory Company.
The company was independent at the time.
It was acquired in 1959 by the Bristol-Myers Company, now Bristol-Myers Squibb.
      
''
        She became a singer with the Mills Brothers on radio, an arranger and singer with Fred Waring's Band and co-producer of ''Kay Thompson and Company,'' a CBS radio show.
From 1950 to 1956, she edited employee publications for the New York Telephone Company and was a writer and publicist at the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency from 1963 to 1972.
Later that year, Ms. Harragan started Betty Harragan & Affiliates, a consulting company that specialized in women's issues in the workplace.

        Gisella Caccialanza, a major American ballerina with George Balanchine's first New York company and with the San Francisco Ballet, died on Thursday in Seton Hospital in Daly City, Calif. She was 83 and lived in San Bruno, Calif.
In 1934, she became a charter member of the American Ballet, Balanchine's first American company, creating parts in many works, notably that of the bride in Balanchine's ''Baiser de la Fee'' in 1937.
In 1944, she danced the Sugarplum Fairy when that company presented America's first complete ''Nutcracker.
'' Her partner was Willam Christensen, Lew's brother and the company's director.
Miss Caccialanza danced with his company until the birth of their son in 1953.
She then taught at the company's school.
Her vinyl recast of the formerly all-cloth Cabbage Patch doll in the early 1980's for the toy company Coleco Industries set off a frenzy among parents to obtain the dolls for their children or, perhaps, for themselves.
''
        Mrs. Albert, a native of Rockville Centre, N.Y., graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan and joined the Ideal Toy Company, then based in Queens, in 1960.
She remained there for more than 20 years, said her husband, Arthur, whom she met when he joined the company in 1963.
By 1981, the couple had left Ideal because they did not want to follow the company when it relocated to New Jersey.
They established their own company, called Alberts Design, and continued working on dolls and other toys.
Among their successful projects was the Puffalumps series of dolls made by Fisher-Price Inc. -- now part of Mattel Inc. -- one of the first toys to be made of the synthetic fabric used in parachutes, and, more recently, the company came out with Singing Bouncy Baby, which sings when bounced on a child's knee, and Happy Hugs, which has a ''hug-o-meter'' that measures how hard a child squeezes it.
She also trained students to help run the company.
Her skills in acting and dancing earned her roles in touring company and summer stock productions of ''Damn Yankees,'' ''Bye, Bye, Birdie'' and ''Funny Girl.

        Dorothy Carnegie Rivkin, an author and instructor who developed the Dale Carnegie Training company into a worldwide operation, died on Thursday after a long illness.
In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.
'' Mrs. Carnegie took control of company operations after Mr. Carnegie's death in 1955 and developed the business into a multinational one with offices in 70 countries, 5 million graduates and $187 million in annual sales.
Her improvement so impressed Carnegie people that the company offered her a job in New York.
She once contended that 400 of the Fortune 500 companies sent employees to study at the company.
She retired from active management of the closely held company in 1978 in favor of her son-in-law, J. Oliver Crom, though she remained chairwoman.

        Sybil Harrington, a philanthropist from Amarillo, Tex., who besides supporting medical, education and arts charities was the largest individual donor to the Metropolitan Opera in the company's history, died on Thursday in Phoenix, where she kept a winter home.
She also supported 13 ''Metropolitan Opera Presents'' television broadcasts, and provided funding for the company's computerized lighting board.
In acknowledgement of her extraordinary generosity, the company named the house's auditorium after her.
Later, she loved listening to the first radio broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera, which fired her love for the art form and the company.
Other productions she was responsible for, still in use by the company, include Puccini's ''Manon Lescaut,'' Johann Strauss's ''Fledermaus,'' Wagner's ''Rheingold'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni.
Eight years later, in 1994, she was an investment banker at Schroder Wertheim & Company, with a six-figure salary and a substantial personal portfolio.
They married in 1936, and Mrs. Humphrey worked as a bookkeeper at a utility company to put her husband through college.
But in 1969 she started her own recording company, Bet-Car Productions, and on that label she released her albums.
Mr. Spaeth, who died in 1966, founded the Dayton Tool and Die Company, Metamold Aluminum of Cedurburg, Wis., and several other ventures.
Dr. Edey was the former Helen W. Kellogg, a daughter of Morris W. Kellogg, an industrialist who founded the Kellogg Company, a New Jersey-based manufacturer of oil industry equipment.
In 1996 the company had become so robust it was able to scoop up the Emanuel Ungaro company.
In 1996 the company had become so robust it was able to scoop up the Emanuel Ungaro company.
Ms. Ferragamo pursued her vigorous activities for her family company in defiance of doctors' prognostications a decade ago after she underwent surgery for breast cancer.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
She began working for the company at 16 when her father had already established it as one of the most prestigious names in shoes.
All are officers of the company.
Ms. Ferragamo's successor at the company has not been named, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
Her first appearance, in 1927, was in a provincial theater company as an aristocrat.
She also played Mrs. Bradman in the National Theater Company's production of Sir Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' (1976) and won a Tony Award as best supporting actress for her performance as Delia in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Bedroom Farce'' (1977).
''
        After studying at the School of Dancing and Dramatic Art in Liverpool, she took her first professional role, as a German hausfrau in ''The Lift That Failed,'' in a production by the Liverpool Repertory Company in 1933.
She remained with the company for four years, then moved to London.

        Evelyn Sabin, who performed with Martha Graham's first dance company in the mid-1920's, died on Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan.
The United States was still at peace early in 1941 when she was introduced to a man who operated a flying service at Little Ferry, N.J., and in the course of the friendship he taught her how to fly the company's seaplane.
Never long associated with any company, Miss Nijinsky attracted special attention in London in the 1930's.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Never long associated with any company, Miss Nijinsky attracted special attention in London in the 1930's.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
She was one of the early members of the Negro Ensemble Company in New York and in the late 1950's performed with Shologa Oloba, an African-American dance troupe.
In 1958 she and her sister appeared with the company in a revival of Asadata Dafora's ''Zunguru.
From 1941 to 1945, she choreographed and performed with the company of La Meri, the celebrated American ethnic-dance specialist.
The checks continued for the 17 years of her patent for the idea that she proposed to the company that made Slinky.
That company is James Industries of Hollidaysburg, Pa., the inventor and manufacturer of the original, unadorned Slinky, a coiled 80-foot-long steel wire equally capable of somersaulting gracefully down steps or ending up at the foot of the steps in a maddening tangle.
''
        Although she also danced the ballerina roles in the company's staging of the 19th-century classics and in works by Michel Fokine, Nijinsky and Leonide Massine, she considered Nijinska her mentor and joined the newly formed Polish Ballet when Nijinska became its director in 1937.
The company toured Europe and was awarded the grand prize at the International Exhibition, the 1937 Paris World's Fair.
She performed with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and toured with a company directed by Felix Sadowski.
In 1945 she portrayed Princess Aurora in the first full-length ''Sleeping Beauty'' staged by a company on the West Coast.
The company performed the second movement of her ''Chopin Concerto'' last year and had been planning to produce a complete staging next June.

        Florence L. Walsh, a fast-rising executive at Lucent Technologies Inc. who helped engineer that company's split from the AT&T Corporation in 1996, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey.
While reporting to the company's chief financial officer, Ms. Walsh managed Lucent's  $35 billion pension fund and the company's lending and borrowing.
While reporting to the company's chief financial officer, Ms. Walsh managed Lucent's  $35 billion pension fund and the company's lending and borrowing.
Earlier this year, she raised about $300 million for Lucent by issuing 30-year bonds that paid the lowest effective interest rate on such bonds issued by a company with Lucent's credit rating in almost 30 years, according to Securities Data, which tracks bond offerings.

        Bobo Lewis, a screen and stage actress who performed with the Circle Repertory Company for 25 years, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        As a member of Circle Repertory Company, she appeared in E. E. Cummings's ''Him'' with Lanford Wilson in the title role.
She joined the second company of the Sadler's Wells Ballet (later Royal Ballet) in 1950, moving on to the first company two years later.
She joined the second company of the Sadler's Wells Ballet (later Royal Ballet) in 1950, moving on to the first company two years later.
Miss Graham's husband, Harry Guttenberg, who ran a well-known theatrical costume company, died of kidney disease in 1980.
'' She starred in the Broadway production and national company of ''State of the Union'' in the late 1940's.

        Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville.
Ms. Farber joined the Cunningham company in 1953, dancing there through 1965.
Her last performance was in a 1995 collaborative duet, ''Threestep (Shipwreck),'' which she created with the choreographer Ralph Lemon, a former student, for his company's season at the Joyce Theater.
Ms. Farber formed the Viola Farber Dance Company in 1968, creating most of her choreography for the troupe, which disbanded in 1985.
In settling her lawsuit, she left the company in 1954, when its sales exceeded $10 million a year.
In 1962, she became a stockbroker for Bache & Company and later a financial analyst for Evans & Company.
In 1962, she became a stockbroker for Bache & Company and later a financial analyst for Evans & Company.
She said she felt the obligation, in her courting years, to keep her widowed mother company at home.
