The Audelco Award for best supporting actress was given for her portrayal of the godmother in ''A Lesson Before Dying,'' staged by the Signature Theater Company.
''
        Ms. Winde acted in plays by Toni Morrison and Horton Foote and in productions by the Negro Ensemble Company, the Manhattan Theater Club, the Jean Cocteau Repertory Theater and Playwrights Horizons, among others.
''
        Other films she did with the Maysleses included ''Salesman'' (1969), an account of four real-life sales representatives of the American Bible Company, and ''Running Fence'' (1978), a chronicle of the successful efforts of the artist Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, to erect a 24-mile fabric fence in the California hills.
Her company's revenues exceeded $20 million in 1988, when it was sold to the Pyle Group, a financial services and investment firm.
She then joined Le Gallienne's theater company, which was preparing a production of ''The Seagull.
'' The play was forgettable, but she greatly admired Clurman as a director and teacher, and it was in that play that she met Berghof, who replaced another actor in the company.
''
        In 1948, she led the national company of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and then followed Jessica Tandy in the role on Broadway.
Mr. Junco, heir to what was then a small family-owned newspaper company that published El Norte in Monterrey, studied journalism with Dr. Gardner at the University of Texas.
The council soon found itself coordinating a host of cultural groups, including the Bronx Opera Company, the Bronx Experimental Theater, the Festival of Poetry and the Bronx Showcase of the Visual Arts.
In 1960 they leased the abandoned theater, in a mixed neighborhood that was fast becoming an African-American ghetto, and made it the company's offices and recording studio.
After ''Last Night'' was released, a Satellite Records label in California noticed the company.
After bad deals with major labels, the company went bankrupt in 1975.
By then Ms. Axton was no longer with the company.
In 1969, after disagreement about the label's direction, she quietly left the company in 1969, bought out by her brother and the label's president, Al Bell.
The Phoenix, a repertory company that did many revivals, was founded in 1953 as an antidote to the commercialism of Broadway; she and Robert Gerringer joined the ensemble in its heyday.
''She was responsible for more than 60 books, and was one of the key people in building our editorial group,'' said Tim Zagat, the company's publisher.
She returned to Graham's company in 1944, dancing as a guest artist for nine years.
In 1949 she founded a New York-based company that performed into the 1980's.
One of those students, Jeraldyne Blunden, founded the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company in 1968.
She performed briefly with American Ballet Theater before joining the Paris-based de Cuevas company, the first European troupe to feature ballets by American choreographers as well as American dancers.
Ms. Melikova danced with the de Cuevas company from 1954 to 1962.
In the mid-1970's Ms. Melikova directed the Bridgeport Ballet Company in Connecticut and the Bernhard Ballet, where she drew praise for her restaging of classics that included George Balanchine's ''Minkus Pas de Trois'' and John Taras's ''Design for Strings.
From 1940 to 1944 she danced at the Théâtre de Monte Carlo in the company that became the Nouveaux Ballets de Monte Carlo.
She did inherit a microfilm company that copied United States war records and material for the Library of Congress, on whose board she later served.
She was executive vice president of the microfilm company.

        Sofia Golovkina, a former ballerina with the Bolshoi Ballet who directed the Moscow Ballet School, the company's affiliated academy, with an iron grip for 40 years, died on Feb. 17 in Moscow.
Her father, Randolph Carter Harrison, was a senior vice president of Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company.
Ms. Infantino was born in Brooklyn and joined the company in 1949 after graduating from the College of St. Elizabeth.
''
        Mr. Abbott's plans for her did not work out although she played in several other musical comedies, among them a touring company of ''Can Can'' (1958).
Her $360,000 donation to the New York City Ballet was the largest lump-sum contribution in the company's history up to that time.
The summer before the killing, when her sons went to Salt Lake City to work in their grandfather's company, she gave them poison to put in his food, Mr. Coleman said.
Her efforts resulted in the establishment of a company estimated to be worth about $5 billion when it went public in 1995 and she was given the title of founding chairwoman.
The company grew exponentially in the 1950's with the introduction of a bath oil called Youth-Dew, the creation of which is variously attributed to Mrs. Lauder and Mr. van Ameringen.
In 1995 the company also entered into a licensing agreement with the Tommy Hilfiger Corporation to market Tommy, a line of fragrances, and with Make-Up Artists Cosmetics of Toronto to distribute its MAC products outside North America.
'' She introduced these creative marketing measures when her company was in its infancy and she was advised by an agency that the $50,000 she had available for advertising was not enough to have any effect.
She is survived by her sons, Leonard A., the chairman of the company, and Ronald S., chairman of Clinique Laboratories; four grandchildren, including William, who will become chief executive of the Estée Lauder Companies on July 1; and six great-grandchildren.
While Mrs. Lauder and her husband were apart she met and became close to Mr. van Ameringen, who became president and chairman of International Flavors and Fragrances, a company that formulates fragrances for many well-known beauty houses and has no connection with the Lauder empire.
Leonard Lauder, who became president of the company in the 1970's, recalled that ''we had a Boston wholesaler, the Samuel Bernstein Hair Company, and Mr. Bernstein used to talk to me about his son Lenny.
Leonard Lauder, who became president of the company in the 1970's, recalled that ''we had a Boston wholesaler, the Samuel Bernstein Hair Company, and Mr. Bernstein used to talk to me about his son Lenny.
''
        The concessions were closed in 1946 and gradually the company sold to stores like Saks Fifth Avenue.
The introduction of Youth-Dew and Mrs. Lauder's sales expertise combined to take the company from a sales volume of no more than $400 a week to around $5,000 in the early 1950's.
By 1958, when Leonard joined the company, sales had soared to about $800,000 a year.
The company began to grow more rapidly.
That was the start of a long association with the director José Quintero and the Circle company.
She appeared for four seasons with the APA/Phoenix Repertory company, portraying Varya in ''The Cherry Orchard,'' Gina in ''The Wild Duck'' and Maria in ''War and Peace.
For a decade, until last summer, Ms. Lelyveld coordinated a project for The New York Times Company Foundation to enrich the resources of Public School 111, the Adolph S. Ochs School, on the West Side of Manhattan.
She turned to choreography, hitting the road with her own company.
Mr. Breslin's book, ''I Want to Thank My Brain for Remembering Me'' (Little, Brown and Company, 1996), was about his successful operation for a brain aneurysm.
Ms. Waldo worked on special projects for the Macmillan Publishing Company in the late 1960's.
''
        Ms. Hoffman was a founding member of the Ensemble Studio Theater and acted in and directed many productions there, including the company's annual festival of one-act plays.
Phoebe Brand, as she was known professionally, joined Lee Strasberg and others in 1931 to form the Group Theater, a radical company that dealt with social issues confronting the United States during the Depression.
The company disbanded in 1941.
Still, amid a troubled marriage and the birth of three children, Ms. Sanford joined the Star Players, later the American Negro Theater, in the 1930's and made her stage debut in the company's 1946 production of ''On Strivers Row.
''
        Decades later, when the National Endowment for the Arts started requiring grant recipients to sign an anti-obscenity pledge, Ms. Lewitzky and her company filed a lawsuit, and in January 1991, a federal judge found the pledge unconstitutional.
Other company members included Rudi Gernreich, who became an innovative fashion designer and a stage designer for some of Ms. Lewitzky's later productions, and Newell Reynolds, Ms. Lewitzky's husband, who later became an architect.
She directed the Los Angeles-based Bella Lewitzky Dance Company from 1966 to 1997.
Her company members were always fully insured, and she paid them annual salaries even when they did not perform every month of a year.
A longtime resident of New York City, Ms. Moore was an editor at Scholastic when she suggested in 1957 that the company make its books more accessible by offering low-cost paperbacks through the mail; there were few paperback books for children at the time.
(Ms. Moore was, however, the first editor of the company's Arrow Book Club, for pupils in Grades 4 to 6.
Mrs. Copley began working at the Union Tribune Publishing Company as a secretary in 1953.
Until 1992, the company's two flagship newspapers, The San Diego Union and its afternoon sister paper, The San Diego Tribune, were the major competing papers in the city.
In her first years as publisher, she sought to meet with all 1,500 employees of the company in small groups in an effort to improve morale.
Copley Press Inc., which owns the Union-Tribune Publishing Company, publishes eight other daily newspapers, in California, Illinois and Ohio.
In 1953, Mrs. Copley answered an ad for a job at the Union Tribune Publishing Company.
She began working as a secretary for Mr. Copley, who had become chief executive of Copley Press after the death of his father, Ira C. Copley, who started the company in 1905.
Ms. Peroni was Mr. Altman's favorite editor and worked on eight of his films beginning with ''Vincent & Theo'' in 1990 and continuing through ''The Company'' last year.
''The French Chef'' became the longest-running program in the history of public television; it was followed by ''Julia Child & Company,'' ''Dinner With Julia'' and other series.
She was awarded a George Foster Peabody Award in 1965, the National Book Award for ''Julia Child and More Company'' in 1980 and the Légion d'Honneur from the French government in 2000.
After the war, Miss Kelly revived her company at the Lido, scouring the globe to find women who met her precise specifications.
'' Sponsored by the Italian aeronautics company Finmeccanica, the event was also held in the Winter Garden.
It was the first all-American Indian professional company of dancers, singers and musicians, with a repertory of traditional pieces that crossed tribal lines and cultures.
The company, which has also performed modern work by choreographers including Laura Dean, has appeared twice in the PBS ''Great Performances'' series and was featured on Turner Broadcasting's 1994 documentary series ''The Native Americans.
The company also released an original cast album for which Ms. Schwei was nominated as producer for a Grammy Award in 1990.
The company filed for bankruptcy in 1992, closing its five stores.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.
The dance idiom developed by Doris Humphrey and Weidman in 1928 after they left Denishawn, the company that spawned other pioneers like Martha Graham, remained at the heart of Ms. Mezzacappa's performances.
She joined the company in 1999, the year Book 3, ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban,'' appeared.

        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced.
In 1924 the teenage Alicia became the youngest member of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, the greatest ballet company of its day.
Nevertheless, in her six years as director, Dame Alicia raised the dancers' technical level and made it possible for the ballet company to present programs of its own.
Miss Tebaldi had a long and productive relationship with the Decca recording company (also called London Records) and left classic accounts of major roles in complete recordings of ''Otello,'' ''La Forza del Destino,'' ''Andrea Chenier,'' ''La Bohème,'' ''Tosca,'' ''Madama Butterfly'' and ''Il Trovatore,'' among many other works.
She joined the Graham company in 1937 and performed with it until 1941.
''A Chorus Line'' was in effect her swan song at the company.
She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance critic.Born in South Africa in 1908, Ms. Lloyd arrived in London as a dance student and in 1927 became associated with Ballet Rambert, a pioneering British ballet company.
