After her divorce from Mr. Markey, Miss Lamarr went to a Hollywood dinner party at the home of Janet Gaynor and there met George Antheil, the composer.
Mr. Davies became an organist and choirmaster and in his free time a composer.

        Vivian Fine, a composer who wrote ballet scores for Martha Graham and Jose Limon, as well as copious amounts of orchestral, chamber and vocal music, died on Monday at the Southern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington after an automobile accident.
Her last major work, ''The Memoirs of Uliana Rooney'' (1994), was a multimedia opera with a libretto by Sonya Friedman that followed a female composer through the decades of the 20th century.
''I hope the term 'woman composer' will be dropped soon,'' she told an interviewer from The New York Times in 1989.
Correction:  March 28, 2000, Tuesday  An obituary of the composer Vivian Fine on Friday omitted a survivor.

        Nancy Binns Reed, a composer of musicals and operas, died on Saturday at her home in Burke, Va. She was 75.
She often collaborated with the composer Alex North, who later worked in Hollywood.

        Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment.
Ms. Dlugoszewski was a prominent contemporary composer in her own right but also created scores for many signature works by Hawkins, to whom she was married.
Beneath that hectic, usually disheveled exterior, however, was a poetic, gutsy composer known for her experimentation with timbre or tonal quality and color, her invention of percussion instruments and the freshness of her musical structures, in works made for the timbre piano and traditional orchestra instruments.
Ms. Goncalves da Silva also entertained celebrities like the composer Heitor Villa-Lobos and the musician Noel Rosa, as well as many politicians.
She had lymphoma, said her husband, Albert Hague, a Tony-winning composer of Broadway musicals.

        Jacquelyn Reinach, a writer, composer, television producer and co-creator of the ''Sweet Pickles'' series of children's books, which featured characters like Accusing Alligator and Smarty Stork, died on Sept. 30 at her home in Los Angeles.
When she met and fell in love with the vibraphonist and composer Gunter Hampel in 1967, she began 20 years of collaborations with him in different jazz-related forms.
She was active as a composer, combining vocal jazz with music and dance, working often with the choreographer Mickey Davidson.
The mezzo-soprano Joan Morris and her husband and professional partner, the composer and pianist William Bolcom, made some popular Nonesuch recordings of vernacular American songs from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
''The translator,'' Mrs. Martin wrote in The Times in 1948, ''derives a great degree of satisfaction from helping to present an opera to American audiences in the way both the composer and his librettist intended, namely, as a drama set to music, which may be enjoyed without reference to the libretto in intermissions.
Born in Zurich on Jan. 24, 1915, to Giovanni Ravelli, an Italian construction worker, and his German wife, Rosemarie Ravelli was in her early 20's when she left Switzerland with Peter Kreuder, a German theater and film composer.
With some sponsorship from the Brazilian government, along with the couple's own money, in 1996 the company produced concerts by two leading Brazilian songwriters, Caetano Veloso (with the Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto at Central Park Summerstage) and Milton Nascimento (at the Brooklyn Academy of Music).

        A memorial service for Lucia Dlugoszewski, the composer and choreographer who died in April at the age of 68, will be held on Friday at 3 p.m. at the John Jay College Theater, 899 10th Avenue, at 59th Street, Manhattan.
