During the 1980's she played the role of Maggie Jones in the national company of ''42nd Street.
'' During the 1970's and 80's she made frequent guest appearances as a genial, grandmotherly character on shows like ''The Love Boat,'' ''Three's Company,'' ''St.
When Disney marketed a videocassette without her consent, she sued the company.
Universal acquired Miss Lee's contract and many others through a series of record company mergers over the years.
The company has admitted no wrongdoing, and language in the settlement bars both sides from commenting.
'' She had a horse and a monkey named Mr. Nilsson for company and a trunkful of gold pieces to provide for her wants.
Her publishing career was spent at the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, now merged into HarperCollins.
She joined the company in 1938, rose to senior vice president in 1959 and retired about 30 years ago.
She performed with the Humphrey-Weidman troupe, then called Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman & Company, from 1935 to 1942, then went on to dance at the Roxy Theater from 1942 to 1945, where she and Lee Sherman were featured dancers in revues that accompanied movie screenings.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.

        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv.

        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv.
The cause was cancer, said a company spokesman.
In the Ailey company, which she joined in 1970, Ms. Kajiwara made an immediate striking impression with technique that was both pure and powerful, enhanced by a luminous presence.
''
        Other choreographers for the company cast her eagerly in their works.
She performed with the Glen Tetley Dance Company and the Norman Walker Dance Company before dancing with the Ailey troupe from 1970 to 1984.
She performed with the Glen Tetley Dance Company and the Norman Walker Dance Company before dancing with the Ailey troupe from 1970 to 1984.
Together they formed the Ohad Naharin Dance Company in New York in 1984, performing with it until 1990.
When Mr. Naharin, who was born in Israel, became Batsheva's artistic director in 1990, Ms. Kajiwara joined the company as both dancer and rehearsal director.
(Universum Film Company).
Increasingly resentful of life in the public eye, Lord Snowdon began to spend more time away from the princess, working abroad on photographic projects, sometimes in the company of attractive young women.
At Home on a Caribbean Isle
        Princess Margaret was often seen in the company of famous men, including Mr.
She moved out of her prestigious Seventh Avenue showrooms and took a small space elsewhere in the fashion district, forming a company called P. T. Concepts to market her scarves and jewelry.
She moved out of her prestigious Seventh Avenue showrooms and took a small space elsewhere in the fashion district, forming a company called P. T. Concepts to market her scarves and jewelry.
''As a result, she incorporated into her art types and activities ignored by her male counterparts: women readers using the New York Public Library, traveling unchaperoned on the el, making hats, creating art in the company of other women, applying for jobs.
She worked 12 to 14 hours a day and kept four secretaries busy in New York and Florida, the family's second home, where the company had moved its manufacturing operations.
Correction:  March 15, 2002, Friday  An obituary on March 6 about Theresa Castro, who with her husband established the company that makes Castro Convertible sofas, omitted some survivors.
The company produced hits including ''Bubbling Brown Sugar.
) The company's hits included ''Bojangles'' and ''Bubbling Brown Sugar,'' a Tony nominee in 1976.
Her work in popular music, radio and television also tainted her in the eyes of many impresarios, though today a singer with such media appeal would be prized by any opera company.
She worked 12 to 14 hours a day and kept four secretaries busy in New York and Florida, the family's second home, where the company had moved its manufacturing operations.
B. Lippincott Company, not Delacorte Press.
      
Her parents were poor farmers, but she was able to attend high school with the help of scholarships offered to young women by Cadbury, the chocolate company, which was a major buyer of Ghana's cocoa crop.
The result was her company, Nkulenu Industries, which grew to produce products like canned tomatoes and soup bases.
Even as she continued running her own company upon her return, she devoted more and more of her time to improving women's economic situation.
She was soon acting on the London stage in ''The Play's the Thing'' by Ferenc Molnar and then acted so frequently with the Old Vic and the Royal Shakespeare Company (and later the National Theater) that theatergoers assumed she was English rather than American.
Both then worked at the General Electric Company in Schenectady, N.Y., while she studied physics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
And Barbie's fly-off-the-shelf popularity transformed the sleepy company that sold the doll, Mattel Inc., into a postwar success story.
Mrs. Handler was a founder of Mattel and helped run the company for 30 years, until she and her husband, then co-chairmen, resigned in 1975 amid a scandal.
Mrs. Handler, though, had already embarked on a second career, starting a company that made prosthetic breasts for cancer survivors.
She ran the breast prosthesis company, Ruthton Corporation, for 15 years, fitting women, including Betty Ford, for the artificial breasts herself, before selling it to a division of Kimberly-Clark, her husband said.
The cause was lung cancer, her company said.
Ms. Fertel was told she had lung cancer in 2000 but remained involved in the company until she was hospitalized last Friday.
She was also an assistant to Nelson Doubleday, the company's president, for eight years.
In 1967 she was sent to run the company's Los Angeles office, then a small regional bureau, and in 1973 she started her own firm, Shapian and Associates.
Her books, all published by Doubleday & Company under her maiden name, Patricia Kroh, also included ''Design With Flowers Unlimited'' (1959), ''Contemporary Table Settings'' (1966) and ''A New World of Flower Arrangement'' (1969).
She had a master's degree in business administration and had become a highly regarded management consultant with McKinsey & Company, which she had to leave in 1985 after her health deteriorated.
Financing it in part through the sale of a perfume called Niki de Saint Phalle, which she created for the Jacqueline Cochran company, Ms. de Saint Phalle worked on the Tarot Garden for 20 years.
The company, which opened in 1915, is now the oldest continually performing Yiddish theater in the world.
After what Mrs. Spaisman insisted on viewing as her dismissal, she took the Folksbiene's mailing list with her and started a new Yiddish theater company, the Yiddish Public Theater.

        Beverly Brown, a modern-dance choreographer and longtime lead performer with the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, died on May 17 in Kansas City, Mo.
After leaving the company, she formed the Body Voice Theater and then the Beverly Brown Ensemble, where she experimented with dancers' performing not only movement but also the natural sounds that accompanied much of her choreography.
In the last years of Circle in the Square, she shared the artistic direction of that company with Theodore Mann, one of the company's founders, and Mr. Mann named her as his successor.
In the last years of Circle in the Square, she shared the artistic direction of that company with Theodore Mann, one of the company's founders, and Mr. Mann named her as his successor.
Mr. Herwitz, owner of a leather company, died in 1999, and a year later Mrs. Herwitz donated some 850 works by 20th-century Indian artists from their collection -- valued at $6 million -- to the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass.
In 1997, Educators Publishing Company reissued the ''Roswell-Chall Auditory Blending Test,'' and the ''Roswell-Chall Diagnostic Reading Test of Word Analysis Skills.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
In 1956 Ms. Lidova founded a company with the French-Yugoslav dancer Milorad(Miskovitch and was later involved in other producing activities.
In 1975 she started her own publishing company.
Monk, a socially awkward eccentric who was absorbed in his art and lived through his imagination, depended on Ms. Monk and relished her company.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
Ms. Preiskel was a director of the Washington Post Company, General Electric, Textron, R. H. Macy & Company and Levi Strauss & Company, among others.
Ms. Preiskel was a director of the Washington Post Company, General Electric, Textron, R. H. Macy & Company and Levi Strauss & Company, among others.
Ms. Preiskel was a director of the Washington Post Company, General Electric, Textron, R. H. Macy & Company and Levi Strauss & Company, among others.
Born Phyllis Cannon in 1905 in Salt Lake City, she was a great-granddaughter of the Mormon founder Brigham Young and the daughter of a prosperous sugar company executive.
She studied economics in college and married Paul L. Wattis, who was the head of the construction company that built the Hoover Dam.
''
        In high school, she played softball for a girls' team called the Dr Peppers, sponsored by the soft-drink company.
Representatives of the Helena Rubinstein Company ran a charm school that taught how to put on makeup and how to charm a date.

        Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday.

        Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday.

        Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday.
She served on the board of Dow Jones from 1949 to 1985 when its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, grew to wield international influence and the company evolved from a small private enterprise to become a publicly traded, $4 billion media empire.
Hammer, a senior partner at the Boston law firm of Hemenway & Barnes and the trustee of many of the family trusts, said yesterday that Mrs. Cook had been intensely interested in the company, particularly its flagship newspaper.
''She was vitally interested in the company and its success and its maintaining its journalistic independence and standard of accuracy in its news reporting,'' he said.
At his death, Mr. Barron left the company to his stepdaughter.
''
        ''Her abiding commitment to editorial integrity and corporate independence,'' Mr. Kann added, ''will continue to guide the company, its management and its owners.
''
        The company announcement was made minutes after the stock market closed.
Ms. Deegan moved to Winston-Salem, N.C., and began working as a secretary for the Western Electric Company.
She said then that she had lost only one confrontation, when a power company strung lines near the field.
She became a dancer and dance captain with the Rockettes at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan, and then a member of the Martha Graham Company.
In 1982, she formed her own production company, Creative Consultants, which worked with Disney and other entertainment companies.
In 1953, Mrs. Soria and her husband, Dario, founded Angel Records as an American distribution outlet for some of the labels of the British company EMI.
In addition to his own company, which later merged with Columbia Concerts, Judson was manager of the New York Philharmonic.

        Edith Merrill Bancroft, a patron of the arts and the widow of Harding F. Bancroft, a vice chairman of The New York Times Company, died last Monday at her home in Washington.
She was the daughter of William Claiborne Hall, an executive of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, and the former Christine Collins.
In 1987, she married Mr. Bancroft, a former diplomat and lawyer who, as vice chairman of The Times Company, helped shape the decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971.
Meredith Baylis studied ballet in Los Angeles and New York, toured with the national company of ''Carousel'' after graduating from high school and joined the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1951.
She remained with the company until 1962, when it disbanded.
In addition to dancing solo roles in classical and modern works, while on tour she was an assistant to the company's director, Sergei J. Denham.
She helped rehearse ballets, made suggestions about casting, sent financial reports back to Denham's New York office and kept the company's official travel diary.
In 1976, she married John M. Schiff, a partner in Kuhn Loeb & Company.
The company, originally called the Colorado Concert Ballet, grew out of the school 10 years later, and by 1976 had professional status.

        Marjorie Slaiman, the longtime costume designer for the Arena Stage theater company in Washington, died on Sept. 13 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 77 and lived in Washington.
As early as 1956 the critic Harold Hobson could declare that Theater Workshop was known throughout Europe as ''England's premier company.
''
        With Jimmy Miller, who wrote plays under the name of Ewan McColl and was to become her husband, she formed an agitprop group in Manchester called Theater of Action and then created a company called Theater Union, which introduced the British to the American concept called the Living Newspaper, improvisations based on the day's news.
The company's reputation grew, but its finances remained shaky, provoking George Bernard Shaw to tell Ms. Littlewood that her company ''should all go and be stockbrokers -- the English don't want art.
The company's reputation grew, but its finances remained shaky, provoking George Bernard Shaw to tell Ms. Littlewood that her company ''should all go and be stockbrokers -- the English don't want art.
This caused a permanent breach with Mr. Miller, who feared the move to London would compromise the company's radicalism, and was itself financially risky.
Even in the 1960's, when the theater was internationally renowned, Ms. Littlewood herself was to be found washing the steps before opening nights, reportedly snapping at one passing actor, ''I'm expecting company -- what about you?
There was so much good-natured improvisation that the company was prosecuted for breaching censorship laws, which remained in force in Britain until 1968.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
They also helped establish the Guangdong Modern Dance Company, China's first modern dance troupe.
''
        If it all sounded like a movie, that is exactly what the Walt Disney Company thought.
Ms. Hilton formed three early-dance groups, including the Wendy Hilton Baroque Dance Company in New York, created in 1984, which performed with symphony orchestras.
Ms. Hilton wrote ''Dances of Court and Theater'' (Princeton Book Company, 1981), and with Donald Waxman wrote ''Dance Pageant''(E. C. Schirmer, 1992), an anthology of Renaissance and Baroque keyboard music.
Although Miss Calvert tended to be typecast in drawing-room comedies and minor thrillers, she tackled several weightier roles, touring with the Oxford Playhouse Company as Madame Ranevskaya in ''The Cherry Orchard'' in 1973 and playing the Countess in Anouilh's ''Rehearsal'' in 1961.
Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned a wine- and spirits-importing company, donated $1 million earlier this year to endow the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program in the Center for Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.
Her involvement with ''Phantom'' began when the producer Cameron Mackintosh saw her work for the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of ''The Tempest,'' which starred Derek Jacobi.
''
        During the war, she met Jefferson Patterson, a young diplomat whose family founded the National Cash Register Company.
''I think I was destined for the museum field,'' Ms. Enseki said, recalling that her father built ''this eyeball in the garage, for some drug company.
In 1963, Mr. Wells took over the Washington bureau of the Storer Broadcasting Company, and Mrs. Wells was assigned to report on the White House.
