
        Betty Macdonald Batcheller, the last surviving member of Martha Graham's first dance company, died on Jan. 15 at the Greenwich Laurelton Nursing Home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 92.
The program is currently underwritten by the New York Times Company Foundation.

        Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Dec. 19 at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
It was there that Ms. Cage formed a close professional relationship with Morton Baum, who as chairman of the City Center's finance committee in 1948 extended a crucial invitation to the ballet company to become a resident of the theater.
Ms. Cage also helped to engineer the City Ballet's 1964 move to Lincoln Center on terms agreeable to the ballet company and to City Center.

        Mildred Root Mottahedeh, a collector of Chinese export porcelains and co-founder of a company that produced porcelain reproductions for several United States presidents and institutions including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last Thursday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        In 1929, the couple founded Mottahedeh & Company in Manhattan, which rose to prominence as one of the most prestigious firms in the reproduction of porcelain, producing some 1,500 different items for more than 3,000 stores, from Tiffany's to small gift boutiques.
The company also reproduced pieces in the collections of museums like the Metropolitan and the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Musee des Arts Decoratifs in Paris for sale in their shops.
When her husband died in 1978, Mrs. Mottahedeh succeeded him as president and remained active in the company, even after it was sold, until her retirement in 1998.
''
        Ms. Haza began performing in a local theater company, Hatikva, when she was 13.
The cause was cancer, said David Vaughan, the archivist for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company.
She joined the Cunningham company as a wardrobe superviser in 1982 and worked as a costume builder -- constructing the costumes from the designs -- before creating her first design for Mr. Cunningham in 1993.
Shortly before her graduation from high school, she showed some of her sketches to the director of a Los Angeles ballet company and was hired to make costumes for the next performance.
After graduation, she joined the company as its designer and in 1934 accompanied the manager to New York when he took over the Roxy Theater.

        Nuala Pelletier, the office manager for The New York Times Company Foundation, died of breast cancer on Sunday at her home in Sparkill, N.Y. She was 63.
Ms. Howard's circle included Tyrone Power, Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Jennifer Jones, Merle Oberon, Gary Cooper, Marlene Dietrich, Greta Garbo, Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe -- impressive company for the daughter of a traveling salesman.
She thrived in a seemingly ancient time when stars socialized for purposes other than publicity, including simply enjoying each other's company.
She joined the Graham company in 1930 and remained with it for eight years.
Although a misinformed press agent billed her as a Russian ballerina, her success led her to stay on and found a modern-dance company, La Paloma Azul, in 1940.
She first went to Israel in 1954 as an artistic adviser to Inbal, a company that preserved Yemenite Jewish traditions and tried to present those source materials in a contemporary manner.
She was a member of Eugene Loring's experimental chamber company, Dance Players, in 1942.
Kirstein and George Balanchine founded City Ballet in 1948 and Balanchine invited Ms. Reed into the company a few months later.
In the 1940's and 50's City Ballet was a very different company than it is today.

        Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment.
She assumed direction of his modern-dance company in 1996, two years after his death.
She made her formal debut as a choreographer last year in a program presented by the 92nd Street Y Harkness Dance Project, which is sponsoring a program of her choreography performed by the Hawkins company at the 91st Street Playhouse in Manhattan through Sunday afternoon.
''The company will live on, and Erick and Lucy will live on with us,'' Louis Kavouras, a dancer, rehearsal director and company archivist, said yesterday.
''The company will live on, and Erick and Lucy will live on with us,'' Louis Kavouras, a dancer, rehearsal director and company archivist, said yesterday.
Ms. Dlugoszewski was celebrated in New York dance for her unparalleled gift for inspiring intense affection, admiration and exasperation all at once as she exuberantly buttonholed countless company directors, choreographers, dancers and writers to involve them in her own and Hawkins's projects.
Today, many hotel operators consider Marriott the world's top hotel company, with a reputation for treating employees and customers fairly.
After Mr. Wolf left in the early 1970's to open his own production company,  Ms. Trahey then took as a partner Peter Rogers, who had been working for her as an account executive and de facto office manager.
''It was a very informal company, like a playground,'' Mr. Piliero said yesterday.
Ordered to Fort Breckenridge, Kan., after her basic training, she became the executive officer of a company that consisted of 175 black women.
She was recalled to active duty in 1949, and placed in command of a training company at Fort Lee, Va. After her marriage in 1953, her husband was transferred to Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland and she to Fort Belvoir, Va. Later they were both sent, separately, to France, and then she was assigned as a special services officer in Kansas.
The Fox movie company had noticed her, however, and offered a five-year contract.
She is survived by her stepsons, Donald Bren, chairman of the Irvine Company, a real estate investment firm in Newport Beach, and Peter Bren, president of Koll-Bren-Schreiber, a real estate investment firm in New York.
      
Her show ''Behind the Beat'' was an uninhibited, sometimes campy cabaret extravaganza that blended pop-soul oldies, personal confessions, inspirational ballads and audience singalongs, and included versions of some of her best-known jingles pitching everything from fabric softener to the New York Telephone Company  (''We're all connected'').
      
The experience served them well in helping Ailey as much-needed surrogate parents and de facto booking agents and accountants in the tumultuous early days of Ailey's company.
A bread company used the children in its commercials in the 1960's and delivered 50 loaves to the Beardsleys every two weeks.
Her career took off in 1961, with the release of her album ''Devil May Care,'' in which she sang in the company of the pianist Wynton Kelly and the Count Basie sidemen Clark Terry and Freddie Green.
Soon, she was singing and dancing her way through more than 25 shorts with stars like Ruth Etting and Jack Haley as a member of the Warner Brothers stock company.
Revlon introduced a Hildegarde shade of lipstick and nail polish, a nursery named a rose for her and a linen company, picking up on the way she signed her autograph, introduced a ''Bless You'' handkerchief.
In 1962 she married Arthur Cowen Jr., the chairman of the securities firm Cowen & Company.
theater company (formally the Association of Producing Artists), she was Lady Sneerwell in ''The School for Scandal,'' Arkadina in ''The Seagull,'' Dona Ana in ''Man and Superman'' and other classic characters.
In the following decade, she moved on to Jon Robin Baitz's ''End of the Day'' at Playwrights Horizons, and, in 1993, acted in a double header of Peter Shaffer plays, ''Black Comedy'' and ''White Liars,'' at the Roundabout Theater Company.
Correction:  June 22, 2000, Thursday  An obituary of the actress Nancy Marchand on Tuesday misstated the title of a Peter Shaffer play in which she appeared with the Roundabout Theater Company in 1993.
She was believed to have been in her 80's, said McPherson & Company, her publishers.

        Sally Kovalchick, editor in chief of Workman Publishing Company, who supervised the publication of some notable best-selling books, died on Saturday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 61.
The cause apparently was a heart attack, a company statement said.
She oversaw the publication of about 15 books that became best sellers by the company's count, including ''The Official Preppy Handbook.
''
        ''She quietly gave birth to enormous best sellers that achieved cult status,'' said Peter Workman, the company's chief executive.
''She was much more interested in developing talent than taking over the great names,'' said Mr. Wasserman, who had contracted with Ms. Dispeker in 1977, when she was almost 75, to succeed her as the company's president.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Amato was in many ways the welcoming face of her family-run opera company.
The company became a home for enthusiasts on both sides of the footlights: amateur singers (and some who became professionals) go there to learn and perform the great works and occasional rarities, and opera lovers on tight budgets go there to hear their favorite scores.
They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service.
The company later moved to 159 Bleecker Street; in 1963 it took over the jewel box theater at the corner of the Bowery and Second Street that has been its home ever since.
Mrs. Amato performed with the company under her maiden name for several seasons, but she increasingly took on many of the house's nonmusical jobs.
She made many of the company's costumes, ran its box office, and operated its lighting board.
When her cancer was first diagnosed and it seemed that her insurance company would not cover her treatment (although it eventually paid for some of it), her friends organized a benefit to which hundreds of artists and dealers donated work and money.
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      

        Angele Albrecht, a widely known ballerina who won acclaim with Maurice Bejart's Brussels-based ballet company, died on Aug. 1 in a hospital in Munich.
The company was founded in 1948, before Ms. Albrecht began her professional career, not after she danced for Balanchine.
      
She was an executive for a life-insurance company before she threw her energies into the civil rights struggle.
''
        He said that the company avoided borrowing money, for example, because Mrs. Davis violently opposed it.
''Had she lived a little longer, Vita would have been intrigued to know that the child 'Dinky,' as she called me, would become a real-life Orlando,'' Mrs. Simmons wrote in her memoir, ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend,''(1995, Wyrick & Company).
Ms. Grey resigned from her position at Ballantine last February during a reorganization of the company that came more than a year after the media conglomerate Bertelsmann moved to acquire Ballantine's parent, Random House.
Later she rose to become managing editor there and then took executive positions at Dell Publishing Company, where she was its editor in chief.
She left that position in 1992 to start her own short-lived imprint for the company, Linda Grey Books, which published just one book, ''It Doesn't Take a Hero: The Autobiography of General Norman H.
Among his holdings at the time were RKO Studios, Trans World Airlines, Hughes Aircraft and the Hughes Tool Company.
She was rarely seen in public and never in the company of another man, though Hughes was often seen on the town with some of the top actresses of the day.
She became the first woman president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and she joined the board of directors of The Boston Globe Newspaper Company in 1992.
She became the first woman president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and she joined the board of directors of The Boston Globe Newspaper Company in 1992.
Ms. Taymor and Elliot Goldenthal made their theatrical breakthrough with ''Juan Darien'' for Ms. Austin's company.
It was at Ms. Austin's suggestion that Ms. Clarke moved from choreography (with the Pilobolus Company) to directing.
'' Through the years, people in the Music-Theater Group reaped awards (four MacArthur ''genius'' grants and more than 20 Obies, including one for the company for sustained achievement).
She also published ''The Man Who Robbed the Robber Barons'' (W.W. Norton & Company, 1965), an account of the career of Col. William d'Alton Mann.
She and Mr. Hines were co-founders of Opera Music Theater International, a training company for young singers.
In a review in The New York Times in 1965, Allen Hughes said: ''The company's performances are splendidly polished.
''
        Ballet Folklorico began as a company of eight in 1952.
The company eventually had more than 300 members and a school of its own.
''
        She is survived by two daughters, Viviana Basantes and Norma Lopez Hernandez (Ms. Lopez helped Ms. Hernandez direct the company in recent years); a son, Jose Luis Martinez; and a grandson, Salvador Lopez, also with the company.
      
''
        She is survived by two daughters, Viviana Basantes and Norma Lopez Hernandez (Ms. Lopez helped Ms. Hernandez direct the company in recent years); a son, Jose Luis Martinez; and a grandson, Salvador Lopez, also with the company.
      

        Eleanor Naumburg Sanger, the first program director of WQXR, the classical music station that was later purchased by The New York Times Company, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
She and her husband stayed on at WQXR long after the Times Company purchased it in 1944.
In 1928, she moved to Chicago, where she enrolled at the University of Chicago and started working with the Cube Theater, the first interracial company in Chicago.
In 1938, Ms. Hunter and a Stanislavsky student, Andrius Jilinsky, founded the American Actors Company, an early Off Broadway ensemble whose members included de Mille, Jerome Robbins, Mildred Dunnock, Horton Foote, Joseph Anthony, Perry Wilson and Jean Stapleton.
''Rio'' (1969), her next volume of poetry, was published by Broadside Press, a small, Detroit-based black company.
She championed American composers like George Crumb, Elliott Carter, Morton Subotnick, Charles Wuorinen and Donald Martino, not just recording their works but commissioning them, an unusual move for the leader of a record company.
Early in her tenure the record label had been acquired by Warner Communications, and by the mid-1970's, it was grouped under a parent company, Elektra/Asylum/ Nonesuch, headed by Joe Smith.
''
        Ms. Sterne argued that the losses were mostly caused by the parent company's poor marketing and distribution.
After her dismissal from Nonesuch, the company went through many changes.
''The Burpee company provided the seeds, and after we planted them and followed their growth, we were allowed to take the plants home,'' she recalled in an interview not long before her death.
She also wrote ''Small Gardens for City and Country'' (1978) and two books published in 1991 for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, ''Designs for American Gardens'' and ''Garden Designs,'' which included her popular planting plans, originally published in Burpee catalogs.
Mr. Kanzler, who died in 1967 and was an uncle by marriage of Henry Ford, was associated with the Ford company and was a director of the Detroit Lions football team.
With some sponsorship from the Brazilian government, along with the couple's own money, in 1996 the company produced concerts by two leading Brazilian songwriters, Caetano Veloso (with the Japanese composer Ryuichi Sakamoto at Central Park Summerstage) and Milton Nascimento (at the Brooklyn Academy of Music).
In 1998 the company presented the Brazilian groups Karnak and O Rappa and the Brazilian funk bandleader Ed Motta collaborating with the American vibraphonist Roy Ayers.
''Rio'' (1969), her next volume of poetry, was published by Broadside Press, a small, Detroit-based black company.
