Her company, the JCA Literary Agency, was founded by her husband, John A. S. Cushman, in 1976; he died in 1984.
But the Goldwyn Company decided that the similarities between the two actresses were too strong.
She was the widow of Norman Tishman, former president of the Tishman Realty and Construction Company, who died in 1967.
In 1948 she went into partnership with Martha Stout, a former magazine editor, in a ready-to-wear company called Timbertop.
Seldom does the Nobel committee in Stockholm honor employees of pharmaceutical companies, but all three that year worked or had worked for such a company.
Ms. Elion and Dr. Hitchings collaborated throughout their careers at the company known today as Glaxo Wellcome.
Ms. Elion later became head of the company's experimental therapy department.
While working for the drug company, Ms. Elion felt that her lack of a doctorate was a disadvantage, so she began a Ph.D. program at Brooklyn Polytechnic Institute.
She was a writer in residence at the experimental company Paines Plough, working with emerging writers at the urging of her friend and fellow playwright Mark Ravenhill, the author of ''Shopping and .
Born on May 14, 1939, in New York, Ms. Grillo first won attention as a singer with the Brooklyn Opera Company in the early 1960's.
Though she sang occasional leading roles at the Met (Carmen and Azucena among them), her value to the company was as a dependable, dramatically involving singer of supporting roles, like Maddalena in Verdi's ''Rigoletto'' and Grimgerde in Wagner's ''Walkure.
In 1981, she and her husband, Richard Kness, a dramatic tenor, founded the Ambassadors of Opera and Concert Worldwide, an independent company that brought opera, musicals and vocal concerts to places as distant as Singapore, Guam, Malaysia, Pakistan and the Fiji Islands.
As singing actors, she and her husband had to die standing up on tiny stages, and they once had to pry a member of their company from an Asian sewer.
After graduating from Keele University in Staffordshire with a degree in politics, philosophy and economics, she married George Lobbenburg, an American who ran a successful clothing company in Britain.
In an international cause celebre, the company was brought to court here and charged with obscenity in 1966 after publishing ''Last Exit to Brooklyn'' by Hubert Selby Jr.
When Michael Ondaatje -- who by then was published by another company -- won the Booker Prize for ''The English Patient'' in 1992, he publicly thanked her for helping to start his career.
Having started at age 5 in her mother's company, she was steeped in the content of classical dance.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
She wrote about the experience in ''My Wild Irish Rogues'' (Doubleday & Company, 1952).
Ms. Rogers, who studied modern dance with Martha Graham and performed with the Graham company in 1935, went to Germany in 1936 at Graham's suggestion to learn the new system of Labanotation.
In 1939, she married Sewell Tappan Tyng, a lawyer, author, head of a mining company and assistant to the New York City District Attorney, Thomas E. Dewey.
The granddaughter of Baron James de Rothschild, the founder of the French branch of the Rothschild banking family, Baroness de Rothschild became a supporter of Graham after seeing performances by her and her company in New York in the early 1940's.
She bought the house on East 63d Street in Manhattan that was the company's headquarters for many years and supported the Graham school and its activities.
''
        Besides supervising the wardrobe, Baroness de Rothschild was involved in a wide range of company activities, including taking a few dance classes with Graham and buying the dancers jewelry one Christmas at a lavish party she gave for the troupe.
One of the Baroness's greatest contributions to modern dance was the founding of the Graham-based Batsheva Dance Company in 1964 in Tel Aviv.
Baroness de Rothschild, who had moved to Israel two years earlier, believed the country needed a professional modern dance company with full-scale sets and costumes and thorough training.
She sent several dancers to New York to work with Graham, who agreed to be Batsheva's artistic adviser, and Graham sent dancers to Israel to work with the new company.
Baroness de Rothschild went on to form a second, more balletically based group, the Bat-Dor Dance Company, in 1967.
She withdrew her support from Batsheva in 1974 after the company refused to hire as its director Jeannette Ordman, her protegee and the head of Bat-Dor.
She received the Israel Prize in 1989 and was honored in 1997 at a celebration of the 30th anniversary of the Bat-Dor Dance Company at the new Tel Aviv House.
She had a permanent stage built, brought in new and innovative troupes like the Dublin Players Company, the Oxford University Players and Mr. Holder and his Trinidad Dance Troupe, established an apprentice school, introduced seminars in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, and offered playwrights, actors, designers, composers and directors a chance to spread their wings.
Ms. Valaire, whose original surname was Feuerheerd, joined the Royal Ballet in 1946 and performed with the company on its first tour in the United States in 1949.
'' In 1955 she was a winner of the Metropolitan Opera's Auditions of the Air and was signed to the company's roster in 1956.
She was a daughter of Sydney Gruson, a former vice chairman of The New York Times Company, who died last year.
For nearly 20 years, Mrs. Katzander ran her own public relations company, which included among its clients at various times Reading Is Fundamental, a federally funded organization that encouraged reading among inner-city children, and Playboy magazine.
Miss Greenfield's diminutive figure was a fixture in the elite dining rooms of Georgetown, where she lived near the home of her employer, who was also among her closest friends, Katharine Graham, the chairwoman of the executive committee of the Washington Post Company, which owns both The Post and Newsweek.
She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
The company she ran, Danieli Group, founded by her grandfather in the family's hometown of Buttrio in Northern Italy, developed in the 1950's from a small manufacturer of scissors and shears to a supplier of compact steel mills to small Northern Italian steelmakers that mainly supplied the steel reinforcing bars that were the sinews of postwar Italian reconstruction.
Beginning in the 1970's, the company began shipping its engineers abroad to build mills in places like Mozambique to produce steel bars or rolling mills in the United States.
Ms. Danieli, one of four sisters, was forced to take charge of the family company founded by her grandfather in 1914 in the mid-1970's, when the oil price increases in the first half of that decade drained the capital to invest in steel and scuttled further expansion.
In 1976, the company posted its first loss ever.
That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
She quickly rejuvenated Danieli's management, then gained a major breakthrough when the company captured a $240 million contract for a steel mill in the former East Germany from its nearest competitor, the giant Krupp group of the former West Germany.
In addition to its Italian headquarters, the company, with roughly 3,000 employees, had affiliates in Youngstown, Ohio, and in Sweden.
In 1984, to keep the company financially as well as technologically fit, Ms. Danieli took the unusual step for Italian family-run companies, and against the opposition of her more traditional father, of listing Danieli on the stock exchange.
About 54 percent of the company remained controlled by her and Gianpietro Benedetti, her companion, with whom she shared management of the company in recent years.
About 54 percent of the company remained controlled by her and Gianpietro Benedetti, her companion, with whom she shared management of the company in recent years.
Ms. Danieli entered the company in 1969 after earning a degree in economics at nearby Trieste University.
''And the company was not madly for Adlai.
When S. I. Newhouse Jr., the chairman of Advance Publications, the parent company of Conde Nast, asked her what she would like for her 25th anniversary, she asked that he establish two scholarships in her name at the Newhouse School of Journalism at Syracuse University.
When she wanted to feature the black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, the issue was debated at every level of the company, all the way up to the president.
Conde Nast is a privately held company and does not disclose the earnings of its magazines, but in 1997 Steven T. Florio, the chief executive officer, said that Glamour's annual profits were in the ''tens of millions of dollars.
The company W. & G. Foyle Ltd.  was begun in 1904 by her father, William, and her uncle Gilbert after they failed their Civil Service exams and advertised their preparation books for sale.
''
        Asked who had been the most boring literary lunch guest, she always told the story of Sir Walter Gilbey, director of the gin-making company.

        Flower Hujer, a modern-dance choreographer who performed with her company for four decades in small theater spaces and churches throughout Manhattan, died on May 1 at her home in Queens.
Ms. Hujer formed her company, the Flower Hujer Dance Theater, in 1949 and designed many of the performers' exotic costumes.
She made her debut at Covent Garden in a 1946 production of Purcell's ''The Fairy Queen,'' and quickly proved herself an invaluable member of the company.
John Cranko, who left the Royal Ballet in Britain to head the company in what was then West Germany, made her his assistant from the start.
As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier.
As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier.
In London she danced, in 1943, with the Kyasht Ballet and then the Russian Opera and Ballet Company, the St. James Ballet and in the film ''The Red Shoes.
By the early 30's she was spending much of her time traveling with her company, and she made several American tours under the auspices of the impresario Sol Hurok.
Ms. Rubinstein, a niece of the company's founder, Helena Rubinstein, lived in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y.
        She moved from Poland to Paris at age 18 to learn the business from her aunt and worked at the company from the 1920's until the 1970's, when it was sold.
Ms. Rubinstein, a niece of the company's founder, Helena Rubinstein, lived in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y.
        She moved from Poland to Paris at age 18 to learn the business from her aunt and worked at the company from the 1920's until the 1970's, when it was sold.
The company is now owned by L'Oreal.
She was president of Brandon Petroleum Properties, an oil and gas exploration company, and of the Chisholm Foundation, an educational foundation established by her father in 1960.
Both the company and the foundation have headquarters in Laurel.
She joined the company in 1993 and spent several years in Hong Kong.
Mrs. Miranda's glasses were hailed by magazines like Vogue and Life, and she decided to establish her own company to distribute them.
Mr. Schinasi, once a poor Turkish immigrant, had become a millionaire through his patented cigarette-rolling machine, which led to the establishment of a company that manufactured ''ready rolled'' cigarettes.
''Now the company tries to revive what was created more than 100 years ago,'' Ms. Krasovskaya wrote.
''
        She wrote about dancers, choreographers and ballet company seasons for Soviet and foreign ballet periodicals.
Professionally, Ms. White designed fabrics for a textile company and designed album covers and liner notes for CBS Records.
''
        Mrs. Shain, who worked with her husband in promotions and sales at a toy company when she was not involved in boxing, remained active as a judge until last December.
Ms. Shrifte, whose name is pronounced ''Shrift,'' was one of the first women to head a book publishing company.
Two years later, she left to start her own public relations company in Dallas, where she remained through the late 1950's, until she became a special consultant for Arthur Godfrey Productions in New York.

        Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side.
She enlisted Hughes's participation in the trip, but the film project was canceled by Soviet authorities after the group's arrival, ostensibly because of inefficiency on the part of the Soviet film company.
In 1930, she toured internationally with the Minneapolis Symphony as a member of Irma Duncan's company.
In 1977, Mayor George Moscone proclaimed May 26 as Isadora Duncan Centenary Day, and Miss Garland's company, the San Francisco Duncan Dancers, performed in Colonial Concert Hall.
Clem Beauchamp, company manager for ''Stage Door Canteen,'' told an interviewer in 1951 that he chose Ms. Roman from dozens of eager actresses because ''I felt right away that here was a girl who would show up on time in the morning with her lines learned and no nonsense.
During the day she worked as a movie usher and at night she performed with the New England Repertory Company, a semi-professional group in Boston.
After Jooss, the choreographer of the celebrated antiwar ballet ''The Green Table,'' appeared with his company in Stockholm, Miss Cullberg spent four years in England studying with him at Dartington Hall, an experimental arts center.
Returning to Sweden in 1939, she formed a small company and danced solos inspired by animal movements.
Writing in 1982 the Swedish critic Erik Naslund paid tribute to Miss Cullberg by declaring that it was her troupe, not the Royal Swedish Ballet, that was ''definitely the more prestigious company.
''Even so, I adored her -- or perhaps it was the intellectual electricity of her company.
Ms. Curley also choreographed dances for the Alabama State Ballet, Harkness Ballet and Joffrey second company, for which she created her best-known piece, a comic ballet called ''Mother's Mozart '73'' in 1973.
She began working with the Elysium Theater Company of Munich in the 1980's and in 1993 became the honorary artistic director of Elysium -- Between Two Continents, a Munich-based organization devoted to cultural exchange between the United State and Europe, particularly Germany.
Besides her brother David of Schenectady, she is survived by another brother, Michael of Portland, Ore.
        After a short stint with a public relations firm in the early 1980's she founded her own company, which took on Trivial Pursuit as one of its first projects.
After her company was acquired by Dorf & Stanton in 1986, she moved to Italy, where she advised businesses on international ventures.
In 1995, she returned to New York and started a new company, Pezzano Inc.
        She continued to work on games, including a new sports trivia game called Rules of the Game.
Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary.

        Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio.
'' Dayton Contemporary Dance Company would later become the first black dance troupe to acquire a Cunningham work, ''Channels/Inserts.
She formed the company to give her dancers a place to perform, at first creating the repertory herself.
She chose her daughter along with the choreographer and dancer Kevin Ward to succeed her as artistic directors of the company.
In 1997, she was one of five female dance company directors honored as ''living legends'' by 651: An Arts Center.
In recent years she appeared Off Broadway in productions with the Signature Theater Company and most recently with the Women's Project, where she won praise this spring for her work in Joan Vail Thorne's play ''Exact Center of the Universe.
The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director of the Battery Dance Company in New York.
In 1990 she participated in the International Choreographers Workshop of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and in 1992 she founded the South Asian Dance Youth Company, which won her the London Dance and Performance Award.
Mrs. Hofmann was the widow of Philip B. Hofmann, a retired chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the health care products company.
Gershon Kekst, president of Kekst & Company, a New York public relations firm, said that Mrs. Resnick's character and charm were as important as her ability to raise money.
In 1928, a court in Trenton had ruled that Gloria Caruso was entitled to two-thirds of the royalties on her father's phonograph records, sold by the Victor Talking Machine Company.

        Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Sunday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
It was there that Ms. Cage formed a close professional relationship with Morton Baum, who, as chairman of the City Center's finance committee in 1948, extended a crucial invitation to the ballet company to become a resident of the theater.
In the A.P.A.-Phoenix Repertory Company production of ''The School for Scandal'' she stepped in for a vacationing Helen Hayes.
Mrs. Brussel spent five decades in the company of preschoolers, founding several schools and a camp for them.
