Ms. Adler died as the result of a heart ailment, said her daughter, Pamela Adler Golden of Goldens Bridge, N.Y.
        Ms. Adler, who joined George Carmel Inc., maker of women's coats, suits and ensembles, in the mid-1940's, rose to become the company's head designer.
Mrs. Poston was a founder and co-owner of WashingtonInc., an events-planning company begun in 1967.
Mrs. Chow, known professionally as Tina Chow, began her career at the age of 16, modeling for Shiseido, a leading cosmetics company in Japan.
Mrs. Chow, known professionally as Tina Chow, began her career at the age of 16, modeling for Shiseido, a leading cosmetics company in Japan.
The author of several books, her latest work, "Facing Death and Loss," was published in 1985 by the Technomic Publishing Company of Switzerland.
Mill company executives matched the donations.
Her early reports on oil company plans occasionally enraged executives, who sometimes temporarily canceled their subscriptions in protest.
Her mother was a physicist; her father, Eugene, worked for the Socony Oil Company, and the family followed him around the world to England, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Texas, Europe and Morocco.
The company was formed by Dr. John W. Mauchly and J. Presper Eckert, who in 1946 had developed one of the world's first electronic computers, ENIAC, at the University of Pennsylvania.
The company was later bought by the Remington Rand Corporation.

        Gertrude Shurr, who performed in the 1920's and 30's with such pioneering American modern dance companies as Denishawn, the Humphrey-Weidman Concert Company and the early Martha Graham company, died on Thursday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 88 years old.

        Gertrude Shurr, who performed in the 1920's and 30's with such pioneering American modern dance companies as Denishawn, the Humphrey-Weidman Concert Company and the early Martha Graham company, died on Thursday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 88 years old.
Taught Notable Figures
        She danced with the Denishawn company from 1925 to 1927, leaving to join the earliest Humphrey-Weidman company, with which she danced from 1927 to 1929.
Taught Notable Figures
        She danced with the Denishawn company from 1925 to 1927, leaving to join the earliest Humphrey-Weidman company, with which she danced from 1927 to 1929.
Miss Shurr joined the Graham company in 1930, dancing in many Graham classics in her eight years there.
Miss Shurr left the Graham troupe to perform with May O'Donnell, another company member, with whom she opened a dance studio in New York City; students there included Robert Joffrey and Gerald Arpino, who later founded the Joffrey Ballet.
Her first husband, Alexander Bloomfield McFadden, a cotton broker in Memphis, died, and in 1953, she married Mr. Blair, a banker with J. P. Morgan & Company.

        Stella Roman, a soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera Company, died on Wednesday at Mt.
"She was really an author's editor -- strict but loving," said Lawrence Hughes, the former president of William Morrow & Company, one of the publishers for whom she worked.
Mrs. Craig had been a part owner of her family's company, the Berol Corporation, the manufacturers of Eagle pencils.
She wrote radio scripts, short stories, children's books and screenplays, one of which became the 1984 film "The Company of Wolves.
After he died, she married Walter Hoving, who had owned Tiffany & Company and Bonwit Teller.
After he died, she married Walter Hoving, who had owned Tiffany & Company and Bonwit Teller.
Moving to the parent of Barron's, Dow Jones & Company, she helped start "The Wall Street Journal Report" programs on radio and television.
She was also president of Vencura Ltd., a Manhattan-based company that rehabilitates landmark buildings and has been doing work in Vail, Colo. She had also managed a Chinese catering business.

        Heidi Draper, who as Heidi Vosseler was a member of George Balanchine's first American ballet company, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 74 years old.

        Heidi Draper, who as Heidi Vosseler was a member of George Balanchine's first American ballet company, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 74 years old.
Early in her career she ran a theater company, worked as a publicist and covered theater for The New York Herald-Tribune and The New York Times.
Early in her career she ran a theater company, worked as a publicist and covered theater for The New York Herald-Tribune and The New York Times.
Over the next decade, she expanded the company's range of titles from historical romances to both paperback and hard-cover novels and general nonfiction.
Authors published by the company, with whom Mrs. Grossman worked closely, included Jerzy Kosinski, Isaac Asimov and Joyce Carol Oates.
She was the daughter of Robert Remsen Laidlaw, managing partner of the former brokerage firm of Laidlaw & Company.
She later started a public relations company in New York, wrote "Anita Colby's Beauty Book," bought and sold the Women's News Service, for which she wrote a syndicated newspaper column called "Anita Says," and appeared for six months on the "Today" show with Dave Garroway.
With her husband, Ralph Scaffidi, a trumpet player, she moved to Bakersfield in 1968 where they formed and ran the Osborne Guitar Company, which later became the Osborne Sound Laboratories, a manufacturer of amplifiers and public-address systems.
In addition to many Broadway appearances in the 1940's and 50's, including roles in the original productions of Lillian Hellman's "Autumn Garden" and Carson McCullers's "Member of the Wedding," she performed with the Williamstown Summer Theater in Massachusetts for 10 years and was a member of the Circle Repertory Company in New York.
"
        In the 1960's, she published two histories that have become standard works: "The Boston Opera Company" (1965) and "The Miracle of the Met" (1968).
She started a 35-year-career in 1949 with the Ohio Chemical and Surgical Division of the Air Reduction Company.
The company now is the Airco Gases Division of Britain's BOC Group.
In their company, Sara Farrington was an angler among equals: The 674-pound tuna she caught off Watch Hill, R.I., in the mid-1950's was first tuna that had ever been caught in those fishing grounds by man or woman.
At age 15 she joined a Yiddish repertory company and toured as Topsy in "Uncle Tom's Cabin," switching languages -- English or Yiddish -- to suit the ears of the audience.
There Mr. Kalich persuaded her to join the Yiddish company he managed.
Mrs. Levy became a limited partner in Goldman, Sachs & Company in 1976 at the death of her husband of 42 years, Gustave L. Levy.
"
        She taught in 1938 at Texas Christian University in Fort Worth and from 1938 to 1944 at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, where she headed her own company.
She died of ovarian cancer, her company said.
Ms. Rudd was the president of the Rudd Company, a publications and marketing company in Washington.
Ms. Rudd was the president of the Rudd Company, a publications and marketing company in Washington.
Mrs. Bryce was a granddaughter of George Huntington Hartford, the founder of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, and she was a longtime trustee of the John A. Hartford Foundation, which donates money for medical research.
She was the daughter of Princess Guido Pignatelli and Edward V. Hartford, who was an inventor and president of the Hartford Shock Absorber Company.
She stepped down in 1987, remained as a consultant for another year, and then formed her own company, Pygmalion Productions.
Mr. Mazer was a founder and chairman of the Hudson Pulp and Paper Company, based in New York City and later sold to Georgia-Pacific.
In the 1940's, she was a member of the Martha Graham dance company.

        Deborah R. Linfield, a senior litigation attorney for The New York Times Company, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Linfield, a 1978 graduate of the New York University School of Law, where she was awarded the American College of Trial Lawyers Medal for Excellence in Advocacy, had been a litigation associate at Willkie Farr & Gallagher for two years and then at Baer Marks & Upham for seven years before joining the Times Company in 1987.
First Amendment Cases
        At the Times Company, Ms. Linfield was active in a number of areas of litigation, but her specialty was First Amendment cases involving the press's right of access to court proceedings.
Mrs. Leavitt and her husband were co-founders of the direct-marketing retail division of the Horn and Hardart Company.
She sang with the American Opera Company and was a member of the Community Concert Series, which presented concerts around New York City.
Mrs. Sherman took charge of the company when her first husband, Arthur Cohen, who founded it, died in 1974.
Moving to New York City in the 1960's, she worked as an agent for the Sanford Leigh modeling agency, then became director of the television division of the Ford modeling agency and later director of the casting department at the Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn advertising company.
She and her husband, William P. Weinberg, became half-owners of Wilhelmina International Limited, the parent company of the Wilhelmina Artists and Wilhelmina Models.
They sold their share in the company two years ago but remained as consultants for special projects.

        Margaretha Ley, chief designer and co-founder of Escada AG, the German women's apparel company known for colorful, highly decorated sportswear, died last Thursday in Munich after a long illness.
The company would not disclose her age or cause of death, but she underwent intestinal surgery in recent months.
Mrs. Ley and her husband, Wolfgang Ley, founded Escada in 1979 and built it into an international company that had sales topping $800 million last year.
In addition to the Escada label, the company also manufactures women's clothing under the Crisca, Laurel, Apriori and Natalie Acatrini labels, produces the Cerruti 1881 women's collection under a licensing agreement and owns a majority percentage of St. John Knits, a California knitwear concern, and Badgley-Mischka, a New York company known for evening wear.
In addition to the Escada label, the company also manufactures women's clothing under the Crisca, Laurel, Apriori and Natalie Acatrini labels, produces the Cerruti 1881 women's collection under a licensing agreement and owns a majority percentage of St. John Knits, a California knitwear concern, and Badgley-Mischka, a New York company known for evening wear.
The company also makes accessories, luggage, small leather goods and a perfume called Escada.
She was also a stage manager for many productions of Gilbert & Sullivan and other light operas for the Westchester Music Conservatory Opera Company.
Partly because of the company she kept, Miss Parnis keenly felt the absence of a college education.
Within weeks, she went back to work once again, designing Mollie Parnis At-Home fashions in a company that had been started by her sister Peggy and was then owned by her nephew, Neal Hochman.
In 1953 Mrs. Lessman married Herbert L. Miskend, the president of a New York-based apparel company, and retired from acting.
When Mr. Miskend died in 1962, Mrs. Lessman became president of Dural Realty Corporation, a company Mr. Miskend had owned, and she managed several buildings on a portion of the site now occupied by the Continental Illinois Building at Madison Avenue and 53d Street in Manhattan.
In 1971, she released an album of women's liberation songs called "Reviving a Dream" on Femme Records, a company she began.
Miss Nirenska was a major force in dance in Washington, as a teacher, as director of a company whose dancers included Liz Lerman and Sharon Wyrrick (later choreographers in their own right), and as a creator of impressively fashioned dances filled with often raw emotion.
Miss Nirenska performed with Wigman's company during its 1932-33 tour of the United States and Germany.
She moved to Washington in 1951 and established a career there as a teacher at local ballet and modern-dance schools and at her own studio, and as a highly regarded choreographer with a company of her own.

        Willa L. Z. Armstrong, the president of Armstrong Information Services, a Manhattan video-production company, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center.
Before founding her company in 1979, she was a vice president of Planned Communications Services, a corporate-video production company.
Before founding her company in 1979, she was a vice president of Planned Communications Services, a corporate-video production company.
A production company, it made more than 100 documentaries, some of which won awards, on subjects such as psychiatric illnesses, drug abuse, juvenile delinquency and hospice care.
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Her family founded the Zinsser Chemical Company.
In 1958 she created the Basically Yours dress pattern for McCall's, and in 1972 she patented the Turn and Learn storybooks, sold by the Ideal Toy Company.
Her book "In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America" (Yale University Press, 1985) won the Frederick W. Ness book award.
Her husband of 48 years, Peter H. Solomon, a shoe company executive, died in 1988.
He was an Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Roosevelt Administration, the head of the New York Racing Association and a part owner in the company that made Hanes hosiery and underwear.
She performed at Radio City Music Hall, with the St. Louis Opera Company, on the Rudy Vallee and Chase & Sanborn radio shows and in concerts nationally and in Canada and Europe.
Miss Paxton was Mrs. Higgins in the first national company of "My Fair Lady," and played that role more than 3,000 times in various productions.
The order operates Grace Institute, which was founded by William Russell Grace and is now headed by his grandson, J. Peter Grace, the chairman of W. R. Grace & Company.
For several years she continued to act as liaison in the purchase of theater tickets for the parent New York Times Company.
A native of St. Louis, she was married in 1934 to John C. Carrington, who became an executive vice president of The Freeport Minerals Company and the president of the Hewitt School's board of trustees.
In 1942, Miss Kirsten began to sing leading roles with the San Carlo Opera Company, in Washington and New York City.
In 1971, when she celebrated her 25th anniversary with the company, she reminisced about that debut, and recalled that Miss Moore sat in the first box, at the side of the stage, and threw roses to her.
She also headed Forty Central Park South Inc., a company that owns and manages apartment buildings.
In 1930-31, Sol Hurok brought the Wigman company to the United States for a transcontinental tour.
She made her New York debut that year in a program that included "Trend," her first major work in America, which had a cast of 33 dancers, some of them from her own company and the rest students at Bennington.
Miss Holm had abandoned modern dance for the Broadway stage by 1947, although she continued to create dances for her summer students and choreographed four well-received dances for the Don Redlich Dance Company in the mid-1970's and mid-1980's.

        Catharine A. Yard, president of the American Timber Company, died on Thursday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 48 years old and lived in Sea Girt.
Ms. Yard, who attended Yuba College in Marysville, Calif., and Chico State University in Chico, Calif., had worked for the company since 1968.
Her father was an engineer who became president of the Hooker Electro-Chemical Company.
Then followed the Capezio campaign, starting in 1956, in which the shoe company was presented as a state of mind, with shoes not even mentioned in the ads for several years.
"
        Miss Adler's most frenetic years were with the Group Theater, the experimental Depression-era company founded by Harold Clurman, Lee Strasberg and Cheryl Crawford.
The Russian immigrant couple, who led the Independent Yiddish Art Company, were the leading classical Yiddish stage tragedians in the United States.
" She was also hailed for directing the touring company of Odets's "Golden Boy.
" 'More to Give to People'
        Recalling her decade with the company, she deplored above all a dearth of good roles for women in what she regarded essentially as "a man's theater aimed at plays for men.
" But she credited the company with evoking in her an idealism that shaped her later career.
She became a partner in the early 1970's and continued to design the line until the company closed in 1975.
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
