
       Florence Ryder, chairman of the Times Journal Company, which publishes several weekly newspapers serving members of the armed forces worldwide and a number of suburban newspapers in the vicinity of Washington and San Diego, died in her sleep yesterday at her home in Washington.
Florence Ryder, chairman of the Times Journal Company, which publishes several weekly newspapers serving members of the armed forces worldwide and a number of suburban newspapers in the vicinity of Washington and San Diego, died in her sleep yesterday at her home in Washington.
Mrs. Ryder, a native of Bedford, Ohio, was the widow of Melvin Ryder, who founded the Army Times Publishing Company in 1940.
She went to work for the antecedent of the Columbia company, the Arthur Judson concert-management concern, as a secretary in the late 1920's and eventually shifted to publicity as an assistant to Dorle Soria.
Her first job was as a copywriter at Marshall Field & Company in Chicago, where she became editor of a publication, ''Fashions of the Hour.
Mrs. Shields was the author of ''Displaced Homemakers: Organizing for a New Life,'' published in 1981 by McGraw-Hill, and the co-author of ''Women Take Care: The Consequences of Caregiving in Today's Society,'' published in 1987 by Triad Publishing Company.
Published in 1960 by the Chilton Company, it was titled ''On the Shoulders of Giants: the Bea Wright Story'' and was written by Eleanor Chappell.

       Betty Farrally, a co-founder of Canada's oldest dance company, died of brain cancer Sunday in Kelowna, B.C.
Betty Farrally, a co-founder of Canada's oldest dance company, died of brain cancer Sunday in Kelowna, B.C.
The two women immigrated to Canada from England shortly before World War II, started a dance studio and developed the company from a performance club for their best students.
She left the company in 1954.
      
''Sylvia Beach took care of his book wants at Shakespeare & Company in Paris,'' she said.
Mrs. Kornfeld was the author of ''Profile of America,'' published in 1954 by Thomas Y. Crowell Company.
Mrs. Kornfeld was a granddaughter of a founder of the Standard Oil Company of New Jersey.
She bought Mr. Arnaz's share of Desilu Productions in 1962 with a $3 million bank loan, and she sold the company to Gulf and Western Industries in 1967 for $17 million.
He later sold the rights to CBS, allowing the couple's production company, Desilu, to buy a studio, the former RKO lot where Miss Ball's film career had languished and where they had met in 1940 while appearing together in ''Too Many Girls.

       Margery Madden Porter, one of the first women appointed as a corporate officer of a worldwide company, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Margery Madden Porter, one of the first women appointed as a corporate officer of a worldwide company, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Porter was named an assistant secretary of the Standard Oil Company (New Jersey), now known as Exxon, in September 1945 and shared in the corporate administration of the company until her retirement in 1963.
Mrs. Porter was named an assistant secretary of the Standard Oil Company (New Jersey), now known as Exxon, in September 1945 and shared in the corporate administration of the company until her retirement in 1963.
She had joined the company in 1930 as a stenographer.
From 1942 to 1974, Mrs. Meyer was an inventory analyst for the Wyler Watch Company of Switzerland and New York.
Ms. Holland numbered among her corporate clients the New York Stock Exchange, Chemical Bank, the Mobile Oil Corporation, the Bankers Trust Company and A. T. & T. She also did interviews for the Columbia University Oral History Research Office.
All told, she gave 445 performances with the company.
Mrs. Mars was a former member of the board of Mars Inc., the family candy manufacturing company.
Surviving are her husband, Forrest E. Mars Sr., the former head of the company, of Las Vegas, Nev.; two sons, Forrest Jr. and John; a daughter, Jacqueline Mars Vogel; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Harold H. Watts, quoted in the 1972 book ''Contemporary Novelists,'' concluded that ''her novels are designed to be read with a glass of sherry in the hand, preferably in the company of persons as basically sensible as the ideal reader of Miss Tracy's work.

       Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company died Tuesday.
Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company died Tuesday.
She retired as company president in 1962 but remained honorary chairman of the board.

       Alice Palache Jones, retired vice president of the Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, died of complications arising from a heart condition yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco.
She was 82 years old and lived in North Salem, N.Y.
        Alice Palache Jones, retired vice president of the Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, died of complications arising from a heart condition yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco.
She was 82 years old and lived in North Salem, N.Y.
        Mrs. Jones, a native of Cambridge, Mass., joined the company in 1933 as a trainee.
She joined the Western Publishing Company in 1983 as publisher of Golden Books and retired earlier this year.
At the time of her death, she was a consultant to the company.
Miss French made her City Opera debut in 1972 as Gilda in ''Rigoletto,'' and subsequently performed in company productions of ''The Barber of Seville,'' ''The Magic Flute'' and ''L'Incoronazione di Poppea.
Seven years later she became the first woman to conduct an opera performance by a major New York company when she led the New York Hippodrome Opera production of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel.
Mrs. Messmore designed and sold beaded cashmere sweaters for 20 years through her company, Messmore Originals.
Miss Williams danced leading roles with the Katherine Dunham Dance Company from 1940 to 1945.
She appeared with the company in the Broadway musical ''Cabin in the Sky'' and in the films ''Stormy Weather'' and ''Carnival of Rhythm.
''
        After leaving the Dunham company, Miss Williams toured Europe with the Noble Sissle revival of ''Shuffle Along,'' dancing the role originated by Josephine Baker.
As a scholarship student at the Art Students League in Manhattan, she was invited to sketch dancers during a rehearsal of the Eugene Von Grona American Negro Ballet, and she was invited to join the company.
She remained with the company for three years, appearing with the Von Grona Swing Ballet in Lew Leslie's ''Blackbirds of 1939.
Her group, Atelje 212, became the first Yugoslav theater company to perform in the United States after World War II when she staged Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf'' in 1968 in Lincoln Center.
In a publishing career that spanned 45 years, Mrs. Keats began selling books at Macmillan Company.

       Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Mrs. Murphy joined the company in 1935 and was named president in 1949.

       Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Mrs. Murphy joined the company in 1935 and was named president in 1949.

       Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y.
        Mrs. Murphy joined the company in 1935 and was named president in 1949.
Earlier she had served as executive vice president and as chairwoman of the company's executive committee.
Mrs. Gilfond, a native of Brooklyn, designed costumes for Martha Graham's dance company - including those for the world premiere of ''Serpent Heart'' (1946) and ''Deaths and Entrances'' (1953) - and for several television series, including ''As the World Turns'' and ''Edge of Night.
Mrs. Gilfond, a native of Brooklyn, designed costumes for Martha Graham's dance company - including those for the world premiere of ''Serpent Heart'' (1946) and ''Deaths and Entrances'' (1953) - and for several television series, including ''As the World Turns'' and ''Edge of Night.
'' She pronounced Celanese, the American fabric company, as if it were Italian: chelahnayzay, and broke down corduroy to its original components: cord du roi.
The apartment was a wedding gift from her grandfather, Jacob H. Schiff, a stern banker and the head of Kuhn, Loeb & Company.

       Rose Schulman, an acting teacher at the nation's oldest repertory company, the Hedgerow Theater of Rose Valley, Pa., died after a heart attack on Sunday at the Crozer Chester (Pa.) Medical Center.
Rose Schulman, an acting teacher at the nation's oldest repertory company, the Hedgerow Theater of Rose Valley, Pa., died after a heart attack on Sunday at the Crozer Chester (Pa.) Medical Center.
She and Jasper Deeter, the actor who founded the company, established the Hedgerow Theater School.

       Olga Erteszek, designer and founder of the Olga Company, which makes women's underwear and sleepwear, died of cancer Friday at her home in Brentwood, Calif. She was 73 years old.
Olga Erteszek, designer and founder of the Olga Company, which makes women's underwear and sleepwear, died of cancer Friday at her home in Brentwood, Calif. She was 73 years old.
With Olga designing and her husband directing the business, the Olga Company reached a volume of $67 million when it was sold to Warnaco in 1984.
She was born Mattlyn B. Gevurtz in Portland, Ore., and studied ballet there with Willam Christensen, who was invited to teach at the San Francisco Ballet in 1937; a year later, he became the company's director.
Miss Gavers followed her teacher to San Francisco, dancing with the company from 1937 to 1949.
Miss Parkinson had been an editor at The Reader's Digest, Charm and Mademoiselle, a senior editor at Stein & Day, the managing editor of Parents Magazine, the editor in chief of Mason Charter Publishers and the executive editor of the Bobbs-Merrill Publishing Company.
She was 64 years old and had residences in Chatham, Mass., and Sausalito, Calif.
        Dr. Brown, a native of Dedham, Mass., joined the American Telephone and Telegraph Company as Western regional medical director in 1973.
Earlier she had been an associate medical director of the American Tel and Tel Communications Company and the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company.
Earlier she had been an associate medical director of the American Tel and Tel Communications Company and the Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Company.
''
        Last April 24, Miss Davis was honored by the Film Society of Lincoln Center at its annual tribute, joining the company of such previous honorees as Sir Laurence Olivier and Charlie Chaplin.
Breaking Into the Business  Stage Experience, Looks and a Voice
        Miss Davis's first professional acting job was with a winter stock company in Rochester, run by the director George Cukor, who dismissed her after a few months.
Deciding in 1936 to defy the strictures of her contract, Miss Davis agreed with an English company to go to London to make two movies.
She accepted an offer to return to Broadway in a revue, ''Two's Company.
Collecting Since the 1930's
        Mrs. Malbin, who was born in Detroit on Nov. 13, 1897, was the daughter of Albert Kahn, an industrial architect who designed the Ford Motor Company's River Rouge plant in Detroit, among other important factory complexes in the United States and abroad.
Mrs. Willis, whose grandfather, Harvey S. Firestone Sr., founded the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, had been a member of the National Council of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a trustee of the Archives of American Art and the New England Conservatory of Music.
In addition, the heroines in Miss McCarthy's fiction form a sort of continuing portrait of the author: Meg in ''The Company She Keeps'' (1942), the clever Vassar girl, ''a princess among the trolls''; Martha, ''the bohemian lady'' in ''A Charmed Life'' (1955), whose need to ''tell the truth'' continually gets her into trouble; Kay, the skeptical iconoclast in ''The Group'' (1963), and Rosamund, the esthetic mother figure in ''Birds of America'' (1971).
'' Her finely observed collection of interconnected stories, ''The Company She Keeps,'' would chronicle - in slightly disguised fashion - many of her adventures in these early post-college years, including the breakup of her first marriage, her desultory love affairs and her dabbling in Trotskyite politics.
Mrs. Salomons founded the company in Berlin in 1923, moved to Paris in 1933, went to southern France and Morocco in the early 1940's and then came to the United States.
She was active in the company until 1985.
She worked for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company as an administrator.
For 10 years in the 1930's and 1940's, she was a star of the Municipal Opera Company of St. Louis, appearing in plays by Noel Coward and Moss Hart.
In 1929, she married Benjamin J. Buttenwieser, a partner in the investment banking firm of Kuhn, Loeb & Company.
Ten years later, she was elected trustee of the Title Guarantee and Trust Company, the first female director of a prominent banking concern.
In 1966, she became the first American to design for the celebrated British company, Josiah Wedgwood & Sons.
She was the widow of John P. Stevens, a former chairman and president of J. P. Stevens & Company, the textile manufacturer.
Mrs. Kahn's father, Harry Abraham, founded the company in 1914, and she began working for it after his death in 1949.
Earlier she had worked in the fashion and art departments of Good Housekeeping magazine and the fashion department of Capezio Inc., and she was art editor of the Magazine Management Company, publishers of periodicals.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, head of the Peter Tishman Real Estate Company; three stepchildren, Linda, Anita and Steven Tishman, all of Manhattan; her mother, Evelyn Rothenberg, also of Manhattan, and a brother, Donald Rothenberg of Babylon, L.I.
      
She performed in several of the works he created for his first company, the American Ballet.
She was a member of Mr. Kirstein's Ballet Caravan company, with which she danced in Lew Christensen's ''Pocahontas'' and William Dollar's ''Air and Variations.
She was born Aileen Bisbee in San Francisco, the daughter of George W. Bisbee, the president of the Pioneer Fruit Company, and was educated in private schools in Paris and London, where she went on the stage in 1915.
She worked with a theater-and-film production company called Play-Pix, which produced the film ''Georgy Girl.
'' She also served on the board of John Houseman's troupe, the Acting Company, in Manhattan.
The company later merged into Textron Inc.
        She was a former trustee of Emerson College and a vice president and trustee of the French Library in Boston.
The company was sold in 1986 to Transwestern Publishing, a division of U.S. West, a California-based utility.
