A great-grandniece and heir of Levi Strauss, the denim king, she was a corporate director of his apparel concern, Levi Strauss & Company.
After moving to Vermont in 1970 with her second husband, John Callaway, Miss  Bishop opened a mail-order company, American Decorative Arts Inc., a name changed later to Adele Bishop Inc.
She later formed Sass, a public relations company that specialized in charitable benefits and in British accounts.
Her mother, Peggy Zinsser Douglas, was a descendant of the family that founded the Zinsser Chemical Company.

        Susan K. Kamen, an engineer for the military and, in a second career, a vice  president at the New York Life Insurance Company, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Harry P. Kamen, the chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
In 1974, Mrs. Vineyard became the first woman to serve on the Long Island Lighting Company's board.
Mrs. Johnson was divorced from the late Henry Ford 2d, the chairman of the Ford Motor Company, in 1964.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
At age  12, she danced with the Philadelphia Opera Company ballet.
" As a teen-ager, she toured Australia with a Shakespearean company.
She was the widow of William A.  M. Burden, a former diplomat, longtime president of the Museum of Modern Art and founder of the private investment firm of William A. M. Burden & Company, of which Mrs.

        Ariel Allen, a senior advertising executive for the Colgate-Palmolive Company, died on April 7 in New York.
The cause of death was cancer, the company said.
In 1992, she assumed major responsibilities for the company's television advertising around the world as vice president for creative services in global advertising.
As the only white member of the Primus troupe, Ms. de Leon frequently had to get meals and restroom keys surreptitiously for Primus's black dancers when the company toured in the South.
The two men formed a film company to create work for other blacklisted members of the industry.
Ms. Shepard was the founder and president of Shepard Personal Services, which she managed for 16 years until illness caused her to sell the company last year.
From the 1930's through the 1970's, Mr. Loeb was a partner in the investment firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.

        Bettina Bancroft, a former director of Dow Jones & Company, which publishes The Wall Street Journal and Barron's magazine, died on Tuesday, at her Los Angeles home.
She created roles in Balanchine's "Cotillon" and "Concurrence" and in Leonide Massine's "Jeux d'Enfants" with the company.
"
        When quarrels between de Basil and Massine prompted the choreographer to form his own company, Miss Toumanova became a member of Massine's new Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938.
She dropped out of the company the next year to appear in the Broadway musical "Stars in Your Eyes," and rejoined de Basil's company for an Australian tour and the New York season that followed it in 1940.
She dropped out of the company the next year to appear in the Broadway musical "Stars in Your Eyes," and rejoined de Basil's company for an Australian tour and the New York season that followed it in 1940.
In 1919, she married Arnold Louis van Ameringen, a founder and later chairman of what has grown into a billion-dollar company, International Flavors and Fragrances, based in Manhattan.
Beginning in the early 1940's, Ms. Sloane was a stylist, scout and vice president of Madcaps Inc., a Manhattan millinery and accessories company founded by her brother and partner, Alfred Z. Solomon.
"
        Although she sang with orchestras and opera companies all over the world, and made recordings with many conductors and ensembles, she was unusual in that she  considered a single company, the Berlin Deutsche Oper, her artistic home.
Miss Lorengar made her debut there in Orff's "Carmina Burana" in 1958, when the company was called the Berlin City Opera, and quickly became a favorite of Berlin audiences and critics.
When the company opened its new house in 1961, it  was with a production of "Don Giovanni" in which she sang Donna Elvira.
" She was made a lifetime member of the Deutsche Oper in 1984, when the company staged a 25th-anniversary gala for her.
In the mid-1940's, Miss Lorengar moved to Madrid, where she studied with Angeles Ottein and sang in a zarzuela company for several years before she decided to change her focus to the more conventional operatic roles.
She made her American operatic debut as Liu in Puccini's "Turandot" at the San Francisco Opera in 1964, and maintained a close relationship with that company over the next 25 years.
Before she joined the company, she was New Jersey's transportation policy coordinator and deputy director of policy in the office of Governor Florio.
Her father, Arnold Louis van Ameringen, who was born in Holland, founded the International Flavors  and Fragrances Company.
She formed the American Folk Ballet, a folk-dance company, in 1962 and toured internationally with the group.
The couple, who formed their own company, Hummert Productions, and moved to New York in the mid-1930's, farmed out the writing after they had dreamed up the original idea and mapped out the initial story line.

        Gertrude Crain, who was chairwoman of the Crain Communications publishing company for more than 20 years, died July 20 at her son's summer home on Cape Cod.
In all, Mrs. Crain spent 40 years with the Chicago-based company that her husband, G. D. Crain Jr., founded in 1916.
The company publishes 27 trade, business and consumer newspapers, including Advertising Age, Crain's New York Business, Automotive News and Electronic Media, and owns a radio station in the  Florida Keys.
The company and the network were responding to angry telephone calls and telegrams from readers of Red Channels, a publication that had included Ms. Muir on a list of suspected Communists and Communist sympathizers in television and radio.
Returning to the United States from France after studying French at the Sorbonne, she struck up a shipboard acquaintance with members of the English company of "Bird in Hand," which was headed to New Haven for a Broadway tryout.
She also founded and managed a little theater company.
Her own modern-dance company, founded in 1976 as the Chamber Dance Group, presented simple stage productions for dances by black choreographers who included Walter Rutledge, Gary DeLoatch, Walter Raines, William Scott and Roumel Reaux.
The company also performed dances by such leading choreographers as Alvin Ailey, Talley Beatty, Fred Benjamin, George Faison and Dianne McIntyre.
Ms. Abrahams performed with the Paul Taylor Dance Company in 1963 and also danced with Mary Anthony, Pearl Lang and the Merry-Go-Rounders.
Ms. Abrahams founded her own modern dance company, Geulah Abrahams Danceworks, in 1985.

        Phyllis Pearsall, who created the famous ''A to Z'' maps of London by traversing more than 3,000 miles of roads throughout the city, died on Wednesday, her business, Geographers' A-Z Map Company, said today.
Returning to London and enlisting the help of her father's draftsman, Mrs. Pearsall founded the Geographer's A-Z Map Company and went to work.
''
        In 1965 Mrs. Pearsall turned the company into a trust to protect it from hostile takeovers.
She also set up a trustee company to hold all the shares for staff members, giving up pension and dividend rights for herself, but continuing as chairman and joint managing dirctor.
Mrs. Pearsall wrote several books, including an account of her trips through Spain, a collection of short stories, a company history and a volume describing her business philosophy, in which she advocated generosity (''bonuses to everyone''), courtesy (''no aggressive selling'') and frugality (''Micawber housekeeping'').
Her great-grandfather, Frederick Miller, founded the Miller Brewing Company.
Her father, Frederick C. Miller, who had been captain of Notre Dame's 1928 football team, was the company chairman.
She studied dance at New York University and at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn.
        Ms. Gudde danced with Anna Sokolow and in 1968 formed a company in New York City called Gudde Dancers that was drawn from her dance students at the Julia Richmond High School in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Gudde devoted herself to painting after her company disbanded in 1980.
Ms. Talma's opera, ''The Alcestiad,'' a collaboration with Thornton Wilder, became the first work by an American woman to be presented by a major European opera company when it had its premiere at the Frankfurt Opera in 1962.
In an interview when she was in her mid-80's, Mrs. Phillips, who was chairwoman of her company -- her daughter was president -- said she had no intention of ever retiring.
General Johnson, a brigadier general during World War II, was chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the international health care company, from 1932 to 1963.
In 1991, for example, when out-of-state financial institutions were picking off Maine's banks one by one and it appeared that Maine businesses and other borrowers would soon be at the mercy of distant lenders, Mrs. Noyce blithely created a brand new bank, the Maine Bank and Trust Company with an initial $7.7 million investment that eventually grew to some $14 million.
During a lull in Maine's construction industry, Mrs. Noyce built five homes to provide jobs for construction workers, and when Maine's leading bakery was threatened with a takeover by a company that intended to move it out of state, Mrs. Noyce came to the rescue, buying the bakery and saving its 1,200 jobs.
Chiriaeff developed a major company in a city that knew little about ballet before her arrival there in 1952.
Chiriaeff persevered, and, in addition to building a company, she became a pioneer of dance on Canadian television and a leader of Canadian dance education.
She appeared with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, 1936-37, but was considered too young to remain on the company's arduous tours.
Chiriaeff decided to transform it into a company for Canadian theaters.
Chiriaeff founded l'Academie des Grands Ballets Canadiens in 1958 and l'Ecole Superieure de Danse in 1966, and relinquished the artistic direction of her company in 1974 to devote herself full-time to educational activities.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
When Entenmann's went public in 1976, the company's stock certificates bore the picture of Mrs. Entenmann, known as Mrs. E to hundreds of employees at the 14-acre Bay Shore plant where doughnuts, cakes, cookies and other baked goods were packed in white boxes with the blue-bannered Entenmann's label.
Their sons, Robert, Charles and William, all eventually joined the company, which prospered with home deliveries on Long Island despite depression and war.
In 1978, Entenmann's was sold to Warner-Lambert, the pharmaceutical company, for $233 million, and in 1982 to General Foods for $315 million.
She began her professional career in 1936 with the Graz Opera Company, which played a 10-month season that enabled Miss Welitsch to build her repertory.
When she made her English debut with the company in 1947, she dazzled audiences at Covent Garden, and by 1948 she had sung Salome more than 50 times and appeared in more than 40 other roles.
Ms. Lear then formed Lear Television, investing $500,000 in a video production company.
She performed in plays by Joe Orton, Edward Albee and Peter Nichols, as well as in classics for the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater.
Later she acted in Mr. Albee's ''Counting the Ways'' at the National, in Congreve's ''Way of the World'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company and in Mr. Nichols's ''Born in the Gardens.
Late in life, even after nearly all her family's stock in the Waldbaum's supermarkets was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in 1986, Mrs. Waldbaum  liked to keep an eye on the stores.
In a store on Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn, Mrs. Waldbaum, who was also the secretary of the company, told a produce clerk to discard a bruised grapefruit, or put it in with the reduced-price merchandise.
The Kahlenbergs, who established Film Authors, a New York film production company after they immigrated to the United States in 1946, lived in Manhattan.
In the 1950's, the Kahlenbergs founded Film Authors, a production company.
In 1990, Ms. Wanderman founded Foodcom, a public relations company in Manhattan that specializes in food, wine and cooking equipment.
The company's major account is the International Olive Oil Council, a nonprofit educational and promotional agency supported by the governments of many Mediterranean countries, which also set standards for olive oil.
She started her own publishing company to produce a definitive coffee table book, ''Art of the Carousel.
''
        His expertise was acquired; he held a doctorate from Columbia University, taught there in the company of brilliant colleagues and challenged students who went on to produce some of the country's finest literature and criticism.
After retiring from the classroom in 1959, she became a prolific author of children's books in a science series for Crowell Company, ''Let's Read and Find Out,'' many of which remain in print.
Charmed by Graham and her unorthodox, impassioned approach to teaching dance, Miss Bird followed her to New York to study with her at the Neighborhood Playhouse and joined the Graham company in 1931.
After singing regularly on the local station for a year, she moved up to NBC's old Blue network, spending two years with the NBC Opera Company and five years as the soloist on a weekly program with the NBC concert orchestra before increasing her schedule to three nights a week for a seven-year run.
The cause was cancer, said Patricia Wilde, artistic director of the ballet company.
After the disbanding of the company, she worked in another administrative capacity with the commission before joining the Pittsburgh ballet company in 1989.
After the disbanding of the company, she worked in another administrative capacity with the commission before joining the Pittsburgh ballet company in 1989.
Dr. Steimer joined the company in 1983 and led a project that developed Chiron's candidate for a vaccine against H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS.
With Dr. Dino Dina and Dr. Paul Luciw, Dr. Steimer helped bring about the first sequencing and cloning of the virus, in 1985, the company said.
She took odd jobs in the early 1920's -- running a punch press at the American Tube & Stamping Company in Bridgeport, Conn., and working as payroll clerk for a hair net company in Long Island City, Queens.
She took odd jobs in the early 1920's -- running a punch press at the American Tube & Stamping Company in Bridgeport, Conn., and working as payroll clerk for a hair net company in Long Island City, Queens.
Ms. Rolfe began her theatrical career in a touring company of ''Brother Rat.
"
        During the 1930's, she worked as a press agent for several theatrical producers and companies, including Morris Gest and the Ethiopian Theater Company, and founded the League of Women Shoppers, a consumer advocacy group.
In 1919, the Miller family founded the Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, which grew into the world's largest independent maker of diesel engines, with annual revenue of more than $4 billion and a payroll of more than 23,000.
The company earned a national reputation for corporate good works, including paying  for renowned architects to design public buildings for Columbus, leading the town to style itself "the Athens of the prairie.
She was the designer for George Balanchine's ballet "The Crystal Palace" at the Paris Opera in 1945 and she worked at the Comedie Francaise, for Jean-Louis Barrault's theater company, and at La Scala opera house in Milan.
Ms. Williamson performed with Alvin Ailey's first company in 1958, dancing in the premiere of "Blues Suite," which started Ailey's choreographic career in  New York.
