She graduated from Adelphi University and in the early 1960's began to work for Colbert Artists as an assistant to the company's founders, Henry and Ann Colbert.

        Eve Stillman, a retired lingerie designer who also owned and led the lingerie company that bore her name, died on Friday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 97.
In the 1940's when Gracette Lingerie, a company founded by her husband, Harry Stillman, encountered financial problems, she intervened and helped shift the company to higher-priced products.
In the 1940's when Gracette Lingerie, a company founded by her husband, Harry Stillman, encountered financial problems, she intervened and helped shift the company to higher-priced products.
In 1956 she changed the company's name to Eve Stillman, and later it became Eve Stillman Inc.
        Its products included hand-embroidered nightgowns, and it had particular success with horsehair petticoats for the full-skirted fashions of the 1950's.
When she retired in 1989 most of the assets of her company were sold and became a division of Kefco Industries.
She helped develop the company's programs and was a director and vice president of Weight Watchers International until the H. J. Heinz Company acquired it in 1978.
She helped develop the company's programs and was a director and vice president of Weight Watchers International until the H. J. Heinz Company acquired it in 1978.
Heinz sold the business to a European investment company in 1999.
Soon the station was so successful that her father quit his job with the phone company to help her run the business.
Mrs. Tarlow worked with Mr. Lauren on shaping the marketing and image of his company, often meeting with him two or three times a week to review the direction of the campaigns.
She nurtured the account for a decade and eventually came to handle the print and broadcast advertising for the company's clothing, home furniture and fragrance divisions.
Mrs. Tarlow continued to handle the account even after the agency was bought by another advertising company.
At 16 she won a walk-on part with a stock company that turned into a talking role.
She retired from The Writer in 2000 and sold the company to Kalmbach Publishing, which continues to publish the magazines and related books.
In 1996 after Orchard's editorial and marketing staff left to start another company, Mrs. Wilson re-established the Orchard Books imprint, diversified it and led it through its acquisition by Scholastic Inc. She retired in 2001.
Mrs. Augustine kept her teaching job during the early years of the family company, Albert Augustine Ltd., but worked nights filling orders.
After her husband died in 1967, she took over the company, regularly updated its manufacturing processes and established a thriving market for her strings around the world.
The company presented her with a check for back royalties, amounting to $40,000, built up over years of sales, principally in Europe and Japan, of her three albums on LP and CD.
He invited her to join the company in 1934.
''
        After leaving the ballet company in 1936 and succeeding in the London production of ''On Your Toes,'' she divided her time between Broadway and Hollywood.

        Caroline H. Newhouse, a philanthropist and artist who was the widow of Theodore Newhouse, a co-founder of the Newhouse communications company, died on Saturday at her weekend home in Roxbury, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Manhattan.
Her husband, whom she wed in 1956, and his brothers Samuel I. and Norman created one of the country's largest communications conglomerates, whose parent company is now called Advance Publications Inc. Theodore died in 1998.
Correction:  May 1, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Caroline Newhouse, a philanthropist and widow of a founder of the Newhouse communications company, misstated her age.
Ms. Collins danced with Katherine Dunham and performed with the Dunham company in the 1943 film musical ''Stormy Weather.
It later became the Plumstead Theater company in Los Angeles.
In 1994 she sold it to the French company Pochet.
Their company, Rosenfield Productions, got its start in 1973 with the film ''Bang the Drum Slowly,'' a classic baseball tale.
After the second divorce, they parted company for good.
She recorded messages for an Australian phone company in an Australian accent and provided the voice of Margaret Mitchell for the 1988 film '' 'Gone With the Wind': The Making of a Legend.
His widow was co-executor of the estate with J. P. Morgan Chase & Company.
Ms. Fonaroff joined the Graham company in 1936 and the next year she taught Graham technique at Sarah Lawrence College.
'' She left the Graham company in 1946 to teach and choreograph on her own.
Ms. Fonaroff was also among those participating in a short-lived American modern-dance repertory company, at City Center in 1949.
Richard Boone, one of her students, later danced with her troupe, Nina Fonaroff and Company, which she maintained from 1946 to 1953.
Desirable houses draw multiple bids, and Mrs. Bronander, who works for Schweppe & Company, has had clients competing against as many as eight other suitors.
Just to raise the stakes, her husband, Burt, is a Realtor for a rival company, Burgdorff ERA, and strict regulations forbid the couple from talking about deals, or bringing home office gossip, which could create unfair advantages.
Among the other roles she sang with the Brussels company were the Composer in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Hermione in the 1999 world premiere of Philippe Boesmans's ''Wintermärchen'' and Desdemona in Verdi's ''Otello,'' a part she also performed in a new production of that opera at the Glyndebourne Festival in July 2001.
''Her motto always was 'Don't look back,' '' said John Loring, a longtime friend and the design director and a senior vice president of Tiffany & Company.
From 1991 to 1998 she was president and owner of the J. H. Mello Company, an investment banking and consulting business, which became known as the Mello Corporation in the mid-1990's.
She worked with the company for six years, resigning in 1981.

        Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was attending a business conference.
Later, she was also chief operating officer of Gamut Interactive, a new-media service company in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was a member of senior management at US West Communications and, most recently, was associated with Opnix, of Tempe, Ariz., an Internet technology start-up.
She helped found and was producing director of Naked Angels, a Manhattan theater company.
From 1978 to 1982, she was director of public affairs for the Cowles Media Company in Minneapolis.
Ms. Ovesey started her agency, Ovesey & Company, in the 1940's, when advertising was heavily dominated by men.
Last year, her store was sold to the May Department Store Company.
