
        Sybil Primis, the mother of Lance R. Primis, the former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, L.I.
She ventured to China at the age of 24 in 1931 with the promise of a mining company secretarial job secured through her father, a Utah lawyer with connections to the state's mining industry.

        Annette Markoe Schieffelin, widow of William Jay Schieffelin Jr., a former chairman of Schieffelin & Company, died on Thursday in Lenox Hill Hospital.
Ms. Rostova, whose original name was Lucienne Kylberg, joined the new Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938, dancing with the company until 1943 except for a brief period in 1942.

        Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
Ms. Krainik was an imposing figure who knew what she wanted for her company and how to get it through inspiration rather than force, although she was not averse to making bold decisions.
She made international headlines in 1989, for example, when she announced that Luciano Pavarotti was no longer welcome at the company after he dropped out of a ''Tosca'' production on three weeks' notice.
She joined the company as a secretary to its founder, Carol Fox, during its first season, and she spent her entire career there.
There was little in the company's operation with which she did not have firsthand experience.
A mezzo-soprano who had performing aspirations early on, she sang small roles during her first five years at the company but gave up the stage in 1960 when she was appointed assistant manager.
When she took over the company, it was on the brink of financial collapse.
Ms. Krainik's first task was to restructure the company's operations, cutting $500,000 from its budget in the process.
''
        She restored the company's fortunes quickly, and by 1993 she had raised much of the money required for a $100 million project to purchase and restore the company's home, the Civic Opera House.
''
        She restored the company's fortunes quickly, and by 1993 she had raised much of the money required for a $100 million project to purchase and restore the company's home, the Civic Opera House.
Although the company had always presented contemporary work, she made its commitment to modern opera formal in 1989, when she announced ''Toward the 21st Century,'' a decadelong series that would include two 20th-century operas every season: 10 by American composers, 10 by Europeans, with newly commissioned works along the way.
By 1980 Ms. Krainik had grown restless at the Lyric Opera, where her further career prospects seemed limited, and where the dire financial situation had made the company itself unstable.
Under her leadership, the company typically presented seven productions each season, but covered a great expanse of the repertory, from Handel operas through newly commissioned works, as well as a complete Wagner ''Ring'' cycle, staged between 1993 and 1996.
And although the company always attracted great singers -- Maria Callas sang there during its first season -- Ms. Krainik raised the level of the company's casting.
And although the company always attracted great singers -- Maria Callas sang there during its first season -- Ms. Krainik raised the level of the company's casting.
During a long career, Ms. Pierre served as press representative for tours by such groups as the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, American Ballet Theater, the Old Vic, the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Comedie Francaise and the Royal Dramatic Theater of Sweden.
In 1995 she took part in the opening of a memorial garden at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London, with a granite monument commemorating the victims, and in 1993 she appeared in public in Southampton to receive a gold watch thought to be her father's from the head of the American company that had salvaged it from the wreckage.
R. M. S. Titanic of Southport, Conn., the company that exhibits artifacts from the ship and that has drawn charges of exploiting the disaster from Ms. Kamuda and others, had the watch attached to a sterling silver plate inscribed with the words, ''What better use for scientific technology than to reunite a father with his child.
'' The chairman of the company, George Tulloch, presented it to Mrs. Haisman in Southampton in December 1993.
Indeed, long after she retired in 1967, Dr. Barbosa remained an influential figure in Puerto Rican politics -- a gregarious and vivacious woman with such a magnetic personality and wide-ranging knowledge of political history and current events that students, politicians and government officials trooped to her door for her counsel and her company.
In 1939, she married James L. Dixon, who went on to be president of James L. Dixon & Company Realtors in Washington.
A friendship with Donald McKayle, a young choreographer, led to her first experience producing dance when Mr. McKayle asked her for help in putting on a concert at the 92d Street Y. Ms. Roberts continued to present dance regularly at Clark Center, where Alvin Ailey had started his company in the 1960's.
Students were chosen by audition for lessons in music and dance and a general education at Karolin, a country estate outside Warsaw where the company still trains.
The company made its American debut in 1961 and is now on tour in the United States.
Lively and plain-spoken, she chided picketers of the company in Chicago in 1982 who were opposed to the Polish Government.
''
        She served as director of company up to her death.
      
In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.
She worked for a year for the Deko Oil Company of St. Louis but grew bored with the work.
She called him Papa, and he reveled in her company.
When Harriman's health deteriorated, his wife worked assiduously to keep him occupied, making sure he had visitors to keep him company when she was away.

        Cassandra Ides Jones, a former  executive of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the owner of an interior design company, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.

        Janet Hayes Walker, the founder and producing director of the York Theater Company, an Off Broadway theater known for its revivals of American musicals from the recent past, died on Feb. 20 at Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
The company specializes in revivals of works by Stephen Sondheim.
Correction:  March 6, 1997, Thursday
        An obituary on Saturday about Janet Hayes Walker, the founder of the York Theater Company, misidentified the creators of a musical produced by the troupe.
Clients of McCann, which is a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, include the AT&T Corporation, the Coca-Cola Company, the General Motors Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, L'Oreal S.A., the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation and Smith Barney Inc., a unit of the Travelers Group.
After graduating from Emerson College in Boston with a bachelor's degree in speech in 1965, Ms. Cohan went to work for Sammy Davis Jr. Enterprises, a television production company.
In 1981, Mrs. Hershey was named president and editorial director of a new multimedia subsidiary of The Journal's parent company, the Charter Publishing Company.
In 1981, Mrs. Hershey was named president and editorial director of a new multimedia subsidiary of The Journal's parent company, the Charter Publishing Company.

        Marie Marchowsky, a modern-dance choreographer and teacher who was a leading member of Martha Graham's company in the 1930's, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She danced from 1934 to 1940 in the Graham company in this pioneering era and also with Anna Sokolow, a former Graham dancer.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.
In 1943 she was part of a series, sponsored by the magazine Dance Observer, that presented works by budding choreographers from the Graham company like herself and Merce Cunningham.
Her career began in 1928 in the controller's office at R. H. Macy & Company after she was rejected for the executive training program in retailing.
Ms. Snapp began her career in the 1970's at the music publishing company G. Schirmer.
In 1980 she formed her own company, E. Snapp, Inc.
She also worked for Novello, the English publishing company, from 1980 to 1993, and was responsible for promoting the music of Richard Rodney Bennett, Aulis Sallinen, John McCabe and Tristan Keuris.
In the early 1990's her company expanded into the world of performance, with an emphasis on new music.
Despite repeated pleas from Marks & Company staff members to visit them in England (by the 1950's Frank Doel was offering her the use of his grown daughter's bedroom), Ms. Hanff's precarious finances never allowed her to make the trip until 1969, after Mr. Doel's sudden death from peritonitis.
She was the co-founder and for many years the principal manager of the B. G. Sulzle Company, a family enterprise with headquarters at 1 Needle Lane in North Syracuse.
The couple incorporated the company in 1945.
Mrs. Sulzle is survived by two granddaughters who manage the company, Lee H. Flanagan of Syracuse, president, and Wendy R. Flanagan of Syracuse and Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Sharp was co-chairman of the Martha Graham Dance Company from 1979 to 1985.
The Freedom Forum, a nonprofit organization established by the Gannett Company in Arlington, Va., addresses issues involving the First Amendment, free press and free speech.
She attended Vassar College and, in 1934, married Mr. Rockefeller, the fourth of the six children of John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and a grandson of John D. Rockefeller, the founder of the Standard Oil Company.
Her daughter, Sally Bell, who succeeded her in managing the Romper Room production company, said the cause was cancer.
In 1938, she married Bertram Claster, then managing a beauty supply sales company.
Their production company, Romper Room Inc., was bought by Hasbro Inc., in 1969.
Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
Her second marriage, to J. Thompson Ruger, an executive of Sturm, Ruger & Company, manufacturers of firearms, was ended by his death in 1993.
Born in New York City, Mrs. Gleason was the granddaughter of Thomas H. Wheeler, an early associate of John D. Rockefeller in the establishment of the Standard Oil Company.
Mrs. Gleason served on the board of the C. W. H. Merlis Corporation, a Dewart family holding company with interests in real estate and banking.
With Miss Hill's encouragement, Miss Schonberg moved to New York in 1929, studied with Martha Graham and was briefly a member of the Graham company until an injury ended her performing career in 1931.
When her friend Martha Raye told her there was going to be an all-black company of ''Hello, Dolly!
She studied ballet in Rome and Paris and toured Australia and Western Europe, from 1936 to '38, with a group directed by Leon Woizikovsky that served as the second company for the celebrated Ballets Russes directed by Col. W. de Basil.
May Company in 1968 and at the time of her death was a senior vice-president who specialized in sales of town houses in Greenwich Village.
She also performed in Paris before becoming a member of Graham's first company, which consisted of the choreographer and a trio of young women.
After the festival was discontinued, she helped found the Mercury Ballet Company of Rochester, taught at her own ballet school and choreographed for the Rochester Music Theater.
In 1967 Miss Biracree moved to Fort Wayne, where she choreographed for the Fort Wayne Ballet Company and created liturgical dances.
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She remained a tireless worker after the war, driving a cab, operating a beauty shop and founding Rose Builders, a construction company that specialized in luxury homes, her daughter said.
Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
As a Government economist in an era when the New Deal had attracted droves of women to high-level Federal positions, Dr. Keyserling had a lot of company in the corridors of power.
She soon joined the Spreckels Company near Salinas, Calif., where she worked on a sugar beet that would be resistant to the curly top virus.

        Frances Foster, a character actress, a stage director and a founding member of the Negro Ensemble Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Far Rockaway, Queens.
Ms. Foster was at the Negro Ensemble Company from 1967 until 1986, appearing in more than 25 of its productions.
The other honors she received included one of the company's Adolph Caesar awards in 1987 and two of the annual Audelco Awards, which honor achievement in black theater: a best actress award in 1978 for ''Do Lord Remember Me,'' and a best director award for 1983 for ''Hospice.
Ms. Meserand began her career in 1926 in the press department of the National Broadcasting Company, which had been newly formed from WJZ and WEAF.
Mrs. Bartlett was the daughter of William Fortune, who for many years was president of the Indianapolis Telephone Company as well as other telephone companies and a director of Eli Lilly and Company.
Mrs. Bartlett was the daughter of William Fortune, who for many years was president of the Indianapolis Telephone Company as well as other telephone companies and a director of Eli Lilly and Company.
He was the grandson and namesake of the founder of Eli Lilly & Company, not the founder.
      
''My father-in-law started a paperback book company; my father started two businesses on Wall Street, and my grandfather started two businesses in Hoboken.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Talley was vice chairman of W. P. Carey & Company, a real estate concern, a member of Alliance Capital Management's International Advisory Committee and a member of the board of the Joffrey Ballet.
Presentations of the Hallmark television series, sponsored by the greeting card company, almost always had an uplifting ending and were shown about five times a year, usually two weeks before major holidays.
''
        Otis Chandler succeeded his father as the paper's publisher in 1960 and held that post for 20 years, though Norman Chandler remained an executive with the company until his death in 1974.
She also worked at a spinning company to become involved in the labor movement and was appalled by the working conditions.
In 1920, she entered the Maryinsky Ballet, the company now known as the Kirov Ballet.
A few years later, however, she danced with the Ballets Russes, which Col. W. de Basil organized in 1933 as a successor to the Diaghilev company.
In 1938, she became prima ballerina of a rival company, Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, in part because its resident choreographer was Massine, whom she admired only slightly less than Balanchine.
The coming of World War II turned the Ballet Russe into an American company and, often partnered by Mr. Franklin, she toured across the country until the early 1950's, appearing in the classics, in ballets by Massine and in works by other choreographers, including Balanchine.
She made her British stage debut in 1933 and joined the Hull Repertory Company as a juvenile lead.
Ms. Ebert was a dedicated company actress, playing cameo roles as well as starring ones, and and unlike many actresses she never stopped working.
She performed in 81 plays at Long Wharf, many of them directed by her husband, Arvin Brown, the company's longtime artistic director.
She made her debut with the Philadelphia Grand Opera Company in 1930.
After that company disbanded in 1932, Miss Jepson moved to New York, where she sang in choruses and as a soloist on several radio programs before auditioning for the Metropolitan Opera.
She was also vice chairman of General Media International, the holding company that oversees the publishing arm.
''
        She met Mr. Guccione that year when he was starting Penthouse in London and she became one of the company's first employees, selling advertising.
''
        In 1962 Miss Clarke and the filmmaker and critic Jonas Mekas founded the Film-Makers Cooperative, a nonprofit company for the distribution of independent films.
She appeared with Sister Sledge and the Pointer Sisters, as well as tap groups that included Jane Goldberg's Changing Times Tap company.
Ms. Browne was also the artistic director of the Aristaccato Tap Company, a group of inner-city Bronx youths to whom she had taught tap and jazz technique, performing skills and history at the school she founded in the borough.
She helped publicize two of the company's international best-sellers, ''Watership Down'' and ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull,'' and in 1973 was made an assistant vice president.
Miss Goslar, who eventually settled on the East Coast, organized a company called Lotte Goslar's Pantomime Circus in 1954.
After that, she formed her own company and devoted herself to producing and appearing in syndicated television productions.
He is also a former senior partner and co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, and was a Deputy Secretary of State in the Reagan Administration.
The company made costume jewelry that was sold at the Hattie Carnegie salon in New York and at department and specialty stores around the country.

        Audra Lindley, who starred on Broadway, in films and in more than 100 live television dramas but who gained her greatest fame playing a sex-starved wife in the television series ''Three's Company'' and its spinoff, ''The Ropers,'' died on Oct. 16 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
Ms. Lindley, who was born in Los Angeles as well, began her theatrical career with Max Reinhardt's West Coast company, appearing in ''The Merchant of Yonkers'' and ''Six Characters in Search of an Author.
''
        It was in 1977 that the hit series ''Three's Company'' had its debut on television.

        Virginia A. Dwyer, a former senior vice president for finance at the AT&T Corporation and one of the first women to gain a top position at a major American company, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
In that capacity, she directed the company's stock and bond financing, at the time second in size only to the Federal Government's money-raising operations.
When she retired in 1986, Miss Dwyer was the highest-ranking woman ever at the company.
She moved to the parent company as assistant treasurer three years later.
After they divorced, she moved to New York City, where she married Frank Diaz, a chief engineer for the United Fruit Company.
She began her editing career in 1945 with Reynal & Hitchcock, became the first reader at Partisan Review and was hired in 1950 by Robert Giroux as an editor at Harcourt, Brace and Company.
In 1960, she married Moreton Binn, now chairman of the board of Atwood Richards Inc., an international trading company.
Mrs. Tatkon was appointed to the company management committee in 1991, as senior vice president for financial and administrative services, and remained there until she retired earlier this year.
In 1964, when a friend's husband died unexpectedly, Mr. MacDougall suggested that she and her friend form a decorating company.
'' From 1965 until 1990, she ran MacDougall & Company and worked as a decorator in New York and abroad.
In 1969, she co-founded the Women's Heritage Corporation, a publishing company.
''This really is the end of an era for Disney,'' said Roy E. Disney, a nephew of Mrs. Disney's and vice chairman of the Walt Disney Company.
Although plans for the grandiose concert hall had stalled in recent years, mostly because of financial and artistic disagreements, the project was recently revived with a $25 million donation from the Walt Disney Company.
''
        Michael D. Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company, said, ''Mrs.
Disney was a full-time partner to Walt and we are all grateful for her contributions in the creation of Mickey Mouse and the Disney Company and the example she set for family life and community service.
She solicited orders from boutiques and formed her own company, Oh Dawn!

        Claire Giannini Hoffman, the first woman to serve on the boards of  Bank of America and Sears, Roebuck & Company, died Monday of respiratory failure at her home in San Mateo, Calif., the bank said.
Her parents soon joined her and also found work with the company, but remained homesick for the country.
In 1935, she appeared with the American Ballet, Balanchine's first New York company.
