From 1945 to 1970, Mrs. Ronk was an economist at the Bankers Trust Company in Manhattan and prepared an annual report, ''The Investment Outlook.
Her Routine Was Her Own
        According to an account by Val Adams in The New York Times, the sponsoring Kellogg's cornflakes company handed her a list of nursery rhymes and told her to do a children's program.
''
        In the early 1940's, Miss Van Tuyl was the director and choreographer of the Marian Van Tuyl Dancers company, with which she also performed on their extensive and acclaimed tours of the Midwest.
In 1977, she founded the Isadora Duncan International Institute in Mount Kisco, N.Y., and the Maria-Theresa Heritage Group, the institute's performing company.
The company was sold to K Mart and the Jamesway Corporation.

       Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Mrs. Freeman joined Norton in 1940 as assistant to Robert E. Farlow, head of production and art director.

       Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Nelda S. Freeman, a former managing editor and board member of W. W. Norton & Company, the book publisher, died of cancer Saturday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 72 years old and lived in Brewster, N.Y.
        Mrs. Freeman joined Norton in 1940 as assistant to Robert E. Farlow, head of production and art director.
'' Another Soviet cancer patient, Rimma Bravve, left Moscow on Dec. 18 in Senator Hart's company to receive treatment in New York.
Miss Dehn, who directed a company of black dancers until 1973, was considered a pioneer in documenting the various styles of black social dance.
Miss Dehn formed a jazz-dance company at that time.
The troupe evolved into the Traditional Jazz Dance Company, which was made up of black entertainers and which toured internationally.
''
        Miss Kaye was a charter member of Ballet Theater from the company's first year, 1939.
There she worked with Mr. Tudor, one of the company's choreographers and teachers, who revealed ballet to her as an expressive art.
She performed with the company through 1951, when she left to dance with the New York City Ballet.
'' She returned to Ballet Theater in 1954 and danced with the company until 1959.
At 15, she graduated into the Metropolitan Opera's corps de ballet and danced with the American Ballet, a company founded by Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein, when it became the Metropolitan's resident ballet troupe in 1935.
'' She performed in musical comedies, among them ''Virginia,'' in 1937, ''Great Lady'' (1938), ''Stars in Your Eyes'' (1939) and, in 1952, ''Two's Company.
She appeared in the role of Wendy in ''Peter Pan'' and as Elie Dunn in Shaw's ''Heartbreak House,'' then undertook more serious roles, playing Ophelia in ''Hamlet'' with the Donald Wolfit company, Nora in Ibsen's ''Doll House,'' Celia in ''Volpone'' and Sabina in ''The Young Wives' Tale.
Previously she had been assistant art director of the L. S. Ayres & Company department stores in Indianapolis and on the display staff of Rike's department store in Dayton, Ohio.
She also served for more than 20 years as a member of the company's executive committee.
She moved to the Morris agency's London office in 1966, but resigned from the company a year later to become vice president of world story operations for Warner Brothers-Seven Arts.
Then she joined her father's act and performed in clubs in Tijuana and Agua Caliente, Mexico, where, when she was 16 years old, she was spotted by a Fox Film Company producer, who signed her to a contract.
''
        The Fox company's merger with 20th-Century Pictures left the young dancer without a contract, but in 1937 she met and married the man who was to become her Svengali and dramatically change her career fortunes.
Within a year, she won the role of the flapper in the touring company of ''The Gingham Girl,'' and soon after was signed to the title role of ''Little Jessie James.
Her career as a dancer began in 1936 when she joined the Humphrey-Weidman Dance Company and became a leading dancer and partner to Jose Limon.
She was also assistant to Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman, the company's directors.
From 1951-55, she performed with and choreographed dances for the Harriette Ann Gray Dance Company, which toured the United States.
From 1946-79 she was director of dance at the Stephens/Perry Mansfield School in Steamboat Springs, Colo. She also directed the Mid-America Dance Company from 1968-73 and worked with her own troupe, based at Stephens College, from 1976 to 1981.
'' She also directed the company's new production of ''Les Pecheurs de Perles'' in 1980, which was revived last season.

       Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
Among the silent films in which she starred were ''Baby Mine,'' ''Trimmed in Red,'' ''Bad Company,'' ''Lying Wives'' and ''Oh Baby.
With 11 other students - they each chipped in $35 - she formed a stock theater company that operated for four seasons from a playhouse outside the city.
Recently, as a member of the Mirror Repertory Company, she appeared in ''The Madwoman of Chaillot.
Ms. Shearon had been managing editor of Greenwillow Books, the children's book division of William Morrow & Company, from its inception in 1974 until her retirement in 1985.
She also was a granddaughter of Robert Hoe, an inventor and, in the latter 19th century and early 20th century, head of R. Hoe & Company, the manufacturer of printing presses.

       Bessie Brimberg, widow of Louis Brimberg, founder of the brokerage firm Brimberg & Company, died of pneumonia Monday in Doctors Hospital in Manhattan.
Bessie Brimberg, widow of Louis Brimberg, founder of the brokerage firm Brimberg & Company, died of pneumonia Monday in Doctors Hospital in Manhattan.
After two decades with the company, she formed her own consulting business, Hagai Associates, in 1985.
Mrs. Watts was the daughter of Gustave Hinrichs, a conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra and of the Metropolitan Opera Company at the turn of the century, and of Katherine Fleming, a contralto who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.
Mrs. Watts was the daughter of Gustave Hinrichs, a conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra and of the Metropolitan Opera Company at the turn of the century, and of Katherine Fleming, a contralto who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.
She was the first dancer taken into the Bolshoi company who trained with private teachers.
She left Russia in 1917 and toured Europe with a dance company organized by her and her husband, Vecheslav Swoboda, formerly a soloist with the Bolshoi Ballet and now dead.
Miss Swoboda kept the school open after her husband died until 1954, when it became the company school of the Ballet Russe.
A Marine Corps honor guard attended Mrs. Watson's burial Thursday at Arlington Cemetery in Drexel Hill, Pa.
        Mrs. Watson, who was born in Philadelphia, worked for almost 40 years for B. Altman & Company department store in Manhattan.
Later, she and Adolfo parted company and Adolfo turned to designing fashions on his own.
''
        Miss Attaway was the first director of the New York Players Guild, a black repertory theater company formed in New York in 1945.
In 1962, Mrs. Theodore founded the Jazz Ballet Theater, a company commissioned for the International Jazz Festival in Washington by President Kennedy's Music Committee.
The major work of her last years was the direction of the American Dance Machine, a theater-dance company she founded in 1975, a company devoted to the preservation of Broadway choreography of the past.
The major work of her last years was the direction of the American Dance Machine, a theater-dance company she founded in 1975, a company devoted to the preservation of Broadway choreography of the past.
''Some choreographers say they created the dances for a commercial setting and they're not worth saving, because they can't stand up,'' Mrs. Theodore said last year, before a company season at City Center.
''Gower Champion felt that way, but when he saw the company he changed his mind.
''
        Other choreographers expressing similar doubts at first were Agnes de Mille and Michael Kidd, but Miss de Mille later became an active supporter of the company.
Mrs. Theodore also envisioned the company as a training facility for show dancers.
''Theater dance is the way the American dancer expresses his culture, his understanding of the time,'' Mrs. Theodore said in 1978, before the company's first Broadway appearance.
She also danced with the Slavenska-Franklin Ballet Company.
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
Mrs. Scalamandre, an artist and designer, founded the company in 1929 with her husband, Franco.
In the 1950's, the company had more than 200 silk looms going night and day in Long Island City, Queens, and in Paterson, N.J. Scalamandre Silks now has 425 employees and does $30 million worth of business in silk annually.
The company has concentrated on drapery and upholstery fabrics, and its designs are used by decorators and featured in historical restorations.
The union president, Owen Bieber, said the early settlement of contracts with General Motors and the Ford Motor Company will make it easier to organize workers at Japanese-run auto and parts companies.
She made her acting debut as a French maid with a touring company in England.

       Dorothy Read Thomas, the widow of James A. Thomas, the tobacco company executive, died Friday of cardiac arrest.
Dorothy Read Thomas, the widow of James A. Thomas, the tobacco company executive, died Friday of cardiac arrest.
She married Mr. Thomas, who headed the Far East division of the British American Tobacco Company, in 1922.
