
        Camilla de Leon, a dance composer and accompanist in the 1930's and 40's, died on April 3 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 80, and lived in Middletown.

        Miriam Gideon, a prolific composer of vocal, chamber and orchestral music, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
"I didn't know I was a woman composer until the 1960's," she said in a 1986 interview.
"I knew I was a composer -- a young composer for many years, and then, suddenly, an older composer.
"I knew I was a composer -- a young composer for many years, and then, suddenly, an older composer.
"I knew I was a composer -- a young composer for many years, and then, suddenly, an older composer.
But never a woman composer.
She collaborated frequently with Paul Lansky, the composer, with whom she presented a retrospective program in New York and Princeton in 1995.

        Lillian Clark, a singer who performed with many stars of the big-band era and helped preserve the work of her husband, the composer and arranger Sy Oliver, died on Tuesday at her home in New York City.

        Louise Talma, a composer whose music combined a Neo-Classical spareness, clarity and lyricism with the structural rigorousness of the 12-tone school, died on Tuesday at Yaddo, the artists' colony near Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where she was composing a song cycle with chamber accompaniment.
In 1974, she became the first female composer to be elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
A prolific composer who was especially adept at text setting, Ms. Talma wrote dozens of song cycles and choral works on both sacred and secular subjects.
Mrs. Lawrence was best known for ''The Collected Works of Scott Joplin,'' which restored to print much of that composer's long unavailable music.
Mrs. Lawrence also published ''The Piano Music of Louis Moreau Gottschalk'' (1969), the first collected edition of an American composer's works, and ''The Wa-Wan Press, 1901-1911,'' a five-volume reprint of Arthur Farwell's pioneering American music series.
''
        But most of Miss Welitsch's career was spent in Europe, where she was coached by the composer when she made her Vienna Opera debut in a special performance of ''Salome'' that celebrated Richard Strauss's 80th birthday in 1944.
A musician who was able to quickly assimilate difficult music and perform it persuasively, Ms. LaBrecque was regularly called upon to perform in composer retrospectives.
With the composer supervising, she recorded all of his Piano Sonatas.

        Judith Kaplan Eisenstein, an author, musicologist and composer, died yesterday of a heart attack in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., where she was being treated for a broken hip.
She next moved to New York and married Israel Citkowitz, an American composer and pianist, and a student of Aaron Copland, 20 years her senior.
