''
        She had a particular association with the composer Gian Carlo Menotti.
Rather than comply with the dictates of the fascist government, Ms. Valli retreated into hiding and in 1944 married Oscar de Mejo, a Surrealist painter and composer, whose most successful song was ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.
In addition, The obituary also misidentified the composer of the song ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.
Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice president of IMG Artists, speaking on behalf of the singer's husband, the composer Peter Lieberson.
Every phrase of this emotionally unguarded, intricate and haunting work seemed fashioned by the composer for his wife's distinctive voice.

        Dika Newlin, who composed a symphony at 11, became a distinguished composer and musicologist and emerged, in her 70's and 80's, as a most unlikely punk rocker, died on July 22 in Richmond, Va. She was 82.
Dr. Newlin's earlier prominence grew out of her studies as a teenager with the composer Arnold Schoenberg.

        Ruth Schonthal, an American composer and pianist of German birth whose eclectic music brought together elements as diverse as European Romanticism, Mexican folk song and Minimalism, died on July 10 at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 82.
The composer Paul Hindemith, who was in the audience, invited her to study with him at Yale.
The same year, a biography, ''Ruth Schonthal: A Composer's Musical Development in Exile,'' by Martina Helmig, was published in Germany, and later in an English translation.
The composer, Frank Loesser, reworked it for the Sarah Brown character, and it became the signature song of Miss Bigley's career.
In the years that followed Ms. Comden and Mr. Green teamed up with the composer Cy Coleman for ''On the Twentieth Century'' (1978), based on the Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur play about a flamboyant movie producer (John Cullum) and his leading lady (Madeline Kahn), traveling from Hollywood to Broadway on the Twentieth-Century Limited in the 1930s.

        Galina Ustvolskaya, a Russian composer of expressive and often forceful works who studied with Shostakovich, and whose music has found an enthusiastic audience in the West since the early 1990s, died on Dec. 22 in St. Petersburg, Russia.
Ms. Ustvolskaya was an enigmatic and largely reclusive composer who produced a compact but rich body of music.
Shostakovich was among her teachers, and he regarded her as a supremely talented composer: in addition to declaring that her music would ''be valued by all who perceive truth in music to be of paramount importance,'' he quoted a theme from her 1949 Trio for Clarinet, Violin and Piano in two works of his own, the String Quartet No.
