Surviving are a daughter, Katharine P. Darrow, who is vice president of The New York Times Company for broadcasting, information services and corporate development; a sister, Marion Schild of Brooklyn, a retired librarian at the Library of Congress, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Henabery was president of Jeanne Henabery Associates, a public relations firm she started in 1970, and was also affiliated with her husband in his broadcast consulting company, Bob Henabery Associates.
She began her career in the public relations department of the General Electric Company in Pittsfield, Mass., and was later with public-relations concerns in Detroit and in New York City.
      
In 1929 Miss Bry and her husband, Maurice Shevelson Benjamin, a founder of the brokerage firm Benjamin, Hill & Company, commissioned the noted architect Ely Jacques Kahn to design an Art Deco apartment for them in the Beresford building on Central Park West.
Miss Stuart's musicality and lyricism were the hallmarks of her style as a dancer with Pavlova, whose company she joined at age 13, and as a teacher at the School of American Ballet, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.
Mrs. Alcott joined the Manhattan firm of Bernard, Shally & Company in 1914 as a secretary and in the 1920's became one of the first women to work her way up to a partnership in a Wall Street concern.
Her father, Louis Stockstrom, founded the American Stove Company.

        Sylvia Weiner Leiferman, an artist, philanthropist and president of the Leiferman Investment Company, died on Thursday at the Heartland of Miami Lakes, a nursing home in North Miami, Fla. She was 77 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla.
        She died of a respiratory ailment, a family spokesman said.
She was a significant shareholder in the holding company that controls Arnoldo Mondadori Editore S.p.A., Italy's largest publisher of books, magazines and newspapers, including the influential daily La Repubblica.
She sealed the reputation of the young British company that became the Royal Ballet when she conquered New York in 1949 as the radiant Princess Aurora in "The Sleeping Beauty.
" But she widened her range successfully and dramatically when she performed as a guest artist with Roland Petit's company in Paris in 1948.
" In 1975, she danced in Martha Graham's "Lucifer" as a guest artist with the Graham company in Manhattan.
She also created designs for Sears, Roebuck & Company; Saks Fifth Avenue; Alyssa, a children's fashion concern, and for her own company, Designs by Helen Lee Inc.
She also created designs for Sears, Roebuck & Company; Saks Fifth Avenue; Alyssa, a children's fashion concern, and for her own company, Designs by Helen Lee Inc.

        Eleanor King, a modern-dance choreographer and a member of the original Doris Humphrey-Charles Weidman company, died on Wednesday at the Actor's Home in Haddonfield, N.J. She was 85 years old.
She began to present programs of her own work during the 1930's, and in 1943 established a company in Seattle.
Their books included "City People's Guide to Country Living" (Macmillan, 1973), "Vacation Houses" (Dial, 1973) and "Your Barn House," to be published this spring by Henry Holt & Company.
Mrs. Boissevain appeared, as Jean Tennyson, with several leading European and American opera companies, including La Scala in Milan, the Chicago Civic Opera and the San Francisco Opera Company.
She performed with Anna Pavlova's classical ballet company, with Serge Diaghilev's avant-garde Ballets Russes and with German Expressionist modern dancers.
Miss Page appeared briefly with Pavlova's company that year.
Miss Page married Thomas Hart Fisher, a well-to-do Chicago lawyer, in 1925, and on her honeymoon in Europe danced with Diaghilev's company.
Their success prompted her to found the Chicago Opera Ballet in 1956, a touring company that featured ballets inspired by operas and operettas.
She was born in Morristown, the daughter of George W. Jenkins, president of the family-owned Remington Arms Company, and Helen Hartley Jenkins, a benfactor of Columbia University.
Her husband, Winter Mead, an executive for the Prudential Life Insurance Company, died in 1953.
She was with the Paris office of French & Company, the art dealer, for several years.
Miss Graham died of cardiac arrest after being treated for two months for pneumonia, said Ron Protas, general director of the Martha Graham Dance Company.
The most recent was her self-mocking "Maple Leaf Rag," which had its premiere on Oct. 2 with the Martha Graham Dance Company in New York.
"
        Even the dance technique that she hammered out on her own body and then transferred to her school and company derived from the most organic aspect of human life: the act of breathing.
She began using contemporary scores for the company she formed in 1929.
Started Dance Training At 22, After Father Died
        In 1916, after the death of her father and after graduation from a junior college, the Cumnock School, Miss Graham enrolled in the Denishawn school in Los Angeles and then joined the Denishawn Company.
Denishawn, organized by Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, was then the only major dance company that worked outside the classical ballet tradition, and it became the incubating ground for such pioneering talents as Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman and Miss Graham herself.
She assembled a company of women.
These experiences were reflected in such works as "Primitive Mysteries" and "El Penitente," which remain in her company's repertory.
After relinquishing her roles to younger dancers, she continued to direct her company.
She made triumphant tours to the Far East and Europe under Government auspices and, in her 80's and 90's, increasingly traveled abroad with her company.
In 1975, just before Dame Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev appeared as guests in her company, she declared, "The war has ended," alluding to the perceived conflict between modern dance and ballet.
In 1984 Mrs. Masey moved to Manhattan, where she was a copy editor for the Macmillan Publishing Company, now Maxwell/ Macmillan, and later for Praeger Publishers.
Mrs. Buhler was one of the first female investment brokers at Bache & Company, with whom she was associated in the 1960's.
She joined the Shell Oil Company in 1942, became a senior geologist there in 1959 and was a staff geologist with the Shell Development Company from 1975 to 1979.
She joined the Shell Oil Company in 1942, became a senior geologist there in 1959 and was a staff geologist with the Shell Development Company from 1975 to 1979.
"
        With equal ease, she also starred on the West End over the decades in such American hits as "The Man Who Came to Dinner" and "My Sister Eileen" through "The Pleasure of His Company" and "Toys in the Attic.
From 1970 to 1972, she starred in shows in Las Vegas, Nev., and later founded a film company with her husband, Brett Halsey.

        Shirley E. Naaman, a vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Wednesday at Elmhurst General Hospital in Queens.
Dame Peggy was in the Old Vic company in the early 1930's, frequently appearing with John Gielgud in the 1930's and 40's.
She often performed in the West End of London in the 1950's and with the Royal Court, the Shakespeare Memorial Theater, the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater.
"
        Later roles included an alcoholic mother in "Edward, My Son," in both London and New York; an unloved spinster in "The Heiress," leading parts in Brecht's "Good Woman of Setzuan," Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler" and "Rosmersholm" and the 10-hour tour de force as Margaret of Anjou in the Royal Shakespeare Company's "Wars of the Roses.
She was also a partner in the Modern Manufacturing Braid Company, novelty braid and fabric manufacturers in Manhattan from 1935 to 1972, when she retired.
Her theater work included sets for John Moran's multi-media opera "The Manson Family" and collaborations with XXY Dance/Music, a multi-media dance company.
"Miss Le G.," as generations of theater people called her, came closer than any other person to endowing the United States with a permanent company performing repertory in the manner of the Old Vic, the Comedie Francaise and the Moscow Art Theater.
Among the company's apprentices were such hopeful novices as Burgess Meredith, John Garfield, J. Edward Bromberg and Howard Da Silva.
The company's wealthy patrons were hit by the Depression, donations dwindled and the theater closed in 1933.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
In 1987, after a five-year legal challenge by Farmland, a ruling by a Federal District Court judge opened the New York City market to the company, upsetting a 50-year domination by a powerful group of distributors.
She remained with the company until her marriage some 20 years later.
After her husband's death in 1964, she took over his business, Dutton, Mast & Company, a textile concern in Manhattan.
The company was later sold.
She was an actress who appeared in more than 60 movies and a soprano with the London Opera Company and, under the name Maria de la Hull, with the Columbia Opera Company in Washington.
She was an actress who appeared in more than 60 movies and a soprano with the London Opera Company and, under the name Maria de la Hull, with the Columbia Opera Company in Washington.
"
        Ms. Remick, who was born in Quincy, Mass., studied dance as a child and won her first acting job at age 16 with a summer-stock company on nearby Cape Cod.
For nearly four decades beginning in the early 1920's, Miss Marshall, together with her husband, Lawrence Langner, and Theresa Helburn, co-founders of the Theater Guild, guided the subscription company through its glory years as one of the most successful producers of Broadway plays.
) Theater Festival and the Whole Theater Company of Montclair, N.J.
In 1981, under Miss Nijinska's supervision, the Oakland Ballet became the first American company to perform "Les Noces.
Collaborative Efforts
        That year, the Harlem company offered an all-Bronislava Nijinska program of "Les Noces," "Les Biches" and "Rondo Capriccioso," which Irina Nijinska revived in association with the ballerina Rosella Hightower.
Ms. Bess had worked to produce the 10th anniversary program of the Black Filmmaker Foundation and was talent coordinator for "Spike & Company: Do It A Cappella," broadcast last year by PBS.
Mrs. Manchee was a historian for the Steuben Glass Company in the 1940's and later was a representative for the Swedish glass concern Orrefors.
She went on to travel in 22 countries, filing reports to the Cowles Broadcasting Company and the Mutual Broadcasting System.
Ms. Bess had worked to produce the 10th anniversary program of the Black Filmmaker Foundation and was talent coordinator for "Spike & Company: Do It A Cappella," broadcast last year by PBS.
By the 1940's her clothing company was described as the largest of its kind in the world.
Through her business, the Donnelly Garment Company, a $3.5 million business with 1,000 employees in 1935, she helped turn Kansas City into a thriving ready-to-wear manufacturing center.
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.
The rapid growth of her company in the 1930's brought efforts by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to organize her plant, but despite legal maneuvers that reached the United States Supreme Court, her company was still union free in 1948.
The rapid growth of her company in the 1930's brought efforts by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to organize her plant, but despite legal maneuvers that reached the United States Supreme Court, her company was still union free in 1948.
Mrs. Reed retired from her company in 1956 and it changed its name to Nelly Don Inc.
The company went public in 1958, but eventually filed for bankruptcy.
By the 1940's her clothing company was described as the largest of its kind in the world.
Through her business, the Donnelly Garment Company, a $3.5 million business with 1,000 employees in 1935, she helped turn Kansas City into a thriving ready-to-wear manufacturing center.
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.
The rapid growth of her company in the 1930's brought efforts by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to organize her plant, but despite legal maneuvers that reached the United States Supreme Court, her company was still union free in 1948.
The rapid growth of her company in the 1930's brought efforts by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union to organize her plant, but despite legal maneuvers that reached the United States Supreme Court, her company was still union free in 1948.
Mrs. Reed retired from her company in 1956, and it changed its name to Nelly Don Inc.
The company went public in 1958, but eventually filed for bankruptcy.
She was born in Lancaster, Pa., where her family owned the local newspaper company.
Early in her career she was a newspaper reporter for the Lancaster New Era and later was a director of her family's company.
She is survived by her husband, L. Emery Katzenbach, the former chairman of White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm; two daughters, Mrs. Pamela M. Thye of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Caroline N. Sidnam of New York City; a son, Robert D. C. Meeker Jr. of Elizabethtown, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
When "Angelo's Wedding" was presented by the Circle Repertory Company in 1985, several weeks of difficult relations among the playwright, the director and several cast members culminated in an altercation at the theater during a performance.
" As choreographer for the Diaghilev company, George Balanchine created the title role of "La Chatte" for Miss Spessiv tzeva in 1927.
While touring the world in the mid-1930's with the Victor Dandre-Alexander Levitov Ballet, the successor to Pavlova's company, Miss Spessivtzeva began to suffer from increasingly serious breakdowns.
She was with CKDC Steel, a Manhattan company that trades in carbon wire and wire rod, from 1981 until she became ill earlier this year.
In 1921 she married Harold Florsheim, an heir to the Florsheim Shoe Company, and moved to Chicago.
Her next job, which she held for 16 years, was as a personal secretary to Adele Rosenwald Levy, whose father was a founder of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
In 1940 she married Edmund Whitman, her first husband's business colleague at the United Fruit Company.
In the mid-1950's she and her husband, George Anders, who died in 1987, began their own publishing company, Hearthside Press, which specialized in works on cooking, crafts and gardening.
At the Royal Shakespeare Company, founded by Sir Peter in 1960, she was, he said, a "mainstay," the company's "high priestess.
At the Royal Shakespeare Company, founded by Sir Peter in 1960, she was, he said, a "mainstay," the company's "high priestess.
Mrs. Feldman's corporate clients have included U.S. Steel, the Harmonie Club and, most recently, Mitsui Fudosan, a Japanese real-estate company.
When Parke-Bernet was acquired by Sotheby & Company, an English auction house, in 1963, she was named executive vice president of the new firm, Sotheby Parke Bernet.

        Edith Zornow, a prominent figure in the New York independent film and video community who produced the animation for "Sesame Street" and "The Electric Company" on public television, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Rindlaub, in 34 years at the Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn agency in Manhattan, rose to head of a copy group and in 1946 became a vice president, the first woman at that level in the company.
In 1954, she became the first woman on the company board.
She became editor of company publications.
