In 1998, City Ballet opened its 50th-anniversary season with a tribute to her as a charter member of the company and to her legendary status within it.
Le Clercq acknowledged a tumultuous ovation at the New York State Theater from her wheelchair as Peter Martins, the company's artistic director, presented her with a bouquet.
Although Balanchine and Kirstein had no permanent ballet company at this time, Balanchine cast her in 1945 in a student performance of ''Symphonie Concertante,'' a ballet to Mozart.
She became part of the company of Walter Hampton, a prominent Shakespearean actor, and also had a small part in the Broadway production of ''Cynara,'' which opened in 1931, before her father strongly discouraged her from acting because she might be taking jobs from poor people.
In 1986, Ms. Ball and her husband formed the retail management company Ball Group Inc.
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chairman of the Post Company's executive committee.
''
        ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' the team's first book in a best-selling series on what to expect from pregnancy, babies and toddlers, was released by the Workman Publishing Company in 1984.
Eventually baking operations were centralized at the company's building on West 72nd Street, which opened in 1955, and the other locations were used as stores.
Often, one of its creations was part of the bridal display at Tiffany & Company.

        A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Nelson was linked to the company's founder, Madame C. J. Walker, who was her father's boss.
After Walker died in 1919, her daughter A'Lelia Walker took over the company.
Ransom, was the company's general manager and lawyer during the years A'Lelia Walker was president, and named his daughter for her when she was born on Aug. 14, 1918.
But the company was by then in decline.
Later, she appeared with Page's own Chicago company.
Ms. Arova became increasingly involved with company direction, often in association with Thor Sutowski, the American dancer and choreographer, whom she married in 1965.
Mrs. Freedman, who at the time of the Manhattan fire was two days shy of 18, escaped death in 1911 by following company executives to the roof to be rescued.
Lying about her age, she worked at a Manhattan insurance company until she was 79.
She got an accounting job at the Manhattan Life Insurance Company.
Mrs. Colbert moved to the United States from Berlin in 1936 and started her management company with her husband, Henry Colbert, in 1948.
When Mrs. Colbert retired in 1991, she turned over the reins of her company, which remains in business under her name, to her longtime associate, Agnes Eisenberger.
She sang on the company's recordings of both roles, which have been reissued on CD.
Her father became a multimillionaire partner in the banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company, who went on to become a Republican Senator from New Jersey.
While she was transcribing a letter, her boss suggested that she appear on a radio program that the company was sponsoring .
A choreographer noted for powerful solos, Miss Koner was also a principal dancer with the José Limón Dance Company, a leading modern-dance troupe of the 1940's and 50's.
Humphrey served as the artistic adviser to the Limón company and she and Limón asked Miss Koner to perform with the troupe.
As a result, she became what she termed ''a permanent guest artist'' with the company from 1946 to 1960, creating roles in such major works as Limón's ''Moor's Pavane'' (1949) and Humphrey's ''Ruins and Visions'' (1953).
Correction:  February 12, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the dancer Pauline Koner on Friday referred incorrectly to the José Limón Dance Company, in which she was a principal in the 1940's and 50's.
It remains a leading modern-dance company; its prominence was not limited to those decades.
      

        Inna Zubkovskaya, a leading ballerina in the Kirov Ballet when that Russian company first appeared in the West, died on Feb. 5 in St. Petersburg, Russia.
The company had performed a few months earlier in Paris, where it was rocked by Rudolf Nureyev's defection but continued on to London for its British debut.
The depth of dancing at that time proved that the company from St. Petersburg was dependent on no single star but had an array of distinguished ballerinas, a stunning corps and other male dancers of superstar caliber like Yuri Soloviev.
Invited to join the Kirov, she danced with that company until 1970, performing in the classics and the premieres of major Soviet ballets including Leonid Jakobson's version of ''Spartacus'' and Yuri Grigorovich's ''Legend of Love.
Her newsletter was the first periodical to report on public relations, said Jack O'Dwyer, whose company, the J. R. O'Dwyer Company, publishes the rival O'Dwyer Newsletter.
Her newsletter was the first periodical to report on public relations, said Jack O'Dwyer, whose company, the J. R. O'Dwyer Company, publishes the rival O'Dwyer Newsletter.
''
        When her death was announced by the Royal Ballet, Sir Anthony Dowell, the company's director, offered a tribute to Madam, as Dame Ninette was known to generations of dancers: ''Through her achievements she will remain a source of inspiration and encouragement as she has been throughout her life to so many of us as dancer, choreographer, director, teacher and mentor.
Returning to London in 1926, Miss de Valois opened a school and began to build what eventually became a national ballet company.
On May 5, 1931, her dancers from the Old Vic offered their first full program, and a company was born.
Called the Vic-Wells Ballet (after the jointly managed Old Vic theater and the Sadler's Wells, where the company originally performed), the troupe became the Sadler's Wells Ballet when all its performances were at that theater.
After the company settled into the Royal Opera House, Miss de Valois  established a second company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, at Sadler's Wells.
After the company settled into the Royal Opera House, Miss de Valois  established a second company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, at Sadler's Wells.
This troupe was reorganized in several forms over the years and was the forerunner of today's Birmingham Royal Ballet, a major British company.
The original London company was renamed the Royal Ballet when it received a royal charter in 1956.
Yet, for the rest of her life she helped guide the policies of the company and its affiliated school.
Dame Ninette attended the opening performance of ''Job'' when the Birmingham company had a season at Covent Garden that July, and she and her ballet received an ovation.
From the 1940's through the 60's, these included ''Miss Liberty,'' ''Two's Company,'' ''The Beggar's Opera,'' ''Kaleidoscope'' and ''Bravo Giovanni.
After appearing in small groups headed by Fokine and Mikhail Mordkin, whose company was the nucleus of Ballet Theater, she danced with the Salmaggi Opera at the Hippodrome in New York and in ''Stars in Your Eyes,'' a Broadway musical.
She was the ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Company in the 1952-53 season.
'' After she persuaded Michael Chekhov, Chekhov's nephew, to join her in forming an acting school and company, the Dartington Hall Players in England, they brought the troupe to the United States, where she performed in Shakespeare.
In 1973 she played Mrs. Alving in a Roundabout Theater production of Ibsen's ''Ghosts'' and in 1979 was Gertrude to William Hurt's Hamlet at the Circle Repertory Company.
'' The company received a Tony Award in 1965 for its work in producing classical theater.

        Carmencita Romero, who performed with Katherine Dunham in her first company, the Negro Dance Group, in the mid-1930's, died on May 6 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan.
'' She toured the United States with the Dunham company until 1942.
Her last performance was in December 2000 in a program with the Joan Peters Dance Company at the Donnell Library Center of the New York Public Library in Manhattan.
The company, conducted by Hugo Fiorato, danced excerpts from two works associated with Ms.
''
        The speakers included Peter Martins, ballet master in chief of the New York City Ballet; Howard Solomon, the company's chairman; and Nancy Lassalle, a board member emeritus of the company and a board member of the School of American Ballet.
''
        The speakers included Peter Martins, ballet master in chief of the New York City Ballet; Howard Solomon, the company's chairman; and Nancy Lassalle, a board member emeritus of the company and a board member of the School of American Ballet.
They were married a year later, and shortly after Mr. Lee left to start Tom Lee Ltd., a design company.
The family moved to Rowayton, Conn., and from 1964 to 1982, while her husband managed Hines, Ms. Dance ran Hicue, the music publishing company for Hines and Hodges.
Since 1989, Mrs. Moses had been a principal in the Mosaic Group, a media company she founded with her husband in 1985.
Both the Rosenthal company and Osprey Designs, which succeeded it, specialized in the design of technical systems for theaters.
Mr. Burton, who became a record company executive, died in 1955.
When Mrs. Wirth's husband, Oscar Wirth, died in 1968, she assumed the role of the chairwoman of the Hassler Hotel Company.
Mr. Meyer also arranged for him to hold more stock in the company than his daughter because, he explained to her, ''no man should be in the position of working for his wife.
He also added television stations to the company's holdings.
She was elected president of the company, but she felt ''abysmally ignorant'' about how to proceed.
''
        In 1969, and still with considerable trepidation, Mrs. Graham added the title of publisher to her position as president of the Washington Post Company.
There was a crisis atmosphere, for at the same time the Washington Post Company was in the process of being taken public, raising concerns that the company could face harsh retribution from federal regulators if it published the Pentagon Papers while The New York Times was enjoined.
There was a crisis atmosphere, for at the same time the Washington Post Company was in the process of being taken public, raising concerns that the company could face harsh retribution from federal regulators if it published the Pentagon Papers while The New York Times was enjoined.
The editors and reporters urged her to publish the papers, but the lawyers suggested waiting, fearing the whole company -- its newspapers, magazines, and radio and television stations -- was at stake.
''
        In a statement yesterday, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman emeritus of The New York Times Company, said:
        ''We are deeply saddened by the passing of Katharine Graham, a close friend and honored colleague.
''
        In the course of the paper's investigation, the licenses of two of the company's television stations were challenged.
She enjoyed weekends at her homes in Virginia and Martha's Vineyard, often in the company of her grandchildren.
In the 1970's, she acknowledged in her book, she hired and dismissed top executives at Newsweek, the newspaper division and the Washington Post Company too frequently.
In the early 1970's, Mrs. Graham and her associates tried to make the Washington Post Company more profitable.
Donald Graham succeeded his mother as publisher in 1979 and chief executive of the company in 1991, a company which by then was valued at nearly $2 billion.
Donald Graham succeeded his mother as publisher in 1979 and chief executive of the company in 1991, a company which by then was valued at nearly $2 billion.
Her company, Beate Uhse A.G., based in the northern German city of Flensburg, said the cause was pneumonia.
The company is listed on the Frankfurt stock exchange, employs 1,000 people and runs strings of boutiques and cinemas, a mail-order house and a film studio.
In 1931, she and her husband, Lawrence M. Gelb, a manufacturer of chemical products, traveled to France in search of new business opportunities and came upon a small company, Mury, that was producing a new kind of hair-coloring preparation called Clairol.
'' 'Middle-aged' was not in the vocabulary of French women,'' a 1982 Clairol company history quoted her as saying.
The two started the Clairol company, with Mrs. Gelb as president, and set up offices at 1600 Broadway.
By the end of its third year, the company had revenues of $400,000;  revenues had more than doubled by 1938.
The formula was in the hands of a German chemist, who sold it to the American company for $25,000.
Lawrence Gelb remained active in the company, retiring as chairman before his death in 1980; Mrs. Gelb's involvement with Clairol ceased after the divorce.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
The Weltys settled in Jackson shortly after their marriage, and Mr. Welty became an executive of the Lamar Life Insurance company.
She and her company also performed regularly into the 1970's at the Cubiculo and the American Theater Lab.
At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market.
She then retired but continued to serve on the company's board.
After a season of walk-ons with a stock company in Louisville, Ky., where she'd gone at the urging of a friend who was working there, she boarded a Greyhound bus for New York.
'' On various stages -- at the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal Court, the National Theater and on the West End -- she continued to blaze for the rest of the 20th century.
'' In her 1989 book, ''First Father, First Daughter,'' (Little, Brown & Company), Ms. Reagan recalled, ''I went out on so many auditions I began to think of changing my middle name to Rejection.
Her father, Ben Redner, owned a taxicab company, and she led a privileged life.

        Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London.
She studied dance in New York with Hanya Holm and performed with her company before joining the Graham troupe in 1935.
She remained a member until 1944, but later appeared as a guest artist with the company.
Supported by her stake in the family company, Sallie made a living of her love of horses.
In 1981 she formed Learning Designs, a company that produced award-winning educational television series like ''Behind the Scenes,'' starring the comedians Penn and Teller designed to teach 10-to-12-year-olds about the creative process in the visual and performing arts.
She was 42 and lived in Great Falls, Va.
        Ms. Raines was senior vice president for government relations at the Genzyme Corporation, a biotechnology company in Cambridge, Mass.
She was flying from Washington to Los Angeles aboard American Airlines Flight 77 to attend a company sales meeting in Palm Springs, Calif.
        Ms. Raines played a role in shaping virtually all of the laws affecting the biotechnology industry over more than a decade, including laws that strengthened patent protection and accelerated the approval of drugs by the Food and Drug Administration.
In the mid-1940's, she, Mr. Peck, Jennifer Jones, Joseph Cotten, Mel Ferrer and other actors formed  the La Jolla Players, a repertory company in California.
In the late 1930's she played in the road company of ''My Dear Children'' (a vehicle for John Barrymore) and appeared with Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong and Maxine Sullavan in ''Swingin' the Dream,'' a musical version of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' that flopped.
In 1953, she married Werner Dannheisser, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an owner of a successful engraving company who dabbled in collecting.
She then went to work for a finance company, but quit because.
''
        In 1968, Ms. Babbin established her own production company, Clovis.
In his review in The Times, Mr. Atkinson said, ''Magnificently acted by a company led by Geraldine Page and Louis Jourdan, 'The Immoralist' is an admirable piece of work that retains the integrity of Gide and does credit to the taste of the Goetzes.
'' She appeared in at least 10 ads throughout the decade, beginning in 1980, and was an enthusiastic spokeswoman for the company, a Hanes representative said, at trade conventions and at Hanes factories.
In the 1970's she was a member of the National Theater Company, winning plaudits for her appearances in ''Il Campiello'' by Goldoni and Ben Travers's ''Plunder.
''
        From 1983 to 1985 she acted with the Royal Shakespeare Company in several plays, including ''The Dillon,'' ''Measure for Measure'' and a revival of the school farce ''The Happiest Days of Your Life.
Mrs. Ash, who preferred to be called Mary Kay, was 45 when she started her company, which sells its products through home and office demonstrations by sales representatives.
Within two years, the company's wholesale sales had reached almost $1 million.
'' Her company eventually became the largest direct seller of skin-care products in the country.
Last year, the company had sales of $1.2 billion and more than 850,000 sales consultants in 37 countries, ranging from Britain, Australia and Japan to Singapore and Brunei.
Her almost mythical stature in her company was as glittering as her  diamonds.
Her unique public popularity engendered such enthusiasm during the company's annual seminar, a three-day multimillion-dollar extravaganza, that she often had to use little-known passageways to elude her fans.
The highlight of the seminar was Award Night, in which Mrs. Ash honored those who were the highest achievers for her company.
The glitzy seminars were a far cry from the initial company get-together in 1964, held in a warehouse decorated with balloons and crepe paper.
The company that qualified for inclusion in the Fortune 500 list in 1992 opened its doors in September 1963, backed by a $5,000 bank account.
The skin-care products that formed the basis of the company were developed by J. W. Heath, an Arkansas tanner who noticed that his hands looked younger than his face and began experimenting with the solution he used in his work.
The philosophy of the fledgling company was based on three principles enunciated by Mrs. Ash -- treating others as they themselves would like to be treated, putting God first, family second and career third, and the belief that with praise and encouragement, everyone could succeed.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
And yet here was a company that would give women all the opportunities I had never had.
I believe he used this company as a vehicle to give women a chance.
Mrs. Ash, who preferred to be called Mary Kay, was 45 when she started her company, which sells its products through home and office demonstrations by sales representatives.
Within two years, the company's wholesale sales had reached almost $1 million.
'' Her company eventually became the largest direct seller of skin-care products in the country.
Last year, the company had sales of $1.2 billion and more than 850,000 sales consultants in 37 countries, ranging from Britain, Australia and Japan to Singapore and Brunei.
Her almost mythical stature in her company was as glittering as her  diamonds.
Her unique public popularity engendered such enthusiasm during the company's annual seminar, a three-day, multimillion-dollar extravaganza, that she often had to use little-known passageways to elude her fans.
The highlight of the seminar was Award Night, in which Mrs. Ash honored those who were the highest achievers for her company.
The glitzy seminars were a far cry from the initial company get-together in 1964, held in a warehouse decorated with balloons and crepe paper.
The company that qualified for inclusion in the Fortune 500 list in 1992 opened its doors in September 1963, backed by a $5,000 bank account.
The skin-care products that formed the basis of the company were developed by J. W. Heath, an Arkansas tanner who noticed that his hands looked younger than his face and began experimenting with the solution he used in his work.
The philosophy of the fledgling company was based on three principles enunciated by Mrs. Ash -- treating others as they themselves would like to be treated; putting God first, family second and career third; and  believing that with praise and encouragement, everyone could succeed.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
And yet here was a company that would give women all the opportunities I had never had.
I believe he used this company as a vehicle to give women a chance.
She helped build the company into one of the country's fastest-growing apparel retailers.
Holdings now include Express stores, Lerner New York and a majority stake in Intimate Brands, which includes Victoria's Secret, Bath and Body Works and the White Barn Candle Company.
She had become a professional portrait painter when her husband, a banker, author, journalist and eventually an oil company executive, suggested she write a novel.
In the late 1930's, she was an original member of the American Abstract Artists organization and worked for the federal Works Progress Administration, assisting Fernand Léger on his mural for the French Line passenger ship company.
