From 1948 to 1953, she had her own dance company in Chicago.
In 1962, she became the designer for Jane & Jane, a company of young Londoners who, along with designers like Mary Quant, helped to shake up the staid British fashion world.
She founded, directed and choreographed for the Ballet of the City of the Florence, believed to be the first modern-dance company in Italy.
Mrs. Hooper was born and reared in Grosse Pointe, Mich., the daughter of Dexter Mason Ferry, an insurance executive who was the founder of the Ferry Seed Company, and Jeanette Hawkins.
Miss Keswick's father, Sir John Keswick, was a major trader at the head of the Scottish company Jardine Matheson.
After the company disbanded in the early 1930's, she founded the Apprentice Theater of the New School for Social Research.
Mrs. Sawyer, a graduate of Briarcliff College, was the daughter of Barbara and Clifford Michel, an investment banker and senior partner in Loeb, Rhoades & Company and Kuhn Loeb & Company.
Mrs. Sawyer, a graduate of Briarcliff College, was the daughter of Barbara and Clifford Michel, an investment banker and senior partner in Loeb, Rhoades & Company and Kuhn Loeb & Company.

        Saidye Rosner Bronfman, a philanthropist and widow of Samuel Bronfman, founder of the Seagram Company, died yesterday at her home in Montreal.
Two years later, the couple moved to Montreal, where Mr. Bronfman opened his first small distillery and built the company into a beverage and distilled spirits empire.
The family sold the manufacturing company, but Mr. Weinberger continues to be the distributor.

        Gail Beckenstein Sovern, a former investment analyst for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and legal librarian for the law firm of Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center.

        Carol Fox Sulzberger, the wife of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, and an active volunteer with foundations and social-service organizations, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I.
"
        Mrs. Greenfield and another friend of many years, Sydney Gruson, said friends would remember Mrs. Sulzberger as a woman who jealously guarded the time she spent with her family, her antiques hunting and her passion for the company and conversation of intimates.
Mrs. Hobby sold The Post to the Toronto Sun Publishing Company in 1983 for about $130 million.
In 1949, she bought the company and renamed it Adele Simpson.
In 1991, the family sold the business to Barron Peters, a clothing company in Lowell, Mass., which has since filed for bankruptcy and discontinued the Adele Simpson line.
She enjoyed the company of friends and, in particular, liked a good game of bridge.
It has been owned since September 1993 by Pryor Resources, a business seminar training company in Kansas City, Kan.
        Mrs. Wood continued to teach and was developing a remedial reading program for children when she suffered an incapacitating stroke in 1976.
In the late 40's, as a member of Margaret Webster's Shakespeare company, she toured with "Hamlet" and "Macbeth.
"
        In 1949, Miss Lupino and Collier Young, a movie executive and producer who was then her husband, founded Filmakers, an independent production company, for which she directed candid films with feminist themes.
Despite a recent interest in high-technology issues, her favorite was Berkshire Hathaway, the investment company headed by Warren E. Buffett, whose greeting on her 100th birthday in July included a request for a stock tip.
Mrs. Kidder was a great-granddaughter of Eben D. Jordan, the founder of the Jordan Marsh department store company and The Boston Globe.
They relied mostly on each other for comfort and company.
Although she became a Ziegfeld girl and appeared in other Broadway shows, including Kern's "Rock-a-Bye Baby" in 1918, it was not until she got to England in 1921 as the lead in the London company of "Sally" that she became a star.
"
        She usually received 25 to 30 telephone calls a night; in her early years, she also had her champagne-colored French poodle, Genya, to keep her company, chewing on a bone in the studio as Ms. Steele talked to listeners.
She made her first professional acting appearance with the Stratford-on-Avon Shakespearean Company before moving back to the United States.
He was president of the National State Bank, the Elizabethtown Consolidated Gas Company and the Elizabethtown Water Company, all in Elizabeth, N.J. Thomas H. Kean, the former Governor of New Jersey, is his nephew.
He was president of the National State Bank, the Elizabethtown Consolidated Gas Company and the Elizabethtown Water Company, all in Elizabeth, N.J. Thomas H. Kean, the former Governor of New Jersey, is his nephew.
Their company, Wallis-Hazen Productions, made films like "Come Back, Little Sheba," "Gunfight at the O.K.
Ms. Dearing began her career dancing with Miriam Makeba and acting with the Negro Ensemble Company.
She also performed with the Sun Ock Lee Dance Company.

        Genora Johnson Dollinger, who rallied support for the hard-fought strike that gave the United Auto Workers union its foothold at the General Motors Company in 1937, died on Wednesday at Cedar Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
The strike began on Christmas Eve 1936 and ended 44 days later with the company's recognition of the union as bargaining agent for its work force.
"
        She said she was blacklisted in Flint and moved to Detroit and a job at the Briggs Manufacturing Company, a Chrysler supplier.
Instead, she joined the ballet company of the Cincinnati Opera.
Ms. Graves, whose first New York exhibition was at the Graham Gallery in 1968, has been represented by M. Knoedler & Company since 1980.
Ms. Graves, whose first New York exhibition was at the Graham Gallery in 1968, has been represented by M. Knoedler & Company since 1980.
Antoine and Isabelle Gallimard are executives of the publishing company.
      
The association also compiled the Dance Film and Video Guide, an exhaustive catalogue of films on popular, concert, ethnic and historic dance that is published by Dance Horizons and the Princeton Book Company.
Her only child, Donald Callender, sold the company to Ramada Inn in 1986, when it had annual sales of $175 million.
Ms. Miceli's work for the New York City Opera began with the company's 1966  production of Handel's "Julius Caesar," with which it opened its first season at Lincoln Center.
She is survived by her sister, who will continue to operate the company.
      
She had spent 14 years with the company.
Upon starting a company in 1962, she persuaded manufacturers to produce colored sheets and towels.
Mrs. Baumann, who was born in Manhattan, was a daughter of Fred Hirschhorn, the founder and chief executive officer of the General Cigar Company, and the former Hannah deRothschild Sharps.

        Rosalind Cash, an original member of the Negro Ensemble Company and one of its most vibrant and versatile actresses, died on Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Before joining the Negro Ensemble Company in 1968, Ms. Cash had a widely diverse career, singing in nightclubs and performing Off Broadway (in "Junebug Graduates Tonight!
Cast in "The Great White Hope" at the Arena Stage in Washington, she decided to forgo that play, and paid the Arena the equivalent of two weeks' salary so she could return to New York to join the new black theater  company.
In the first season of the Negro Ensemble Company, she was featured in "The Song of the Lusitanian Bogey" by Peter Weiss, Wole Soyinka's "Kongi's Harvest" and Richard Wright's "Sweet Daddy Goodness.
In 1980 she returned to the Negro Ensemble Company to appear in "The 16th Round" by Samm-Art Williams.
Within months, Mrs.  Greenberg climbed so many radio-station stairs, sold so many records from the trunk of her car and created such demand that her company  could not handle the orders.
Over the next decade, Scepter became an industry sensation as Mrs. Greenberg, whose company eventually occupied an entire floor of 1650 Broadway, repeatedly demonstrated her sure sense of talent.
Within a decade, as major labels came to dominate the distribution network, Scepter's success had faded, and by the time the company folded in 1977 Mrs. Greenberg had lost everything.
The cause of death was heart failure, a company spokeswoman said.
Mrs. McGreevy joined Estee Lauder, the cosmetics and perfume company, as a publicity director in 1966.
While  she was still in elementary school, her father, a theatrical agent, booked $1-a-night singing dates for her at nightclubs, company parties and police benefits.
She appeared on Broadway in "A Hatful of Rain" (1956), replacing Shelley Winters; "Say, Darling" (1958), "Enter Laughing" (1963), "Company" (1971) and, briefly, "Zorba" (1984).
Until August of this year, Ms. Bregman was editorial director of Artists and Writers Guild Books, a line of picture books for children that she founded at the Western Publishing Company of Racine, Wis., in 1992.
" The show was a flop, but Ms. McQueen signed on as a permanent member of the Abbott Acting Company.
It was during her years with the acting company that a friend dubbed her "Butterfly," after Ms. McQueen told her she had once danced a butterfly ballet in a performance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream.
She worked at Francis Ford Coppola's Zoetrope Studios and at the Casting Company, after which she went into business for herself.
Five years ago, Ms. Boucher's company helped underwrite a show at the Louvre  in Paris celebrating 40 years of Snoopy.
She was also nominated for an Academy Award for producing "Amazon Diary," a short live-action film, a spokeswoman for her company, Jaymi Horn, said.
She spent a few years as a staff reporter for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, and after returning briefly to The Daily News and working for other news organizations, in 1939 she joined the National Broadcasting Company, for which she reported and worked in other capacities until 1950.
After resigning from NBC and turning full time to acting, Ms. Roker appeared  onstage with the Negro Ensemble Company in "Ododo" and "Rosalee Pritchet.
A marriage to Sy Kravitz, a former NBC executive, ended in divorce, said a spokesman for Virgin Records, their son's recording company.

        Elaine Sulka, the director of the National Shakespeare Company and of the Cubiculo theater in New York City, died on Dec. 24 at her home in Manhattan.
"
        Ms. Sulka founded the National Shakespeare Company in 1963 with Philip Meister, her husband, with the aim of taking Shakespeare to schools and universities on bus tours throughout the country.
The Cubiculo is the home of the National Shakespeare Company, which will continue under the direction of Greg Lombardo and Tom Trudgeon.
" She last performed in the 1970's, appearing onstage in Los Angeles and with the national touring company of Neil Simon's "Gingerbread Lady.
When Joseph P. Kennedy and the school's other owners, the Guy Curriers of Boston, bought a motion-picture company, they offered her a job and put her to work reading stories to find properties.
The company, called the File Booking Offices, was renamed RKO.
Her first major find for the company was "Cimarron," which brought the studio an Academy Award in 1931.
She danced with the company until her marriage in 1924 to Raymond J. Maxwell, who worked on Wall Street.
After years of designing for other manufacturers, Mrs. Maxwell founded her own company, Vera Maxwell Originals, in 1947.
She made a brief comeback as a consultant to a knitwear company but spent most of her time working on her memoirs.
Soon, Mr. Kennedy gained control of the Columbia Trust Company in Boston and, at 25, became the youngest bank president in the country.
Soon, Mr. Kennedy gained control of the Columbia Trust Company in Boston and, at 25, became the youngest bank president in the country.
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the next oldest, said, "Mother's intelligence was always informed and directed by the strength and compassion of the heart," exemplified when "she never forgot or let us ignore the company of our sister, Rosemary.
She joined the Met's board in 1956, and after the company moved to Lincoln Center in the 1960's and announced that it was facing a financial crisis, she worked on an emergency fund drive to raise $3 million.
Mr. Kober wrote that when Kahn first became involved with the company, the Met had an unwritten rule that no Jew could own a box.
She is survived by her husband, Lionel I. Pincus, chairman of E. M. Warburg, Pincus & Company, a venture banking firm; two sons, Henry A. and Matthew S., both of Manhattan; and three brothers, Brent Poulton, of Medford, Ore., Kent Poulton, of San Francisco, and Michael Poulton, of Lausanne, Switzerland.
      
George Balanchine invited her to join his first company, Les Ballets 1933, but she chose to join the Ballets Russes de Nijinska in Paris, where she became a leading dancer.
She began her acting career with a stock company in Chicago, but soon turned to radio work, where her vocal versatility quickly made her known as "The Girl of a Thousand Voices.
Ms. Goff-Doefler performed with the Martha Graham Dance Company.
Mrs. Masson attended Chevy Chase College in Washington and married Frederick M. Mitchell, who owned wholesale leather businesses, Mitchell & Pierson Manufacturing and Mitchell & Fletcher Company in Philadelphia.
She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Rye, N.Y., and a life trustee and national board member of the Aspen Music Festival and School in Aspen, Colo.
        Born Catherine Denkmann Hauberg, she was a granddaughter and grandniece of the two brothers who established the company that became the Weyerhauser lumber empire.

        Adele Green, a co-founder of the Lawrence of London raincoat company, died on Friday at Bronx Lebanon Hospital after a brief illness.
At one time, she enlisted Valentino, the Italian couturier, to design a special collection for the company.
Financial problems in 1986 forced the company to disband.
"
        Ms. Bramson made her operatic debut in 1976 as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's "Queens of Spades" with the Vancouver Opera Company.
She also appeared with the New York Grand Opera and the Brooklyn Opera Company.
He said that Selena had demanded that the woman return financial documents about the company and that the two women had agreed to meet at the motel.
Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell.
The Binghams were active in Democratic politics and would, as Mrs. Bingham said, "get together with liberal friends on election night to listen to the results in sympathetic company.
Mrs. Rice founded her own company, Marion Rice Denishawn Dancers, in the 1940's.
The company received even greater critical praise five years later when it performed in its New York City debut, featuring the 72-year-old Mrs. Rice in a St. Denis solo.
She is survived by a daughter, Carolyn Brown of Millbrook, N.Y., a former lead dancer with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company; a son, J. Parker Rice Jr. of Ashburnham, Mass.
Miss Bird was born in Portland, Ore., and was educated at the Cornish School of Fine Arts in Seattle, where she studied with Graham, who invited her to join her company in New York.
She also taught there from 1951 to 1963, establishing a program for children and children's dance teachers that became the Merry-Go-Rounders, a highly successful company that presented dance for children.
