Her first play, ''Any Woman Can't,'' found its way to Playwrights Horizons, then a small Off Broadway company, and was produced in 1973, shortly before she began to study playwriting in earnest at the Yale University School of Drama.
Although it was always laced with comedy, her work was also imbued with an abiding sadness, a cleareyed understanding that independence can beget loneliness, that rigorous ideals and raised consciousnesses are not always good company at the dinner table.
She landed a part in the national company of ''Meet the People'' in 1941.
Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      
The author of a half-dozen plays, Professor Holland remained famous for ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' which has been performed by the Negro Ensemble Company, at the Goodman Theater in Chicago and at the Young Vic in London.
She also headed China's first major ballet company, the Experimental Ballet Troupe, which was reorganized as the Central Ballet of China in 1959.
She was the company's deputy director, then director in 1963 and '64, until she was removed during the Cultural Revolution and reportedly did manual labor; her second husband, Ding Ning, a dancer, divorced her during the Cultural Revolution.
She went on to a career in administration at institutions like the Welsh Opera, the Cambridge Theater Company and the Royal Shakespeare Company.
She went on to a career in administration at institutions like the Welsh Opera, the Cambridge Theater Company and the Royal Shakespeare Company.
That position was clearly held by Ms. Fonteyn, who was promoted from the start by Ninette de Valois, the company's founder.
At least two generations of stellar dancers, including Ms. May, Ms. Shearer, Beryl Grey, Violetta Elvin and Nadia Nerina all shared roles with Ms. Fonteyn but not her status in the company.
She also appeared as a guest artist with Sadler's Wells and with Roland Petit's company.
''
        At Ballet Theater, Ms. Wright originated roles in ballets by Agnes de Mille, in Mary Skeaping's staging of ''Sleeping Beauty'' and in the company director Mikhail Baryshnikov's production of ''Don Quixote.
Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
Ms. Glaz, who became an American citizen in 1943, came to the country in 1937 as part of a touring company from Salzburg managed by the impresario Sol Hurok.

        Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland.
She died of heart failure, said James Morgan, a former manager of the Boston company and a close associate.
In 1990, 32 years after its founding, facing debt and disarray, the Opera Company of Boston went out of business.
But in its glory years, Ms. Caldwell's company was a model of bold, imaginative programming, offering musically insightful productions with distinguished casts.
''
        Her company seldom presented more than four productions a season.
Ms. Caldwell's longest period of success came in the 1970's, when the company was thriving and her visibility as a conductor was growing.
The opera was ''La Traviata,'' starring Ms. Sills, who had cajoled the company into engaging Ms. Caldwell.
As a company director, Ms. Caldwell was notoriously disorganized and loath to delegate authority.
''
        Ms. Caldwell faced formidable obstacles in running her company.
Financial support from the Boston civic and cultural worlds was inconsistent, and the company lacked an adequate theater.
The year her company began, 1958, the long-neglected 50-year-old Boston Opera House was torn down, and the new company was forced into a nomadic existence, performing at the Donnelly Theater (razed in 1968), then the downtown Shubert Theater and then a series of unlikely places, like a university gym and a South End cyclorama.
The year her company began, 1958, the long-neglected 50-year-old Boston Opera House was torn down, and the new company was forced into a nomadic existence, performing at the Donnelly Theater (razed in 1968), then the downtown Shubert Theater and then a series of unlikely places, like a university gym and a South End cyclorama.
The company finally settled at the Orpheum Theater, staying for five years.
In 1978, the company bought the B. F. Keith Memorial Theater on Washington Street in downtown Boston, and it finally had a home -- a run-down but potentially excellent 2,500-seat theater with good acoustics and palatial lobbies.
But by 1990, with back taxes looming, she sold the theater to a Texas developer, and her company essentially ceased to exist.
She started her own company, initially called the Opera Group, in 1958 with just $5,000 in seed money.
By 1965, renamed the Opera Company of Boston, it had won an important place in American opera.
But her assumption of both the director and conductor roles in her productions cost the company time and money.
A year later, facing protests at home from human-rights groups and outraged company patrons, Ms. Caldwell pulled out of the deal.
Ms. Caldwell never gave up hope that she could raise funds and re-start her company.
Published by M. Evans & Company, ''Open Marriage'' remains in print in paperback.
It has been translated into 14 languages and has sold more than 35 million copies worldwide, according to the company's Web site.
''
        The title song was a hit for Eddy Arnold in 1956, Ray Charles in 1962 and Mickey Gilley in 1981, and was re-recorded by Mr. Charles with Diana Krall for his best-selling 2004 album of duets, ''Genius Loves Company.
She appeared some 200 times with the company, including her portrayal of Liù in the legendary production of Puccini's ''Turandot'' in 1961 that starred Birgit Nilsson and Franco Corelli, available today on a limited edition live recording produced by the Met.
Because she liked the sound of Christopher Street, she got off there and found an apartment in Greenwich Village and soon after, a job as a secretary in a candy manufacturing company.
Ms. Nahumck performed Duncan's dances as a member of the company of Irma Duncan, an adopted daughter of Isadora Duncan's, from 1921 to 1931.
)
        The racially integrated Capitol Ballet Company, which she and Ms. Haywood founded in 1961 and which Ms. Jones directed until 1982, grew out of the Jones-Haywood school and provided graduates with the chance for professional careers in ballet.
Ms. Zeck was part of a team that prosecuted officials of the German industrial company I. G. Farben for war crimes, including plunder and the use of slave labor.
Mr. Pflueger had immigrated to the United States from Germany to establish an American base for Bayer A.G., the pharmaceutical company.
He was chairman and president of the company in New York until 1975.
After moving to New York in 1966, she began her career as a property master with a company that produced television commercials.
In 1952, Mrs. Avram also went to work for the N.S.A., where she learned computer programming; she later worked for Datatrol, an early software company.
In the mid-1940's, she worked as a secretary at the New York Life Insurance Company.
The company gained fame for its production of ''The Dybbuk,'' by S. Ansky, with Ms. Kadison at first playing a small part, but later taking over the lead role of Leah, the bride possessed by the title character, a malicious spirit.
Soon after the war, the Vilna Troupe moved to Warsaw, where Mr. Buloff joined the company.
The following year, Miss Speranzeva helped Miss Dunham establish the Chicago Negro School of Ballet and a company, the Negro Dance Group, which evolved into the Katherine Dunham Dance Company.
The following year, Miss Speranzeva helped Miss Dunham establish the Chicago Negro School of Ballet and a company, the Negro Dance Group, which evolved into the Katherine Dunham Dance Company.
After World War II, her dance company toured constantly, visiting more than 50 countries in 30 years.
Since the 1940's, Ms. Maslow created dances for a number of troupes, including her own, the Sophie Maslow Dance Company, and the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, an ensemble she directed in association with Jane Dudley and William Bales.
She also danced in Martha Graham's company from 1931 to 1943 and was a teacher of modern-dance technique.
She joined the Graham company in 1931 and remained with it for 12 years.
The New Dance Group also offered low-cost classes in various techniques and sponsored a dance company.
In 1949, she and her husband, Giulio Castelli, founded Kartell, which became a leading furniture company known for high-quality plastic designs.
More than 20 million people had taken Vioxx before Merck took it off the market in September 2004, and the company is facing 11,500 lawsuits in behalf of 23,000 plaintiffs.
As lawsuits against Merck began to multiple, Ms. Lewis was appointed by a federal judge to a panel of lawyers charged with overseeing the gathering of records concerning Vioxx from the company.
Through the Washington Ballet, a respected regional company of some 20 dancers, she introduced Washington to an adventuresome repertory of old and new works.
Among Ms. Day's other students were Amanda McKerrow of Ballet Theater, Virginia Johnson of Dance Theater of Harlem, Patrick Corbin of the Joffrey Ballet and the Paul Taylor Dance Company, Mimi Paul of New York City Ballet, Marianna Tcherkassky of Ballet Theater and Bonnie Moore of Ballet Theater and the Royal Ballet.
A teacher at heart, Ms. Day was resigned to seeing her most talented pupils leave her company for wider horizons.
''
        The departure of her best students might have kept the Washington Ballet at the level of a regional company, no matter how admired.
Yet the company established a strong presence in Washington, anything but a dance town until the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was built and could present international-level troupes.
Mary Day was born on Jan. 25, 1910, in Washington, where she studied with Ms. Gardiner, who had danced with Anna Pavlova's company.
Ms. Day, whose drive to establish ballet in Washington was accompanied by a brisk elegance, then directed the small company with Frederic Franklin, a star of the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo.
When Mr. Franklin left in 1961 to form a new company, the National Ballet, in Washington, Ms. Day shifted her attention to her school, adding an academic wing.
The National Ballet folded in 1974, and Ms. Day reorganized the Washington Ballet as a professional company in 1976.
This was especially true when the company's profile was strongly influenced by the dynamic plotless works of Choo San Goh, from Singapore, the company's resident choreographer from 1976 until his death in 1987.
This was especially true when the company's profile was strongly influenced by the dynamic plotless works of Choo San Goh, from Singapore, the company's resident choreographer from 1976 until his death in 1987.
In the years afterward, Ms. Day and Elvi Moore, then the Washington Ballet's general director, encouraged company members and new choreographers to create works for their dancers.
She continued acting in Off Broadway and regional theater in the 1980's and 90's, performing in plays by Ibsen, Chekhov and Tennessee Williams with the New Jersey Shakespeare Festival in Madison, the Adelphi Festival Theater in Garden City, N.Y., and the Phoenix Theater Company in Purchase, N.Y.
The firm's practice eventually included corporate clients like Conrail, the Ford Motor Company, Texas Instruments and Kentucky Fried Chicken.
''But her role was to protect the company and she accomplished both goals.
The director of the company, Wilhelm Rode, had won the favor of Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister.
One reason Miss Schwarzkopf later gave for cooperating with the Nazis was that it was incumbent on aspiring singers in the company to support the party.
The London performances were an enormous success, and she was invited to join the newly founded Covent Garden company.
She sang with the company for the next five years, performing not just her German repertory but also Violetta, Mimi, Gilda, and Massenet's Manon, all in English.
While working as a geologist for an oil company in Oklahoma, Ms. Tharp earned a degree in mathematics from the University of Tulsa in 1948.
Unlike other Balanchine ballerinas who were about to leave the company, Ms. Hayden was honored with a new ballet that Balanchine created for her.
''
        On the same theme and in his own tribute, Kirstein wrote: ''Melissa has been the nearest thing to a 'star' in our starless company.
''The company called us Ike and Mamie,'' Mr. d'Amboise said, referring to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife.
After Ballet Theater disbanded temporarily, she danced on Broadway and joined other dancers from the company in 1948 for a nine-month tour of Cuba and Latin America by the newly organized Ballet Alicia Alonso.
Nicholas Magallanes, who had been in Balanchine's previous troupes, recommended her to Balanchine for his new company.
''
        Upset that Balanchine did not create new roles for her and would not let her dance in his ''Swan Lake'' in her early years with the company, Ms. Hayden returned to Ballet Theater.
In 1960, the Ovshinskys founded ECD Ovonics, an alternative energy company based in Rochester Hills, outside Detroit.
There, among other inventions, Mr. Ovshinsky created the rechargeable nickel-metal hydride battery, often called the NiMH, which the company has produced since the 1980's and which helped lay the groundwork for today's hybrid gasoline-and-electric vehicles.
'' At her death, Mrs. Ovshinsky was vice president and a director of the company, formally listed as Energy Conversion Devices.
She also went to work as a senior adviser for the international law firm of Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand (now DLA Piper) and later for the public relations company Public Strategies.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, she was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, Mrs. Lawford was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children, Caroline and John Jr.
That house, at 211 Berkeley Place, became the first of a series of Cinderella Projects undertaken by the company, now called Keyspan, and the Ortners were eventually featured in full-page Brooklyn Union ads.
She met Herbert Levine, who was running that company, and married him three months later.
'' The table belonged to the company's prima donna, Flagstad, who watched over the baby.
She sang around 200 performances with the company.
''
        Published originally by Dodd, Mead & Company and most recently in 2002 by Simon & Schuster, ''Seventeenth Summer'' has sold more than a million copies worldwide, according to the reference book Authors and Artists for Young Adults.

        Dorothy Harmsen, who was a co-founder of the Jolly Rancher Candy Company, the maker of tangy, slowly dissolving bricks of fruit-flavored candy, and the owner of one of the nation's largest private collections of art of the American West, died in Denver on Aug. 29.
A top seller for every company that owned it -- in the end, there were four -- it earned a place alongside Life Savers as a household name in the often-overlooked hard candy business.
But ''she was the heart and soul of the operation,'' said Pamela Whitenack, who oversees the archives at the Hershey Company, which bought Jolly Rancher in 1996.
The company's first breakout confection, in 1950, was a spicy, cinnamon-flavored taffy called Fire Stix.
Its strong sales encouraged the company to emphasize hard candies over chocolates, which faced stiff competition from established candy makers.
She created the Duncan Centenary Company in 1977 to celebrate Duncan's centenary, playing an important role in the rebirth of interest in Duncan's work.
''
        After training with Anna Duncan, Ms. Levien performed throughout the world in the 1930's and 40's with her company and that of Irma Duncan, another of Isadora Duncan's daughters.
She wrote and illustrated ''Duncan Dance, A Guide for Young People,'' published by the Princeton Book Company in 1994.
Her father, Herman Berg, owned a grain company and played golf at Interlachen Country Club in suburban Edina.
Ann Richards of Texas referred incorrectly to her later positions with the public relations company Public Strategies and the international law firm Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand (now DLA Piper).

        Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song she identified as Blotz's ''Schlumpf'' to demonstrate what it is like to sing with ''no voice but great art,'' died on Wednesday in Bateman's Bay, New South Wales, Australia.
The main inspirational trauma for her career may have been a British touring company production of Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' in which she sang Santuzza as a substitute.
She said she had been the ''prima donna of the Ellis Island Opera House'' -- not the ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company.
Her most famous design was the evening pants she introduced in Florence about a decade after starting her company, with styles either slim and embroidered or flowing in gauzy fabrics.
The company declared bankruptcy in 1968 and then was resurrected several times by manufacturing companies that produced her designs less expensively and in larger quantities.
The Skotch Kooler, copyrighted in 1952, was made by the Hamilton Metal Products Company of Hamilton, Ohio.
''A young girl is on her way to Hollywood with a contract for one thousand dollars a week from a major film company in her pocketbook,'' Ms. Orr's story begins.
A British company is making a documentary about Mrs. Carr, and producers have bought rights to her book, which Ms. Halsey helped write.
'' Ms. Allen began playing roles with the company's national touring troupe.

        Eve Adamson, who founded the Jean Cocteau Repertory and built it into a respected classical theater company, died on Sunday in her Manhattan apartment.
The company began its first season of rotating repertory in 1973, performing four plays, including Eugene Ionesco's ''Lesson,'' and Samuel Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot.
'' Mel Gussow, writing that year in The New York Times, described the Cocteau as ''an enterprising company whose limited financial and technical resources are offset by artistic resourcefulness.
''
        After receiving a grant from New York State, the company moved into the 140-seat Bouwerie Lane Theater in 1974 and became a staple of the burgeoning Off Off Broadway theater scene.
Ms. Adamson was artistic director for 18 years, and her company presented a demanding repertory: works by Pinter and Pirandello alongside Restoration comedies, Chekhov dramas and Shakespeare standards.
She continued to stage plays at the Cocteau from time to time, and when a group of Cocteau veterans broke off in 2004 and formed their own company, the Phoenix Theater Ensemble, Ms. Adamson directed their first production.
Many hit-making musicians had not recouped debts to their labels, according to record company accounting, and so were not receiving royalties at all.
The score included the comic lament ''I'm Going Back (To the Bonjour Tristesse Brassiere Company)'' as well as some songs that became part of the standard pop repertory, like ''Just in Time,'' ''Long Before I Knew You'' and ''The Party's Over,'' which ended with the melancholy verse:
        Now you must wake up
        All dreams must end
        Take off your makeup
        The party's over
        It's all over, my friend.
Her parents, Osias and Mizia Kramer Schachter, owned a textile importing company until they fled from the Nazis in 1940.
In the company's early years, Mrs. Mattus, the company's controller, built the business by going to bodegas and grocery stores to offer free samples.
In the company's early years, Mrs. Mattus, the company's controller, built the business by going to bodegas and grocery stores to offer free samples.
By 1983, when Häagen-Dazs was acquired by Pillsbury for $70 million, the company had a strong presence in supermarkets, a coast-to-coast string of franchise ice cream shops and sales of about $115 million a year.
''Rose was a true partner of her husband in operating the business, making decisions,'' said Roy Sloane, the company's advertising manager until 1987.
Rose basically ran the business, holding the company together and making it possible for a dreamer like Reuben to be successful.
The company was profitable for decades, but burst onto the national scene only after the new name was concocted.
Correction:  January 29, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Dec. 1 about Rose Mattus, who with her husband created Häagen-Dazs Ice Cream, misidentified the company that owns the brand.
The cause was a brain tumor, a theater company she belonged to told Japanese newspapers.
