Her principal studies were with Carlos Salzedo, the composer and harpist, at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, and it was during her second year as a student there, in 1945, that Eugene Ormandy, the conductor, invited her to join the Philadelphia Orchestra.
A former resident of Sag Harbor, N.Y., she was 81 and had moved to London last year to continue work on a biography of her late husband, the avant-garde composer Stefan Wolpe.
And Mr. McCartney, the composer of some of the rock era's most beautiful love songs, has consistently told interviewers that all his romantic  ballads written after 1968 were about Linda.
The composer Anis Fuleihan wrote a concerto for her, and she performed as a soloist with several orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Toronto Symphony.

        Betty Carter, one of jazz's great singers and a composer and arranger whose groups were virtual schools for generations of jazz musicians, died at home in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn on Saturday.
Ms. Topf is survived by her husband, Jon Gibson, a composer with whom she often collaborated, and a son, Jeremy, both of Manhattan; her mother, Celia Topf Straus of Lauderhill, Fla., and three sisters, Bobbi Straus of Port Washington, N.Y., Peggy Schwartz of Amherst, Mass., and Margie J. Topf of Boston.
      
She interpreted the music of Kurt Weill and the Quebec composer Gilles Vigneault.
Besides its Hildegard series, Sequentia recorded three disks of sacred works from Spanish monasteries -- including the ''Codex las Huelgas'' and works composed for King Alfonso X (''El Sabio'') -- as well as several collections of courtly love songs and a compilation of sacred and secular works by Oswald von Wolkenstein, a knight, poet and composer who straddled the 14th and 15th centuries.
The composer Alva Henderson was so impressed he got her to write the libretto for his 1976 opera, ''The Last of the Mohicans,'' and two others.
'' Years ago, Frank Loesser sent her a composer who had written a musical that he considered very noncommercial.
She listened to the composer play one song on the piano in her apartment, and it gave her goose bumps.
'' She recommended that the composer, Sherman Edwards, work with Peter Stone (not her client) as a book writer.
After Mr. Baker's death in 1967 she became a close friend of fellow hotel residents, including the composer Virgil Thomson.
The two dined together every Saturday night in the Chelsea Hotel apartment of their friends, Gerald Busby, a composer, and Sam Byers, an advertising executive.
They included debut series, chamber music events, jazz concerts and a new music series administered by the Carnegie Hall Composer's Chair, which is currently held by Ellen Taaffe Zwilich.
