She established the dance department at Dartington Hall, an experimentalist center in Dartington, England, and joined Kurt Jooss's company in 1934, when it took up residence at the school after fleeing Nazi Germany.
She left the company at the outbreak of World War II.
Starting in 1949 Dr. Courain spent 32 years at Merck & Company in Rahway, N.J., where she developed research information systems and provided development and education programs for corporate management.
She was the widow of Roger S. Firestone, an industrialist who was the fifth son of Harvey S. Firestone, founder of the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company.
" She was the leading lyric soprano in Hanover from 1928 to 1933, and joined the Berlin Staatsoper in 1934, remaining with the company until her retirement in 1957.
She won a scholarship to study at the Old Vic, after which she joined John Gielgud's company.
In 1948, before the company embarked on a foreign tour, she attended a party given by Mr. Gielgud in honor of Williams.
She performed with that company and others across the United States.
The company dealt with such titles as Blondie, Dick Tracy and Casper, the Friendly Ghost.
Company officials said a Black Cat motion picture is being prepared for production in Los Angeles by Motion PIcture Corporation of America.
The company dyes and finishes twills, poplins and nylons for manufacturers.
"
        After working in a drug store and a mail-order company, she tried acting and was invited to join the Royal Dramatic Theater School in Stockholm.

        Sayra Fischer Lebenthal, a Wall Street legend who was a co-founder in 1925 of the investment-banking firm of Lebenthal & Company and remained active in it for 67 years, died on Thursday night at her home in Manhattan.
The company thrived, continuing to do so after the death of Louis Lebenthal in 1951.
Mrs. Sommers was the widow of Ben Sommers, the dance philanthropist and head of Capezio Ballet Makers, the theatrical shoe company.
" They nurtured that company and remained with it until 1961, when they resigned and moved to Europe.
She headed Better Home Furnishing Company from 1965 to 1981, when she established J.R.S.
A lyric soprano, she then played a variety of roles with the American Opera Company from 1928 to 1930, including Marguerite in "Faust" and the leads in "Carmen" and "Yolanda in Cyprus.
Ms. Strain had danced with the company since its founding and was a featured soloist in works that included "Steadfast Tin Soldier" and "Apollo," both by George Balanchine, and works by Daniel Duell, the director of the company, and Gordon Peirce Schmidt.
Ms. Strain had danced with the company since its founding and was a featured soloist in works that included "Steadfast Tin Soldier" and "Apollo," both by George Balanchine, and works by Daniel Duell, the director of the company, and Gordon Peirce Schmidt.
Ms. Strain also danced with the National Ballet Company; the Eglevsky Ballet; the Kansas City Ballet; Eliot Feld, and Pierre Bonnefoux and Patricia McBride.
She joined the company in January 1987 after working as an art director for Random House.
"
        A year later, somebody at Westinghouse saw her in a "Studio One" drama and offered her a job as the company's representative on television.
The Potamkin family relinquished the dealership in 1987, selling the assets and leasing the company's Manhattan real estate to General Motors.

        Shirley M. Sills, the executive vice president of PTN Publishing Company in Melville, L.I., died yesterday in her home in Manhasset, L.I.
Before that, for six years, she was the president of the General Medical Book Company in Manhattan.
An X-ray technician by profession, Miss Clarke assisted Mr. Ailey in many capacities, first as a volunteer seamstress in the early days of his company and as general manager from 1968 to 1975.
As a member of the Jose Greco Dance Company, she toured Europe and North and South America from 1947 to 1951.
But within a few years there were reported fights over money and other matters and accounts that each was being seen in the company of others.
Mrs. Onassis was seen in New York in the company of other escorts.
Moving to Los Angeles in 1943, she was named sales-promotion and advertising manager of the May Company.
She returned to New York in 1953 to join R. H. Macy & Company as an executive vice president -- the first woman to rise to that executive level at Macy's.
Over the years, she also served as senior vice president of Catalina, a sportswear company based in Los Angeles, and as a merchandising and marketing consultant for Bullock's department stores.
Miss Gentry performed with Hanya Holm's New York company from 1936 to 1942, and later founded her own group, the Eve Gentry Dancers.
She also performed at the Colorado Springs Opera, with Sarah Caldwell's company in Boston, and with the Mostly Mozart Festival.
Early in 1950, the American Tobacco Company, sponsor of "Your Hit Parade" for Lucky Strike cigarettes, was looking for a new type of advertising commercial.
The company, Irma Shorell Inc., eventually added a cleanser, sun blocks and other skin-care items in a full line of products for women and men.
She sold the company in 1985 to Alfin Fragrances Inc. of New York.
In 1937, Miss Stroganova joined the Mordkin Ballet, a New York company that served as the nucleus of Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was originally known.
She performed the lyrical Waltz solo in an acclaimed production of "Les Sylphides," supervised by Fokine, which was the opening work on the company's opening night.
She made a triumphant return to Copenhagen in 1950 as the first Danish dancer trained outside that company's school to be a guest star with it.
Mrs. Meyer is survived by her husband, Richard W. Meyer, a retired vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company; a daughter, Charlotte Meyer-Arnold of Los Angeles; two sons, Richard W. Jr. and Douglas C., both of Locust Valley, L.I.
Before she turned to writing, she was an actress with the American Negro Theater, and acted in the original company of "Anna Lucasta.
She then resumed practicing law in Milford and helped manage her family's insurance company, grain elevators and farms, in addition to the bank.
In the 1950's Mrs. Markson was among the founders of the Milwaukee Repertory Theater, and she later helped found the American Conservatory Theater in Pittsburgh before the company moved to San Francisco in 1967; until 1980, she was vice president of the theater's board.
"
        Miss Haas and Mr. Hirschfeld met when the artist was on assignment to draw a sketch of a summer theater company for The Times.
She studied painting with three of her aunts, amateur artists, and dance with a former member of the experimental Denishawn company.
"
        Mr. Parish died in 1977, having spent 34 years with the Wall Street securities firm of Loeb Rhoades & Company.
She was a native of Benton, Wis., and worked for The New York Herald Tribune, Reuters and the National Broadcasting Company in New York, London and Paris in the 1930's.
She was a member of the Benny Davis Revue and the Ben Blue Company, a trouper on the Loew's vaudeville circuit, a member of the Will Morrisey act and a feature performer in "Earl Carroll's Sketchbook" and "Calling All Stars.
tour of bases in England and Africa she made in the company of Kay Francis, Carole Landis and Mitzi Mayfair.
She also directed her students and professional guest artists in the Fedicheva Ballet Company of Glen Cove, which was founded in 1982.
She is survived by a son, H. Erich Heinemann of Great Neck, L.I., chief economist at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, investment bankers; a daughter, Marianne Russo of Oxford, Pa., and Wilmington, Del.
After moving to New York City, she appeared with the Martha Graham Dance Company (1938-40), began presenting programs of her own choreography and, in the 40's and 50's, performed in such Broadway musicals as "One Touch of Venus," "On the Town," "Make Mine Manhattan" and "The Golden Apple.
Earlier, she became the first woman to head a major American bank, the Trenton Trust Company.
She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
John Martin wrote in The New York Times that "if ever a young dancer was entitled to a company of her own and the freedom to do what she chooses with it, she is it.
Miss Primus toured with the musical "Show Boat," then founded a company and presented her work on Broadway and in national tours.
"
        In time, she became a spokeswoman for a movie studio, a baking company and other businesses.
The cause was cancer, said a statement from the Ahlbergs' publisher, Little, Brown & Company.
The revue was scheduled to go to Berlin and Moscow after the Paris engagement, but when Miss Baker broke her contract and went to the Folies Bergere, the company broke up.
Since 1945 Mrs. Spolin had lived in Los Angeles, where she founded the Young Actors Company, which is both a school and theater.
She made her stage debut with the Brattle Theater Company in Cambridge, Mass., in "Julius Caesar," with John Carradine, and first appeared on Broadway in the company's revival of "The Relapse," with Cyril Ritchard.
She made her stage debut with the Brattle Theater Company in Cambridge, Mass., in "Julius Caesar," with John Carradine, and first appeared on Broadway in the company's revival of "The Relapse," with Cyril Ritchard.
Miss Knapp was a leading actress with Dorothy Raedler's Masque and Lyre Light Opera Company, which later became the American Savoyards.
Her longest record company affiliation was with Concord Jazz (1980-88).
There was a retrospective of her work held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in September, attended by Yuzo Yagi, the chairman of Yagi Tsusho Ltd., the Japanese company that had bought the rights to her name in 1988 and had sponsored the exhibition.
In Japan, the company was promoting her name anew.
With the director John Houseman she guided the development of the Acting Company, a theater group of drama graduates that her husband established when he was the president of the Juilliard School.
Their company, Julianelli Shoes, became known in the 1960's for developing "the naked look," a light, airy style in footwear.
