What Every Woman Should Know About Breast Cancer to Save Her Life,'' published by W. B. Saunders Company in Philadelphia.
After eight books with that company, she moved to William Morrow & Company, where she published 39 more books, most recently, ''Hello, Star'' in 1987.
After eight books with that company, she moved to William Morrow & Company, where she published 39 more books, most recently, ''Hello, Star'' in 1987.
She was the author of ''The Trumpet Sounds'' (Holt, Rinehart & Company, 1964) and ''The Gift of Chaos'' (Oxford University Press, 1977).
She joined the Sadler's Wells (now Royal) Ballet the following year, and was appointed ballet mistress of the junior company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, in 1946, serving as its assistant director from 1951 to 1955.
Her consulting clients included the American and European divisions of the Du Pont Company and the Century Furniture Company.
Her consulting clients included the American and European divisions of the Du Pont Company and the Century Furniture Company.
Mr. Young was chairman of the General Electric Company and founded the Radio Corporation of America.
She also choreographed and directed a dance company that made extensive tours of the United States and Canada, and she appeared in occasional television commercials into her 80's.
'' She moved from the Lubin company to Paramount Studios and began to play the roles for which she became known.
She married Cornel Wilde in 1951 and appeared in several movies made by Theodora Productions, a company she and Mr. Wilde created.

       Lily Mae Lassiter Foregger, whose family business, the Foregger Company, manufactured anesthesia equipment and other medical supplies, died of respiratory complications on Feb. 14 at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin.
She was 89 years old and lived in Waterbury Center, Vt.
        Lily Mae Lassiter Foregger, whose family business, the Foregger Company, manufactured anesthesia equipment and other medical supplies, died of respiratory complications on Feb. 14 at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin.
The company was sold in 1967 to Air Products and Chemicals Inc. and, in 1978, to the Puritan-Bennett Corporation.
She left for New York when, at the suggestion of the choreographer Antony Tudor, American Ballet Theater invited her to become the company's ballet mistress and teacher in 1946.
Serge Diaghilev chose her for his company in 1920 after seeing her in a class taught by Cecchetti.
Mrs. Meyer operated the New York office until 1951, when Mr. Meyer died and the company went out of business.
Mrs. Sulzberger's own history of her experiences, a largely anecdotal memoir as told to her granddaughter Susan W. Dryfoos, was privately printed for friends and family in 1979 and then published by Dodd, Mead & Company in 1981 under the title ''Iphigene.
Along with her son, Mrs. Sulzberger's three other children are now directors of the Times Company - Marian Sulzberger Heiskell, Ruth Sulzberger Holmberg, and Dr. Judith P. Sulzberger.
Mrs. Sulzberger herself was a director of the Times Company from 1917 until 1973, when she became a director emeritus.
She was among those who voted to alter the company structure fundamentally, granting limited voting rights to the Class A stock and listing it on the American Stock Exchange.
She became president of the company.
At the request of the United States Rubber Company, she invented and manufactured forms for self-sealing gasoline tanks for Navy warplanes.
After two tours of North America with the Royal Shakespeare Company, Miss Drake married Maxwell Turner, a lawyer, in 1938 and retired for a time.
In May 1923, when she signed her first contract with the Metropolitan Opera, she gave her age as 18 and was said to be the youngest singer ever signed by the company.
During her career, she was called ''the baby star'' of the company.
She was also on the boards of several music schools, opera companies and arts councils, including the Duke Ellington School of the Arts, the Boston Opera Company, the Metropolitan Opera Association, and the School of American Ballet in New York City.
In the 1940's, Ms. Hoke, whose first marriage, to John Hoke, had ended in divorce, married Franklin Watts, founder the New York publishing company that bears his name.
She became the company's vice president and director of international projects.
She was the president and owner of the Hasler-Tel Company, a Swiss-based maker of precision instruments, which she took over after the death of her husband, Camille H. Boulin.
'' She also executed the designs for scores of other shows, including ''My Fair Lady,'' ''Camelot,'' ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Pal Joey'' and for many productions of the Metropolitan Opera Company, American Ballet Theater and the New York City Ballet.
There she met and married George Pons, technical director of the Chauve Souris, a theater company organized by Soviet emigres.
The company traveled to England and, in 1922, to New York City, where Mrs. Pons and her husband established a studio for the design and execution of stage costumes in 1923.
In 1938 the Weils changed the company name to Devonsheer Melba, to suggest an English origin.
It is now a part of the Best Foods Baking Group of CPC International Inc.
        Mrs. Weil was the daughter of Leopold Cohn, founder of the America Sumatra Tobacco Company, and Sarah Liebman, whose family owned the New York brewery that produced Michelob beer.
She played a series of chorus and other bit parts, joined the Hal Roach stock company and met Mr. Chaplin, from whom she became inseparable.
One of two women accepted at the time for New York University's Law School, she dropped out to work for McCann-Erickson, the advertising agency, and the Maidenform Brassiere Company.
Other supporters include Oscar de la Renta, Calvin Klein, Donna Karan, Issey Miyake, Christian Lacroix and Yves Saint Laurent and the Chanel company.
There she met Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright and worked on Wright's National Life Insurance Company Building project in Morgan's office.
Mrs. Gee danced in the premiere of ''Pomona'' at the company's first performance, in 1930.
An Early Career Start
        Ms. Ireland began her film career at the age of 16, appearing in ''Oh Rosalinda,'' the first of 16 movies she made for the Rank Organization, a British production company.

       Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago.
She was 63 years old and had homes in New York, Southampton, L.I., and Boca Raton,
        Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago.
'' Among the company's films were ''The Boys From Brazil,'' ''The Shining'' and ''Fort Apache, the Bronx.
That same year she toured with the Jack Cole Dance Group - a company that also included Gwen Verdon - and appeared with it in the movie ''On the Riviera.
''
        Miss Dunn joined Ballets U.S.A., Mr. Robbins's touring company, at its inception in 1958, when it appeared at the Spoleto Festival in Italy and the World's Fair in Brussels.
The couple divorced in 1966; the station was sold to WGN Continental Broadcasting Company two years later.
Mrs. Coleman, who was 74 years old, died of cancer, a spokesman for the company said.
Mrs. Coleman became president and chairwoman of the 67-year-old company in 1968, succeeding her late husband, Dr. Joseph A. Coleman.
The daughter of Ida and William Rosenthal, who founded Maidenform, Mrs. Coleman joined the company in 1938, after graduating from Barnard College.
She worked in various areas of the company's operations before settling on product development as her field of expertise.
She was a founder and the president of Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising company.
The agency was recognized for its award-winning campaigns for Bergdorf Goodman, the specialty store, and in recent years the company helped bring several American fashion designers to prominence, including Stephen Sprouse, Bill Robinson, Charlotte Neuville and Gordon Henderson.
In the early 1970's, after starting a successful jewelry company, she began work as a freelance fashion-photography stylist, helping to create the look and mood of photographs and television commercials.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
She was born on March 10, 1892, in Oldham, Lancashire, and joined the Royal Carl Rosa Opera Company in London in 1916.
Her brothers were Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, who built the family-owned business into a large, diversified health care company, and J. Seward Johnson, whose will was the subject of prolonged litigation in Manhattan.
She was a founder and the president of Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising company.
The agency was recognized for its award-winning campaigns for Bergdorf Goodman, the specialty store, and in recent years the company helped bring several American fashion designers to prominence, including Stephen Sprouse, Bill Robinson, Charlotte Neuville and Gordon Henderson.
In the early 1970's, after starting a successful jewelry company, she began work as a freelance fashion-photography stylist, helping to create the look and mood of photographs and television commercials.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
President of Company
        For many years she served as president of Tisch Hotels while the chain included the McAlpin in Manhattan and Traymore and Ambassador in Atlantic City.
Miss McRae was much admired as a teacher by Robert Joffrey, who placed her in charge of his company's West Coast scholarship courses and invited her to be guest teacher at his New York school.

       Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 64 years old.
Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 64 years old.
Mrs. Baum became president of the company, a major wholesale paper distributor, in 1983, after the death of her husband, Gerald, whose parents founded the company.
Mrs. Baum became president of the company, a major wholesale paper distributor, in 1983, after the death of her husband, Gerald, whose parents founded the company.
She had been an editor from the mid-1940's to the mid-1950's with Farrar, Straus & Company, G. P. Putnam's Sons and the David McKay Company.
She had been an editor from the mid-1940's to the mid-1950's with Farrar, Straus & Company, G. P. Putnam's Sons and the David McKay Company.
Mrs. Young was a personnel manager for the Equitable Life Assurance Society and for the Mutual of New York Insurance Company for 20 years.
Mrs. Young was a personnel manager for the Equitable Life Assurance Society and for the Mutual of New York Insurance Company for 20 years.
'' Miss Seegar said, ''Misery loves company.
Securing an unpaid research position at the University of Maryland, she worked with scientists of Merck & Company to develop the substance that was marketed as vitamin B12.
She had earlier been director of public relations for the Morris Morgenstern Foundation and asssistant to the president of Heublein, Inc., and also served with the public relations firm of Steve Hanagan Asosicates and with the United States Trust Company.
She and her husband, John G. Mapes, who died last year, founded an opinion research company, the Group Attitudes Corporation, in 1950.
They joined Hill & Knowlton Inc. when their company was acquired in 1956.
The company, which specialized in jitterbug and Lindy Hop dance routines, traveled extensively.
After auditioning at the Metropolitan Opera Company in New York, she was rejected for being, Miss Dunne recalled, ''too young, too inexperienced, too slight, too everything.
After auditioning at the Metropolitan Opera Company in New York, she was rejected, she recalled, for being ''too young, too inexperienced, too slight, too everything.
'' Yet she later sang Gilbert and Sullivan operettas with the company one season, when, she remarked, the Met ''sent their youngest and thinnest singers on tour.
Mrs. Ascoli, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, a Chicago clothier who was a chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, devoted most of her adult life to charitable causes, many of them involving child welfare.
''
        As company pianist for Ballets: U.S.A., the troupe Mr. Robbins founded in 1958, she appeared on stage on Sept. 4, 1958, in the New York premiere of the revised version of ''The Concert,'' a comic work he had originally choreographed for the New York City Ballet in 1956.
Mrs. Freeman was born in Chicago, the daughter of George W. Perkins, a financier and partner in J. P. Morgan & Company.
She studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and privately in New York, and won the 1940 Metropolitan Opera radio auditions, which led to her company debut.
Mrs. Wittenberg was born in Brooklyn and attended Hunter College and Barnard before quitting to help support her family by working as a demographer for the Bell Telephone Company, predicting population trends for expansion of telephone service.

       Beatrice Behrman, an innovative doll maker who founded the Alexander Doll Company in Manhattan and owned it for 65 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 95 years old.
She died in her sleep, a spokesman for the company said.
Beatrice Behrman, an innovative doll maker who founded the Alexander Doll Company in Manhattan and owned it for 65 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 95 years old.
She died in her sleep, a spokesman for the company said.
In 1923 she founded the Alexander Doll Company, in which she produced rag dolls with innovative three-dimensional facial features that she hand-painted.
Her company, which was sold two years ago to two New York businessmen, has created more than 5,000 different dolls at its factory in on West 131st Street in Harlem, where it has about 600 employees and is one of the area's largest employers.
She also worked with Ms. Ford and her sister Anne on "How to Love the Car in Your Life" (Ford Motor Company, 1972).
"
        She joined the Duffy stock company, which performed in San Francisco and Los Angeles, and she later switched to the Bandbox Repertory Theater, which toured the "citrus circuit" in Southern California.
After several years in television production, she joined the Theater Royal Repertory Company in Windsor, where she played small parts.

        Edith Schaffer Phillips, a former official of the American Broadcasting Company, died on Friday at her home in Lake Worth, Fla. She was 82 years old.
She joined Ernst & Young about 20 years ago and spent her entire career with the company, specializing in auditing.
As movie offers dwindled, Miss Bennett turned to the stage and made successful national tours in such plays as "Susan and God," "Bell, Book and Candle," "Once More With Feeling," "The Pleasure of His Company" and "Never Too Late.
She originated character roles in several ballets choreographed by Massine, then ballet master and a choreographer and dancer with the company.
The company was founded by Ms. Wohlberg's sister, Helen, who represented the artist at the start of her career.
In the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she illustrated more than 70 children's books, including three pop-up books that she wrote herself, and the "Andy Books," a series published by William Morrow & Company.
Earlier she had worked as a securities analyst at Kidder Peabody & Company and as a stockbroker at Laird, Bissell & Meeds.

        Anne Kallem, an editor at the Sterling Publishing Company in Manhattan for 26 years, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center.
She died of lung cancer, David Boehm, chairman of the publishing company, said.
At her death, she was managing editor emeritus of the company, which publishes nonfiction and reference books.
