
        Marion Savage Rosette, a pianist, teacher and composer of children's songs, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday.
Ferruccio Busoni, the Italian pianist and composer, encouraged her to study with Isidore Philipp in Paris.
Ferruccio Busoni, the Italian pianist and composer, encouraged her to study with Isidore Philipp in Paris.
In 1919 Bolm choreographed "The Birthday of the Infanta" for Miss Page, one of the first 20th-century ballets with a score by an American composer (John Alden Carpenter) and scenery by an American designer (Robert Edmond Jones).
After 1934, she tended to use commissioned music and was guided here by Horst, a composer who insisted that dance had a life independent of music and did not derive from it.

        Friedelind Wagner, a granddaughter of the composer Richard Wagner who won fame for her courageous opposition to Nazism, died early yesterday evening at the Community Hospital in Herdecke, Germany, in the Ruhr.
Ms. Jernigan is survived by her husband, the composer Philip Glass, a stepdaughter, Juliet, and a stepson, Zachary, all of Manhattan; her mother, Pauline Bauer of Jupiter, Fla., and a sister, Audrey Hart of Key West, Fla.
        A memorial service will be held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, on Friday at 1 P.M.
      
"
        Her first marriage, to Arthur B. Rubinstein, a composer, ended in divorce.
In 1944 she and the composer Joyce Barthelson founded the school with a few students in a private house in Scarsdale.

        Sylvia Fine Kaye, a producer, lyricist and composer, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Wit and Patter
        Mrs. Kaye was known for her complex, witty lyrics, and she was often described as a composer of patter songs, which turn on the rapid delivery of tricky lines.
"
        She was called "The Jeanne d'Arc of New Music" by the composer Edgard Varese.
Ms. Moorman was arrested on Feb. 9, 1967, by two policemen who interrupted her performance at the Cinematheque in Manhattan of "Opera Sextronique" by Nam June Paik, a composer, video artist and performance artist.
