Known for her sharp intellect and blunt language, she entered Congress in 1955, was re-elected nine times and served through 1974, when she chose not to run again.
She successfully fought to bring women under the protection of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, her crowning achievement in Congress.
She also sat on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and was chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Fiscal Policy.
She gained a seat in the state House, one of only two women in that chamber from 1949 to 1952, when she lost her first bid for Congress.
Instead, Governor Williams appointed her to the bench of Recorder's Court in Detroit, and she was a judge until her election to the House in 1954, the first Democratic woman elected to Congress from Michigan.
After leaving Congress, she inhabited corporate boardrooms where few women had ever been members.
''
        In his review of the Kern show, Frank Rich of The New York Times urged readers to write their representatives in Congress demanding that she be detained in the United States ''as a national resource too rare and precious for export.
She was consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress from 1971 to 1973; the title was changed to poet laureate consultant in poetry in 1986, the same year Robert Penn Warren was awarded the post.
That aspect of her character came to the fore in 1971, when L. Quincy Mumford, the librarian of Congress, named her consultant in poetry.
In three years in office, she persuaded Congress to pass legislation to include hospice care under Medicare.
On March 11, when President Lyndon B. Johnson went on national television to announce that he would send Congress a strong voting rights bill, it was in Mrs. Foster's living room that Dr. King watched and wept at the news.
The Muries extended their preservation campaign in the early 1960's by lobbying Congress in behalf of the Wilderness Act, legislation intended to prevent development on designated lands nationwide.
Her address to a joint meeting of Congress electrified Washington, winning billions of dollars in aid.
She spoke forcefully and passionately to Congress, winning a roaring ovation.
She returned to Congress for one last appearance in 1995.
Her address to a joint meeting of Congress electrified Washington, winning billions of dollars in aid.
Yet Congress had recently assigned $1 billion more to China, and President Truman was impatient with the Chiangs and what had become an apparently hopeless effort to shore up the Nationalist government.
She returned to Congress for one last appearance in 1995.
