
        Margaret Chase Smith, a flinty, independent Maine Republican who made history as the first woman to win election to both houses of Congress and the first whose name was advanced for the Presidency at a national convention, died yesterday at at her home in Skowhegan, Me.
As a member of Congress she supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation, much to the dismay of her more conservative colleagues.
She seemed unstopable until 1972, when William D. Hathaway, a 48-year-old Democrat and former member of Congress, defeated her in her campaign for a fifth Senate term.
She was a delegate to the World Zionist Congress in 1987 and 1992 and was chairwoman of several Congress committees.
She was a delegate to the World Zionist Congress in 1987 and 1992 and was chairwoman of several Congress committees.
The Macdonalds settled in Malden, Mass., where Mr. Macdonald was elected to Congress in 1954.
Judge Ryan had found Mr. Hammett and Mr. Hunton guilty for refusing to name contributors to the bail fund of the Civil Rights Congress, which the Attorney General had designated as a Communist subversive front.
She also represented Mothers' Voices in Washington, where she met with members of Congress and President Clinton.
In 1974 she established the Archives of Modern Music in the Library of Congress, and in 1983 she assembled "The Life and Death of a Small Magazine," a  monograph published by the Institute for Studies in American Music.
Whether working as an archivist in Colonial Williamsburg in the 1920's and 30's, cataloguing Thomas Jefferson's papers at the University of Virginia and the Library of Congress in the 1940's or serving as a historical architectural specialist and information officer at the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she kept her sights on early American history.
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.
Her collection, housed in the Library of Congress, is among the most extensive ever gathered and includes some of the earliest documentation of ethnic music in the United States.
In the 1960's, she worked in Washington for the Library of Congress and the House Committee on Education and Labor.
Eventually, testimony by Mrs. Twyne and others before Congress led to the Horse Protection Act of 1970, a Federal law that bars abusive training techniques.
Miss Bird played an important part in the founding and development of the American Dance Guild and the Congress on Research in Dance.
