One of the first fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Studies in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Brainard was an artist in residence at Northeastern University and served as a director and chairwoman of the Congress on Research in Dance.
She captured a windblown Andre Malraux on a Paris rooftop, Boris Pasternak, Aldous Huxley and Andre Gide at a congress for the defense of culture; Walter  Benjamin sitting on a bench in the Bibliotheque Nationale; Vladimir Nabokov, Michel Leiris, Henri Michaux and Jean Paulhan in the editorial offices of the magazine Mesures and James Joyce playing the piano for his son, Giorgio.
In 1944, she was the Democratic candidate for Congress from Fairfield County.
The same year she also addressed the 18th World Congress on Early Childhood Education in Jerusalem.
Her extensive archive of the business transactions of George and Ira Gershwin was acquired by the Music Division of the Library of Congress.
She was working in the legal department of the Federal Land Bank in Omaha in 1942 when Congress opened the Army to women by creating the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps.
Mrs. Rubin's field recordings are now housed in various collections, including the Archive of Folk Culture at the Library of Congress and the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research in New York.
She was married in 1957 to Benjamin A. Gilman, a law partner and fellow Republican, and in 1972 worked in his successful campaign for Congress.
She had been expecting Oliver Tambo of the African National Congress; when she opened the door, Mr. Mandela was standing beside him.
When the African National Congress was banned, she continued to support its leaders, visiting Mr. Mandela when he was forced underground and at least once accompanying him in a car in which he posed as her chauffeur.
Among Miss Benson's first books was a history of the outlawed African National Congress, published in the United States as ''South Africa: The Struggle for a Birthright.
But in 1955, Congress passed the Bill for Relief of Certain War Orphans, specifically to allow the Holts to adopt four boys and four girls, ranging in age from infancy to 3 1/2.
'' In addition to ''The Farmer's Daughter,'' in which she played an effervescent Swedish-born maid who runs for Congress, she appeared in nearly 100 films, often in the arms of such matinee idols as Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, Tyrone Power or Cary Grant.
When the new Congress was sworn in January 1965, the three women, backed by hundreds of protesters, demanded that the House deny membership to Mississippi's representatives-elect because blacks had consistently been prevented from registering and voting in the state.
