Her paintings are in the permanent collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Library of Congress, the Smithsonian Institution, the Chicago Art Institute, the New York Public Library and the Brooklyn Museum.
But Ms. Boreman testified about the dangers of pornography before Congress, courts and city councils in the 1980's, and became a poster child for feminists like Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to her 1986 book with Mike McGrady, ''Out of Bondage.
''
        Ms. Gaehde worked for many American museums, including the Guggenheim and the Museum of Modern Art in New York; the Baltimore Museum of Art; the Library of Congress, the Dumbarton Oaks Garden Library and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington; and the Minneapolis Institute of Arts.
She testified before Congress on technology and access issues.
She also generated backing for her side of the issue in Congress, where legislation was passed to buy and protect the land where the mall was to have been built.
As a member of Congress from 1965 until 1977, and again from 1990 until her death, Ms. Mink was a champion of women's rights, education, civil rights and labor unions.
In her first period in Congress, Ms. Mink was an early critic of the Vietnam War, prompting some opponents to call her Patsy Pink.
''
        In 1976, after 12 years in Congress, Ms. Mink sought a seat in the United States Senate.
Ms. Mink returned to Congress in 1990 after winning a special election for the seat vacated by Daniel K. Akaka, a Democrat, who was appointed to the Senate after Mr. Matsunaga's death.
She took the helm six years after Congress lifted rules that prohibited women from serving on combat aircraft and warships.
Known for her gently determined ways, Mrs. Stevens shunned confrontational tactics in favor of lobbying and made her points before Congress as well as in countless meetings and conferences.
DeBus was later barred for two years by The Athletics Congress, then the sport's national governing body, for supplying anabolic steroids to his athletes.
A student trip to the Soviet Union in 1934 impressed her with the promises of socialism, and after graduation she started traveling extensively with her first husband, Abbott Simon, a leader of the radical left-wing American Youth Congress.
Marvin Breckinridge's exploits were documented in a touring exhibit the Library of Congress put together a few years ago, ''Women Come to the Front: Journalists, Photographers and Broadcasters During World War II.
