Ms. Mieth's photographs are in the collection of the Library of Congress and others around the country.
With the country at war, her articles typically dealt with women in Congress, on the assembly line and in the armed forces, military nurses and the wives left behind when their husbands were sent to war.
She died of complications following heart surgery, said Harold Holzer, who was her spokesman when she served in Congress.
During her last campaign, for Congress in 1986, she told The New York Times, ''I am not a centrist.
In Congress, ''she was first on almost everything, on everything that ever mattered,'' said Esther Newberg, Ms. Abzug's first administrative assistant and one of many staff members who quit but remained devoted.
When I got to Congress, they made a big thing of it.
In 1970, Ms. Abzug ran for Congress.
The 19th Congressional District, which snaked from lower Manhattan  to the West 80's, had four registered Democrats to every Republican and had been represented in Congress for seven terms by Leonard Farbstein, a  solid but rather somnolent liberal.
''She was one of the most exciting, enlightened legislators that ever served in the Congress,'' said Representative Charles B. Rangel of Manhattan, with whom Ms. Abzug sometimes collaborated and sometimes sparred.
''
        Ms. Abzug acknowledged loneliness in her years in Congress.
I'm always thinking about other things, about Congress, about the issues, about the political coalition I'm trying to organize.
A comprehensive restoration plan for the Everglades is expected later this year from the Army Corps of Engineers, which together with the South Florida Water Management District, a state agency, has been directed by Congress to oversee the huge replumbing project designed to restore the flow of fresh, clean water on which the Everglades depends.
For the next four years, Dr. Zeller was president of the joint group, the Professional Staff Congress.
''When it came to representing the faculty, she was irrepressible,'' said Irwin H. Polishook, who has been president of Professional Staff Congress since Dr. Zeller retired in 1976.
Ms. Pfeffer's achievements included her prosecution of 29 organized-crime figures in a major drug-trafficking case in 1994 and helping run a sensitive Justice Department investigation into allegations that high officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service had deliberately misled Congress about overcrowding and security problems in the agency's Florida operations.
Ms. Cochran wanted officers' commissions for the female fliers, but there was pressure on Congress from thousands of civilian men who also wanted Army Air Forces commissions.
