She was  a past chairwoman of the American section of the World Jewish Congress and head  of its global commission on anti-Semitism for North America.
In three years as director, she defended the Endangered Species Act against attacks from many Republicans in Congress and fought efforts to reduce the agency's budget, not always successfully.
Just before she resigned, she led efforts to resume the listing of endangered species after a 13-month moratorium imposed by Congress, which sharply cut the agency's money for such listings in the current fiscal year.
She worked for the World Jewish Congress until a few years ago, searching for people willing to testify at trials in West Germany and the United States.
He was sentenced to death for war crimes there, but died in prison in 1988 before the execution could be carried out..
        "In the days before computers, she was better than computers," said Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress.
In 1982, Congress restored the corps' independence.
From 1972 until two years ago, she was an editor of Judaism: A Quarterly Journal of Jewish Life and Thought, published by the American Jewish Congress.
If there had ever been any doubts that a woman's place is in the House, they must surely have been dispelled in 1954 when the former Coya Gjesdal unseated a six-term Republican and swept into Congress like a whirlwind from northern Minnesota.
There had been women in Congress continuously for more than 30 years, and Mrs. Knutson, although the first from Minnesota, was one of seven elected in 1954.
A tireless campaigner who accompanied herself on the accordion while singing her own campaign song in a lilting soprano, she stunned the Minnesota political establishment when she won the 1954 Congressional election, and when she got to Washington she stunned Congress even more.
But, despite opposition from some leaders of her own Democratic-Farmer-Labor Party, she appeared headed for a long and brilliant career in Congress as her second term drew to a close.
In an open letter to his wife, he urged her to leave Congress and return to what he described as the ''happy home we once enjoyed.
''
        Never mind that Mr. Knutson, who had once worked on her father's farm in North Dakota, had not shared a bedroom with his wife for years or that he had regularly beaten her so badly during her visits to Minnesota, as their son later recalled it, that she had to wear dark glasses to hide her black eyes from her fellow members of Congress.
'' She wangled more than $1 billion for West Berlin, adorning it with the now-famous Congress Hall, which Berliners for many years fondly referred to as the ''Dulleseum'' and ''Frau Dulles's Hut,'' as well as a hospital and educational centers.
After their son's death, she and her husband, Nathan, helped raise money for groups like the Congress on Racial Equality and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and lobbied for Federal voting-rights legislation.
Ms. Jordan, the first black elected to Congress from Texas after Reconstruction, retired from the House in 1979 after three terms to teach political ethics at the university's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, never losing her potent talent for public speaking even from the confines of a wheelchair.
Most recently, her rich, impassioned voice was heard once more in Congress when, as chairwoman of the Commission on Immigration Reform, she spoke out last  year against a proposal to deny automatic citizenship to the children of illegal immigrants born in this country.
In 1966, she was elected as the first black state Senator in Texas, and went on to be the first woman and first black elected to Congress from Texas.
