The first goal was achieved, despite much opposition, in 1983, when Congress approved a measure designating the third Monday in January as a federal holiday in honor of Dr. King, who was born in Atlanta on Jan. 15, 1929.

        Ellen Kuzwayo, the lone woman and the least flashy of the founders of the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and a quiet moral force throughout the rise of the African National Congress from outlaw movement to governing party, died Wednesday in Johannesburg.
At 22, she began attending local African National Congress conferences with her father.
In the 1940's, she joined Mr. Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others in forming the breakaway African National Congress Youth League, a more militant offshoot of the Congress, and served as its secretary.
In the 1940's, she joined Mr. Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others in forming the breakaway African National Congress Youth League, a more militant offshoot of the Congress, and served as its secretary.

        Henriette D. Avram, a systems analyst who four decades ago transformed millions of dog-eared catalog cards in the Library of Congress into a searchable electronic database, and in the process helped transform the gentle art of librarianship into the sleek new field of information science, died on April 22 in Miami.
When Mrs. Avram joined the Library of Congress in the mid-1960's, the American card catalog had scarcely changed in half a century.
)
        ''She developed the mechanism for being able to capture the data that the user was seeing on the 3-by-5 catalog card into an electronic format,'' Beacher Wiggins, the director of acquisitions and bibliographic access at the Library of Congress, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
In 1965, she joined the Library of Congress, where she was put in charge of the Marc pilot project.
Mrs. Avram retired from the Library of Congress in 1992 as associate librarian for collections services.
Today, a mouse click brings up the Library of Congress Online Catalog (catalog.loc.gov), the modern incarnation of the work Mrs. Avram began in 1965.
She did not hide her disappointment that Republicans took control of Congress in the 1990's.
''What most bothers me in this Republican Congress is how they make it seem a crime for anyone to be poor -- like the poor want to be poor,'' she said in a Washingtonian interview.
''We were going in the face of the Mississippi Democratic Party, which included some of the most powerful members of the U.S. Congress, to demand that we be recognized to have representation at the Democratic National Convention.
In 1997, she was honored by the Library of Congress as part of the 100th anniversary of its geography and map division.
As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods, and when he ran for President in 1960 she often substituted at events for his pregnant wife, Jacqueline Kennedy.
As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods.
Like many southern Indian film actors, she also entered politics and became a member of the Indian Congress.
After she was released from prison in 1979, however, she was appointed a member of the National People's Congress standing committee, and she devoted herself to social causes.
She was a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations, and in 1988 ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic candidate for Congress in Rhode Island.
''
        When nations opposed American foreign policy, she sent their voting records to Congress.
Congress had cut off funds for the contras.
Robert C. McFarlane, who had won the national security slot over Ms. Kirkpatrick, pleaded guilty to misinforming Congress.
