
        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
''Just wait, there may be some fireworks,'' she declared after winning her seat in Congress in 1968 with an upset victory in Brooklyn's 12th Congressional District, which had been created by court-ordered reapportionment.
''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black.

        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
''Just wait, there may be some fireworks,'' she declared after winning her seat in Congress in 1968 with an upset victory in Brooklyn's 12th Congressional District, which had been created by court-ordered reapportionment.
''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
''Our representative democracy is not working,'' she wrote in a 1970 book that borrowed her campaign slogan as its title, ''because the Congress that is supposed to represent the voters does not respond to their needs.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.

        Former Representative Tillie Fowler, who despite being the most powerful woman in Congress did not run for re-election in 2000 to keep a promise to serve only four terms, died yesterday in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 62.
Ms. Fowler was vice chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and No.5 in the House leadership when she left Congress.
After leaving Congress in 2001 and joining a law firm, she continued her leadership role in military matters as chairwoman of both the commission that investigated sexual abuse accusations at the United States Air Force Academy and the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee, which advises the secretary of defense.
In 1992, she ran for Congress, promising to serve no more than four terms.
In 1941, she interrupted that stint to work at the Library of Congress and to own a bookstore in Maryland.
She was then among the officers who helped to overcome strong resistance and to persuade Congress to pass the Women's Armed Services Integration Act.
She worked with members of the Bush administration and members of Congress to write the education law known as No Child Left Behind, which imposed stricter performance standards on all schools receiving federal aid.
In 1987, Patricia Blau Reuss, who was the legislative director for the Women's Equity Action League at the time, told The Washington Post what it was like to lobby members of Congress with Ms. Yard as a bargaining chip:
        ''We would say, 'Look, you either deal with me or you have to answer to Molly,''' Ms. Reuss said.
She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women.
She ran unsuccessfully for Congress, lieutenant governor and the United States Senate.
