Ms. Ellickson was long associated with the Congress of Industrial Organizations and, later, with the merged A.F.L.-C.I.O.
Mr. Rostropovich is to give a concert in her honor at the International Cello Congress in St. Petersburg, Russia, in June.
But it was the election of Ronald Reagan and the big Republican gains in Congress in the 1980 election that galvanized both Harrimans to action.
In 1994 she also gave the Library of Congress 110 boxes brimming with thousands of letters, manuscripts, contracts and other memorabilia.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
In the civil rights field, she was a founding member of the Congress of Racial Equality, an officer of the Chicago chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union.
He got her admitted to a special session of Congress, making her perhaps the last person alive to have witnessed Wilson's request for a declaration of war in April 1917.
Miss Halle, who made Washington her base after World War II, became such a Churchill enthusiast that she published two volumes of his collected sayings and was credited with using her considerable drawing room influence to persuade Congress to confer the honorary American citizenship that he considered his most prized public tribute.
      
Dr. Sears was chairwoman of the First International Congress on Oceanography, which was held at the United Nations in 1959.
Ms. Devroy came to Washington in 1977 as a reporter for the Gannett News Service, covering first Congress in the Carter years and then the Reagan White House.
In 1985 she joined the Post as as political editor and directed the newspaper's coverage of Congress, the White House and national politics for the next four years.
A lifelong Zionist, she was a delegate to the first postwar congress of the World Zionist Organization in Basel, Switzerland, in 1946.

        Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69.
In 1972, Democratic Party leaders asked her to run for Congress from the Meyner family home in Phillipsburg, in the heavily Republican 13th Congressional District in Sussex and Morris Counties.
Mrs. Meyner also pressed for women's rights while in Congress.

        Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91.
Mrs. Kelly joined Congress after winning a special election in 1949 to fill an unexpired term in the 10th Congressional District and she was re-elected nine times in landslide victories, later representing the 12th District.
Her reconfigured district sent Shirley Chisholm to Congress as Brooklyn's first black Representative.
Her initiative won the attention of Congress in 1949, when she coordinated testimony on eye research before the House.
The hearings led Congress to recognize eye disease as a factor when it created the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Blindness.
