A Democrat, she ran for Congress in 1960 as an insurgent from the East Bronx and lost.
In 1967 she was elected to the board of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a group established by Congress to preserve historic houses.
When several of her friends were accused of being Communists by members of Congress in 1947, she remarked, ''If anyone accuses me of being a Communist, I'll hit them with my diamond bracelets.
Prints, paintings and collages by Mrs. Oppen have been seen in shows including the 19th National Exhibition of Prints at the Library of Congress in 1963.
In her 12 years in Congress, Mrs. Church introduced measures to carry out recommendations of the Hoover Commissions for efficiency and economy in Government.
Two years earlier she had been appointed New York City's first Commissioner to the United Nations, a post she held until her race for Congress.
Mrs. Osnos was a daughter of Dr. Zygmunt Bychowski, a member of the first Zionist Congress, which was held in Basel, Switzerland, in 1897.
'' Her superb portrayal of Sabra Cravat, a sturdy pioneer in the Oklahoma land rush who later becomes a member of Congress - aging half a century - brought her fame.
In 1972, the plane carrying her father, then the House majority leader, was lost over Alaska, and her mother, Corinne Lindy Claiborne Boggs, succeeded him in Congress.
Mrs. Sigmund's mother's family, the Claibornes, traced its roots to colonial Jamestown in Virginia and is said to have included more members of Congress than any other American family.
In 1982, she decided to run for Congress, hoping she could join her mother on Capitol Hill.
Her mother announced in July that she would not run for re-election to Congress.
At that time, the conference merged with theUnited Federation of College Teachers to form the Professional Staff Congress.
That career began after Mrs. Gabel, already active as a reform Democrat, attended a dinner party in 1948 given by Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, the founder of the American Jewish Congress; discussion at the party centered on the formation of a group that would champion the cause of blacks discriminated against in housing.
