That year she started her career as a director and museum curator for the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.
She continued to  work for the commission as regional curator and administrator of the park at Brandywine Creek until 1989.
Terence Riley, chief curator of the department of art and architecture, said: "She was not a passive philanthropist.
In 1982, Mrs. Weiss was the curator of "Kandinsky in Munich" at the Solomon  R. Guggenheim Museum.
Before that she was the chief curator of the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse, from 1979 to 1980, and the curator of collections there from 1975 until 1979.
Before that she was the chief curator of the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse, from 1979 to 1980, and the curator of collections there from 1975 until 1979.
She was a guest curator at the Guggenheim Museum from 1979 until 1982.

        Agnes Mongan, the first woman to be a curator and then the first to be a director at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass., died on Sunday at a hospital in Cambridge.
Harvard finally lifted its policy banning female curators, and in 1947, after serving for several years as ''keeper of drawings,'' Miss Mongan was named curator.
Miss Mongan is survived by her sister, Elizabeth, a former curator of prints at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, of Pigeon Cove, Mass.
      

        Grace M. Mayer, a pioneering curator of photography who was instrumental in rediscovering the work of Jacob Riis and who built a major collection of prints and photographs for the Museum of the City of New York, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
''She was well ahead of her time in recognizing the art of photography,'' said Peter Galassi, chief curator of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art, where Ms. Mayer also became a curator.
''She was well ahead of her time in recognizing the art of photography,'' said Peter Galassi, chief curator of the photography department at the Museum of Modern Art, where Ms. Mayer also became a curator.
Steichen hired her as his assistant, and in 1962 she became curator of photography, organizing, among other things, the inaugural show in the Modern's first photography-collection galleries, which opened in 1964.
She collaborated with Steichen on important shows like ''The Sense of Abstraction,'' and after retiring in 1968 she was appointed curator of the Edward Steichen Archive.
      
After starting her career in Ohio as a curator at the Akron Art Institute, she began to contribute articles to The Chicago Daily News and The International Herald Tribune in Paris.
