Her title was curator of instruction, but she was called ''the botanic lady'' by generations of youngsters, some of whom were inspired to become influential gardeners as adults.
''She was the person who published the most articles on A. J. Davis,'' said Amelia Peck, an associated curator in the department of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
''
        The greatest recognition of her achievement came with the 1992-93 exhibition ''Alexander Jackson Davis, American Architect,'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, for which she was the consulting curator.
''To move the mail with them was a really tough job,'' said Judith Bellafaire, curator of the Women in Military Service for America Memorial in Washington.
''This is the sort of book that Dina knew off the top of her head,'' said Zachary Baker, who succeeded Ms. Abramowicz as YIVO's head librarian and now is curator of Judaica at Stanford University's library.

        Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass.
Her passion was mentoring researchers in the manner in which William J. Clench, her predecessor as mollusk curator at the Museum of Comparative Zoology at Harvard University, had inspired her.

        Eva Gatling, an art historian and curator who for many years was the director of the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Westminister-Canterbury, a continuing care community in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived in recent years.
Ronald G. Pisano, an art curator, said, ''She had an unerring eye for art, and was responsible for enriching the Heckscher collection with significant acquisitions, and elevating its reputation to that of one of the finest regional museums in America.
Before joining the Heckscher, she was director of exhibitions at Duke University, curator at the Museum of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and assistant director of the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.
