
        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital.

        Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24.
After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
She was instrumental in starting the Contemporary Arts Center in Honolulu and was active as an exhibition juror, lecturer, curator and teacher there.

        Edith Appleton Standen, one of the world's leading authorities on tapestries and a longtime curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last weekend at her home in Manhattan.
The subject took: until a month ago, she was at the Metropolitan every day at 9 A.M., said Thomas Campbell, an associate curator.

        Nancy Van Norman Baer, the curator of theater and dance at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Tuesday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco.
Between 1978 and 1986, she was the curator of exhibitions at the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum, both in San Francisco, on Loie Fuller, Anna Pavlova and Bronislava Nijinska, which combined sculpture, works of art on paper and costumes.
At the museums, which she joined in 1988, Ms. Baer was the curator of three major exhibitions: ''Paris Modern: The Swedish Ballet, 1920-1925'' in 1995-96, which traveled to the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio and the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan; ''Theater in Revolution: Russian Avant-Garde Stage Design, 1913-1935'' in 1991-92, also at the I.B.M.
She was the curator of ''The Paris Seasons of the Ballets Russes'' at the Museum of Revolution in Moscow in 1994.
