When Ms. Ramirez organized an exhibition of Ms. Bernstein's work in 1991, in her previous job as a curator at the Museum of the City of New York, it was Ms. Bernstein's first museum exhibition since 1948.
''Theirs is probably the most remarkable collection of Dutch old master drawings put together ever in America,'' Martin Royalton-Kisch, curator of Dutch and Flemish drawings at the British Museum, said when the couple donated a portion of their collection to the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in 1999.

        Elka Spoerri, an art historian and curator who unlocked the riches of the art of Adolf Wölfli, died May 17 at her home in Bern, Switzerland.
Mrs. Spoerri came to Wölfli's work through her husband, Theodor, a psychiatrist at Waldau who, at the invitation of the Swiss curator Harald Szeemann, helped reintroduce Wölfli's work to the art world at Documenta 5 in 1972.
In 1975 she became the founding curator of the Adolf Wölfli Foundation at the Kunstmuseum Bern.
'' She retired from the Wölfli foundation in 1996 but was a curator, with her successor, Daniel Baumann, of the Wölfli retrospective that will open at the American Museum of Folk Art next January.
From 1937 to 1963, Ms. Mongan was curator of the private print collection of Lessing J. Rosenwald, heir to the Sears, Roebuck fortune.
The collection moved to the National Gallery in 1943, and she went with it as curator.
She is survived by her companion, Ted Barnett, of Philadelphia, and by two sons, Jonathan Bober, a curator at the Blanton Museum of Art at the University of Texas in Austin, and David Bober of New York.
      
But she may be best known in the art world for helping Marcia Tucker, a former curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art, establish the New Museum of Contemporary Art, now in SoHo.
To further demonstrate how thoroughly photographs are ingrained in contemporary culture, in 1991 she joined with Marvin Heiferman, an independent curator and writer, to create Lookout, a partnership that developed and produced exhibitions and publications.
