
        Katherine Kuh, a writer on art and a former curator at the Art Institute of Chicago who devoted her career to the acceptance of modern art, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
As associate curator of painting and sculpture at the institute, Mrs. Kuh worked with Rich to organize the first public exhibition of the great modern art collection of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Arensberg in 1949.
In 1954, she became the Art Institute's first curator of modern painting and sculpture and, with Rich, was responsible for acquiring many of its most important works in this area, including Matisse's monumental figure painting "Bathers by a River.
Mrs. Gordan's association with the library dated to 1940, when her husband, John D. Gordan, joined its staff and became curator of its Berg Collection of English and American literature.

        Louise Averill Svendsen, an art historian and former curator and administrator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, died sometime last week at her home in Manhattan.
At the Guggenheim, Mrs. Svendsen was successively appointed curator of education, associate curator, curator and, in 1978, senior curator.
At the Guggenheim, Mrs. Svendsen was successively appointed curator of education, associate curator, curator and, in 1978, senior curator.
At the Guggenheim, Mrs. Svendsen was successively appointed curator of education, associate curator, curator and, in 1978, senior curator.
At the Guggenheim, Mrs. Svendsen was successively appointed curator of education, associate curator, curator and, in 1978, senior curator.
Upon her retirement in 1982, Mrs. Svendsen was named curator emeritus.

        Ruth Mortimer Lancaster, curator of rare books and assistant librarian at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., died on Monday at her home in Williamsburg, Mass.
Expanded Collections
        She spent 18 years at Harvard's Houghton Library before returning to Smith as curator of rare books in 1975.
At her death, Dr. Porada was Arthur Lehman professor emeritus of art history and archeology at Columbia and honorary curator of seals and tablets at the Pierpoint Morgan Library.
She set up a White House fine arts commission, hired a White House curator and redecorated the mansion with early 19th Century furnishings, museum quality paintings and objets d'art, creating a sumptuous celebration of Americana that 56 million television viewers saw in 1961 as the First Lady, inviting America in, gave a guided tour broadcast by the three television networks.
She asked the advice of Henry Francis du Pont, curator of the Winterthur Museum in Wilmington, Del., and set about collecting authentic pieces from the early 1800's.
In 1969, she founded and organized the library for the institute and served as its archivist and curator until her retirement in 1988.
She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.
As associate curator in the division of political history, Mrs. Klapthor assembled a Smithsonian collection of White House china in connection with her creation of First Ladies Hall, a modernized setting for the Smithsonian's First Ladies costume collection.
She was the director of the museum, on Fifth Avenue at 92d Street, from 1972 to 1980, after being a curator there from 1967 to 1969.

        Jane Hayward, a curator of medieval art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an authority on stained glass, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
In the 1960's she was the curator of the Lyman Allyn Museum in New London, Conn., and taught art history there and at Connecticut College.
Not Richard Martin, the curator of the Costume Institute exhibition, and not even Mr. Yagi, the owner of the rights to her name.
