An independent, spirited woman with a husky tobacco voice, Ms. Ganz was recalled by Kirk Varnedoe, the chief curator of paintings and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, as ''tough-minded, seriously dedicated to what she believed in.

        Alice Huei-Zu Yang, an art historian and curator, died early Saturday morning after a hit-and-run accident at Canal and Varick Streets in Manhattan.
After completing internships in several Manhattan  museums, Ms. Yang worked for five years as an assistant curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo, organizing several exhibitions, including a survey of the work of Alfredo Jaar in 1992 and a group show titled ''The Final Frontier'' in 1993.
That year, she left the museum to work as a critic and independent curator while earning her master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
Ms. Yang had recently passed her oral examinations for a Ph.D. at the institute and last week began working as the Robert Lehman curator at the Parrish Art Museum in Southampton, L.I.
She resigned from the Metropolitan in 1963 when her husband stepped down as its curator of ancient Middle Eastern art.
From then until 1974 he was Hagop Kevorkian Curator of Middle Eastern Art and Archeology at the Brooklyn Museum of Art, where he formed the core of an Islamic collection.
She worked at the Cleveland Museum of Art before going to the Brooklyn Museum of Art in 1936 as assistant curator of prints and drawings under Carl O. Schniewind.
In 1941 he retired and she was appointed curator, a position she held until her own retirement in 1969.
She was named curator emeritus by the museum in 1973.
She was a freelance curator and consultant from 1974 to 1977.
From 1972 to 1974, she was a curator for private collections, including those of David Rockefeller, Carter Burden and William A. M. Burden.
She was a curator of Philip Johnson's art collection for a brief period in 1969.
Mr. Hencken, who was for many years the curator of European archeology at the Peabody Museum of Harvard University, died in 1981.
''She was completely representative of another age, the age of manners,'' said Courtney Graham Donnell, an associate curator at the Art Institute.
Richard Martin, curator of the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, acquired some of these designs for the costume collection at the Fashion Institute of Technology, when he was the curator there.
Richard Martin, curator of the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, acquired some of these designs for the costume collection at the Fashion Institute of Technology, when he was the curator there.
When the diplomatic reception rooms of the State Department building were rebuilt in the mid-1980's, Clement Conger, the curator at the time, described Mrs. Hooker as the project's ''staunchest supporter.
