
        Dorathi Bock Pierre, a theatrical publicist and dance writer, died on Jan. 2 at her home in Los Angeles.
Ms. Pierre contributed articles to The American Dancer and Dance magazine and founded and edited The Journal of Educational Dance from 1938 to 1942.
Ms. Pierre contributed articles to The American Dancer and Dance magazine and founded and edited The Journal of Educational Dance from 1938 to 1942.
In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black choreographers who later became major modern dance artists, among them Kei Takei, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar and Bill T. Jones.
In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black choreographers who later became major modern dance artists, among them Kei Takei, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar and Bill T. Jones.
A central tenet of her career as a dance producer was that no one should be excluded from dance because of imperfect bodies or the color of their skin.
A central tenet of her career as a dance producer was that no one should be excluded from dance because of imperfect bodies or the color of their skin.
She also believed that dance ought to be available to everyone, whether through the low-cost classes at Clark Center or affordable concerts.
It was during her college years that Ms. Roberts began to study dance seriously, performing  with Blanche Evan.
A friendship with Donald McKayle, a young choreographer, led to her first experience producing dance when Mr. McKayle asked her for help in putting on a concert at the 92d Street Y. Ms. Roberts continued to present dance regularly at Clark Center, where Alvin Ailey had started his company in the 1960's.
A friendship with Donald McKayle, a young choreographer, led to her first experience producing dance when Mr. McKayle asked her for help in putting on a concert at the 92d Street Y. Ms. Roberts continued to present dance regularly at Clark Center, where Alvin Ailey had started his company in the 1960's.
From 1975 to 1978, Ms. Roberts produced a summer dance festival in the mall at the City College Graduate Center on West 42d Street.
In 1965, she and her husband took over a modest annual tea dance that was being held as a fund-raiser and created the Society's gala Petroushka Ball.

        Mira Ziminska-Sygietynska, a founder of Mazowsze, the Polish State Folk Song and Dance Ensemble, died on Sunday in Warsaw.
Students were chosen by audition for lessons in music and dance and a general education at Karolin, a country estate outside Warsaw where the company still trains.
The aim of Mazowsze was to present traditional music and dance carefully adapted for the stage, with the performers wearing traditional Polish dress adapted by Ms. Ziminska-Sygietynska.
She is survived by her daughter, Anna, chief dance critic of The New York Times.
      
When Ms. Marchowsky presented her own choreography in the 1940's, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, said her work was rooted in the Graham style of the 1930's but, as he wrote in 1948, there were ''many moments of individual creativeness.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.
In 1943 she was part of a series, sponsored by the magazine Dance Observer, that presented works by budding choreographers from the Graham company like herself and Merce Cunningham.
''
        She was also among the first merchants to give elaborate parties in the store, starting with a black-tie supper dance to introduce Norman Norell's first perfume in 1968.
In 1994, it listed almost $6.3 million in assets as well as grants totaling nearly $300,000, supporting music, dance, the fine and performing arts, museums and art and music education, primarily in New York.
Mrs. Sharp was co-chairman of the Martha Graham Dance Company from 1979 to 1985.

        Bessie Schonberg, one of America's most influential teachers of dance composition and a mentor to several generations of dancers, died yesterday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 90.
Few dance educators were as respected as Miss Schonberg and because of the devoted attention she gave to students, few were as beloved.
In recognition of her importance to dance, Dance Theater Workshop in 1984 named its annual New York Dance and Performance Awards the Bessies; it also dedicated its theater in Chelsea to her.
In recognition of her importance to dance, Dance Theater Workshop in 1984 named its annual New York Dance and Performance Awards the Bessies; it also dedicated its theater in Chelsea to her.
In recognition of her importance to dance, Dance Theater Workshop in 1984 named its annual New York Dance and Performance Awards the Bessies; it also dedicated its theater in Chelsea to her.
Miss Schonberg had an abiding interest in all forms of dance and taught choreographic fundamentals with equal sensitivity to modern dancers and ballet dancers and to traditionalists and experimentalists.
She often told students and interviewers that the only thing dance should never be is dull.
She first attracted national attention for her dance composition classes at Sarah Lawrence College, where she began teaching in 1938.
In recent years she had also taught at Dance Theater of Harlem and Dance Theater Workshop.
In recent years she had also taught at Dance Theater of Harlem and Dance Theater Workshop.
This summer she had planned to be choreographic adviser for Dancing in the Streets at Wave Hill and to teach at the Yard on Martha's Vineyard and at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Massachusetts.
She was named this year's recipient of the American Dance Festival's Balasaraswati/Joy Ann Dewey Beinecke Award for Distinguished Teaching.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
Over the years she also taught at the American Dance Festival and many colleges and dance centers in the United States and Britain.
Over the years she also taught at the American Dance Festival and many colleges and dance centers in the United States and Britain.
In 1988 she received a Bessie Award of her own for lifetime service to dance.
She remained with it until 1944, danced on Broadway in the musical comedies ''Sadie Thompson'' (1944) and ''Marinka'' (1945) and then left the dance world to care for her daughter.
In later years, she taught at the Ballet Theater School, the Ballet Russe School, the New York Conservatory of Dance and other New York schools.
At the time of her death, she was teaching at the Broadway Dance Center.

        Anita Finkel, a dance writer and editor, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Finkel came to dance writing from an academic background.
An expert on ice dancing and champion figure skating, she wrote about those fields and about dance for Ballet News, where she was also an editor, and for Dance International, Stage Bill, Geo and Connoisseur.
An expert on ice dancing and champion figure skating, she wrote about those fields and about dance for Ballet News, where she was also an editor, and for Dance International, Stage Bill, Geo and Connoisseur.
In 1988, she founded New Dance Review, a brainy, impudent jounral that she published through 1995.
She was a contributor to the Oxford University Press International Encyclopedia of Dance, which she helped to edit.
She was also Time's longtime dance critic and was known as a mentor for young writers.
''
        After study in ballet with Anderson-Ivantzova and Spanish dance with Angel Cansino, Ms. Brown taught tap to children at her own school in the Bronx for 25 years.
She trained dancers, actors, singers and Broadway ''gypsies'' over 23 years at the International School of Dance and Ballet Arts at Carnegie Hall.
From 1989 to 1991, she taught in the drama and dance divisions at Juilliard.
Ms. Brown also trained dance teachers for over 30 years at conferences and teachers' organizations.
His presence assured her entree to the studios, but it took an accident to set her career path, when a bruised knee led to dance classes as therapy.
After vaudeville, dance clubs and some stage musicals, she landed her first cinematic dancing role in ''Angel of Broadway'' (1927).
The Orissi dance style, distinguished by a curved silhouette based on carved temple figures, was much less known throughout India and the world than the Bharata Natyam style from Madras when Sanjukta began performing it in the 1950's.
The Asia Society brought her to New York and presented her on tour several times to familiarize American audiences with this singular school of Indian classical dance.
She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
When they discovered that the little girl loved to dance, they wondered if there might be a career in ballet for her, and she was accepted by the Imperial Ballet School in 1911.
She also played a leading role in organizing dinner dance benefits for the New York City Opera and the School of American Ballet.
She came to her life in film and video after a career in dance.
Ms. Browne was honored last year for her choreography in a National Tap Dance Day program at Alice Tully Hall.
Correction:  September 15, 1997, Monday
        A picture caption on Sept. 6 with the obituary of the tap dancer and choreographer Harriet Browne misidentified the dance group for which she was costumed, and misspelled the name of the group cited erroneously.
She gave master classes at colleges and regional dance festivals across the country.
She was also the co-author, with Helen McAvity, of ''Mating Dance,'' a comedy that opened on Broadway in 1965.
''
        The films that Ms. Steel most enjoyed seeing and making -- such as ''Flashdance,'' about a female welder who wants to dance, and ''Cool Runnings'' -- were personal to her.
And in ''Of Being,'' she wrote:
        I know this happiness
        is provisional:
        the looming presences --
        great suffering, great fear --
        withdraw only
        into peripheral vision:
        but ineluctable this shimmering
        of wind in the blue leaves:
        this flood of stillness
        widening the lake of sky:
        this need to dance,
        this need to kneel:
        this mystery:
        A defining moment of her life was the Vietnam War.
In the same year, she published ''The Sorrow Dance,'' a book of poems whose sorrow included the war and also the death of the poet's sister.
Reviewing the show in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Miss Geva ''is so magnificent as the mistress of the dance that she can burlesque it with the authority of an artist on a holiday.
There she met Balanchine, who was teaching ballroom dance classes.
