She said she had offers from MGM and Paramount, and that her dance career was set to take off.
Nela studied dance in Dresden with Mary Wigman, the German expressionist pioneer.

        Barbara Barker, a dance historian focusing on American classical ballet and dance in popular culture and the organizer of a major attempt to document the choreography of Agnes de Mille, died Thursday at her home in Sioux City, Iowa.

        Barbara Barker, a dance historian focusing on American classical ballet and dance in popular culture and the organizer of a major attempt to document the choreography of Agnes de Mille, died Thursday at her home in Sioux City, Iowa.
The project was cited as a model of documentation by the National Initiative to Preserve American Dance.
Always interested in dance both as art and as entertainment, she danced professionally with Ballet West in Salt Lake City and as a Bluebell Girl in revues at the Lido in Paris.
In 1986 she left Texas to lead the dance department at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis-St. Paul.
In 1999 the university named its new dance building for her.
Born in Brooklyn, Ms. Seckler studied dance with Michio Ito, Angel Cansino and Yeichi Nimura, as well as with Humphrey and Weidman.
She performed with the Humphrey-Weidman troupe, then called Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman & Company, from 1935 to 1942, then went on to dance at the Roxy Theater from 1942 to 1945, where she and Lee Sherman were featured dancers in revues that accompanied movie screenings.
She also created roles in modern-dance signature works of the time, among them ''New Dance,'' ''With My Red Fires,'' ''Theater Piece'' and ''Passacaglia and Fugue in C Minor,'' all by Humphrey; Weidman's ''Flickers'' and ''Lynchtown''; and Sokolow's ''Lyric Suite'' and ''Rooms.
She was a leading teacher of the Humphrey-Weidman technique at the New Dance Group for many years, starting in 1948.
From 1976 to 1996, she was the co-director of the Deborah Carr Theater Dance Ensemble, whose repertory included works by Humphrey and Weidman, where she coached the performers on the Humphrey-Weidman style and dances.

        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv.

        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv.

        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv.
Trained in both ballet and modern dance, especially Martha Graham's idiom, she combined an extended classical line with an extreme suppleness.
She performed with the Glen Tetley Dance Company and the Norman Walker Dance Company before dancing with the Ailey troupe from 1970 to 1984.
She performed with the Glen Tetley Dance Company and the Norman Walker Dance Company before dancing with the Ailey troupe from 1970 to 1984.
Together they formed the Ohad Naharin Dance Company in New York in 1984, performing with it until 1990.
She staged her husband's works for the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet, the Frankfurt Ballet, the Cullberg Ballet, the Lyons Opera Ballet and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens.

        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Douglas Knight Jr., who survives her along with their son, Aniruddha, a dancer who is the last direct inheritor of the music and dance traditions preserved in his family for 10 generations.
Although Bharata Natyam, the Indian classical dance form that is best known today, has many exponents, the style of Bharata Natyam that Lakshmi inherited was part of the repertory and forms codified by her ancestors as court performers in the early 1800's.
Born in Madras on Oct. 30, 1943, Lakshmi grew up in a home filled with music and dance but studied political science at college before she asked her mother to give her formal lessons.
Although she started dance late, she began performing in the 1970's and then also lectured in both India and the United States.
During the 1980's and 1990's, Lakshmi performed often in the New York area and appeared at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., and the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C.
During the 1980's and 1990's, Lakshmi performed often in the New York area and appeared at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., and the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C.

        Beverly Brown, a modern-dance choreographer and longtime lead performer with the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, died on May 17 in Kansas City, Mo.
Born in Effingham, Ill., and reared in Venezuelan oil camps and in Arizona, Ms. Brown graduated from Carlton College in Northfield, Minn., then traveled east to New York City and a 40-year career in dance.
Ms. Brown taught dance at institutions like Colorado University at Boulder and the University of California at Santa Cruz.

        Pauline Tish, a modern-dance teacher who studied and performed with some of the pioneers of American modern dance, died on April 1 in Manhattan.
During the 1930's, she studied with leaders of modern dance like Martha Graham, Louis Horst, Charles Weidman and Doris Humphrey, and was especially influenced by the choreography of Helen Tamiris.
As a member of the Federal Theater Dance Project, a division of the Works Progress Administration, Ms. Tish performed in several productions by Tamiris.
Ms. Tish founded the dance department at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn in 1956.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
Precocious on and off the dance floor, she graduated from high school at 14 and found work as a dancer, touring Europe with Duke Ellington and Cab Calloway in the 1930's.

        Irène Lidova, a dance critic and producer who played a major role in founding creative ballet companies in postwar France, died on May 23 in Paris.
After studying ballet, she began reviewing dance in 1939 in the Marianne and then collaborated with her Russian-born husband, the dance photographer Serge Lido.
After studying ballet, she began reviewing dance in 1939 in the Marianne and then collaborated with her Russian-born husband, the dance photographer Serge Lido.
She was a critic for publications like Dance News in New York.
      
In 1969, before becoming dealers, Ms. Solomon and her husband, Horace, opened 98 Greene Street Loft, one of the first so-called alternative spaces in New York, where poetry readings, dance performances, concerts and art shows took place.
She became a dancer and dance captain with the Rockettes at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan, and then a member of the Martha Graham Company.
She began her training in a neighborhood dance school in Denver, where the troupe is based, and by 10 was performing Shirley Temple-style dance numbers in nightclubs.
She began her training in a neighborhood dance school in Denver, where the troupe is based, and by 10 was performing Shirley Temple-style dance numbers in nightclubs.
She went on to study modern dance with Hanya Holm in New York, then returned west when Holm taught workshops in Colorado.
Ms. Parker and Ms. Covillo, whom she met soon after, were unable to find performing jobs, so they opened a dance school in 1951.
She was also a director and president of the Sensory Awareness Foundation of Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Read was born on Dec. 7, 1909, in Belleville, Ill. She studied biology at the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in modern dance from the University of Illinois.
      
She saw nothing particularly unusual, she said, about plucking her harp on the street in front of the Hotel Pierre, where she came out to society in 1933, at a supper dance in the roof garden.
''
        Ms. Raven, who had a master's degree in linguistics from the State University of New York at Brockport, was a primary force in the tap dance revivals of the 1970's and 80's in New York.
Ms. Raven was a charter member of Brenda Bufalino's American Tap Dance Orchestra.

        Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on Monday in Manhattan.

        Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on Monday in Manhattan.

        Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on Monday in Manhattan.
Ms. Reinhart usually worked in tandem with her husband, who became the festival's director in 1969 after a pioneering career, begun in the 1950's, in producing and managing modern dance companies as well as developing dance projects for the National Endowment for the Arts and State Department cultural exchange programs.
Ms. Reinhart usually worked in tandem with her husband, who became the festival's director in 1969 after a pioneering career, begun in the 1950's, in producing and managing modern dance companies as well as developing dance projects for the National Endowment for the Arts and State Department cultural exchange programs.
The Reinharts' joint activities included the highly praised Balanchine Festival two years ago at the Kennedy Center and ''Free to Dance,'' a documentary film for public television about black dance for which the Reinharts just won an Emmy Award as its executive producers.
The Reinharts' joint activities included the highly praised Balanchine Festival two years ago at the Kennedy Center and ''Free to Dance,'' a documentary film for public television about black dance for which the Reinharts just won an Emmy Award as its executive producers.
Ms. Reinhart was a staff member at the National Endowment for the Arts in its early years and joined the American Dance Festival in 1977.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
Ms. Reinhart placed equally consistent emphasis on preserving the traditions of modern dance.
She established a national touring program for the Dayton Contemporary Dance Theater's revivals of rarely performed classics by black choreographers.
Together they braved a windy outdoor performance on a cold mountain top in Japan to see Dai Rakuda Kan, the Butoh group they presented at the American Dance Festival's home at Duke University in 1982.
''We know there are many dance artists in the world who were as encouraged as we were by her quiet enthusiasm.
Stephanie strongly believed what dance can deliver.
''
        Similarly, the Reinharts were the first to familiarize Americans with the nascent French contemporary dance boom after they traveled to France to select five troupes for the festival in 1983, and Ms. Reinhart was awarded the medal of Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters this month for her contributions to furthering dance in France and throughout the world.
''
        Similarly, the Reinharts were the first to familiarize Americans with the nascent French contemporary dance boom after they traveled to France to select five troupes for the festival in 1983, and Ms. Reinhart was awarded the medal of Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters this month for her contributions to furthering dance in France and throughout the world.
The Reinharts' often-stated belief was that modern dance was a prime indigenous American art form that spread worldwide in the last three decades.
Convinced that young dancers abroad were interested in studying the idioms of modern dance, they organized workshops in Japan, South Korea and Russia.
They also helped establish the Guangdong Modern Dance Company, China's first modern dance troupe.
They also helped establish the Guangdong Modern Dance Company, China's first modern dance troupe.
Unlike her husband, Ms. Reinhart did not begin her career specifically in dance but in broader area of arts administration.
She joined the Endowment in 1969 and was program administrator for its Dance and Education Programs, also working in the planning and development of the Artists-in-Schools Program.
In 1996 the Reinharts were named Artistic Directors for Dance at the Kennedy Center.
They inaugurated an energetic and innovative commissioning program for collaborations by jazz composers and modern dance companies with funds from the Doris Duke Charitable Trust.
Her philanthropy included the New York City Ballet, the National Museum of Racing, the National Museum of Dance and equine research at the Veterinary College of Cornell University.
She began acting in 1944 with a small role in ''The Dance of Fortune,'' a movie directed by Luis Bayón Herrera about the marital ambitions of the nouveau riche.
Ms. Lessing began to work with Cole, who died in 1974, soon after he spotted her as a teenager in an East Indian dance class.
The variety of dance forms she had studied helped make her an instrument for the development of Cole's eclectic style.
John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, singled out Ms. Lessing in 1943 for her performance in the Humphrey work and for her nightclub dancing with Charles Weidman and Peter Hamilton at the Versailles nightclub.
She taught dance at several schools, including the New York Academy of Ballet, which she founded in 1960 and which closed in 1991.
In the 1970's she was important in reconstructing Cole's choreography for the American Dance Machine.

        Wendy Hilton, a specialist in Baroque dance, died on Sept. 21 at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Hilton, who was born in England, came to New York in 1969 to direct the Dance Collegium of Rosalyn Tureck's International Bach Society.
In 1974 she joined the drama faculty at the Juilliard School, transferring the next year to the dance division.
Many of her most vivid and revealing reconstructions and choreographing of Baroque dance were created for Juilliard students.
The dances were performed for the most part with a luminous purity, ease and respect that were surprising from young dancers training in the comparatively boisterous dance arts of the 20th century.
She worked as a dancer and a choreographer in early dance styles for BBC Television, the Handel Opera Society in London, the New York Pro-Musica Antiqua, the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera, where she created the dances for Thea Musgrave's ''Mary, Queen of Scots'' in 1981.
Ms. Hilton formed three early-dance groups, including the Wendy Hilton Baroque Dance Company in New York, created in 1984, which performed with symphony orchestras.
Writing in The New York Times on May 30, 1943, the dance critic John Martin praised Ms. Slavenska's ''command of technique and taste'' and remarked on her ''personal beauty, which is nothing short of spectacular.
In Vienna her teachers included Léopold Dubois who, she later recalled, taught her the meaning of classicism, and Gertrud Kraus, a pioneer of Central European modern dance.
She was prima ballerina at the Zagreb National Theater from 1934 to 1936, and received international attention when she performed at the dance festival held in conjunction with the Berlin Olympics of 1936.
She started out playing at rehearsals for a tap dance coach, Willie Covan, with clients like Fred Astaire, Eleanor Powell, Gene Kelly and Shirley Temple.
'' The onetime director of the New York State Ghetto Arts Program, which brought theater and dance to poor neighborhoods, Ms. Carroll also worked in Los Angeles at the Inner City Repertory in the Watts district, presenting classical and modern works.
In the 1980's she toured the United States with Edmond Felix, a writer, dancer and costume designer, in ''African Folk Tales,'' a blend of stories, dance and mime.
She taught physical education in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, and studied dance in New York with an Italian ballet master whose students included Fred Astaire.
Trained in the Netherlands, Ms. van Hoek taught choreography and dance improvisation at the Rotterdamse Dansacademie and presented her own dances in Europe before emigrating to the United States in 1977.
She worked as a teaching assistant to Lucas Hoving at the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and studied in New York at the Laban/Bartenieff Institute.
'' Later, she played clubs, dance halls and street fairs, among other engagements, all over the United States.
