Miss Soelberg trained in dance in her hometown, Seattle, at the Cornish School of Music and Art, a noted experimentalist center whose alumni include Merce Cunningham.
She returned to head the dance department there after further studies with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman and at the Jaques-Dalcroze Institute of Eurythmics in Geneva.
She established the dance department at Dartington Hall, an experimentalist center in Dartington, England, and joined Kurt Jooss's company in 1934, when it took up residence at the school after fleeing Nazi Germany.
Miss Soelberg established the Dance Center, a training institution, in London and worked with Rudolf von Laban to develop his dance notation system, Labanotation.
Miss Soelberg established the Dance Center, a training institution, in London and worked with Rudolf von Laban to develop his dance notation system, Labanotation.
She taught dance at Catholic University in Washington, and created dances for the Martha's Vineyard Shaw Festival and the Empire State Music Festival.
She was also a board member of the Citizens Committee for Children and the Dance Theater Foundation at New York City Center.

        Estelle Sommers, the administrator and joint owner of the nationwide Capezio Dance-Theater Shops and an arts patron who advised many important dance groups, died on Monday in her apartment in Manhattan.
Mrs. Sommers was the widow of Ben Sommers, the dance philanthropist and head of Capezio Ballet Makers, the theatrical shoe company.
Active in Organizations
        Mrs. Sommers was best known in the dance world for the energetic way she championed a wide variety of causes and organizations in the United States and abroad.
In 1988, she joined the overseers board of the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., which named a studio in honor of her and her husband.
Since 1979, she served as the United States chairwoman of the International Committee for the Dance Library of Israel, which presented her with its documents of dance award last year.
Since 1979, she served as the United States chairwoman of the International Committee for the Dance Library of Israel, which presented her with its documents of dance award last year.
She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
She was also on the board of the Dance Notation Bureau (and was the recipient of its annual award in 1991), the America-Israel Cultural Foundation, the Center for Dance Medicine, the International Ballet Competition U.S.A., the International Dance Alliance, the Joffrey School of Ballet, the Harkness Center for Dance Injuries, the Israeli Dance Institute and the Yard, a summer choreographic workshop on Martha's Vineyard.
Most recently, she was the translator of "The Scorpion's Dark Dance" (1993), a volume of Italian poetry by Mr. de Palchi.

        Ivy Clarke, a former general manager of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Wednesday night at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
She later set up her own dance management firm and was familiar at modern-dance concerts until she died.
The cause was apparently a heart attack in her sleep, said her niece, Victoria B. Smith of Kent, Conn.
        Ms. Goya, an authority on many idioms of Spanish dance, was noted for her ability to choreograph works that united traditional folk and flamenco steps with concert music by Spanish composers including Isaac Albeniz, Enrique Granados, Manuel de Falla and Joaquin Turina.
She studied Spanish dance in New York and Madrid with many teachers, and ballet in New York with Michel Fokine and at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School.
As a member of the Jose Greco Dance Company, she toured Europe and North and South America from 1947 to 1951.
Together, they performed and taught extensively and, since 1967, directed the New York-based Foundation for Ethnic Dance.
Ms. Goya also contributed articles to Dance Magazine and other publications.
Over the years, she was a faculty member at institutions including the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, the Connecticut College School of Dance and, in New York, the High School of Performing Arts and the American Theater Wing.
      
Over the years, she was a faculty member at institutions including the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, the Connecticut College School of Dance and, in New York, the High School of Performing Arts and the American Theater Wing.
      
Behind the closed doors, she'd dance a jig.

        Eve Gentry, a modern dancer who helped found the Dance Notation Bureau in New York City and later established the Institute for the Pilates Method of Physical Conditioning in Santa Fe, N.M., died on June 17 at her home in Santa Fe.
Her concern for preserving choreography led her to establish the Dance Notation Bureau in New York in 1940, with Ann Hutchinson Guest, Janey Price and Helen Priest Rogers.
In 1968 she moved to New Mexico, where she established a dance school and, in 1991, an institute devoted to the Pilates method.
At the end of the run, with no serious productions for black actors in view, she turned to dancing and toured Europe with her dance partner, Al Moiret.

        Nina Stroganova, a Danish-born ballerina who was a founding member of American Ballet Theater and who became a noted dance teacher in New York City, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She studied painting with three of her aunts, amateur artists, and dance with a former member of the experimental Denishawn company.
"
        One of their last projects together was "To Dance With the White Dog," a television movie that had its premiere last year.
She appeared in the television movies "The Story Lady" (1991) and "To Dance With the White Dog" (1993) and completed three more feature films: "Used People" (1992) and "Camilla" and "Nobody's Fool," which are to be released this fall.
THEATER  Hamlet (1934)  King Lear (1940)  Portrait of a Madonna (1946)  A Streetcar Named Desire (1947)  The Fourposter (1951)  Five Finger Exercise (1959)  The Gin Game (1977)  The Glass Menagerie (1983)  The Petition (1986)  FILM  The Seventh Cross (1944)  Forever Amber (1947)  September Affair (1950)  The Desert Fox (1951)  The Light in the Forest (1958)  The Birds (1963)  Butley (1974)  Still of the Night (1982)  The World According to Garp (1982)  The Bostonians (1984)  Cocoon (1985)  Driving Miss Daisy (1989)  Fried Green Tomatoes (1991)  TELEVISION  Foxfire (1987)  The Story Lady (1991)  To Dance With the White Dog (1993)
        Correction:  September 14, 1994, Wednesday
        A picture caption on Monday with the obituary of Jessica Tandy referred incorrectly in some editions to her appearance in the film "Driving Miss Daisy.
Miss Fisher was born in Berkeley, Calif., and reared in Seattle, where she received her initial training in ballet and modern dance.
After moving to New York City, she appeared with the Martha Graham Dance Company (1938-40), began presenting programs of her own choreography and, in the 40's and 50's, performed in such Broadway musicals as "One Touch of Venus," "On the Town," "Make Mine Manhattan" and "The Golden Apple.

        Pearl Primus, a pioneering dancer, choreographer and teacher whose anthropological work exposed Americans to the realities of black life in America and to the richness of African and Caribbean dance, died on Saturday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74.
A powerful performer and lecturer, Miss Primus played a role similar to that of Katherine Dunham in establishing dance by and about blacks as an important part of American culture.
Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
Miss Primus visited Africa for the first time in 1948, but she had begun to present carefully researched dance with African themes in 1943 and was the first American choreographer to do so.
In 1974, her contributions were celebrated in a salute to her and the ballerina Janet Collins by the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
"Dance has been my freedom and my world," she said in 1991.
"I dance not to entertain but to help people better understand each other.
Unable to find a laboratory job open to blacks, she applied to the National Youth Administration and was put into a dance group.
She enrolled in modern-dance classes at the New Dance Group, where she began to teach, and in 1943 gave the first performance of her own work.
Troubled by having to choose between medicine and dance, she consulted Mr. Martin.
On one Southern tour, she was offered a Rosenwald Foundation scholarship to study dance in Africa.
She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching.
She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching.
She was an early and important participant in "The Black Tradition in American Dance," a program to revive and preserve black dance that began in 1988 at the American Dance Festival, where in 1991 she was named the first recipient of the Balasaraswati/ Joy AnnDewey Beinecke Chair for Distinguished Teaching.
But the scores of songs on she which stamped her bittersweet, gently mocking signature included "Alfie," "The Music That Makes Me Dance," "Guess Who I Saw Today?," "Blame It on My Youth," "Yesterdays" and "Mean to Me.
It said Miss Zahn had moved to Oregon in 1986 from New York City, where she had begun teaching at the Isadora Duncan School of Dance in 1924.
