She got hired for the chorus of Broadway musicals because she was funny and could sing, but then she got fired because she couldn't dance.

        Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing.

        Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing.
Ms. Dai was a familiar figure in international dance circles, first as a dancer and choreographer who performed in London in the 1930's and in New York in the 40's, then as the guiding force in China's first state-sponsored national ballet institutions after the Communist government came to power in 1949.
''My interest was to discover the Chinese dance and to develop it.
She learned the dance notation system known as Labanotation, which she introduced into China.
As a prominent figure in dance before 1949 who was not averse to choreographing works in support of China's new regime, Ms. Dai was a natural choice to lead the dance institutions she helped develop.
As a prominent figure in dance before 1949 who was not averse to choreographing works in support of China's new regime, Ms. Dai was a natural choice to lead the dance institutions she helped develop.
In 1949, she was named deputy director of the Central Song and Dance Ensemble, and in 1954 she founded the Beijing Dance Academy, becoming its principal in 1955.
In 1949, she was named deputy director of the Central Song and Dance Ensemble, and in 1954 she founded the Beijing Dance Academy, becoming its principal in 1955.
An elegant woman who retained her British accent, she traveled to international dance events and was a juror at the 1990 New York International Ballet Competition.
She restaged some of her works in 1989 for the London-based Chinese Dance and Mime Theater.
In 1981, the Royal Academy of Dance placed a bust of her in its London foyer.
      
On Nov. 9, 1932, a Wednesday evening, Miss Neumann was buried at a marathon dance contest at the Casino ballroom in Reading, Pa. She weighed 125 pounds; when she was excavated 97 hours later, at 10 p.m. on Nov. 13, she weighed 114 and was very, very hungry.
'' But her speed, lightness and strong virtuoso technique enabled her to dance just about anything, and also made her a perfect interpreter of the ballets of Gerald Arpino, whose choreography helped to establish the Joffrey as a youthful, pop ballet troupe.
'' She went on to dance a featured role in the Broadway musical ''Merlin'' in 1982, appeared in ''The Turning Point'' and several other films, and performed on television in shows including ''Murder She Wrote,'' ''Live From Lincoln Center'' and Edward Villella's Emmy-winning ''Harlequin.
'' She also choreographed for the Dayton Ballet and university dance programs.
She was also chairwoman of the Joffrey/New School University degree program in dance.
She was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for ''Airport'' (1970); she won a best-actress Tony that same year for her portrayal of an alcoholic down-and-out singer in Mr. Simon's laughing-through-tears drama ''The Gingerbread Lady''; she and her co-star, Charles Durning, received Emmy nominations for ''Queen of the Stardust Ballroom'' (1975), playing a couple who warm to romance when they meet at a dance hall.
It began as a variation of Depression-era marathon dance contests, with skaters covering the distance between New York and Los Angeles, 57,000 laps on the banked track, in 40 days or more.
Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United States as a child and grew up in Philadelphia, where she established the Children's Dance Theater in 1944.
Later known as the Philadelphia Dance Academy, it became part of the University of the Arts.
Her students included Judith Jamison, now the artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
She was also a founding member of the New Dance Group and of the Society for Ethnomusicology.
Moving back to Philadelphia after a serious injury, Ms. Nahumck also organized a college division of the dance academy in 1954 and a private school in 1962 for students in kindergarten through 12th grade.
Born in Malden, Mass., Ms. Jones loved to dance from an early age.
There, the two of them founded the Jones-Haywood School of Ballet, with the mission of enabling black students to train in classical dance.
Their guest teachers included Arthur Mitchell, a founder of the Dance Theater of Harlem, and George Balanchine.
Ms. Jones also directed the D.C. Public Schools Dance Program and choreographed for the Washington Opera Society and the Washington Civic Opera.
      

        Katherine Dunham, the dancer, choreographer, teacher and anthropologist whose pioneering work introduced much of the black heritage in dance to the stage, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
By creating popular and glamorous revues based on African and Caribbean folklore, Miss Dunham acquainted audiences, both on Broadway and around the world, with the historical roots of black dance.
In her dance technique, Miss Dunham emphasized the isolation of individual parts of the body.
She also studied dance in Chicago with Ludmilla Speranzeva and Mark Turbyfill, a choreographer and poet, with whom she established the short-lived Ballet Nègre in 1930.
The following year, Miss Speranzeva helped Miss Dunham establish the Chicago Negro School of Ballet and a company, the Negro Dance Group, which evolved into the Katherine Dunham Dance Company.
The following year, Miss Speranzeva helped Miss Dunham establish the Chicago Negro School of Ballet and a company, the Negro Dance Group, which evolved into the Katherine Dunham Dance Company.
Miss Dunham took her Negro Dance Group to New York in 1937 but did not attract wide attention there until 1939, when she choreographed ''Pins and Needles,'' a satirical revue produced by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union.
They consisted of brief, vivid numbers inspired by African, Caribbean or African-American dance forms.
In 1945, she founded the Dunham School of Dance and Theater in New York.
Until it closed a decade later, it offered courses in dance, acting, psychology, philosophy, music, design and foreign languages.
After World War II, her dance company toured constantly, visiting more than 50 countries in 30 years.
Since the 1940's, Ms. Maslow created dances for a number of troupes, including her own, the Sophie Maslow Dance Company, and the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, an ensemble she directed in association with Jane Dudley and William Bales.
''
        Ms. Maslow's versatility was evident in such disparate creations as ''The Snow Queen'' (1953), a retelling of Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale; ''Decathlon Études'' (1976), which turned sports movements into dance; and ''Voices'' (1980), a lyrical piece set to lush Romantic music by Schumann.
During the 1950's and 60's she choreographed many of the annual Hannukkah festivals at Madison Square Garden, and in 1954 she staged ''Israel Through the Ages,'' an elaborate music and dance spectacle at the ANTA Playhouse.
She received her dance training at the Neighborhood Playhouse on the Lower East Side, where Blanche Talmud and Martha Graham were among her teachers.
While dancing, she also began choreographing works of her own, many for the New Dance League, a forerunner of the New Dance Group.
While dancing, she also began choreographing works of her own, many for the New Dance League, a forerunner of the New Dance Group.
The New Dance Group also offered low-cost classes in various techniques and sponsored a dance company.
The New Dance Group also offered low-cost classes in various techniques and sponsored a dance company.
After that, she continued to work with the New Dance Group.
Ms. Maslow spoke of her populist leanings in an interview in Dance Magazine in 1946.

        Leslie Hansen Kopp, a dance and music archivist, died on May 27 in Manhattan.
In 1998 Preserve sponsored the Decade of Dance Preservation Symposium, a conference that featured panels of dancers, scholars, archivists, librarians and computer technicians.
Ms. Kopp also worked with the Dia Art Foundation, the Dance Notation Bureau, the New York State Historical Documents Inventory and the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Musical Instrument Collection.
Before marrying in 1957, Mrs. Jones was a movie stand-in for Marilyn Monroe in ''The Seven Year Itch'' and for Eva Marie Saint in ''On the Waterfront,'' and a dance partner of Arthur Murray on his television show in the 1950's.
Although she had started in the chorus on Broadway, she told an interviewer in 1951: ''I couldn't dance, and, Lord knows, I couldn't sing, but I got by somehow.
After four years in a back brace, she taught herself to dance by watching Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers movies.
Among Ms. Day's other students were Amanda McKerrow of Ballet Theater, Virginia Johnson of Dance Theater of Harlem, Patrick Corbin of the Joffrey Ballet and the Paul Taylor Dance Company, Mimi Paul of New York City Ballet, Marianna Tcherkassky of Ballet Theater and Bonnie Moore of Ballet Theater and the Royal Ballet.
Among Ms. Day's other students were Amanda McKerrow of Ballet Theater, Virginia Johnson of Dance Theater of Harlem, Patrick Corbin of the Joffrey Ballet and the Paul Taylor Dance Company, Mimi Paul of New York City Ballet, Marianna Tcherkassky of Ballet Theater and Bonnie Moore of Ballet Theater and the Royal Ballet.
Yet the company established a strong presence in Washington, anything but a dance town until the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was built and could present international-level troupes.
Direct in both her dancing and her views about dance, Ms. Hayden was known for her unmatched blend of individuality and versatility.
Her ''astonishing 23 years'' as a mentor at the school ''speaks to her genius, commitment and passion for the dance,'' he said.
Although her early triumphs in City Ballet were in works with a narrative tinge (William Dollar's ''Duel'' and Frederick Ashton's ''Illuminations''), she did not need a dance drama to excel.
In ''Melissa Hayden,'' she wrote: ''To dance Balanchine's ballets successfully, we must subordinate our personalities and blend with all the other dancers onstage.
''
        Upset that Balanchine did not create new roles for her and would not let her dance in his ''Swan Lake'' in her early years with the company, Ms. Hayden returned to Ballet Theater.
A lead dancer in Hoving's troupe, she staged his pieces for companies and college dance departments for 20 years.
Her dances, presented in the 1960's and 70's at New York theaters including the Cubiculo and Dance Theater Workshop, had something of the same quality.
''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Delanghe trained in dance at the University of Michigan before moving on to New York City and a dance career that included teaching at Barnard College and the American Dance Festival.
''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Delanghe trained in dance at the University of Michigan before moving on to New York City and a dance career that included teaching at Barnard College and the American Dance Festival.
''
        Born in Detroit, Ms. Delanghe trained in dance at the University of Michigan before moving on to New York City and a dance career that included teaching at Barnard College and the American Dance Festival.
She returned to the University of Michigan in 1974 as a faculty member in the newly formed dance department and became a central figure in the development of modern dance in Michigan over four decades.
She returned to the University of Michigan in 1974 as a faculty member in the newly formed dance department and became a central figure in the development of modern dance in Michigan over four decades.
She was also an energetic mediator in the often disorganized world of Duncan teachers and students, bringing factions together in the Duncan Dance Guild, which she organized in the 1950's.
Ms. Levien dined out on stories about Duncan she heard from childhood, including an account of Duncan's visit to a reception for writers at her family's home in the Bronx, which the dance star described as ''the charming little hideaway I've dreamed of.
Ms. Levien also began to create her own choreography in the 1930's in dances that, like most modern dance of the time, reflected social concerns.
''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children.
She wrote and illustrated ''Duncan Dance, A Guide for Young People,'' published by the Princeton Book Company in 1994.

        Padmini Ramachandran, a star of Indian films who later started an influential school of Indian classical dance in New Jersey, died on Sept. 25 in Chennai (formerly Madras), India.
Known for her beauty and her acting as well as for dancing in many styles, she was most famous as an exponent of the classical southern Indian dance form called Bharata Natyam.
She helped popularize and set the standard for the pseudoclassical style of dance widely used in the Indian cinema.
In 1977 she started a dance academy, the Padmini Institute of Fine Arts, in the basement of her home with four students.
Ms. Ramachandran started taking dancing lessons at 4, joined a dance troupe at 10, and had her first film role, in ''Kalpana,'' in the 1940's, when she was a teenager.
Family crises arose -- a son's first dance, a daughter's first crush -- and were firmly but lovingly resolved.
Straddling the divide between literary and mass-market novels, Ms. Campbell's work explored not only the turbulent dance between blacks and whites but also the equally fraught relationship between men and women.
