The school offered classes in music, ballet, modern dance, drama and art to poor children for minimal fees, sometimes as little as 50 cents a lesson, and lent or rented instruments to students who did not own one.
Mrs. Rorimer-Dushkin was a founder, in 1964, and past chairwoman of the Harlem School of the Arts, a nonprofit school that offers courses in art, dance, music and drama.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
After graduation, she taught dance for a short time before being hired as a drama coach for the Wayne P. Sewall Producing Company, a small Atlanta theatrical organization that sent directors into small Southern towns to stage amateur productions in local schools.
After making her movie debut in "Meet Me in St. Louis" in 1944, she played Yolanda in "Yolanda and the Thief" and was Astaire's principal dance partner in  "Ziegfeld Follies.
After making her movie debut in "Meet Me in St. Louis" in 1944, she played Yolanda in "Yolanda and the Thief" and was Astaire's principal dance partner in  "Ziegfeld Follies.

        Camilla de Leon, a dance composer and accompanist in the 1930's and 40's, died on April 3 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 80, and lived in Middletown.

        Betty Meredith-Jones, a dance educator and a pioneer in the field of movement rehabilitation and community dance in Britain, died last Sunday at her home in Rhosili, Wales.

        Betty Meredith-Jones, a dance educator and a pioneer in the field of movement rehabilitation and community dance in Britain, died last Sunday at her home in Rhosili, Wales.
She taught physical education and dance before coming to the United States in 1952.

        Josephine DeNatale Butler, a dance educator, historian and author, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Butler and her husband, Albert Butler, wrote "The Encyclopedia of Social Dance.
" She was also the founder and president of the Institute for Social Dance Studies in New York, dedicated to the preservation and documentation of the history of American social dancing.
In 1970, Mrs. Butler created the film, print and memorabilia archive of American social ballroom dancing at the dance division of the Lincoln Center Library for the Performing Arts.
For 50 years, she was the director of the Albert Butler School of Dance, which she and her husband founded in 1936.
The Butlers were a popular ballroom dance team for many years, performing in  Manhattan at the Ritz-Carlton, the Plaza and other hotels, as well as in Europe.
Before taking up dance, she was a fashion consultant and high-fashion designer.
She was a past president of  the International Dance Council and Dance Masters of America.
She was a past president of  the International Dance Council and Dance Masters of America.

        Tamara Toumanova, a child-prodigy ballerina of the 1930's who became familiar to American audiences as one of the most glamorous stars of 20th-century dance,  died on Wednesday at the Santa Monica Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 77 and lived in Beverly Hills.
Kathrine Sorley Walker, a British dance historian, said of her in "De Basil's Ballets Russes" (1983) that with her "large dark eyes, raven wings of hair and magnolia skin, she combined lyricism and virtuosity to a remarkable degree.
Grace Robert, an American dance historian, said of the Black Swan in her "Borzoi Book of Ballets" (1946): "Tamara Toumanova is at her exciting best in this tour de force, its vertiginous turns and sustained balances exactly suiting her temperament and forceful technique.
Reviewing her in the London Festival Ballet production of "Swan Lake" in 1955, John Martin, who was then the dance critic of The New York Times, complained that "her grandiosity (including some incredible bows) smothered the whole work like  so much thick chocolate sauce.
She had a starring role in "Invitation to the Dance," a ballet film directed by Gene Kelly in 1955.
She appeared regularly on the "National Barn Dance" program and recorded for  the American Record Corporation, usually accompanied by the Ramblers; she relocated with them to WOR radio in Manhattan in 1935.
Helm from an  idealistic young woman into a barely clad creature performing a lascivious dance in a brothel.
"
        As a teen-ager, Miss Fitzgerald developed a dance routine with a friend, Charles Gulliver, which they performed in local clubs.
She created the dance department at Southern Utah University in 1982, and was later named its distinguished artist in residence.
A graduate of Hunter College, she trained as a modern dancer and toured the  United States performing Spanish and modern dance during the 1920's.
She lived in Shanghai from 1948 to 1951 and was the first American dancer to  teach modern dance in Chinese theater and dance schools.
She lived in Shanghai from 1948 to 1951 and was the first American dancer to  teach modern dance in Chinese theater and dance schools.
Ms. Delza also became an expert on Chinese theatrical dancing after studying  action dance roles in the classical Chinese theater with Wang Fu-Ying and Cheng  Chuan-Chien.
She gave lectures and dance recitals on the material throughout the United States.
Her writings on esthetics, dance and theater arts and exercise and health have been published in China, in Europe and in American journals that include Dance Observer, the Theater Drama Review and the Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism.
Her writings on esthetics, dance and theater arts and exercise and health have been published in China, in Europe and in American journals that include Dance Observer, the Theater Drama Review and the Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism.
Ms. Delza also published a record album on teaching tai chi and wrote four books on tai chi and modern dance, including "The Tai Chi Chuan Experience," published this year by the State University of New York Press.
Miss Lane, who was born in Munich, Germany, began her dance training at the age of 5 at the Elizabeth Duncan School in Darmstadt, and later performed throughout Europe with a group of young women from the school.
She made her United States debut as a solo dancer in 1928 in New York City and taught dance to the children of wealthy New York families.

        Nanette Bearden, the founder and artistic director of the Nanette Bearden Contemporary Dance Theater, died on Aug. 10 at St. Vincent's Medical Center on Staten Island.
Ms. Bearden was an energetic supporter of fledgling black choreographers and small modern-dance companies and produced their work in a series, Broadway Dance Festival, in 1975 and 1976.
Her own modern-dance company, founded in 1976 as the Chamber Dance Group, presented simple stage productions for dances by black choreographers who included Walter Rutledge, Gary DeLoatch, Walter Raines, William Scott and Roumel Reaux.
She trained in dance at the Martha Graham school, at Clark Center and at the Luigi Dance Center and performed from 1971 to 1974 with the New World Dancers.
She trained in dance at the Martha Graham school, at Clark Center and at the Luigi Dance Center and performed from 1971 to 1974 with the New World Dancers.
Ms. Abrahams performed with the Paul Taylor Dance Company in 1963 and also danced with Mary Anthony, Pearl Lang and the Merry-Go-Rounders.
She was on the dance faculty at Princeton University from 1975 to 1985.
Ms. Abrahams founded her own modern dance company, Geulah Abrahams Danceworks, in 1985.
Born in San Angelo, Tex., Ms. Gudde was raised in rural Missouri and came to New York City in the late 1960's to continue her dance training.
She studied dance at New York University and at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn.
        Ms. Gudde danced with Anna Sokolow and in 1968 formed a company in New York City called Gudde Dancers that was drawn from her dance students at the Julia Richmond High School in Manhattan.
She studied dance at New York University and at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn.
        Ms. Gudde danced with Anna Sokolow and in 1968 formed a company in New York City called Gudde Dancers that was drawn from her dance students at the Julia Richmond High School in Manhattan.
She studied dance at New York University and at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn.
        Ms. Gudde danced with Anna Sokolow and in 1968 formed a company in New York City called Gudde Dancers that was drawn from her dance students at the Julia Richmond High School in Manhattan.
At 17 she was pursuing her career in London, but had to switch to modern dance when she grew too tall, 5-7, for her partners.
''
        A part in the London production of ''Kismet'' led to an engagement at a celebrated topless dance club in Paris, but Miss Prowse was not allowed to appear uncovered.
At 17 she was pursuing her career in London, but had to switch to modern dance when she grew too tall, 5 feet, 7 inches, for her partners.
''
        A part in the London production of ''Kismet'' led to an engagement at a celebrated topless dance club in Paris, but Miss Prowse was not allowed to appear uncovered.

        Ludmilla Chiriaeff, the founder of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens of Montreal and a major force in Canadian dance, died on Sunday at a hospital in Montreal.
Chiriaeff persevered, and, in addition to building a company, she became a pioneer of dance on Canadian television and a leader of Canadian dance education.
Chiriaeff persevered, and, in addition to building a company, she became a pioneer of dance on Canadian television and a leader of Canadian dance education.
In 1973, she created Audelco ''to generate recognition, understanding and awareness of the arts in black communities and to build new audiences for nonprofit theaters and dance companies.
Ms. Novack performed with the Richard Bull Dance Theater and the Improvisational Arts Ensemble, companies devoted to freewheeling yet small-scale and intimate performances of improvisational dance, which she founded with Mr. Bull.
Ms. Novack performed with the Richard Bull Dance Theater and the Improvisational Arts Ensemble, companies devoted to freewheeling yet small-scale and intimate performances of improvisational dance, which she founded with Mr. Bull.
She taught at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, at Barnard College and at the State University of New York at Brockport before joining the dance faculty at Wesleyan University in 1983.
At the time of her death, she was an associate professor of dance and women's studies at the university.
She was the author of ''Sharing the Dance: Contact Improvisation and American Culture'' (1990) and was at work on a book about choreography and improvisation.
She had been suffering from cardiopulmonary disorders, according to her son, Stephen Cuyjet Jr.
        Mrs. Cuyjet's most famous pupil was Judith Jamison, artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
In addition to teaching classical ballet and other dance techniques,  Mrs. Cuyjet taught her students that ''dancers were not hybrid creatures dropped down from the clouds with no relation to earth,'' as Ms. Jamison noted in her autobiography, ''Dancing Spirit.
From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years.
She was also a dance panelist on the Pennsylvania State Arts Council.

        Aida Alvarez, a dancer, choreographer and teacher of Spanish dance, died on Oct. 26 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
After retiring from dance, she headed the subscription department of the Joffrey Ballet.
Charmed by Graham and her unorthodox, impassioned approach to teaching dance, Miss Bird followed her to New York to study with her at the Neighborhood Playhouse and joined the Graham company in 1931.
She taught modern dance for 25  years at such places as the Neighborhood Playhouse, the School of American Ballet and the 92d Street Y  and was a master teacher at New York University and other colleges in and around New York.
Ms. Duschl began her professional career as a member of the dance faculty at Michigan State University, from 1974 to 1977.
She was the artistic director of Danceworks, the modern dance troupe of the Maryland National Capital Parks and Planning Commission, which performed throughout the region through 1981.
During her five years there, she helped to found an innovative dance therapy program.
I would like to have one year, before I dance into my grave, of doing something good for myself.
She began her dance training in Seattle.
She was Bob Fosse's assistant on ''The Pajama Game,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''New Girl in Town,'' and was the dance captain for seven Broadway shows.
Ms. Leporska also worked with Hal Prince, Shirley MacLaine and Gwen Verdon on revues and helped set dance sequences for productions by Frank Corsaro at the New York City Opera, where she appeared as Mrs. Winemiller in ''Summer and Smoke.
'' Ms. Leporska's ''Looking for Talent'' was performed by Dancers Over 40 in September at Dance Theater Workshop.
Among the books she illustrated were "A Dog of His Own" (1941), "A Dance for Susie" (1953), "Andrew the Lion Farmer" (1959) and "Scrappy the Pup" (1960), by  the poet John Ciardi.

        Liz Williamson, a jazz dance authority, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
"
        Ms. Williamson was born in Winston-Salem, N.C.She received a bachelor's degree in romance languages from Radcliffe College and a master's degree in dance from New York University.
In 1973, she was the first artist-in-residence at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, where she choreographed "The Many Faces of Jazz," a piece with a cast of 65 dancers.
"Chorus Line" legends clung to Ms. Henry, including one about her persistence in completing the high-powered dance number "Music and the Mirror" while bats flew around her head in one Midwestern theater.
While designing and editing the Sunday Arts and Leisure Guide, editing art and dance reviews and designing the daily cultural pages, she began contributing articles to The Times, a career she continued and expanded after she returned to The New Yorker in 1990 as managing editor of the Goings On About Town section.
