The dance world went into shock.
Le Clercq became a teacher at Dance Theater of Harlem, wrote two books and frequently attended dance performances.
Le Clercq became a teacher at Dance Theater of Harlem, wrote two books and frequently attended dance performances.
It was one of the first outpatient clinics in the United States to use music, dance, drama, painting and poetry as therapy.
A dancer of strong technique and dramatic projection, Ms. Arova was born Sonia Errio in Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, where she studied music as well as ballet, receiving her dance training at the school of the Sofia Opera Ballet.
In 1977 she and Mr. Sutowski were named co-directors of the dance department at the Alabama School of Fine Arts, a state-run high school in Birmingham.

        Pauline Koner, one of the eclectic individualists of contemporary American dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
A choreographer noted for powerful solos, Miss Koner was also a principal dancer with the José Limón Dance Company, a leading modern-dance troupe of the 1940's and 50's.
Stylistically versatile, she contributed to early television dance, taught dance around the world and choreographed stage shows at the Roxy Theater in New York and several ice revues.
Stylistically versatile, she contributed to early television dance, taught dance around the world and choreographed stage shows at the Roxy Theater in New York and several ice revues.
Miss Koner also studied Spanish dance and worked with Michio Ito and Yeichi Nimura, Japanese choreographers who blended Asian dance with Western modern dance.
Miss Koner also studied Spanish dance and worked with Michio Ito and Yeichi Nimura, Japanese choreographers who blended Asian dance with Western modern dance.
Miss Koner also studied Spanish dance and worked with Michio Ito and Yeichi Nimura, Japanese choreographers who blended Asian dance with Western modern dance.
Discussing her training in her autobiography, ''Solitary Song'' (Duke University Press, 1989), Miss Koner said she derived her speed and precision from ballet, her smoothness in covering space from Asian dance and her rhythm and dynamics from Spanish dance.
Discussing her training in her autobiography, ''Solitary Song'' (Duke University Press, 1989), Miss Koner said she derived her speed and precision from ballet, her smoothness in covering space from Asian dance and her rhythm and dynamics from Spanish dance.
She presented her first solo concert on Dec. 7, 1930, and John Martin, then the dance critic for The New York Times, said that the event ''exhibited her unquestionable right to stand alone.
'' He added, ''She can build a dance far better than the average, she can perform it with complete authority.
The most important change in her artistic development came that year  when, after a solo concert, she received a note from Doris Humphrey, the legendary American modern dance pioneer.
From 1976 to 1982 she headed the Pauline Koner Dance Consort.
Reviewing a Limón concert for Dance magazine in 1955, the critic Doris Hering wrote that ''Pauline Koner was like some fiery bacchante as she tore through leaps and sharp shifts in direction.
She became famous for Elements of Performing, a course she taught at the North Carolina School of the Arts, the American Dance Festival and other schools in the United States, Europe and Asia.
She received a Dance Magazine Award in 1964 and wrote for many dance publications.
She received a Dance Magazine Award in 1964 and wrote for many dance publications.
Correction:  February 12, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the dancer Pauline Koner on Friday referred incorrectly to the José Limón Dance Company, in which she was a principal in the 1940's and 50's.
While many dance histories credit the 1923 show ''Runnin' Wild'' with bringing the Charleston to Broadway, Ms. Rutherford led the ''Liza'' chorus girls in the dance a year earlier.
While many dance histories credit the 1923 show ''Runnin' Wild'' with bringing the Charleston to Broadway, Ms. Rutherford led the ''Liza'' chorus girls in the dance a year earlier.
She remained proud of her dance abilities to the end of her life.

        Birgit Akesson, a dancer and choreographer whose unconventional approach to movement and music made her a prominent pioneer of Swedish modern dance, died on Saturday in Stockholm, where she lived.
Unlike most modern dancers in the United States and Europe in the 1930's and 40's, Ms. Akesson was less concerned with expressing emotion than with finding the essence of dance through form.
Although she stopped dancing in 1965, Ms. Akesson's role as a founding mother of Swedish modern dance was increasingly recognized in the last 30 years, and she was awarded the gold medal of the Swedish Academy in 1998.
A founder of the Choreographic Institute in Stockholm, she was an expert on dance in Asia and also Africa, where she sought the roots of a dance culture absent in the West.
A founder of the Choreographic Institute in Stockholm, she was an expert on dance in Asia and also Africa, where she sought the roots of a dance culture absent in the West.
Ahead of her time, she sometimes baffled the international dance world with experiments in stillness, a dissociation between music and movement and her uncanny ability to reshape the body into an assemblage of independent planes.
In Paris, where she had made her debut in 1934, this reconfiguring of the body reminded critics of Cubist forms, and Ms. Akesson was called ''the Picasso of Dance.
'' American audiences saw her perform in New York (1949 and 1955), and at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival (1955) and the American Dance Festival (1956).
'' American audiences saw her perform in New York (1949 and 1955), and at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival (1955) and the American Dance Festival (1956).
From 1929 to 1931, she studied in Dresden at the school of Mary Wigman, the German modern dance pioneer.
Although she and Birgit Cullberg, who was considered the other founding mother of Swedish modern dance, had their roots in German Expressionist dance, Ms. Akesson did not share Ms. Cullberg's interest in ballet or dance-drama.
Although she and Birgit Cullberg, who was considered the other founding mother of Swedish modern dance, had their roots in German Expressionist dance, Ms. Akesson did not share Ms. Cullberg's interest in ballet or dance-drama.
In search of her own dance idiom and what she called a first or primary movement that did not depend on music, she moved to Paris, where she presented a solo concert in 1934.
''All parts of her dancing body were granted equal importance,'' Horace Engdahl wrote in ''Swedish Ballet and Dance'' (Swedish Institute, 1992).
Long interested in Asian dance, she chose the Chinese-born dancer Chiang Ching to perform both dances, ''Autumn Leaves'' and ''Shades.
They would dance and sell pottery.
As a choreographer, she experimented widely, yet regarded classical ballet as the basis for dance training.
She enjoyed ballroom dance classes, and her mother, who invented Ninette de Valois as a stage name, considered her talented.
For them, she staged dances in plays, taught classes and presented dance programs.
At the Abbey she worked with William Butler Yeats on some of his plays that combined poetry and dance.
She was frequently visited by dance colleagues and her choreography was revived to the acclaim of new audiences.
In ''Come Dance With Me,'' an autobiography published in 1957, she noted that she was married in 1935, but not once in the book did she mention her husband's name: Dr. Arthur Connell, a physician who died in 1987.
Dame Ninette was awarded the French Legion of Honor in 1950, and received the Erasmus Prize (1974), the Society of West End Theaters' Special Award (1992), the Dance Magazine Award (1998) and honorary degrees from London (1947), Reading (1951), Oxford (1955), Aberdeen (1958) and Cambridge (1992) universities.
Writing about Ms. Premice's 1957 performance in ''Jamaica,'' which starred Lena Horne, the Times dance critic Jennifer Dunning described her as ''a razzle-dazzle lead performer who was hot flame to Horne's cool fire.
''
        Born in Brooklyn in 1926 to Haitian parents, Ms. Premice grew up in New York and Haiti and studied dance with Martha Graham and Katherine Dunham.
''
        Ms. Karnilova was occasionally seen in classical solos, as in ''Aurora's Wedding,'' the last act of ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' and in Tudor's dance dramas.
'')
        In 1943, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, noted that she was originally listed in programs as Maria Karniloff but was now called Karnilova.

        Carmencita Romero, who performed with Katherine Dunham in her first company, the Negro Dance Group, in the mid-1930's, died on May 6 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan.
Ms. Romero, whose name was originally Lily Butler but changed her name at Ms. Dunham's request,  began her training at 18 when she studied ballet and modern dance with Ms. Dunham, later adding Caribbean ethnic dance when Ms. Dunham returned from anthropological studies in the West Indies.
Ms. Romero, whose name was originally Lily Butler but changed her name at Ms. Dunham's request,  began her training at 18 when she studied ballet and modern dance with Ms. Dunham, later adding Caribbean ethnic dance when Ms. Dunham returned from anthropological studies in the West Indies.
''I kept thinking that it was good that Daddy didn't know what I was doing because he certainly would not have approved such dancing,'' Ms. Romero said in the American Dance Festival documentary ''Free to Dance.
''I kept thinking that it was good that Daddy didn't know what I was doing because he certainly would not have approved such dancing,'' Ms. Romero said in the American Dance Festival documentary ''Free to Dance.
In the late 40's she returned home to Chicago and opened a dance school, then left to open others in Rome and Tokyo and to teach throughout Europe.
Her last performance was in December 2000 in a program with the Joan Peters Dance Company at the Donnell Library Center of the New York Public Library in Manhattan.
Ms. Romero also choreographed for dance companies and festivals and, in the 1960's, for the television series ''The Man From U.N.C.L.E.
In one, narrated by the dance writer Francis Mason, Ms.

        Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88.
Ms. Dance -- who often worked  with her husband, the jazz historian and record producer Stanley Dance -- began as a pioneering female jazz critic in the 1930's but soon began to play a role in exposing a wider American audience to jazz.
Ms. Dance -- who often worked  with her husband, the jazz historian and record producer Stanley Dance -- began as a pioneering female jazz critic in the 1930's but soon began to play a role in exposing a wider American audience to jazz.
Born in Toronto to a well-to-do family, Ms. Dance attended Ovenden and Trinity Colleges in Toronto and a finishing school in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Soon after the war she married Mr. Dance, whom she originally met while working for Mills, and they began their 50-year collaboration on  articles, histories and record productions.
The family moved to Rowayton, Conn., and from 1964 to 1982, while her husband managed Hines, Ms. Dance ran Hicue, the music publishing company for Hines and Hodges.
Ms. Dance also worked in the civil rights movement, founding the Catholic Interracial Council within the Roman Catholic diocese of Bridgeport, Conn., and the Human Relations Commission in Norwalk, Conn.
In 1988 the Helen Oakley Dance and Stanley Dance Archive was established at Yale University, encompassing correspondence, writings, interviews, records, photographs and films; it will become available to researchers later this year.
In 1988 the Helen Oakley Dance and Stanley Dance Archive was established at Yale University, encompassing correspondence, writings, interviews, records, photographs and films; it will become available to researchers later this year.
An oral history interview with Ms. Dance, conducted by Patricia Willard, a jazz historian, is part of the Ellington Collection at the National Museum of American History in Washington.
Mr. Dance died in February 1999.
Ms. Dance is survived by sons  Francis, of Woodbury, Conn., and Rupert, of Hopkinton, N.H.; daughters Theresa Bennink-Dance of Peterborough, Ontario, and Maria Lindley of Carlsbad, Calif.; sisters Jacqueline Hickson of New Smyrna Beach, Fla., and Doris Barry of Wilton, Conn.;  brother John Gillespie of Toronto; and three grandchildren.
Ms. Porcher was best known for her work in dance.
In ''The Sewing Machine Girl,'' a sendup of sweatshops, Ms. Coca, with Mr. Reiner as a badgering, leering boss, worked faster and faster, drooping lower and lower, until at last she gave up, did a whirling dervish dance of consumption, collapsed in death throes and, sprouting wings, flew up to heaven on wires.
''
        Her dance spoofs were also a result of years of training, and were far more subtle than most audiences realized, extracting humor not by stumbling around but by finely exaggerated professional movements.
Shivering in a chilly theater while rehearsing for Leonard Sillman's ''New Faces of 1934,'' Ms. Coca, a lesser light to Henry Fonda and other young stars, wrapped herself in someone's huge coat and began clowning around: a fan dance with flapping ends.

        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan.
Ms. Foreman came to New York in the mid-1960's after receiving a degree in dance from the University of Wisconsin at Madison.
She directed the dance program at the New School, long the center of her dance activities, from the late 1960's until her death.
She directed the dance program at the New School, long the center of her dance activities, from the late 1960's until her death.
Her Foreman Dance Theater and Composers' and Choreographers' Theater were in residence at the school.
There Ms. Foreman provided much needed exposure for new and avant-garde choreographers and dancers in several dance and music series, among them Choreoconcerts and Critiques.
She also attended Detroit High School for the Fine and Performing Arts, majoring in dance, and she released her second album, ''One in a Million,'' as she began her senior year in 1996.
She never studied dance herself, but often used dancers as models.
''They're lost, because when you are a dancer you have no time to do anything else but dance,'' she says.
''
        She also dressed the dance companies of Paul Taylor, David Parsons, Lar Lubovitch and Eliot Feld, and the San Francisco and Houston Ballets.

        Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London.
Ms. Dudley had lived in London since 1970, when she started to teach at the London Contemporary Dance School, founded by the Graham patron Robin Howard to further modern dance in Britain.
Ms. Dudley had lived in London since 1970, when she started to teach at the London Contemporary Dance School, founded by the Graham patron Robin Howard to further modern dance in Britain.
One of the most influential teachers of early Graham technique, she was director of contemporary dance studies at the London school until 1991, retiring from it in 1998.
She appeared in ''Dancing Inside,'' a recent film about her work that was shown last year at the Dance on Camera festival at Lincoln Center.
Ms. Dudley, however, belonged to a more politically radical wing of modern dance.
She was a founder in l942 of the New Dance Group (an outgrowth of the earlier Workers' Dance League), which openly proclaimed the left-wing sympathies of its dancers and choreographers.
She was a founder in l942 of the New Dance Group (an outgrowth of the earlier Workers' Dance League), which openly proclaimed the left-wing sympathies of its dancers and choreographers.
Ms. Dudley was born on April 3, 1912 in New York City, where she attended the Walden School and started dance lessons at 6 with Ruth Doing.
She studied dance in New York with Hanya Holm and performed with her company before joining the Graham troupe in 1935.
Later her students in London and at the New Dance Group knew her to be a exacting and uncompromising teacher.
The family's apartment was above a dance hall, and she won dance contests as a girl.
The family's apartment was above a dance hall, and she won dance contests as a girl.
She declined, saying that was going to a Scottish dance in the village.
