"
        She also appeared in films, performing with Danny Kaye in "Knock on Wood" (1954) and in "Invitation to the Dance" (1956), directed by Gene Kelly.
She was a debutante at a dinner dance at the St. Regis Hotel.
Her distinctive style drew on her earlier career in the theater and dance.
" Studied Dance
        Ms. Brooks was born in Manhattan.
She attended the High School of Music and Art and at 14 began studying dance with Martha Graham.
But a knee injury from a fall turned her from dance to theater.

        Elizabeth Cadwell Dance, who was prominent in volunteer work in the Detroit area, died Thursday at Bon Secours Hospital in Grosse Pointe, Mich. She was 67 and lived in Grosse Pointe.
Her daughter, Elizabeth Ellen Dance, said she died of lung cancer.
Mrs. Dance was a former president and chairman of the Sigma Gamma Association, a women's volunteer group in the Detroit area.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      

        Enid Britten-Stux, who danced with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Pennsylvania Ballet and the Ballet de Lyons, died on Jan. 22 at her home in Manhattan.
At the age of 13, after receiving three months of dance instruction, she got her first job in the chorus of the George M. Cohan show "The Rise of Rosie O'Reilly.
" For the next three years she worked in New York nightclubs, and in 1926, she was discovered at a dance contest by Earl Lindsay, a stage director who cast her in the Broadway revue "Bye, Bye, Bonnie.
The films included "Dames" and "Flirtation Walk" (both 1934), "Go Into Your Dance" (her only film with Jolson) and "Shipmates Forever" (both 1935), "Colleen" (1936) and "Ready, Willing and Able" (1937).
She also did some singing at galas organized by her dancing school, Miss Minnie Hawke's School of Dance.
; a daughter, Penelope Shaw, an instructor in modern dance and Yoga at Hunter; two sons, Patri, who teaches physics at Harvard, and Paul, a cartographer for Time magazine; six grandchildren, and one great grandson.
      
At New York City schools, she organized festivals on the music, dance and food of different cultures and presented plays portraying friction and harmony.
At New York City schools, she organized festivals on the music, dance and food of different cultures and presented plays portraying friction and harmony.

        Elizabeth Hannah Waters, a modern dancer and choreographer who performed with Hanya Holm's company in the 1930's and who founded the dance program at the University of New Mexico, died on June 5 at her home in Echo Canyon, N.M. She was 83.
She was a soloist in the Holm company from 1935 to 1939 and was Ms. Holm's teaching assistant at the Bennington School of the Dance in Vermont.
During World War II, she worked as a welder at Kirtland Air Force Base in New Mexico and taught dance in Albuquerque, Santa Fe and Las Vegas, Nev.
        Ms.
Waters taught at the University of New Mexico from 1946 to 1973; among her students was Tim Wengerd, a principal in the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's and 1980's.
From 1946 to 1948 she was a principal dancer with the Jose Limon Dance Company, creating roles in "Lament for Ignacio Sanchez Mejias" and "Day on Earth," both by Humphrey.
"Letitia Ide looks like a young goddess and moves like one as well," John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1949.
She is featured in a 1959 film of "Lament" and returned to the company to perform her role, the Figure of Destiny, in a 1964 revival of the dance.

        Agnes de Mille, who helped change American dance with her ballet "Rodeo" in 1942 and musical comedy with her choreography for "Oklahoma!
" For Miss de Mille, dance was always the project to which she devoted herself.
Viewing dance as a theatrical and expressive art, Miss de Mille stressed motivated gestures rather than niceties of classical style in her choreography and in her coaching of dancers.
An eclectic, she drew from ordinary gesture and everyday movement as well as from the technical vocabularies of classical ballet, modern dance and folk and social dance.
An eclectic, she drew from ordinary gesture and everyday movement as well as from the technical vocabularies of classical ballet, modern dance and folk and social dance.
Commenting on Miss de Mille's choreography, Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, observed that happiness in one of these Americana ballets tended to be symbolized by "a set of girls in party dresses being lifted by clean-cut young men.
After her family moved to Hollywood in 1914, Miss de Mille was taken to see performances by Anna Pavlova, the great Russian ballerina, and Ruth St. Denis, one of the founders of American modern dance.
But she never gave up her desire to dance.
Critical reception was favorable, and John Martin, the dance critic of The Times, wrote that like Charlie Chaplin, Miss de Mille "sees tragedy through a lens of comedy.
In 1931, she appeared with such prominent modern dancers as Miss Graham, Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman and Helen Tamiris in programs sponsored by the Dance Repertory Theater, a short-lived attempt to bring several independent soloists and companies together.
' She has selected some delightful young people to dance for her, and she has built her dances directly and most unorthodoxly upon them.
In 1973 she established the Heritage Dance Theater, a folk-oriented company that toured widely until 1975.
Miss de Mille's books included several volumes of memoirs: "Dance to the Piper," "And Promenade Home," "Speak to Me, Dance With Me" and "Where the Wings Grow," in addition to "Reprieve.
Miss de Mille's books included several volumes of memoirs: "Dance to the Piper," "And Promenade Home," "Speak to Me, Dance With Me" and "Where the Wings Grow," in addition to "Reprieve.
" Her other books were "To a Young Dancer," "The Book of the Dance," "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death," "Russian Journals," "Dance in America" and "America Dances.
" Her other books were "To a Young Dancer," "The Book of the Dance," "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death," "Russian Journals," "Dance in America" and "America Dances.
" Her other books were "To a Young Dancer," "The Book of the Dance," "Lizzie Borden: A Dance of Death," "Russian Journals," "Dance in America" and "America Dances.
She gave lecture-demonstrations based on dance history and often appeared before government bodies to argue for increased State and Federal support for the arts.
Speaking at the 50th-anniversary gala of American Ballet Theater, in January 1990 at the Metropolitan Opera House, Miss de Mille tried to distill the essence of American dance in these words: "Ours is an up beat, a hurried, hasty beat.
She was an original member of the National Council on the Arts and the first chairman of its Dance Panel in 1965.
Among her other awards were the Donaldson Award, the Antoinette Perry (Tony) Award, the Elizabeth Blackwell Award, the Dance Magazine Award, the Capezio Dance Award and the De la Torre Bueno Award for writings on dance.
Among her other awards were the Donaldson Award, the Antoinette Perry (Tony) Award, the Elizabeth Blackwell Award, the Dance Magazine Award, the Capezio Dance Award and the De la Torre Bueno Award for writings on dance.
Among her other awards were the Donaldson Award, the Antoinette Perry (Tony) Award, the Elizabeth Blackwell Award, the Dance Magazine Award, the Capezio Dance Award and the De la Torre Bueno Award for writings on dance.
Myriad Beneficiaries
        In addition to her involvement with Lincoln Center, Miss Tully was an active supporter of dance, art and humanitarian organizations.
She gave generously to the Martha Graham Dance Company and Eliot Feld's ballet troupe, and she was a board member of numerous other arts and educational institutions.
