Miss van Praagh, who was born in London, trained in ballet, mime and modern dance with Margaret Craske, Lydia Sokolova, Vera Volkova and Agnes de Mille, among others.

       Jane Yockel, an arts administrator known for her support of avant-garde dance, theater and music, died of a heart attack on Jan. 31.
Jane Yockel, an arts administrator known for her support of avant-garde dance, theater and music, died of a heart attack on Jan. 31.
''
        She left the Metropolitan the following year, when she was invited by Samuel (Roxy) Rothafel, the theatrical impresario, to dance at the Capitol Theater in shows that accompanied films.
She also choreographed and directed a dance company that made extensive tours of the United States and Canada, and she appeared in occasional television commercials into her 80's.
''During my time, even if I danced in movie theaters, I made people, the everyday American public, love the dance,'' Miss Gambarelli said in 1988.
She also taught at Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Dance, and for many summers at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival.
She also taught at Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Dance, and for many summers at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival.
She also wrote ''The Dance of Love,'' published in 1980, and the recent ''Still Dancing with Love,'' a journal of her work with Meher Baba.
      
She served with the Red Cross in the Pacific in World War II, and was a copy editor for Dance magazine before joining Life.
In her late teens, she took a leave from high school to dance with Isadora Duncan's troupe in Europe.
''
        Other early roles included a put-upon laundress in Mr. Chaplin's ''Great Dictator'' (1940); Fred Astaire's partner in ''Second Chorus'' (1941), in which she gamely struggled to keep up with him in the dance ''I Ain't Hep to That Step, But I'll Dig It,'' and a lusty Southern belle singing a suggestive sea chanty to a party of prudes in the 1942 adventure ''Reap the Wild Wind.
In Berlin she eventually specialized, photographing personalities in the arts, theater and dance.

       Jean Marie Gee, a dance teacher and ballerina who created the title role in Sir Frederick Ashton's ''Pomona,'' died on April 18 at the M. B. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
Jean Marie Gee, a dance teacher and ballerina who created the title role in Sir Frederick Ashton's ''Pomona,'' died on April 18 at the M. B. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston.
She was named director of the ballet department at the National School of Dance in Panama City three years later.
Mr. Robbins described Miss Dunn yesterday as a ''very, very special dancer,'' adding that she had been outstanding earlier in choreography by Jack Cole, considered the major pioneer of jazz dance in musicals.
Born in Los Angeles, Miss Dunn grew up and studied dance in San Francisco.
That same year she toured with the Jack Cole Dance Group - a company that also included Gwen Verdon - and appeared with it in the movie ''On the Riviera.
She also studied ballet in New York, Paris and London and, like many dancers and teachers of her time, was trained in such varied forms as Spanish and tap dance.
Mrs. Spitalny also collaborated with her husband in writing several songs, including ''Save the Last Dance for Me'' and ''Pining for You.
A student of movement and dance as well as an accomplished pianist, Mrs. Perls became a psychoanalyst in Germany.
During the next decade she produced a dance documentary starring Anna Duncan, Julia Levien and Hortense Kooluris, all exponents of Duncan dance.
During the next decade she produced a dance documentary starring Anna Duncan, Julia Levien and Hortense Kooluris, all exponents of Duncan dance.
She was president of the New Jersey Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance in 1948 and president of the New Jersey Association of Colleges and Universities in 1950.
She sang ''Poor Butterfly'' and ''Talk of the Town'' and did a tap dance, and won first prize.
One summer, on a visit to Washington, Miss Bailey devised a dance act that won a $12 prize and led to other engagements.
She sang ''Poor Butterfly'' and ''Talk of the Town'' and did a tap dance, and won first prize.
One summer, on a visit to Washington, Miss Bailey devised a dance act that won a $12 prize and led to other engagements.
Parks, whose full name was Louise Parks Duncanson, founded her dance group in 1959.
The company, which specialized in jitterbug and Lindy Hop dance routines, traveled extensively.
At an early stage of their career, Hines, Hines and Dad, the dance trio with Maurice and Gregory Hines and their father, Maurice, were featured in many of Ms.
History of Sect
        The Shakers, who included free-form and choreographed dance in their worship, were an offshoot of the Shaking Quakers from England.
Miss Walberg, a lecturer in the division of dance at the University of California at Santa Barbara, worked on many Broadway shows.
Miss Walberg, a lecturer in the division of dance at the University of California at Santa Barbara, worked on many Broadway shows.
She was the dance arranger for the original productions of Mr. Robbins's ''Gypsy'' and ''Fiddler on the Roof'' and for both the Broadway and the film versions of ''West Side Story.
Other Broadway shows for which she was dance arranger include ''Anyone Can Whistle,'' ''It's a Bird .
She often collaborated with modern dancers, serving as a pianist for the first American Dance Festival at Connecticut College in 1948 and for such choreographers as Martha Graham, Hanya Holm, Anna Sokolow and Martha Hill.
At 18, she opened the Mary Hagman School of Dance in Weatherford, then went to Hollywood to study dancing and to search for a way to enter the movies.
She later worked in Denver in George Morrison's dance band, where she met her husband, the band-leader Andrew Dewey (Andy) Kirk.
" In 1924, she and her husband, Paul Hayes, who died in 1969, founded the Theater of the Dance, whose productions combined dance and music with poetry by such authors as T. S. Eliot and William Butler Yeats.
" In 1924, she and her husband, Paul Hayes, who died in 1969, founded the Theater of the Dance, whose productions combined dance and music with poetry by such authors as T. S. Eliot and William Butler Yeats.

        Eugenia Delarova Doll, a ballerina with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and a dance and music patron, died on Thursday at New York Hospital.
Mrs. Doll also contributed to the Dance Theater of Harlem, the Joffrey Ballet and the companies of Paul Taylor and Alvin Ailey, as well as the American Symphony Orchestra, Carnegie Hall, the Brooklyn Academy of Music and the French Institute/Alliance Francaise.
