
        Dr. Alma Hawkins, a pioneering modern-dance educator who founded the dance department at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Jan. 8 at her home in Santa Monica.
Born in Rolla, Mo., Dr. Hawkins graduated from the University of Missouri and went on to study at Teachers College, Columbia University, where she became interested in modern dance.
She trained in dance at Bennington College and in Colorado before earning master's and doctor's degrees at Columbia.
She taught at Emporia State University in Kansas and George Williams College in Chicago before joining the dance program at U.C.L.A.
In 1962, Dr. Hawkins established an autonomous dance department, equal in status to the departments of art, music and theater arts, at the College of Fine Arts at the university.
According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
According to the University of California at Los Angeles, it was the nation's first university dance department, eventually offering degrees in dance therapy, dance history, esthetics and education as well as choreography and performance.
She worked closely with dance presenters to bring leading American and foreign troupes to perform at Royce Hall at the university.
In 1967, she formed the Council of Dance Administrators, a product of a national conference on dance sponsored by the arts and humanities division of the United States Office of Education.
In 1967, she formed the Council of Dance Administrators, a product of a national conference on dance sponsored by the arts and humanities division of the United States Office of Education.
The council published ''Standards for Dance Major Programs'' of colleges in 1979, leading to a national dance certification program.
The council published ''Standards for Dance Major Programs'' of colleges in 1979, leading to a national dance certification program.
Also in 1967, Dr. Hawkins founded the West Coast Dance Film Archives.
Dr. Hawkins was a dance therapist and researcher at the university's Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1960 to 1977, training dance therapists and creating a series of educational research films about the field.
Dr. Hawkins was a dance therapist and researcher at the university's Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1960 to 1977, training dance therapists and creating a series of educational research films about the field.
On her retirement from U.C.L.A., Dr. Hawkins taught for more than 10 years in the dance department at Santa Monica College.
''The impact of the Bolshoi has been overwhelming,'' wrote John Martin, The New York Times's dance critic, when the company traveled for the first time to New York in 1959.
Galina Sergeyevna Ulanova was born in 1910 in St. Petersburg -- the home of Fokine, Balanchine, Petipa, Nijinsky and so many other legends of Russian dance.
She joined the Maryinsky Theater in 1928, the same year she completed her classical dance training, and she would live long enough to see it become the Kirov and then revert, when the Soviet Union dissolved, to its original name.
''Her life and the art of dance to which she has give her soul has become part of Russian and world culture.
Always family-conscious, she enhanced Babe Cushing's debutante season by giving a tea dance at the White House as a second coming-out party.
Ms. Morley published five books of poetry in which she articulated emotions and feelings in free verse, but a type of verse as measured as dance  or music.
She took music and dance programs to public schools in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx.

        Maria Grandy, a ballet teacher and coach long associated with the Joffrey Ballet and the chairwoman of the Dance Notation Bureau, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
While with the Joffrey, Ms. Grandy studied Labanotation, a system of notation for preserving dance, at the Dance Notation Bureau.
While with the Joffrey, Ms. Grandy studied Labanotation, a system of notation for preserving dance, at the Dance Notation Bureau.
A native of Portland, Ore., Ms. Grandy began her dance training there, and in 1955 toured with the New York City Ballet on a special short-term contract.
Ms. Grandy joined the dance faculty of the Juilliard School in 1989.
She served on the board of the National Association for Regional Ballet, a group now known as Regional Dance America.
She also was ballet mistress for the New York City Opera and a member of the dance panel of the New York State Council on the Arts.
She also sang with the Goodman band on the radio program ''Let's Dance'' from December 1934 to May 1935; a series of recordings from that program is about to be released by the Circle label.
In 1992, she had an unexpected international hit when she sang ''Justified and Ancient'' with the English electronic dance group, the KLF; the song reached No.
In 1992, she had an unexpected international hit when she sang ''Justified and Ancient'' with the English electronic dance group, the KLF.

        P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati.

        P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati.

        P. W. Manchester, a Britain-born critic with wide-ranging interests who edited important dance magazines in London and New York, co-edited a dance encyclopedia and taught dance history, died on Monday at Deaconess Hospital in Cincinnati.
Dance was her passion and she witnessed the final days of Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, the birth of the company that became the Royal Ballet and the formative years of the New York City Ballet.
Miss Manchester came to the United States to work as associate editor and principal critic for Dance News, a monthly magazine, and, with its founder, Anatole Chujoy, co-edited  The Dance Encyclopedia, published in 1967.
Miss Manchester came to the United States to work as associate editor and principal critic for Dance News, a monthly magazine, and, with its founder, Anatole Chujoy, co-edited  The Dance Encyclopedia, published in 1967.
She also wrote dance criticism for The Christian Science Monitor during the 1960's.
Miss Manchester was born in London and worked there as a dance critic for Theater World magazine from 1941 to 1943.
Its success and her succinct prose led Mr. Chujoy to invite her to Dance News.
Miss Manchester took an active part in Cincinnati civic life and for several years was host of a weekly radio dance program there.
In 1975, a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts enabled her to prepare a series of radio programs on dance history.
She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1988.

        Betsy Carden, a former dance teacher at Brooklyn College and a leader in American college dance, died on May 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 68.

        Betsy Carden, a former dance teacher at Brooklyn College and a leader in American college dance, died on May 5 at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 68.
She was head of the Brooklyn College dance department when she retired in 1986.
Believing that colleges need to foster dance as a performing art, she was active in the American College Dance Festival Association from 1979 to 1990.
Believing that colleges need to foster dance as a performing art, she was active in the American College Dance Festival Association from 1979 to 1990.
She originated its scholarship program, helped develop its choreography series and supervised many college dance festivals.
She also was president of the American Dance Guild, 1973-75.
Mexico City in 1939 was filled with music, dance, painting, sculpture, new movies and good conversation, and she made the most of it.
It was a successful band, featured on ''The Old Dominion Barn Dance,'' a radio show based in Richmond, Va., in 1946; later it moved to the ''Tennessee Barn Dance,'' on Knoxville's WNOX.
It was a successful band, featured on ''The Old Dominion Barn Dance,'' a radio show based in Richmond, Va., in 1946; later it moved to the ''Tennessee Barn Dance,'' on Knoxville's WNOX.
After a stint as a milkmaid at 15, the auburn-haired beauty, who was born in London, flitted through a series of jobs -- nurse, chorus girl, dance hostess -- before becoming a partner of Tex McLeod, a rope-spinning vaudeville entertainer of the Will Rogers school, eventually assuming the name ''Texas Binnie Barnes,'' though she had never met an American cowboy.
Born in Philadelphia, Lillian Aberman Hoban attended the Philadelphia Museum School of Art, studied dance with Martha Graham and taught modern dance in New York and Connecticut.
Born in Philadelphia, Lillian Aberman Hoban attended the Philadelphia Museum School of Art, studied dance with Martha Graham and taught modern dance in New York and Connecticut.
At stodgy gatherings, Sister Irene, a tall, imposing woman with a commanding laugh, would sometimes break into an impromptu dance.

        Protima Gauri Bedi, a dancer and actress and the founder of the Nrityagram ensemble and school, which sought to preserve elements of Indian classical dance, died on Aug. 19 in a Himalayan mountain village 200 miles east of New Delhi.
A charming, single-minded visionary, Ms. Bedi enjoyed telling the story of how she began performing Odissi, a style of Indian classical dance.
As the wife of Kabir Bedi, a well-known film actor and producer in India, she had been leading the life of a heedless socialite, she said in an interview in The New York Times in 1996, when she caught sight of a guru teaching the dance form and found her life's goal.
There the women learned to dance and perform Odissi.
She founded an international dance festival on the school grounds, eventually building a small deluxe hotel there for festival visitors.
She studied music theory and orchestration, as well as piano and violin at the High School of Music and Art; dance at the School of American Ballet, and acting with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
'' She said her work kept her young: ''If you follow your heart, your heart sings and you just dance to that music.
As a child, she liked to fish and shoot, but she especially loved music and dance.
She studied piano and organ, and ordered ballet shoes from a catalogue, persuading her mother to take her to Fort Worth for dance classes.
She began a  career as an independent choreographer and performer in 1969, becoming known for minimalist dance that was highly physical with an implicit emotional quality and that often incorporated geometric patterns.
She also wrote about contact improvisation and reviewed dance for publications including Dance Magazine, The New York Times and The Village Voice.
She also wrote about contact improvisation and reviewed dance for publications including Dance Magazine, The New York Times and The Village Voice.
A towering figure in Afro-Brazilian culture, Mother Menininha helped transform Candomble from a belief whose rituals of animal sacrifice, possession, music and dance were persecuted as a form of devil worship to a religion accepted in the highest levels of society.

        Evelyn Sabin, who performed with Martha Graham's first dance company in the mid-1920's, died on Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan.
As purists never tire of pointing out, the dance by that name that swept America and Europe in the 1930's and became an Arthur Murray staple was such a tame, watered-down version of the Afro-Cuban original that it was closer to a dance the Cubans call the son.
As purists never tire of pointing out, the dance by that name that swept America and Europe in the 1930's and became an Arthur Murray staple was such a tame, watered-down version of the Afro-Cuban original that it was closer to a dance the Cubans call the son.
The authentic street rumba of Havana, whose extravagant, explicit gestures seem more suggestive of mating than of a mating dance, is not something one would have actually wanted to do on a dance floor before the 1980's, or ever on stage.
The authentic street rumba of Havana, whose extravagant, explicit gestures seem more suggestive of mating than of a mating dance, is not something one would have actually wanted to do on a dance floor before the 1980's, or ever on stage.
Whatever its pedigree, in Miss Parla's hands, or rather hips, the dance the world came to know as the rumba was such an appealing sight that she and it became overnight sensations.
''
        A dutiful daughter, Miss Parla obliged, but since she was a little girl her real passion had been dancing, and when a man who ran a dance studio in her apartment building marveled at her skill, she began to get the notion that she might actually become a professional.
During rehearsals she was paired with a man, but she found him so clumsy and the whole experience so embarrassing that she persuaded Mr. Azpiazu to let her dance alone, as she did from then on.

        Nancy Van Norman Baer, the curator of theater and dance at the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, died on Tuesday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco.
Ms. Baer was known for exhibitions that vividly evoked dance history.
At the time of her death, Ms. Baer was working with the dance historian Lynn Garafola on ''The Ballets Russes and Its World,'' a book to be published by Yale University Press.
She received early dance training from her aunt, the choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, and at the Paris Opera Ballet School.
She received early dance training from her aunt, the choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, and at the Paris Opera Ballet School.
Her success with their dream was such that when the center turned 50 in 1993 and called itself ''a glorious home for dance, music, opera and dozens of extraordinary musicals and plays,'' there were many who thought the phrase an understatement of what Miss Dalrymple had accomplished.
She was one of the early members of the Negro Ensemble Company in New York and in the late 1950's performed with Shologa Oloba, an African-American dance troupe.

        Gina Blau, an American dancer who was an early exponent of Indian classical dance in the United States, died on Oct. 23 at Forest View Nursing Home in Forest Hills, Queens.
Ms. Blau was the first non-Indian to be given the title of Natyakala Bushanam (Jewel of the Dance) by the Indian Institute of Fine Arts in Madras.
Before turning to Indian dance in the 1930's, Ms. Blau was one of two women in the 1929 graduating class  of St. John's Law School in New York City.
A student of the American modern dancers Pearl Primus, Jean Erdman and Eleanor King, she gave up her legal practice to study Indian dance with Phupesh Guha from 1937 to 1941.
Ms. Blau taught Indian classical dance for many years in New York and also at colleges throughout the country.
She also taught at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and the Eugene O'Neill National Theater for the Deaf.
When ''Chopin Concerto'' was performed by the Polish Ballet at the 1939 World's Fair New York, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote that Ms. Youshkevitch, her partner Zbigniew Kilinski and the other soloist, Olga Slawska, ''filled the principal roles with authority.
''
        Ms. Youshkevitch recreated her role in ''Chopin Concerto'' at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., in 1942, shortly after she settled in the United States.
Ms. Youshkevitch is survived by her son, the dance critic for The Newark Star-Ledger.
      
The change was shocking and Ms. Godden's time in Britain unhappy and rebellious, she wrote in her memoir ''A Time to Dance, No Time to Weep'' (1988).
Later she attended ballet school despite a childhood spinal injury and was hooked on dance.
A Love of Dance And of Children
        Ms. Godden returned to India in 1925 and opened a dancing school for children in Calcutta three years later, one of the first of its kind in that city.
Among her other work was ''Mooltiki: Stories and Poems from India'' (1957); ''A House with Four Rooms'' (1989), which takes up where ''A Time to Dance'' ended, and ''The Peacock Spring'' (1975), a novel about a British father and daughter in India who fall in love with Asians.
The English dance writer Katherine Sorley Walker, writing this year in Dance Now, praised Ms. Beriosova for her ''poise and serenity, her unhurried perfection of line.
The English dance writer Katherine Sorley Walker, writing this year in Dance Now, praised Ms. Beriosova for her ''poise and serenity, her unhurried perfection of line.
'' Early in Ms. Beriosova's career, the dance writer Annabel Farjeon described the ballerina as ''one of those rare beings -- the natural dancer,'' adding that ''no amount of training can give this inborn beauty to every pose.
''She seemed to lack the toughness that can allow an artist to express herself to the full in spite of unhelpful circumstances and depressing setbacks,'' Ms. Walker wrote in Dance Now.

        Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville.

        Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, Jeff Slayton, her former husband and longtime dance partner, said.
She met Mr. Cunningham and his collaborator John Cage in 1952 at Black Mountain College, where she was studying dance with Katherine Litz and music with Lou Harrison.
Ms. Farber formed the Viola Farber Dance Company in 1968, creating most of her choreography for the troupe, which disbanded in 1985.
Writing in the International Encyclopedia of Dance, Christopher Caines describes her earliest dances as having a febrile atmosphere and ''a dark, violent intensity that some interpreted as sadomasochistic, despite moments of tenderness.
Her own nervousness about driving in the middle, passing lane on a three-lane highway inspired the creation of another dance, ''Route 6.
'' Like Mr. Cunningham, Ms. Farber favored the juxtaposition of disparate kinds of activity in dance, where formal patterns and the combinations of steps often mattered more than the steps themselves.
Ms. Farber was especially popular in France, where she won a gold medal, with Mr. Slayton, in the Ninth International Dance Festival in Paris in 1971.
From 1981 to 1983 she was the artistic director of the Centre National de Danse Contemporaine in Angers, establishing, at the same time, an institute for the training of dance teachers in Paris.
She also taught at the London Contemporary Dance School from 1984 to 1987 and, from early in her career, at universities and dance festivals throughout the United States.
She also taught at the London Contemporary Dance School from 1984 to 1987 and, from early in her career, at universities and dance festivals throughout the United States.
