She learned to play the three-stringed lute called the shamisen, to sing ballads in the traditional quavering voice, to dance and otherwise entertain.
There she developed a dance routine and performed at meetings of local civic organization.
'' She got the part only when Cyd Charisse, the first choice for the role, broke a leg, and she had to dance in flats because Fred Astaire was barely taller than she was.
Ms. Lewis, considered a doyenne of black culture in Boston, was a no-nonsense mentor to generations of young dance, opera and theater students at the Elma Lewis School of Fine Arts, which she founded in 1950 in a Roxbury apartment before moving it permanently to a former synagogue and school in the same area.
She received a master's degree in education from Boston University, and staged operas and taught speech therapy, dance and drama in Boston and Cambridge, Mass.
Yet she had a robust sense of humor about the world of dance, and she was the rare dancer who stood up to the strong-willed Graham with quiet determination.
That work was best explained, she felt, by T. S. Eliot's observation in ''Four Quartets'' that dance was ''at the still point of the turning world.
''O'Donnell created a poetical cloud of movement that refused to be hurried,'' Donald McDonagh wrote in his Complete Guide to Modern Dance.
She performed with Graham from 1932 to 1938, then returned to California and founded the San Francisco Dance Theater with her husband, the composer Ray Green, and a Graham colleague and lifelong friend, Gertrude Shurr.
Ms. Schwarz and her sister, Hermene Schwarz, who died in 1986, were natives of Dayton who, through decades of persistence, made that city a dance center.
They founded the Schwarz School of Dance (now the Dayton Ballet School) in 1927 and in 1937 the Dayton Ballet (originally known as the Experimental Group for Young Dancers), one of America's oldest ballet companies.
Josephine Schwarz soon established herself as a dance crusader who believed in the importance of both classical ballet and modern dance.
Josephine Schwarz soon established herself as a dance crusader who believed in the importance of both classical ballet and modern dance.
Her students over the years included Daniel and Joseph Duell, brothers who joined the New York City Ballet; Rebecca Wright, who went into American Ballet Theater; Donna Wood of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater; and Jeff Gribler of the Pennsylvania Ballet.
One of those students, Jeraldyne Blunden, founded the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company in 1968.
She later studied at the School of American Ballet in New York and studied modern dance with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in New York, and Mary Wigman and Rosalia Chladek in Europe.
Ms. Schwarz was a former member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and she held honorary doctorates from Wright State University, in Dayton, and the University of Dayton.

        Ella Johnson, a jazz singer who performed with her brother Buddy Johnson in his dance bands in the 1940's and 50's, died in New York on Feb. 16, her nephew James Johnson Jr. said.
She became known as a gifted teacher and was praised by dance reviewers as a choreographer with a special aptitude for showing young students at their best in ballets that revealed her own sense of design and musicality.
She taught for 26 years at the Dance Division of the Juilliard School, which hired her on the recommendation of the ballet choreographer Antony Tudor, with whom she had worked in Europe.
She also taught in New York City at the Igor Youskevitch School of Ballet and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center.
''When you dance, you can paint, sculpt, even write and compose,'' she once wrote.
One of her great successes was her performance in 1957 in Debussy's ''Martyrdom of St. Sebastian,'' a work that combines music, dance and drama.
If the love of God can be expressed through dance, that miracle came to pass last night.

        Lynn L. Seidler, the former executive director of the Shubert Foundation, which provides grants to support live professional theater and dance, died on Thursday while vacationing in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
Instead of putting funds into bricks and mortar, she set Shubert grants aside for non-profit theaters, drama schools and dance companies in need of help with operating expenses.
She toured her pupils in the United States in 1973 and 1989 and directed a summer school, the Bolshoi Academy at Vail, at the Vail International Dance Festival in Colorado, for several years after 1990.
She made the campus a national center for modern dance and generally enhanced the college's reputation.
A restlessly experimental artist, Ms. Pape (pronounced PAH-pay) worked at challenging formal and conceptual limits in many different media, including painting, printmaking, sculpture, dance, film, performance and installation.
Ms. Taylor often spoke of television's demands on dance.
She was known as ''Miss O'' to several generations of students, and she titled her 1996 autobiography ''Miss O: My Life in Dance.
Ms. Oliphant studied dance in London, moved to Canada in 1947 and opened a school in Toronto.
Although Ms. Oliphant and Ms. Franca never met in London, both had similar dance backgrounds.
A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographer, teacher and cultural crusader, Ms. Lewitzky struggled to make modern dance a major art form in California and to make Los Angeles an important dance center.
A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographer, teacher and cultural crusader, Ms. Lewitzky struggled to make modern dance a major art form in California and to make Los Angeles an important dance center.
Her family later settled in San Bernardino, where Ms. Lewitzky received dance and piano lessons.
Dance especially fascinated her, and her love of the art grew during the 1930's, when she attended classes taught by Lester Horton, the Los Angeles area's most prominent modern dancer at that time.
She soon established herself as a charismatic performer with the Horton Dance Group, starring in highly dramatic works by Mr. Horton like ''Salome'' (1937) and ''The Beloved'' (1948), in which she portrayed a wife accused of adultery by her puritanical husband.
She directed the Los Angeles-based Bella Lewitzky Dance Company from 1966 to 1997.
It first traveled to the East Coast in 1971, appearing at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., and the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
She began studying Japanese dance when she was 3 and ballet when she was 6, but gave up dancing when her teachers said she was too tall and broad-shouldered for a professional career.
'' goes its chorus -- was one of the biggest hits of the genre known as hi-NRG, a souped-up version of disco that ruled dance clubs in the 1980's.
Founded in 1932, the Bluebell Girls are one of the last remaining companies to dance the traditional cancan, with its flying kicks and punishing splits.
She was abandoned as an infant; grew up poor; danced her way across the cabaret stages of Europe as a teenager; worked with Maurice Chevalier, Josephine Baker and Edith Piaf; was interned during World War II; saved her husband from the Nazis; raised four children; could still dance the cancan in her 60's; smoked a pack of cigarettes every day of her adult life; and was awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Order of the British Empire.

        Barbara Schwei, a founder and the producer of the American Indian Dance Theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Schwei founded the American Indian Dance Theater in 1987 with Hanay Geiogamah, its artistic director.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.
The dance idiom developed by Doris Humphrey and Weidman in 1928 after they left Denishawn, the company that spawned other pioneers like Martha Graham, remained at the heart of Ms. Mezzacappa's performances.
Writing in The New York Times in 1994, Jennifer Dunning praised the ''playful, robust'' style of Dance Consort in Weidman's ''Brahms Waltzes.
''
        Both Dance Consort and its junior troupe in Brooklyn, Young Dancers in Repertory, were devoted to Weidman's movement principles and the presentation of his works.
A graduate of Brooklyn College, Ms. Mezzacappa brought her expertise in staging Weidman works to theaters in New York and to colleges and dance programs.
Reviewing a 1958 performance by Ballet Theater in which Miss Markova appeared as guest artist, John Martin, then the dance critic of The New York Times, remarked: ''Markova has danced the role so many times that she could undoubtedly do it in her sleep; what is so notable is that she never does.
Later, however, she saw Alicia dance and accepted her as a pupil.
'' In 1946 the dance historian Grace Robert praised that interpretation in ''The Borzoi Book of Ballets,'' writing that ''Markova's deerlike shyness in the first scene, her tragic, controlled despair, the exquisite movement of her hand as she wakes up in the tomb scene, all are unforgettable in their subtlety.
''
        Dame Alicia, who had occasionally made guest appearances in the ballet sequences of works in the repertory of the Metropolitan Opera, astonished the dance world in 1963 when she accepted an invitation to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
The Met's dance troupe had never been considered important and the opera management had seldom shown much interest in ballet.
She also staged revivals of ballets in which she had starred, and presided over dance festivals and conferences.
''
        She also performed with Eugene Loring's Dance Players and danced on Broadway in the original production of ''Finian's Rainbow.
She appeared in two dance productions after her formal retirement in 1948: in 1988, in New York in Rocky Bornstein's ''Vision Obscured,'' and in 1999 in the Los Angeles production of ''From the Horse's Mouth,'' a series, created by Tina Croll and James Cunningham, evoking the history of American dance.
She appeared in two dance productions after her formal retirement in 1948: in 1988, in New York in Rocky Bornstein's ''Vision Obscured,'' and in 1999 in the Los Angeles production of ''From the Horse's Mouth,'' a series, created by Tina Croll and James Cunningham, evoking the history of American dance.
She published painstaking critical dissections of photography and dance; illness, politics and pornography; and, most famously, camp.

        Maude Lloyd, a dramatically expressive ballerina who became an articulate dance critic, writing in collaboration with her husband, Nigel Gosling, died on Nov. 26 at her home in London.
She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance critic.Born in South Africa in 1908, Ms. Lloyd arrived in London as a dance student and in 1927 became associated with Ballet Rambert, a pioneering British ballet company.
She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance critic.Born in South Africa in 1908, Ms. Lloyd arrived in London as a dance student and in 1927 became associated with Ballet Rambert, a pioneering British ballet company.
Because Ms. Lloyd's conversation was as expressive as her dancing, and because she and her husband were inseparable, Richard Buckle, editor of Ballet magazine in London, suggested in 1951 that the couple write dance criticism as a team.
After they wrote for various publications, the team as Alexander Bland began writing dance reviews in 1955 in The Observer, a weekly for which Gosling was also the art critic.
Some of them are anthologized in ''Observer of the Dance'' (Dance Books, 1985).
Some of them are anthologized in ''Observer of the Dance'' (Dance Books, 1985).

        Rachael Dunaven Yocom, a dance educator and theorist, died on Nov. 14 in Tucson, said Cora Cahan, president of the New 42nd Street redevelopment organization and a former student.
Born in Corvallis, Ore., Dr. Yocom taught dance at schools and universities in Oregon, Idaho and Utah after receiving her doctorate at New York University in 1951.
In New York City, she was chairwoman of the dance department from 1954 to 1972 at the High School of Performing Arts, the subject of the movie ''Fame,'' and was teacher in charge of the school from 1973 to 1975.
She wrote several books on physical education, sports and dance, including ''Modern Dance Techniques and Teaching'' (1946), written with Gertrude Shurr, an early Martha Graham dancer and longtime colleague.
She wrote several books on physical education, sports and dance, including ''Modern Dance Techniques and Teaching'' (1946), written with Gertrude Shurr, an early Martha Graham dancer and longtime colleague.
Dr. Yocom also wrote songs and was a dance photographer.
