''
        At 15, already a veteran of a West Coast band led by Orville Knapp, she was heard performing in a school play and asked to audition for an off-screen role singing ''Ten Cents a Dance'' in Barbara Stanwyck's film of the same name.
Born in El Paso, Mrs. Mott graduated from the Boston School of Physical Education and opened a dance studio in her hometown.
At the moment that someone screamed fire, Bessie was teaching a dance step to a fellow worker.
She briefly studied dance and painting in France but was persuaded to continue her education on a fellowship at Smith College with the theorist Kurt Koffka, a founder of Gestalt theory.

        Indrani, a distinguished dancer who familiarized Americans with several styles of India's classical dance as a performer and teacher, died on Friday in Beekman Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
But she also became a highly respected figure in the dance world of New York after her debut there in 1960.
Unlike many Indian dancers of her generation, Indrani did not specialize in a single school of classical dance but studied with leading gurus in India to master the contrasting styles of Bharata Natyam, Kuchipudi, Mohini Attam and Orissi.
In the 1950's, Indrani was the first professional dancer to perform Orissi onstage; Orissi, then a neglected dance form, was inspired by temple sculpture in the state of Orissa, in eastern India.
In championing rarely seen or forgotten classical dance forms, Indrani followed naturally in the footsteps of her mother, Ragini Devi, an American-born dancer who was internationally known for her leading role in the revival of classical dance in India in the 1930's.
In championing rarely seen or forgotten classical dance forms, Indrani followed naturally in the footsteps of her mother, Ragini Devi, an American-born dancer who was internationally known for her leading role in the revival of classical dance in India in the 1930's.
As Esther Sherman in Petoskey, Mich., the future Ragini Devi was already in love with Indian dance when she met Ramlal Bajpai in Minneapolis.
After she married Bajpai, an Indian scientist and activist for Indian independence, she traveled to India to study dance in 1930.
''Her dance career is a continuation of mine.
Having started at age 5 in her mother's company, she was steeped in the content of classical dance.
She later established a small ensemble but was best known for solos like her signature 1959 ''Anonymous,'' in which movements were whispered rather than shouted, as Don McDonagh put it in his ''Complete Guide to Modern Dance.
Ms. Garth, who was born in New York, studied at the New Dance Group and at the Martha Graham school, where her teachers included Louis Horst.
Ms. Garth also taught dance.
Describing the character as ''an incarnation of evil,'' John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, commented that Ms. Bentley had played the role so superbly that ''if the girl had not committed the murder herself almost anybody in the audience would gladly have done it for her.
'' In 1936-37, she performed Spanish dance with Jose Greco, moving on to the Metropolitan Opera Ballet before joining Ballet Theater.
Describing the character as ''an incarnation of evil,'' John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, commented that Ms. Bentley had played the role so superbly that ''if the girl had not committed the murder herself almost anybody in the audience would gladly have done it for her.
'' In 1936-37, she performed Spanish dance with Jose Greco, moving on to the Metropolitan Opera Ballet before joining Ballet Theater.

        Helen Priest Rogers, an authority on dance notation, a co-founder of the Dance Notation Bureau and a pioneer in the use of film to preserve choreography, died on Mar.

        Helen Priest Rogers, an authority on dance notation, a co-founder of the Dance Notation Bureau and a pioneer in the use of film to preserve choreography, died on Mar.
Ms. Rogers, who studied modern dance with Martha Graham and performed with the Graham company in 1935, went to Germany in 1936 at Graham's suggestion to learn the new system of Labanotation.
In 1940 she, Eve Gentry, Janey Price and Ann Hutchinson founded the Dance Notation Bureau in New York.
She made her first dance films at the  Bennington Dance Festivals of the 1930's.
She made her first dance films at the  Bennington Dance Festivals of the 1930's.
After World War II, she taught notation for the American Dance Festival when it was at Connecticut College in New London.
She taught dance and notation at various colleges and directed the dance program at Mount Holyoke College from 1953 to 1975.
She taught dance and notation at various colleges and directed the dance program at Mount Holyoke College from 1953 to 1975.

        Baroness Batsheva de Rothschild, a patron of Martha Graham and of modern dance in Israel, died on Tuesday at her home in Tel Aviv.
''
        Besides supervising the wardrobe, Baroness de Rothschild was involved in a wide range of company activities, including taking a few dance classes with Graham and buying the dancers jewelry one Christmas at a lavish party she gave for the troupe.
The foundation's first project, in 1953, was to sponsor a two-week festival of American modern dance on Broadway.
In addition to underwriting Graham tours, the foundation also helped establish the Juilliard Dance Theater, directed by Doris Humphrey, and sponsored a second three-week festival of modern dance on Broadway.
In addition to underwriting Graham tours, the foundation also helped establish the Juilliard Dance Theater, directed by Doris Humphrey, and sponsored a second three-week festival of modern dance on Broadway.
One of the Baroness's greatest contributions to modern dance was the founding of the Graham-based Batsheva Dance Company in 1964 in Tel Aviv.
One of the Baroness's greatest contributions to modern dance was the founding of the Graham-based Batsheva Dance Company in 1964 in Tel Aviv.
Baroness de Rothschild, who had moved to Israel two years earlier, believed the country needed a professional modern dance company with full-scale sets and costumes and thorough training.
Baroness de Rothschild went on to form a second, more balletically based group, the Bat-Dor Dance Company, in 1967.
She supported the establishment of the Center for Dance Medicine, the Chamber Music Association, the Chamber Ensemble and the Batsheva Crafts Corporation.
She was the author of a French book on modern dance, ''La Danse Artistique aux U.S.A.''
        Baroness de Rothschild is survived by a brother, Guy, of Paris, and a sister, Jacqueline Piatigorsky of Los Angeles.
She received the Israel Prize in 1989 and was honored in 1997 at a celebration of the 30th anniversary of the Bat-Dor Dance Company at the new Tel Aviv House.
A link between two eras of dance, Ms.
'' For many years, she went back and forth between dance forms, touring with the Fokine Ballet, forming a ballroom dance team with Tony de Marco, appearing in pioneering television productions in 1931 and 1939 and serving as ballerina of the Roxy Theater.
'' For many years, she went back and forth between dance forms, touring with the Fokine Ballet, forming a ballroom dance team with Tony de Marco, appearing in pioneering television productions in 1931 and 1939 and serving as ballerina of the Roxy Theater.
Bowman directed a ballet school in New York from 1957 until 1977, when she married Albert Kaye and moved to Las Vegas, where she served as a consultant to local dance groups.
She had a permanent stage built, brought in new and innovative troupes like the Dublin Players Company, the Oxford University Players and Mr. Holder and his Trinidad Dance Troupe, established an apprentice school, introduced seminars in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, and offered playwrights, actors, designers, composers and directors a chance to spread their wings.
She also donated money for the annual Drama Circle awards and made sizable financial contributions to dance and music groups.
The cause was cancer, said Ebbe Mork, a dance writer in Copenhagen.
She and her husband, Fredbjorn Bjornsson, who died in 1993, were among the first Danish dancers to tour internationally, appearing with a small group of soloists at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1955 and with the full Royal Danish Ballet at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1956.
The cause was cancer, said Ebbe Mork, a dance writer in Copenhagen.
She and her husband, Fredbjorn Bjornsson, who died in 1993, were among the first Danish dancers to tour internationally, appearing with a small group of soloists at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1955 and with the full Royal Danish Ballet at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1956.
Ms. Ross helped bring dance to SUNY campuses by producing such festivals as the Early Years of Modern Dance (1981) and Merce Cunningham and the New Dance (1987).
Ms. Ross helped bring dance to SUNY campuses by producing such festivals as the Early Years of Modern Dance (1981) and Merce Cunningham and the New Dance (1987).
Ms. Ross helped bring dance to SUNY campuses by producing such festivals as the Early Years of Modern Dance (1981) and Merce Cunningham and the New Dance (1987).
Dance Black America (1984) was produced with the Brooklyn Academy of Music and filmed for public television.
In 1989 she founded and directed what became an annual ''Come Sunday'' celebration of music and dance in Albany's historic Center Square neighborhood.
Ms. Hujer formed her company, the Flower Hujer Dance Theater, in 1949 and designed many of the performers' exotic costumes.

        Patricia Zipprodt, the Tony Award-winning costume designer whose career extended from theater to dance to opera to film and television, died on Saturday at her home in  Greenwich Village.
Born in Folkestone, England, on Aug. 3, 1926, Ms. Woolliams studied modern dance as a child in Germany and ballet in England with Judith Espinosa, Noreen Bush, George Goncharov and Vera Volkova.

        Trudi Schoop, a popular Swiss-born comic dancer who became a pioneer in the use of dance movement to treat mental illness, died on July 14 at her home in Van Nuys, Calif. She was 95.
But in the mid-40's she gave up performing to explore ways in which dance could serve as therapy for schizophrenic patients.
The rock star Sting wrote a song about her organization called ''They Dance Alone.
Her first writing on dance was published in 1941.
She was a leader in a movement in the 1950's that advocated fresh approaches to dance at a time when  some rebelled against an emphasis on drama in ballet.
It was the first time the award has been given for work in dance.
'' The Murrays and the business signed a consent decree with the Federal Trade Commission in 1960 promising to stop using high-pressure tactics to sell dance courses.
She graduated from high school at 15, earned a teaching certificate, then was introduced to Mr. Murray when she and a friend went to a radio station where he was teaching dance steps over the air.
About once a week, they dropped into Broadway dance halls to watch Latin and other dancers for moves that could be simplified for middle America.

        Viola Sheely, an actress, a singer and a founding member of the Urban Bush Women dance company, died on July 27 in Tompkins Square Park on the Lower East Side.
The winner of a 1992 Bessie Award, which is bestowed for creative work in dance and performance art, Ms. Sheely had a long, thin body and a slightly prim demeanor that belied her intensity and daring as a performer.
''
        ''Viola Sheely's range here is impressive, but nothing prepares the audience for her last stunning soliloquy -- a bellowed, ecstatic release,'' Anna Kisselgoff, senior dance critic of The New York Times, wrote in 1991.
Miss Carioca's parents were mortified when as a teen-ager she took her beauty and talent to a Cairo nightclub to dance for strangers, but it was the beginning of a journey that would make her one of the world's most renowned belly dancers.
But beyond mere fame, she virtually defined the intricate, pulsating art called raqs sharqi in Arabic nations but known in the West as the belly dance since a promoter at the 1893 Chicago World's Fair dreamed up the name.
Miss Carioca used her many films to raise the status of Middle Eastern  dance.
''She was a pioneer of modern oriental dance as it is done today.
She studied dance at Ivanova Belly Dancing School in Cairo before moving to Mohammed Ali Street, Cairo's 1930's and 40's version of Broadway.
After Duncan's death in 1927, her repertory and ideas as a pioneer of modern dance were passed directly to Ms. Garland and other disciples by the pupils Duncan had trained in Germany and called her adopted daughters.
Miss Garland, born in Brooklyn, studied ballet and other forms of dance as a child and was 13 when she performed at Town Hall.
After a United States tour, the pupils of the Russian school founded by Duncan invited Ms. Garland to study and dance with them in Moscow in 1931.
After her return in 1933, Miss Garland helped found the New Duncan Dancers and was dance editor of New Theater magazine.
Interest in Isadora Duncan's legend remained alive, but performances of her works became infrequent after the 1950's until Miss Garland helped promote the current Duncan revival that began with the 1977 centenary of the dance pioneer's birth.
Although Miss Cullberg was a disciple of the German Expressionist choreographer Kurt Jooss, her own style fused modern dance and ballet.
In his review, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, ''There is not a superfluous phrase, a meaningless gesture, an item of mere decoration in the choreography from end to end.
In 1991, with her long white hair still flying, Miss Cullberg performed in Mats Ek's television dance production ''The Old Woman and the Door.
In the early 1940's she studied ballet and wrote dance criticism.
In 1946 she and the choreographer Ivo Cramer formed the Swedish Dance Theater, which disbanded in 1948.
Ms. Curley was born in Brooklyn and trained in dance at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet.
Her father, George Morse, a drummer from England, led a small dance band and her mother, Ann, a native Texan, played ragtime and Dixieland piano.
She dropped out of high school to dance in a chorus line, much to the delight of her father, a frustrated vaudevillian.

        Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio.
The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contemporary Dance.
In addition to guiding the small modern-dance troupe to national prominence over its 30 years of existence, Mrs. Blunden developed a number of leading American modern dance performers, among them the former Alvin Ailey star Donna Wood.
Mrs. Blunden, who was awarded a MacArthur Foundation grant in 1994, was also a major and much-honored proponent of the contributions of black choreographers and performers to American modern dance.
''You could call what I do black dance because I'm a black-dance person.
'' That no-nonsense approach to life was mixed with steely determination, a great personal warmth and humor and an unsentimental humanity that made her a much-loved figure on the national dance scene.
Mrs. Blunden began her dance training at 8, in Dayton, her hometown, with Josephine and Hermene Schwarz , the founders of the Dayton Ballet.
As a teenage student at the American Dance Festival, Mrs. Blunden had her first important experience of modern dance.
As a teenage student at the American Dance Festival, Mrs. Blunden had her first important experience of modern dance.
'' Dayton Contemporary Dance Company would later become the first black dance troupe to acquire a Cunningham work, ''Channels/Inserts.
'' Dayton Contemporary Dance Company would later become the first black dance troupe to acquire a Cunningham work, ''Channels/Inserts.
She took her students to regional ballet competitions around the country and raised money to bring them to a summer session at Arthur Mitchell's Dance Theater of Harlem in New York.
Mrs. Blunden's honors also included the Dance Magazine Award of 1998 and the 1999 Dance USA Honors Award.
Mrs. Blunden's honors also included the Dance Magazine Award of 1998 and the 1999 Dance USA Honors Award.
In 1997, she was one of five female dance company directors honored as ''living legends'' by 651: An Arts Center.

        Ranjabati Sircar, a dancer and choreographer who fused India's classical and folk dance traditions with experimental forms from the West, died in Bombay on Oct. 23.
The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director of the Battery Dance Company in New York.
Together they established a school in Calcutta, Dancers' Guild, that focused on what they called navanritya, a contemporary form of Indian dance with its own technique and training system.
She graduated from Jadavpur University in Calcutta and trained in classical and folk dance in India.
She sought, however, a creative synthesis of modern dance from the West with classical Indian traditions.
In 1990 she participated in the International Choreographers Workshop of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and in 1992 she founded the South Asian Dance Youth Company, which won her the London Dance and Performance Award.
In 1990 she participated in the International Choreographers Workshop of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and in 1992 she founded the South Asian Dance Youth Company, which won her the London Dance and Performance Award.
In 1990 she participated in the International Choreographers Workshop of the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C., and in 1992 she founded the South Asian Dance Youth Company, which won her the London Dance and Performance Award.
Ms. Sircar wrote ''Navanritya: Toward Contemporary Indian Dance.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
