In 1927 she moved with him to Los Angeles, where she opened a dance school.
Since she had recently studied modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg, Martha Graham and Agnes de Mille, she was asked to teach classes in an ill-defined style that was less stringent than ballet but not quite modern dance.
Since she had recently studied modern dance with Harald Kreutzberg, Martha Graham and Agnes de Mille, she was asked to teach classes in an ill-defined style that was less stringent than ballet but not quite modern dance.
"
        Mrs. Mertz, a longtime supporter of dance, was on the board of the Original Ballets Foundation, which operates the Feld Ballets/NY and the New Ballet School.
The Joyce Theater on Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, which opened in 1982 and is devoted to dance, is named in memory of her daughter, who died of cancer in 1974.
"
        The New York Times dance critic John Martin analyzed her artistry in 1953 when he wrote: "She has a muscular awareness of the phrase which automatically translates music into movement, and her scale is beautifully sensitive, so that there is endless color in her movement.
"  Studied Dance as a Child
        Dame Margot was born Margaret Hookham in Reigate, Surrey, on May 18, 1919.
'She Represents Eternal Youth'
        Dame Margot declared of Mr. Nureyev: "Something quite special happens when we dance together.
Dame Margot was the author of "Margot Fonteyn: An Autobiography" (1975) and "The Magic of Dance" (1979), based on a widely seen television series on dance history for which she was the commentator.
Dame Margot was the author of "Margot Fonteyn: An Autobiography" (1975) and "The Magic of Dance" (1979), based on a widely seen television series on dance history for which she was the commentator.
Miss King danced with Miss Humphrey and Mr. Weidman, two pioneers of American modern dance, from 1928 to 1935.
Studied in Japan
        Miss King was born in Middletown, Pa. She trained in dance at the Theater Guild School and with Miss Humphrey and Mr. Weidman.
She also studied mime with Etienne Decroux, and in the early 1960's studied dance in Japan.
At the time of her death she was a director of Mr. Nicholas's American Dance Repertory Theater.
She wrote the book "Transformations," a memoir of the Humphrey-Weidman era, and was the subject of a 1989 collection of essays, "Eleanor King: 60 Years in American Dance.
Since its premiere in 1938, it has been successfully revived by many companies, including Dance Theater of Harlem.
Reviewing a production by the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1947, John Martin, who was then the dance critic of The New York Times, wrote, "It convinces you of its human truth even while you are chortling at its crude and uninhibited sentimentalities.
Her parents encouraged her desire to dance and sent her to study with local teachers.
Always curious about dance forms, Miss Page studied with Mary Wigman, the great German Expressionist choreographer, in 1930.
She frequently revived her works for regional companies and directed the Ruth Page Foundation School of the Dance, which will continue under the direction of Larry Long.
She received the Dance Magazine Award in 1980 and the Illinois Gubernatorial Award in 1985, and held honorary degrees from Indiana University, De Paul University and Columbia College of Chicago.
Born in Vienna, Miss Delakova graduated from the Academy of Music and Dance.
In 1942, she married Fred Berk, a dancer with whom she presented programs of Jewish dance.
She began the first classes in Jewish folk dance at the 92d Street Y and with her husband created the Jewish Dance Repertory Group.
She began the first classes in Jewish folk dance at the 92d Street Y and with her husband created the Jewish Dance Repertory Group.
They also conducted folk dance festivals for the Hebrew Arts Committee at the Jewish Theological Seminary.

        Martha Graham, a prime revolutionary in the arts of this century and the American dancer and choreographer whose name became synonymous with modern dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Graham died of cardiac arrest after being treated for two months for pneumonia, said Ron Protas, general director of the Martha Graham Dance Company.
Masterworks and Invention
        Yet ultimately her genius -- universally recognized as she became the most honored figure in American dance -- was embodied in her choreographic masterworks and her invention of a new and codified dance language.
Masterworks and Invention
        Yet ultimately her genius -- universally recognized as she became the most honored figure in American dance -- was embodied in her choreographic masterworks and her invention of a new and codified dance language.
The Graham technique, which is now used by dance companies throughout the world, became the first enduring alternative to the idiom of classical ballet.
Powerful, dynamic, jagged and filled with tension, this vocabulary combined with Miss Graham's distinctive system of training to set her above other dance innovators.
Although such achievements were part of Miss Graham's multi-faceted pioneering role in helping to establish modern dance outside the older ballet tradition after the 1920's, she continued to amaze her public for more than 60 years.
The most recent was her self-mocking "Maple Leaf Rag," which had its premiere on Oct. 2 with the Martha Graham Dance Company in New York.
Throughout her career, Miss Graham's fundamental tenet was that dance should reach audiences through a visceral response rather than an objective image that registered upon the intellect.
Because she rarely met conventional expectations about dance, she was both misunderstood and acclaimed.
Eleanor Roosevelt invited Miss Graham to perform at the White House in 1937, and in 1976 Miss Graham became the first dance personality to receive, from President Gerald R. Ford, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country's highest civilian honor.
"For me, dance is theater," she wrote.
For Miss Graham, dance became a collective memory that could communicate the emotions universal to all civilizations: mythology, she felt, was the psychology of the ancients.
Miss Graham's encyclopedic approach to dance -- a creative wellspring from sources as varied as American Indian rituals to the Bible -- often carried several levels of meaning and startled a public that defined dance in linear or pictorial terms.
Miss Graham's encyclopedic approach to dance -- a creative wellspring from sources as varied as American Indian rituals to the Bible -- often carried several levels of meaning and startled a public that defined dance in linear or pictorial terms.
In 1944, John Martin, dance critic for The New York Times, wrote of the emotional effect that the Graham dance theater could have upon the viewer.
In 1944, John Martin, dance critic for The New York Times, wrote of the emotional effect that the Graham dance theater could have upon the viewer.
"
        Even the dance technique that she hammered out on her own body and then transferred to her school and company derived from the most organic aspect of human life: the act of breathing.
Being 'the Thing Itself' Instead of Portraying It
        Above all, she said, "Dance is not representational.
"I will dance like that," she said.
She did not dance about grief, but sought to be what she called "the thing itself" or the embodiment of grief.
Noguchi noted in general that he had found in Miss Graham "a drive that motivated her to strip the dance to its stark rudiment.
After 1934, she tended to use commissioned music and was guided here by Horst, a composer who insisted that dance had a life independent of music and did not derive from it.
Miss Graham herself, sometimes accused of using dance as mere aural decor, often said that she did not seek to interpret another art form -- that is, music.
Started Dance Training At 22, After Father Died
        In 1916, after the death of her father and after graduation from a junior college, the Cumnock School, Miss Graham enrolled in the Denishawn school in Los Angeles and then joined the Denishawn Company.
Denishawn, organized by Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, was then the only major dance company that worked outside the classical ballet tradition, and it became the incubating ground for such pioneering talents as Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman and Miss Graham herself.
At the invitation of Rouben Mamoulian, she joined the dance division of the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she taught dance.
At the invitation of Rouben Mamoulian, she joined the dance division of the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she taught dance.
Mrs. Wallace made it possible for the Martha Graham Center for Contemporary Dance to acquire the building at 316 East 63d Street, where the Graham school is situated.
In 1975, just before Dame Margot Fonteyn and Rudolf Nureyev appeared as guests in her company, she declared, "The war has ended," alluding to the perceived conflict between modern dance and ballet.
Among Miss Graham's awards were the first Guggenheim Fellowship given to a dancer; the Kennedy Center Honors; the Aspen Award in the Humanities; the Capezio Dance Award; the first Samuel H. Scripps-American Dance Festival Award to honor achievement in modern dance; the Meadows Award in the performing arts; the Handel Medallion of New York City; the Henry Hadley medal for contribution to American music, and the first National Medal of Arts.
Among Miss Graham's awards were the first Guggenheim Fellowship given to a dancer; the Kennedy Center Honors; the Aspen Award in the Humanities; the Capezio Dance Award; the first Samuel H. Scripps-American Dance Festival Award to honor achievement in modern dance; the Meadows Award in the performing arts; the Handel Medallion of New York City; the Henry Hadley medal for contribution to American music, and the first National Medal of Arts.
Among Miss Graham's awards were the first Guggenheim Fellowship given to a dancer; the Kennedy Center Honors; the Aspen Award in the Humanities; the Capezio Dance Award; the first Samuel H. Scripps-American Dance Festival Award to honor achievement in modern dance; the Meadows Award in the performing arts; the Handel Medallion of New York City; the Henry Hadley medal for contribution to American music, and the first National Medal of Arts.
Her theater work included sets for John Moran's multi-media opera "The Manson Family" and collaborations with XXY Dance/Music, a multi-media dance company.
"
        Ms. Remick, who was born in Quincy, Mass., studied dance as a child and won her first acting job at age 16 with a summer-stock company on nearby Cape Cod.
She believed, as did most dance historians, that her mother -- who first achieved acclaim with Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in the 1920's -- was among this century's greatest choreographers.
In New York she staged productions for the Feld Ballet, the Joffrey Ballet and Dance Theater of Harlem.
She was also a familiar figure in companies as diverse as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet, the National Ballet of Holland, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Tulsa Ballet Theater and the Dance Corps of the State University of New York at Purchase.
" Four years later, the Feld Ballet danced it in New York and in 1989 it entered the repertories of the Joffrey Ballet and Dance Theater of Harlem.
In 1989, Irina Nijinska and Frank W. D. Ries, a dance historian, reconstructed another satire, "Le Train Bleu," for the Oakland Ballet.
With the aid of Nina Youshkevitch, a New York teacher who had danced in ballets by Bronislava Nijinska in the 30's, she staged an excerpt from "Le Baiser de la Fee" last fall for a symposium sponsored by the Dance Critics Association and the Dance Collection of the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center.
With the aid of Nina Youshkevitch, a New York teacher who had danced in ballets by Bronislava Nijinska in the 30's, she staged an excerpt from "Le Baiser de la Fee" last fall for a symposium sponsored by the Dance Critics Association and the Dance Collection of the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center.
Forced to wear braces, she turned to academic pursuits because, she later recalled, "I couldn't go out and dance and play" like other children.
Born in New York, Mrs. Cline received an master's degree in arts education at Rutgers University and studied modern dance at the Martha Graham studio.
After her graduation in 1913, she joined the Maryinsky (now the Kirov) Ballet and, despite a bout with tuberculosis, continued to dance during the 1920's in western Europe with Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes.
Her health improved, and members of the dance world occasionally visited her.
Ms. Leentvaar, born in Scheveningen, the Netherlands, trained at the Scapino Dance Academy in Amsterdam.
At the time of her death, she was a staff member of the dance department at the Theater School in Amsterdam.
" Among those present were Janet Suzman, Geraldine James, Charles Dance, Joss Ackland, Richard Eyre and Peter O'Toole.
