In addition to her son, of Sea Girt, she is survived by a daughter, Margaretta J. Friday of Weston, Conn., four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Greeff is survived by her daughter, Anne M. Garrigue of Manhattan; her son, Paul Garrigue of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Evangeline Greeff Michell of Westport, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter Rosalind Avnet Lazarus.
In addition to Mrs. Lazarus, of New York and Washington, she is survived by another daughter, Carole Avnet Rocherolle of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Jonathan Avnet, a film director and producer of Topanga Canyon, outside Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, William Salchow, and a daughter, Allison Shumsky, both of Golden's Bridge, and two sisters, Rosemary Glyde of Boulder, Colo., and Wendy Klopfenstein of Mobile, Ala.
Mrs. Cullman is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Cullman Treisman of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Betty Asiel of White Plains, and two grandsons.
The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Lucy Rastelli, a daughter.
Mrs. Field is survived by a son, Robert L. Phipps of Ridgeland, S.C.; a daughter, Fiona F. Kay, a resident of Alicante province in eastern Spain, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Ellen N. Rothchild of Cleveland, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Moorman was the daughter of the historian George Macaulay Trevelyan, who died in 1962.
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Burke, Va., and a daughter, Madeleine W. de Heller of Bougy-Villars, Switzerland.
      
A native of Chicago, she was the daughter of Lorado Taft, the sculptor, and Ada Bartless Taft.
Mrs. Douglas is survived by a daughter, Dr. Jean Taft Douglas Bandler of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Gail Justin.
She is survived by her daughter and a son, Paul, both of Manhattan.
      
She died of natural causes, said her daughter, Jarmila Packard.
In addition to her daughter, of New York City, she is survived by a son, George Daubek of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Karyl McKay of Alanson, Mich., and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Joanna Walker.
The cause was heart failure brought on by severe rheumatoid arthritis, said her daughter Natasha Grenfell.
In addition to her daughter Natasha, of London, she is survived by another daughter, Pulcheria, of Orleans, France, and two granddaughters.
      
In addition to her daughter Natasha, of London, she is survived by another daughter, Pulcheria, of Orleans, France, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Maya Ryan of Manhattan; her son, of Wayne, Pa., and five granddaughters.
      
The daughter of a journalist, Miss Lane studied at St. Hugh's College of Oxford University, worked as a reporter for some years and went on to become a critic as well as an author.
She is survived by three sons, Peter Harrison of Radnor, Pa., Charles Harrison of Pittsburgh and Douglas A. Bruce of Greenwich; a daughter, Elizabeth Morgan of Princeton, N.J.; a stepson, Leslie Combs Bruce 3d of San Diego; a stepdaughter, Julia Bruce Coyle of Greenwich; 17 grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; 8 step-grandchildren, and 8 step-great-grandchildren.
      
In 1940, she signed a recording contract with RCA Victor and had her first hits, "The Breeze and I" (with Xavier Cugat's orchestra) and "Yes, My Darling Daughter.
"
        She is survived by a daughter, Melissa Ann Hime; a son, John David Montgomery, and three grandchildren.
      
She was the only daughter of Brig.
Mrs. McMillan is survived by her husband of 60 years, William, a retired architect; a daughter, Eleanor McMillan of Bethesda, Md.
Besides her son Paul, a resident of Baton Rouge, she is survived by a daughter, Donna Jones, also of Baton Rouge; two other sons, Thomas, of Springfield, Va., and Perry, of Baton Rouge, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      
During the 1930's and 40's, she constantly toured the Midwest with her adopted daughter, Bertha, as accompanist.
She is survived by her sisters Emma, Geneva and Georgie; a daughter, Jacqueline; a son, William; four grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren, all of St. Louis.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Joan Tobin.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Charles Fleischmann 3d of Cincinnati; another daughter, Dorette Fleischmann of The Plains, Va.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Charles Fleischmann 3d of Cincinnati; another daughter, Dorette Fleischmann of The Plains, Va.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Youth in Hollywood and London
        Ms. Belfrage was born in Hollywood, the daughter of Cedric Belfrage and Molly Castle, Britons who were then correspondents for London newspapers.
She is survived by a daughter, Eve Pomerance of London; a son, Moby Pomerance of Manhattan; a brother, Nicholas, of London, and a sister, Anne Zribi of Paris.
      

        Aurelia Schober Plath, an educator and the editor of the correspondence of her daughter, the poet Sylvia Plath, died on Friday at the North Hill Health Center in Needham, Mass.
After teaching for two years at Cape Cod Community College in Hyannis, Mass., she devoted herself to editing the personal correspondence of her daughter, who committed suicide in 1963.
Mrs. Harvey, known as Vicki, grew up in New York City, the daughter of Swedish immigrants.
Besides her husband she is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Karen, both of San Jose, and her father, William R. Yeack of Gainesville, Fla.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter from her first marriage.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jacko Peniazek; a daughter, Ana, and two sons, Pablo and Eduard, all of Rosemont.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger of Manhattan; a son, Jim Lebenthal, the firm's chairman and spokesman, also of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
in theology in 1964 from Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y.
        She was an oblate of St. Gregory's Abbey in Three Rivers, Mich., and an associate of St. Mary's Convent in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ann Hemingway Tarlton of Rumson, N.J.; two sons, John Moon Hemingway of Seattle and Booth Roy Hemingway of Kittery Point, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Kenneth, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Alice Robinson of Manhattan; her parents, Norris and Natalie Konheim of Longboat Key, Fla., and a sister, Patty Goldenberg of Waban, Mass.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Gayle Miller.
; a daughter, Margaret L. Starbird of Tacoma, Wash.; a sister, Alice B. Miller of Fort Belvoir, 13 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Judith Nichtern.
Among her other productions of the 1960's and 1970's were "The Banker's Daughter," "Jimmy Shine," "Cold Storage," "House of Blue Leaves," "Absent Friends" and "I Got a Song.
She is survived by her daughter and a son, David, both of Manhattan.
      
"
        Maria Amalia Mercouri was born in Athens on Oct. 18, 1925, the daughter of a longtime Minister of the Interior and the granddaughter of a much-admired, longtime Mayor of Athens, who nicknamed her Melina, meaning honey, the usual color of her hair in later years.
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Betty Gruendel of Edgecomb.
Miss Hall was born in Warwick, R.I.
        She is survived by her daughter and a sister, Bettina Rubicam of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
She was the daughter of an executive for Union Carbide.
She is survived by her husband ; a daughter, Barbara Green; three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
She had had a long illness, said her daughter, Dr. Susan Caroline Weil.
Dr. Weil was in private practice in Manhattan, her daughter said, and at her death was also on the faculty of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute.
In addition to her daughter, a hematologist in Wynnewood, Pa., Dr. Weil is survived by two grandsons and a brother, Albert Phiebig of White Plains.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Ann Phillips, a daughter.
Mrs. Lord is survived by her husband, Edwin Jr., of Cambridge; a son, Edwin 3d, of Frankfurt, Germany; a daughter, Mary, of Washington, and a brother, Ted Allen of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
Ms. Satz is survived by her daughter, Susan Fuhrman, and her son-in-law, Dr. Robert Fuhrman, of Westfield, N.J.; three grandsons, Michael, Jeffrey and Jonathan; three sisters, Ms. Israel of Los Angeles, Frances Satz of New York and Anne Stelzer of Seattle; and two nieces, Judy Israel of Malibu, Calif., and Jane Siegel of San Francisco.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Schmid of Lawrenceville, Ga., and a sister, Rachel E. Brodeaux of Harlingen, Tex.
      
; a daughter, Michelle Ogut of Monroe, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
Miss Furness, whose original name was Elizabeth Mary Furness, was born on Jan. 3, 1916, in New York City, the daughter of George Choate Furness, an executive with what was then called Union Carbon and Carbide, and Florence Sturtevant Furness.
"
        In 1937 Miss Furness married Johnny Green, the composer and conductor, with whom she had a daughter, Barbara.
In addition to her husband and her daughter, she is survived by three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Michelle Ogut of Monroe, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Eugene Zuriff; her daughter, Jennifer Reisman of Atlanta; two stepsons, Laurence Zuriff of Washington and Bryan Zuriff of Los Angeles, and a sister, Judith, who lives in Florida.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Ipeleng Kgositsile.
She is survived by her daughter, of Manhattan; her mother, Queen Esther Johnson of Oakland, Calif.; three brothers, Thomas W. Jr. of Manhattan, William of Oakland, and Ronald of Sacramento, Calif., and a sister, Rose Johnson of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, a daughter, Kimberly Donaldson-Plym, and a son, Matthew, all of New York.
      
Her father was a rare-book dealer who enjoyed taking his daughter to museums.
"
        Ms. Goya was a daughter of Samuel Weller, a personal representative for several New York actors.
In recent years Mrs. Onassis had lived quietly but not in seclusion, working at Doubleday; joining efforts to preserve historic New York buildings; spending time with her son, daughter and grandchildren; jogging in Central Park; getting away to her estates in New Jersey, at Hyannis, Mass., and on Martha's Vineyard, and going about town with Maurice Tempelsman, a financier who had become her closest companion.
"She's been quite wonderful to my wife, to my daughter and to all of us," Mr. Clinton said.
Mr. Auchincloss had been substantially better able to weather the Great Depression; his mother and benefactor was the former Emma Brewster Jennings, daughter of Oliver Jennings, a founder of Standard Oil with John D. Rockefeller.
When he died in 1975, his daughter Christina was at his side; Mrs. Onassis was in New York.
"
        Mrs. Onassis is survived by her daughter, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg; a son, John F. Kennedy Jr.; her sister, Lee Radziwill Ross, and three grandchildren, Rose Kennedy, Tatiana Celia Kennedy and John Bouvier Kennedy Schlossberg.
The cause was kidney disease, said her daughter, Judith A. Berezin.
Ms. Gair is survived by a daughter, Patricia Sweeney of Kingston upon Thames, England; two sons, Judd Rose of Manhattan and Roger Rose of Los Angeles; her mother, Rose Gair of Chicago; a brother, Seymour Gair of suburban Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
"
        Born in Berlin and named Annelise Fleischmann, she was the daughter of a prosperous furniture manufacturer.
Judge Forer is survived by her husband, Morris L. Forer; two sons, Stuart, of Warwick, R.I., and John, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Hope Forer Ross of Manhattan; a sister, Marion Schott of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandsons.
"  Books for Children
        She was born in Wayzata, Minn., the daughter of William Chute, a real estate broker, and Edith Mary Pickburn Chute, who had been a nurse in a London hospital.
She is survived by her son of Bellport; a daughter, Helen Young of Lawrenceville, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. McHugh, a daughter, Maude Mikulewicz of Pownal, survives.
      
Dr. Woititz is survived by two sons, David, of West Orange, N.J., and Daniel, of Roseland; a daughter, Lisa Taub of Allentown, N.J.; two grandchildren, and her companion, Bernard Zweben.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Judith Bergtraum.
Ms. Corey is survived by a daughter, Mary Corey, and a granddaughter, both of Beverly Hills.
Mrs. Baan is survived by her husband, Leslie, and a daughter, Natalie.
      
The center was named in honor of her daughter, a journalist and radio news producer who died of cancer in 1986.
She was born in India and was the daughter of missionaries.
The cause was complications from cardiac arrest two weeks after heart surgery, said her daughter, Deborah Schwartz Rapaport.
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was a blood clot in her lung, said her daughter, Kristin Helmore.
"
        In addition to her daughter, of Clinton, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Tom Helmore.
      
Mrs. Hong is survived by three sons; Alfred of Jamaica Estates, Robert of Syosset, L.I., and Morris of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a daughter, Virginia Wei of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Moy of Chicago; a sister, Mae Wu of Berkeley, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Meryl Rafferty.
She is survived by her daughter of Lafayette, Calif.; her son, Dan Natchez of Mamaroneck, and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said her daughter, Amy Ringwald.
After her marriage to the music critic Louis Biancolli in 1958 she gradually withdrew from the concert stage to bring up her daughter and teach music.
In addition to her daughter, of Albany, she is survived by a brother, Alexander C. Mitchell of Frenchtown, N.J., and a granddaughter, Madeleine Ringwald of Albany.
      
Besides her husband, Ms. Blair is survived by a daughter and three sons from a previous marriage: Elizabeth Hillard of Pleasant Hill, Calif., Harper Sibley Jr. of Portland, Me., Blair Sibley of Miami, and Durbin Sibley of Corpus Christi, Tex.
Ms. Hames's survivors include a son, Adam, and a daughter, Donia.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Melissa Holgate.
She had been in declining health for some time, said her daughter, Alexandra Rose.
Besides her daughter, a resident of Manhattan, Ms. Troubetzkoy is survived by two sisters, Mary Shurtleff of Nyack, N.Y., and Countess Brun de St. Hippolyte of Paris, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Dunscombe is survived by two sons, Herbert S. 3d, of Veneta, Ore., and David C., of White Salmon, Wash.; a daughter, Cynthia D. Bell of Oroville, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was leukemia, said her daughter, Ludmilla Dokoudovsky-Zalewski.
In addition to her daughter, of St. Louis, she is survived by her companion, Kenneth MacKenzie.
She is survived by her husband, Jack Sonenberg, who is also an artist, and a daughter, Maya Sonenberg of Seattle.
      
Mrs. Meyer is survived by her husband, Richard W. Meyer, a retired vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company; a daughter, Charlotte Meyer-Arnold of Los Angeles; two sons, Richard W. Jr. and Douglas C., both of Locust Valley, L.I.
The first two were Marie Curie, in 1911, and her daughter Irene Joliot-Curie, in 1935.
Her survivors include two sons and a daughter.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Colette, also of Woodbridge, and a sister, Nola Royce of Delmar, N.Y.
      
She died of a brain tumor, said her daughter, Ruth, of Princeton, N.J.
        Dr. Cserr joined the Brown faculty in 1970 after serving as a researcher at Harvard University, where she received a Ph.D. in physiology.
Besides her daughter, Dr. Cserr is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert Cserr of North Dighton; her mother, Ruth FitzGerald of Missoula, Mont.
She was the daughter of Douglas Southall Freeman, the editor of The Richmond News Leader and a biographer of George Washington and Robert E. Lee.
"
        Born in 1897, Nancy Keene Perkins was a daughter of Lizzie Langhorne and T. Moncure Perkins, a meatpacking executive.
Dr. Coser is survived by her husband of 52 years, Dr. Lewis A. Coser, also a sociologist; a daughter, Dr. Ellen C. Perrin of Brookline, Mass.
Mrs. Price is survived by her husband, Kenneth W., of Waccabuc; a daughter, Darcy Lee Price of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Timothy of Port Jervis, N.Y.; and a sister, Barbara Lee Crowder of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Rodolphe, of London; a daughter, Tess d'Erlanger, of Oxford, England; three grandsons, and her sister, of Wilton, Conn..
        She was buried in Geneva.
      
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Claire Meadow, of Larchmont, N.Y.
        A graduate of Hunter College, Mrs. Goldstein received a master's degree in education from New York University.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Goldstein is survived by a son, Herbert Samuelson of Metuchen, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She played Gertrude Berg's daughter on the popular radio show "The Goldbergs" and toured with Mercedes McCambridge in "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
; a daughter, Deborah Carliner of Washington; a brother, Karl Kalter of Munich, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Phillips, whose husbands, Donovan Franklin Buehring and William Holgate Phillips, are both dead, is survived by her daughter, Sandra D. Buehring of Williston, and three granddaughters.
      
The cause was heart failure after a stroke, said her daughter, Mary Markson Dawe.
"
        She was born in Hamburg, Germany, the daughter of a German mother and an English father.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nina, and two grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said Claudia Stone, a daughter of the owner of the art gallery.
Mrs. Hoffstot, whose family has spent winters in Palm Beach for three generations, was born Barbara S. Drew in Pittsburgh, graduated from the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., and attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.
        She is survived by her husband of 46 years, Henry Phipps Hoffstot Jr.; a daughter, Thayer of Westlake Village, Calif.; a son, Henry Phipps 3d of Ligonier, Pa., and New York, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
She was born Dorothy May Kinnicutt in July 15, 1910, in Morristown, N.J., the daughter of G. Hermann Kinnicutt and the former May Appleton Tuckerman, who had homes in Manhattan, Maine and Paris, as well as New Jersey.
There was the lure of Hollywood, and there was the need to support her 6-year-old daughter, Susan.
A son, Chris, was born in 1943 and a daughter, Tandy, in 1945.
They, her daughter Susan, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren survive her, in addition to her husband.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her daughter, Ava, of Troy, and a sister, Flora Holzheimer, of Schmalwasser, Germany.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Kate Witkin, of Harrison, N.Y.; two sons, Dr. Allan Friedlich of Belmont, Mass., and Bruce Friedlich of New York, eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lawrence, who used her maiden name, is survived by a daughter, Alison Collins of Kew Gardens, Queens, and a son, Charles Collins of Forest Hills, Queens.
      
She had a daughter, Melody, by Mr. Condos.
She is survived by her husband and her daughter.
      
Professor Starling is survived by her daughter, Tiffany Starling, also of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by another daughter, Renee Nemerov Sparkia of Albuquerque, six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, H. Erich Heinemann of Great Neck, L.I., chief economist at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, investment bankers; a daughter, Marianne Russo of Oxford, Pa., and Wilmington, Del.
Their daughter, Lita, was born a year later.
After his death, in 1927, a legal battle over the estate and the custody of their daughter ensued, leading to a series of much-publicized suicide attempts by Ms. Basquette.
Ms. Basquette is survived by her daughter, Lita Warner Heller; a son, Edward Alvin Hayes; a half-sister, the actress and dancer Marge Champion, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher.
While still a teen-ager, she married a musician, Arthur Herbert, but he died three years later, leaving her with a daughter to support.
She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.
      
She is survived by a son, Jason M. Anderson of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Amy J. Anderson of East Falmouth; a stepdaughter, Sherri O'Grady of Boston; a sister, Pat Hodges of Ashland, Neb., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said Janet Chernela Mount, her daughter.
In addition to Ms. Chernela Mount, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Chernilo, and a son, Abbey Chernela, both of New York; a sister, Diane Graf of Southbury, Conn., and a brother, Paul Moss of Hewlett, L.I.
      
Ms. Montes is survived by a daughter, Rebecca Albury of Atlanta; her mother, Greta Hyde Montes of Tampa, Fla.; two sisters, Greta Montes of Wayne, Pa., and Jacqueline Zaborski of West Palm Beach, Fla., and three brothers, Robert, of Clearwater, Fla., and Ronald and Hiram, both of Tampa.
      
Mrs. Blumka, whose name was originally Ruth Zickel, was born and reared in Munich, the daughter of Nadja and Frederic Zickel, dealers in German Expressionist art.
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Lee.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Joseph, and a son, Kenneth A., all of New York City, and three brothers, Jeff Miller and Jack Miller of Delphos, Ohio, and Tom Miller of Arlington, Va.
      
Mrs. Speare is survived by her husband, Alden, and a daughter, Mary Elizabeth Carey of Shaker Heights, Ohio.
The cause was cancer, her daughter, Veronica Elliott of Washington, said.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a second daughter, Rose, and a son, Tony, both of London, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a second daughter, Rose, and a son, Tony, both of London, and six grandchildren.
      
She died of pneumonia, said her daughter, Sarah Montgomery of South Hadley, Mass.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Jessica.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Holly Crumpton; a brother, Rue Knapp; a sister, Mary Lou DiNardo, and a granddaughter, Crystal, all of Atlanta.
      
Her survivors include her husband, Sandy Miller, and a daughter, Nell Miller, also of Carroll Gardens.
      
"
        Ms. McRae's parents, who opposed a show-business career, persuaded their daughter to take a secretarial course, and she spent two years in Washington doing clerical work for the Government.
She died from injuries suffered in a car accident on Oct. 7, said her daughter Katharine Newman Zohir.
She is also survived by another daughter, Pixie A.
Dr. Gardner is survived by her daughter, Kerith, of Manhattan; two sons, Jay and Andrew of Belmont, and her parents, Sylvia and Bernard Krieger of Boca Raton, Fla.
      
Professor Bozeman is survived by her husband of 44 years, Dr. Arne Barkhuus; a daughter, Anya B. Taylor of South Nyack, N.Y.; a brother, Bodo von Bruemmer of Colares, Portugal, and two grandsons.
      
The only ones who knew where they were were she and my 5-year-old daughter, Mariel.
Mrs. Hilson's daughter, Mary Wolf, died in 1987, and her son, John S., in 1991.
The cause was complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Barbara Poses Kafka.
Poses was among the first women to graduate from New York University's law school, her daughter said, and joined the New York bar in 1938, soon after it began admitting women, in 1937.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Kafka, of Manhattan, she is survived by two grandchildren and a brother, Abraham Shapiro, of Manhattan.
      
Her daughter, Anne Gres (the name is pronounced greh), provided the fashion industry newspaper with a response she said her mother had dictated on Oct. 9.
Born on Nov. 30, 1903, she died on Nov. 24, 1993, in a retirement home in the south of France, a fact that was carefully hidden by her daughter.
Although some have asked whether there could have been a commercial reason for her daughter's actions, it seems unlikely, given the number of houses in Paris that continue after the designer has died, from Balenciaga to Chanel and Christian Dior, where big-name designers took over the workrooms.
Gres to Jacques Mouclier, the answer was given by her daughter, and she said always, 'Mme.
"Her daughter must have had a reason to hide it, but I find it very sad," she said.
Her daughter condemned the fashion professionals yesterday in Le Monde.
Mrs. Shouse is survived by a daughter, Joan Dodd Tolley of Naples, four grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Sarah Orrick of Washington.
She is also survived by a daughter, Martha Orrick of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a son, Nicholas, of Andover, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a pioneer in the civil rights movement, Dr. Robert Russa Moton, she grew up on the campus of Tuskegee Institute, where her father had succeeded its founder, Booker T. Washington, as president.
In addition to her son, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Andrea, of Newton Highlands, Mass., and a grandson, Joshua Weiss.
      
Mrs. Stralem is survived by a daughter, Lynn Stralem of Carmel, Calif.; two granddaughters and four great-grandchildren.
For 10 years she was actress in residence at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.
        She played the mother in revivals of "The Glass Menagerie," and in 1980, still petite with a cameo face, she returned to the New York theater to do the role off Broadway, opposite Ms. Angelin as the daughter.

        Elizabeth Glaser, who waged a tireless campaign to draw attention to pediatric AIDS after she unknowingly passed the disease on to her daughter and son, died yesterday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 47.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
"Elizabeth confronted the challenge of AIDS in her own life and lost her beloved daughter to AIDS at a time when our Government and our country were too indifferent to this illness and the people who had it," he said.

        Elizabeth Glaser, who waged a tireless campaign to draw attention to pediatric AIDS after she unknowingly passed the disease on to her daughter and son, died yesterday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 47.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
"Elizabeth confronted the challenge of AIDS in her own life and lost her beloved daughter to AIDS at a time when our Government and our country were too indifferent to this illness and the people who had it," he said.
She was 85 and lived with her daughter, Jane, in Wainscott, L.I.
Mrs. Julianelli, who was born in Brooklyn, is survived by her daughter, Jane.
      
In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      
