; a daughter, Lesley Kushner of San Francisco, and her brothers, Isaac and Meyer Rehert of Baltimore and Paul Rehert of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Suzanne Dache-Gould, who also became a milliner, and two grandsons.
She is survived by her husband, Michael Katz; a daughter, Moorea; her parents, Brian and Brenda Neale of Birmingham, and a brother, Anthony, also of Birmingham.
      
Mrs. Edward's daughter, India Moffett Williams, died in 1979, and her son, John Holbrook Moffett, died in World War II.
She is survived by a brother, Frederick DuBois of Des Moines, Iowa; four sons, Frederick Jr., and Marshall, both of Manhattan, John of Flathead Lake, Mont., and Robert, of Halifax, Nova Scotia; a daughter, Mary S. Merrill of Manhattan, and 15 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Barbara Neumann of Paramus, N.J.; two grandsons and one great-grandson.
      
She took the photographs for ''The Little Animals,'' a series of best-selling children's books in the 1960's for which another daughter, Judith
        Mrs. Dunn, who was 75, specialized in photographing children and was one of the early users of color film for advertising layouts.
She took the photographs for ''The Little Animals,'' a series of best-selling children's books in the 1960's for which another daughter, Judith Spangenberg, wrote the texts.
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; her mother, Rae Leventhal, of Pottstown; a brother, Harris, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Elizabeth Feifer, of Long Island.
      
Besides her husband and brother, she is survived by her parents, Harry and Jean Dinnerstein of North Miami Beach, Fla.; two sons, David, of Pomona, N.Y., and Jay, of Anaheim, Calif.; a daughter, Bonnie Friehling of Great Falls, Mont., and six grandchildren.
      

       Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter who became one of the most bewitching movie actresses in the world, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in the Kensington section of London.
Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter who became one of the most bewitching movie actresses in the world, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in the Kensington section of London.
Dr. Jaeger, the widow of Dr. Lincoln Rahman, also a psychoanalyst, she is survived by a daughter, Emily de Brigard of Middletown, Conn., and a grandchild.
      
A graduate of Adelphi University, she is survived by a daughter, Sarah Petlin of Manhattan; a son, William, of Newton, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Bernard Simon of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Daughter of a Professor
        The writer, whose given name was Evelyn Perkins, was born to a physics professor and an actress in Hamden, Conn., grew up in Hartford, and was educated at Milton Academy and Vassar College.
She is survived by her husband, John A. Gruver; a daughter, Cynthia Gruver-Williams of Carroll County, Md., and a son, John Gordon Gruver of College Park, Md.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ruth Falcon, of Topanga, Calif.
      
She was known both for her own accomplishments and those of her husband and children, particularly her daughter, the actress Grace Kelly, who later married Prince Rainier of Monaco.

       Josephine Young Case, a poet and writer and the first woman to be a director of the Radio Corporation of America, died on Monday at the Harding Nursing Home in Waterville, N.Y. She was 82 years old and lived in Van Hornesville, N.Y.
        Josephine Young Case, a poet and writer and the first woman to be a director of the Radio Corporation of America, died on Monday at the Harding Nursing Home in Waterville, N.Y. She was 82 years old and lived in Van Hornesville, N.Y.
        Mrs. Case was the sole daughter of Owen D. and Josephine Edmonds Young.
In addition to her husband, survivors include a brother, Richard Young, and a daughter, Josephine Edmonds Case, both of Van Hornesville; three sons, James 3d and John, both of Cambridge, Mass., and Samuel, of Fairfax, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Louis; a daughter, Judy Sandegren, of New Canaan, Conn.; a son, Steve R. Witkin, of Waterville, Me.
At her death, she was also vice president and director of planning for Todd Lee/Clark/Rozas Associates Inc.
        Also surviving are a daughter and three sons, Story Clark Resor of Jackson, Wyo., Joseph 3d, of Los Angeles, Christopher, of Manhattan, and Laurance, of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Bernadette Poulos of West Islip, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Jonathan A., of Mountain View, Calif.; a daughter, Joanna Caproni of Manhattan; a sister, M. Helen Burnard of Nashua, N.H.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Susan Gullotta of Pleasantville; a son, Dr. Beach Conger of Hartland, Vt.; a brother, Dr. George A. Cunningham of Palm Beach, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        Columbia University, at its 1951 commencement, gave Mrs. Sulzberger a Doctor of Laws degree, citing her as the ''distinguished daughter of a distinguished father'' and praising her civic involvement as well as her role at The Times.
Her mother was the daughter of Isaac Mayer Wise, rabbi of the Plum Street Temple in Cincinnati and founder of American Reform Judaism.
Mr. Ochs introduced his daughter to other worlds - the pleasures of walking, the mysteries of the newspaper business and delight in the ideas of other people.
Mr. Ochs walked his daughter to the grave of the poet for whom the park was named and pointed to the tombstone inscription composed by Fitz-Greene Halleck for his friend in 1820:
        Green be the turf above thee
        Friend of my better days!
But his daughter then complied with the wish.
He strove to help his daughter buttress her opinions with facts.
But Mr. Ochs held that a newspaper office was no place for women, especially not for his daughter, of whom he felt protective.
Although Mr. Ochs first had reservations about his daughter's choice, ''within a few years his devotion to Arthur became boundless,'' she said.
Mr. Sulzberger, who had been president and publisher for 22 years, turned his presidency over to Orvil E. Dryfoos, then 44, husband of the Sulzbergers' daughter Marian.

       Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Representative and Vice-Presidential candidate, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the home of her daughter in Forest Hills, Queens.
Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Representative and Vice-Presidential candidate, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the home of her daughter in Forest Hills, Queens.
Mrs. Ferraro, who lived in Forest Hills near her daughter's home, was hospitalized in December but left to stay with her daughter's family for the Christmas holidays and remained there until her death.
Mrs. Ferraro, who lived in Forest Hills near her daughter's home, was hospitalized in December but left to stay with her daughter's family for the Christmas holidays and remained there until her death.
Her daughter recalled yesterday that her mother's earnings put her and her brother, Carl, through high school and college.
The daughter, who is married to John A. Zaccaro, has said she kept her maiden name in honor of her mother's struggle to educate her children.
They had a daughter, Alexandra, who died in 1954.
Ms. Markel was the daughter of Lester Markel, Sunday Editor of The New York Times for several decades.
Surviving are a daughter, Jennifer Stewart, and a son, Mark Stewart, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband and her daughter, Joan, both of Manhattan; a sister, Monica Lewis Lang, and a brother, Marlo Lewis.
      
Surviving are two sons, Simon, of Baltimore, and Nelson B., of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Gemma Rettman of Eugene, Ore., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Henry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Pamela Lee Syrmis, also of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Strauss of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sophie Grigson of London.
      
Her grief over the death of her daughter from polio led her to spiritualism for a time.
Correction:  March 20, 1990, Tuesday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary yesterday about Terry Quimby, a former advertising executive in the fashion industry, misidentified a surviving daughter.
A widow, she is survived by a daughter, Mary Yrizarry of Brooklyn; a son, David G. of Washington, and two granddaughters.
      
; a daughter, Lauren, of Manhattan, and a son, Jamie, of Westhampton Beach.
      
She was a trustee of the Shipley School of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        She is survived by her husband, R. Palmer Baker Jr.; a daughter, Mary Fickett of Manhattan; a brother, DeLancey Nicoll 3d, and a grandson.
      
Miss Roberts, the daughter of a West Virginia oil producer, was the author of 14 books, the most popular of which was ''The Enchanted Cup,'' based on Malory's version of the legend of Tristan and Isolde.
She is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Shaffer of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Clement, of Toronto and Lewiston, N.Y.; a sister, Kitty C. Margulies of Manhattan, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Greta Lovisa Gustafsson was born in Stockholm on Sept. 18, 1905, the daughter of Karl Alfred and Anna Lovisa Gustafsson.
She is survived by a daughter, Giselle Marziale, three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, all of whom live in Rome.
It is now a part of the Best Foods Baking Group of CPC International Inc.
        Mrs. Weil was the daughter of Leopold Cohn, founder of the America Sumatra Tobacco Company, and Sarah Liebman, whose family owned the New York brewery that produced Michelob beer.
She is survived by a son, Edward, of Glencoe, Ill.; a daughter, Susan, of New York City; a sister, Radie Harris of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
Tourists From Around the World
        Mrs. Hill's daughter, Charlotte Libauer, recalled yesterday that her parents commuted seven days a week by subway and boat to operate their souvenir and food stands.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Baltimore, Mrs. Hill is survived by a son, James, of Manhasset, L.I.
Her survivors include a daughter, eight sisters, four brothers and a grandson.
      
Ms. Lake is survived by her husband, Leonard Lake; a daughter, Ellen, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Dorothy Sterling of Wellfleet, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving is a daughter, Mary Sillman, and a brother, Samuel Balber, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ada, and a daughter, Deborah Vaughan, who uses the first name Paris for her acting career.
Their daughter, Kitty Hawks, survives her.
''
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Theodora Andersen, of Burlingame, Calif., and four stepchildren, Alastaire Keith and Camilla Mackesson, the children of Lord Keith, and William Hayward and Brooke Hayward Duchin.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Vito Pagano; a daughter, Anne Hogya of Bayville; four sons, Eugene, of Oyster Bay, Peter, of Houston, Vincent, of Mahcoutah, Ill., and Robert, of Bayville; three brothers, and four grandchildren.
      
The daughter of Dr. Harry A. Solomon, an internist, and his wife, Ruth, she was born in Manhattan and graduated from Smith College.
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
But raising funds to build the music center was her proudest accomplishment, said her daughter, Laurie Ann O'Connell.
In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Salvatori is survived by a son, Henry Ford Salvatori, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Mourelatos of Austin, Tex.
      
Mrs. Lee, a graduate of the Columbia University School of Public Health, was the daughter of Alice Childress, the actress and author.
In addition to her mother, she is survived by a daughter, Marilyn, of Brooklyn, and by her stepfather, Nathan Woodward of Manhattan.
      
Her survivors, all of the Philadelphia area, include her husband, Harvey; two sons, C. Daniel and Mark, and a daughter, Miriam.
      
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marjory Barnum of Northfield, Ill,; two sons, Ralph E. Jr. of Vero Beach, Fla., and William of Chicago; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Walter; a daughter, Anne Riley Patterson of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry, of Munich, West Germany, and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Peter Jr.; four sons, Peter 3d, of Orlando, Fla., James, of Boise, Idaho, William, of Manhattan, and David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Jane, of Manhattan; a brother, William C. Breed 3d of Greenwich; a sister, Ellen Staniford of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by a husband, Jimmy, a daughter and a granddaughter.
      
''
        Mrs. Richards was born on Aug. 20, 1926, in New Brunswick, N.J. She was the oldest daughter of J. Seward Johnson, an heir to the Johnson & Johnson pharmaceutical fortune, and his first wife, Ruth Dill Johnson.
In addition to her husband, Martin Richards of New York, Mrs. Richards is survived by two brothers, J. Seward Johnson Jr. of Princeton, and James L. Johnson of Pottersville, N.J.; three sisters, Diana Firestone of Waterford, Va., Elaine Wold of Boca Raton and Jennifer Duke of Jacksonville, Fla.; five sons, Eric Ryan of New York; Seward, Hillary and Quentin Ryan of Hilton Head, S.C., and Roderick Ryan, of Andover, N.J.; one daughter, Alice Ryan Marriott, also of Hilton Head; and 10 grandchildren.
      
''
        She was married three times and had a daughter, Allison, with her second husband, Alan Murray.
The daughter of Ida and William Rosenthal, who founded Maidenform, Mrs. Coleman joined the company in 1938, after graduating from Barnard College.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Linda Berkowitz of Berkeley Heights, N.J.; two sons, Frank, of Cambridge, Mass., and Robert, of Amherst, Mass.
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.

       Palmira Henry, a fashion model known as Pal, died of a cerebral hemmorrhage on Sunday at New York Hospital, her daughter, Lisa, said.
Palmira Henry, a fashion model known as Pal, died of a cerebral hemmorrhage on Sunday at New York Hospital, her daughter, Lisa, said.
Surviving are her daughter; two sisters, Maria Hackshaw of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Betty Diaz-Cane of Hawaii, and a brother, Fermin Diaz of Jersey City.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sara Hutchinson of New Castle, Del.
'' In 1959, she appeared in ''A Majority of One'' as the daughter of a housewife played by Gertrude Berg.
That year Ms. Balin also made her screen debut as Anthony Quinn's daughter in ''The Black Orchid.

       Sarah Wiener, a retired teacher who became an advocate for retired people, died on Monday at her daughter's home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
Sarah Wiener, a retired teacher who became an advocate for retired people, died on Monday at her daughter's home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
Also surviving are her daughter, Norma Goetz of Teaneck, and two granddaughters.
      
In addition to Mr. Cooper, her husband, she is survived by their daughter, Shay Cooper of Long Beach, Calif., and a brother, Jack Luster of Edwardsville, Ill.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph M. Schor; a daughter, Esther, of Metuchen, N.J; two sons, Joshua, of Brookline, Mass., and Gideon, of Manhattan; two brothers, Jack Moshman of Bethesda, Md., and Bert Moshman of Kew Gardens, Queens, and three grandchildren.
      
A daughter, Geraldine Baum, said she died of pancreatic cancer.
She returned to the United States and starred as Belle Bennett's daughter in ''Stella Dallas.
She is survived by a daughter, Alison, of Los Angeles; a son, Edgar Valentine Loew of Manhattan; a sister, Eleanor F. Lenzner of Manhattan, and a brother, Myron S. Falk Jr. of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Hart was born in London, the daughter of a corporation lawyer.
''
        She was featured in the popular 1960's British television series ''The Flying Swan,'' co-starring her daughter, Julia Lockwood, and in a series called ''Justice'' in the 1970's.
She is survived by her daughter.
      
Mrs. Andrews's survivors include a daughter, Ann E. Kane of Stanford, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Laura Perls, whose given name was Lore Posner, was born in 1905, the daughter of a prosperous merchant, in Pforzheim.
She had returned to her birthplace earlier this year to be near her daughter, Renate Perls.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Sarah Ash of Raleigh, N.C., and six grandchildren.
      
A widow, Ms. Stein is survived by a son, Richard, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and a daughter, Nancy Tunis of Rye Brook, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, John A. Sparks of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a daughter, Becky Sparks of Atlanta, and two sisters, Margaret Turn of Bushkill, Pa., and Jean LeGrand of Conyers, Ga.
      
Mrs. Olmsted is survived by a son, Anthony, of West Goshen, Pa.; a daughter, Enid Burke, of Springfield, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Sally Loomis Campbell of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Christopher, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, A. Carter Hinckley of Manhattan; a daughter, Debbie Berghorst of Winnetka, Ill.,; two brothers, Beverley Burnham of Morris Plains, N.J., and Yerbury Burnham of Keowee, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. Stone, she is survived by their son Joseph, of Newtown; a daughter, Francine, of Wallingford, England; two sisters, Dorothy Hatch of Washington and Miriam Whelan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. James Mark of Palo Alto Calif., a daughter, Margaret Heller of Madison, N.J.; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, her daughter, Linn Sage Jackson, said.
In addition to her daughter of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, William E.; three sons from a previous marriage, Henry Sage Jr. of Atlanta, Reginald Sage of Georgetown, S.C., and David Sage of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Duncan Devereux of Virginia Beach; a sister, Audrey Carey of Ponta Vedra, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two children from an earlier marriage, a son, Rafael Palacios and a daughter, Carmen Palacios de Ramirez, both of San Juan; two daughters from her second marriage, Senator Victoria Munoz Mendoza of San Juan and Viviana Munoz Mendoza of Boston; 14 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides Mr. Bellson, Miss Bailey is survived by a son, Tony, and a daughter, Dee Dee, both of Los Angeles, and by two sisters, Eura Robinson and Virgie Murray, both of Philadelphia.

       Bess Goodykoontz, an educator who served as Assistant United States Commissioner of Education in the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday at her daughter's home in South Newfane, Vt. She was 95 years old.
Bess Goodykoontz, an educator who served as Assistant United States Commissioner of Education in the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday at her daughter's home in South Newfane, Vt. She was 95 years old.
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen Darrow of South Newfane, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides Mr. Bellson, Miss Bailey is survived by a son, Tony, and a daughter, Dee Dee, both of Los Angeles, and by two sisters, Eura Robinson and Virgie Murray, both of Philadelphia.
She was the daughter of Abraham Staal, a prominent antiques dealer in Amsterdam.
She is survived by her husband, Feliks, and a daughter, Eva Friedman of Pasadena, Calif.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Leslie Weltman of Little Silver, N.J., and two grandsons.
      
Mrs. Weichsel died of cancer, her daughter, Judith Carr, said.
A widow, she is survived by two children, a son, John, and her daughter, both of Albuquerque; two brothers, Sidney King of Poughkeepsie, and Daniel King of Harrison, N.Y., and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Lesley Kushner of Manhattan; two sons, Tony Kushner, also of Manhattan, and Eric Kushner of Vienna, and two sisters, Martha Deutscher and Lucy Manoff, both of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Julian L. Peabody, a lawyer; a daughter, Post Eddy Scharnberger of Los Angeles; two sons from a former marriage, Charles F. Willis 3d and R. Reese Willis, both of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
      
She died of natural causes, said her daughter, Frances Kleeman of Baltimore.
''
        In addition to Ms. Kleeman, she is survived by another daughter, Elizabeth Frank of Baltimore; a son, Richard P. Kleeman of Washington; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Surviving are a daughter, Nancy Osserman of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Christina Stenhuis-Shattuck of Rowayton, Conn.; a son, John, of Cambridge, Mass.
Mrs. Inness-Brown, who lived in Boothbay, Me., died of congestive heart failure, her daughter Virginia said.
Her daughter, Maria Warren Watts, said Miss Biro died of pneumonia.
She is survived by her daughter and a granddaughter, Fiora Sari Watts of San Francisco.
      
Her daughter, Maria Warren Watts, said Miss Biro died of pneumonia.
She is survived by her daughter and a granddaughter, Fiora Sari Watts of San Francisco.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Robert; three sons, Robert of Seattle, James of Wellesley, Mass., and Jonathan of Williamstown; a daughter, Cary, of Williamstown; her mother, Ruth M. Chapman of Forsyth, Ga., and a sister, Ruth W. Hassler of Steinhatchee, Fla.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Jane Ann Jones of Aberystwyth, Wales, 4 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Richard, of Atlantic Beach, L.I., and David, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Carole Friedman, of Atlantic Beach; nine grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Richard, of Paris, and Bruce, of Jersey City; a daughter, Mary, of Rye; her parents, Marion and Sylvester May of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Schwartz of New Orleans, and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Osnos was a daughter of Dr. Zygmunt Bychowski, a member of the first Zionist Congress, which was held in Basel, Switzerland, in 1897.
She is survived by a daughter, Elisabeth Lloyd of Yonkers; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She was 75 years old and lived in Norwich, N.Y.
        She died of a heart attack, her daughter, Gail, said.
Besides her daughter, Gail Hill Gordon McCale of Slingerlands, N.Y., Mrs. Gordon is survived by a grandson.
      
Mrs. Tupper died of cancer, said her daughter, Rettadel Tupper, of Queens.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Adam and Matthew; a daughter, Amy; her parents, Stanley and Edith Weinstein of Bridgeport, Conn., and a brother, Peter Weinstein of Trumbull, Conn.
      
She is survived by a two children from a former marriage, her son, Walter of Rye, N.Y., and a daughter, Susan Butler of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a brother, Edwin H. Koehler of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol K. Pforzheimer of Stuart, Fla., five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frederick; a daughter, Nancy Bergen of Nashville; her father, Harry Spiewk of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Smith died of cancer, said a daughter, Sarah Prounis of Wyckoff, N.J.
        Mrs. Smith was active in the Westbury Players until two years ago when illness forced her to retire.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Robert D.; two sons, Mark, of Sea Cliff, L.I., and Daniel, of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Leslie Levine of Syosset, L.I.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Robert D.; two sons, Mark, of Sea Cliff, L.I., and Daniel, of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Leslie Levine of Syosset, L.I.
In 1938, they adopted their daughter, Mary Frances.
      
In 1938, they adopted their daughter from the New York Foundling Hospital.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
Mrs. Ascoli, a daughter of Julius Rosenwald, a Chicago clothier who was a chairman of Sears, Roebuck & Company, devoted most of her adult life to charitable causes, many of them involving child welfare.
; a daughter, Lilian S. L. Chance, of Malvern, Pa.; 17 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Norma Lovins, of Hamden, Conn.; a stepson, Stephen Bonime, of Teaneck, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Karen Bonime, of Ukiah, Calif.; a sister, Ruth Fischer, of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Diana M. Beliard, of Chicago, and a granddaughter.
      
She did not say so at the time, but close associates said she wanted more time to spend with her daughter.
She is survived by a daughter, Margery H. Oakes of Manhattan, six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
They were married in Barcelona and their daughter, Eugenia, the model and television personality known as Jinx, was born there.
She is survived by her daughter, Jinx, of Manhasset, L.I.
Mrs. Freeman was born in Chicago, the daughter of George W. Perkins, a financier and partner in J. P. Morgan & Company.
Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Evelyn Scott of Montreal; two sons, George, of Holicong, Pa., and John, of Riverdale; 11 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In 1940, two years after her husband's death and in the year in which both her daughter and her son left home to marry, Mrs. Hirsch took a suite at the Pierre for six months, to give herself time to decide where to live permanently.
She is survived by her daughter, Carol Kridel of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
      
She died of respiratory failure following surgery, her daughter said.
She is survived by one daughter, Gilda Slate of Manhattan.
      
She died of respiratory failure following surgery, her daughter said.
She is survived by one daughter, Gilda Slate of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michel; a son, Leonid, of Rome, Pa.; a daughter, Denise Hidalgo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susanna Berger of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a son, Jonathan, of Tuckahoe, N.Y., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She died of a stroke, her daughter, Joanna L. Sutton of Manhattan, said.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Mildren Birnbaum of Purchase, N.Y., and Boca Raton, Fla.; a grandson, and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her mother, Elsie Stern of Manhattan; a daughter, Abigail Rebecca Sims, also of Manhattan; and a brother, John Stern of Cape Neddick, Me.
She is survived by a daughter, Princess Guity Afrouz Wambold of Durham, N.H.; three grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Shelly; a daughter, Monica Meyer and a son, Kenneth Meyer, both of Greenvale; her parents, Bolling and Marguerite Ellis of Troy, N.Y.; a sister, Victoria Pelinski of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Alexis and Jessica Gruber of Canton, Ohio.
      
A widow, she is survived by two sons, Robert J., of Arlington, Va., and Richard B., of Loudonville, N.Y.; a daughter, Patricia L. Savage of Providence; two sisters, Margaret Rowell of Queens and Rita Hitchinson of Hyde Park, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
She was born in Weatherford, Tex., on Dec. 1, 1913 (although some reports placed the date one year later), the younger daughter of Preston Martin, a lawyer, and Juanita Presley Martin, a violin teacher.
He also became her producer and closest professional adviser and the father of their daughter, Heller Halliday.
"South Pacific" was followed in 1954 by "Peter Pan" (her daughter was also in the cast) which she performed on Broadway and on television, live and then on tape, complete with her celebrated aerial ballet.
Miss Martin is survived by her son, her daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, six grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
Pillar is survived by her husband, Richard; two sons, Russell, of Los Angeles and Matthew, of Hong Kong; a daughter, Meredith, of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Dr. Leonard Mondschein of Roslyn, L.I., and Michael Mondschein of Brooklyn.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Scott Grabo of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Carrie Grabo of Woodbury, Vt.; her mother, Pearle Carroll of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      
Born in Galesburg, Ill., Mrs. Hayes, whose name was originally Doris Bentley, made her debut as a dancer in 1912 in "The Daughter of Heaven," a spectacle based on a novel by Pierre Loti.
After an attack of rheumatic fever ended her performing career in 1936, Mrs. Hayes became a writer, publishing poetry in literary magazines, articles on Jungian psychology and several novels, including "Mrs. Heaton's Daughter" (1943) and "Who Walk the Earth" (1945).
Three of her television scripts won awards from the Writers Guild of America: "The Neon Ceiling" (1971), about a woman and her daughter, who stop at a desert diner and meet its alcoholic manager; "Sunshine" (1973), about a dying young woman who leaves audio tapes for the 3-year-old daughter who might otherwise forget her, and a sequel, "Christmas Sunshine" (1977).
Three of her television scripts won awards from the Writers Guild of America: "The Neon Ceiling" (1971), about a woman and her daughter, who stop at a desert diner and meet its alcoholic manager; "Sunshine" (1973), about a dying young woman who leaves audio tapes for the 3-year-old daughter who might otherwise forget her, and a sequel, "Christmas Sunshine" (1977).
She had been ill for several years and died of heart failure, a daughter, Pamela Cottier Forcey, said.
A First Book at 37
        The daughter of a celebrated English author, artist and naturalist, Ernest Thompson Seton, and an American writer of travel books, Grace Gallatin, Miss Seton did not produce her first successful book until she was 37 years old.
She began selling short stories to newspapers -- her first brought her a check for $5 -- and in the late 1930's became interested in the story of Aaron Burr's daughter, Theodosia, a celebrated beauty of her time who died mysteriously.
She is survived by Mrs. Forcey, who lives in Manhattan, and another daughter, Clemency Chase Coggins of Auburndale, Mass.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband, D. John Phillips; a daughter, Lynn Raglione of Manhattan, and two brothers, Al and Irving, both of Sarasota.
She is survived by her husband, George; a daughter, Deborah, and a son, Barry, both of Brooklyn Heights, and a sister, Babette Hollister of Queens.
      
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
Mrs. Dawidowicz, the daughter of Polish immigrants, was at the center of the study of the modern Jewish experience at Yeshiva University, where she held a chair in interdisciplinary Holocaust studies.
Ms. Rinzler is survived by her father, Irving Eisen, of Mount Pleasant, S.C.; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Jane, both of Manhattan.
      
She died of heart failure, her daughter, Sukhreet, said.
In December 1988 she was acquitted of charges that she had abused her powers by improperly reducing the alimony payments of Ms. Myerson's companion, Carl A. Capasso, in exchange for a job for her daughter in the city's Department of Cultural Affairs, which Ms. Myerson headed.
Mrs. Gabel had been seeking a job for her daughter.
After the verdict, an exuberant Mrs. Gabel held hands with her daughter outside the courthouse and shouted, "Hooray, we won!
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Sybil Phillips.
She died of cardiac arrest, said her daughter, Shelley Wanger.
At 17, she had a daughter, Diana, and at 18, she divorced Mr. Fox.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from previous marriages, a daughter, Lucia Scott of Stamford, Conn., and a son, Guy Thomas of Manchester, Vt.; two sisters, Dorothy Lewis of St. Louis and Ruth Hamilton of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      
She died of pneumonia, her daughter, Barbara Harbach, said.
Miss Linden is survived by her daughter, Mrs. William Harbach, of New York, and three granddaughters and one great-granddaughter.
      
The 1930 painting by her brother Grant Wood, the regionalist artist, portrays a somber farmer bearing a pitchfork and his equally somber daughter standing before a cottage in Eldon in southeast Iowa.
The 1930 painting by her brother Grant Wood portrays a somber farmer holding a pitchfork and his equally somber daughter standing before a cottage in Eldon in southeast Iowa.
Mr. Gardiner, the island's other owner, and Mrs. Creel's daughter, Alexandra Gardiner Creel Goelet of Manhattan, have been arguing for the past decade over zoning and other environmental issues on the island.
In addition to her brother and her daughter, Mrs. Creel is survived by four grandchildren.
She died of lung cancer, said a daughter, Katherine Knapp of Stamford, Conn.
        Mrs. Falise retired as an assistant vice president at the Bank of New York in 1984 because of ill health.
She is survived by another daughter, Christina Sumner Knapp of Manhattan; her stepmother, Janet McNeir Prentice of Belleair, Fla., and a sister, Barbara Kulesh of Pendleton, S.C.
Correction:  December 19, 1990, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about Carolyn Prentice Falise, a retired securities analyst, misidentified a surviving daughter.
She died of breast cancer, said her daughter, Diane Stanley Vennema of Houston.
Her last book, a joint venture with her daughter, an illustrator of children's books, is titled "The Last Princess: Kaiulani of Hawaii.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Nancy Sayles of Abilene, Tex., and three grandchildren.
After spending the war years in Japan, she returned to Tennessee in 1949 with their daughter, Mariko.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Terasaki is survived by two grandsons and two great-grandchildren.
      
She died of pneumonia, her daughter Dr. Nancy Ronsheim, said.
Besides her daughter Nancy, of Chevy Chase, Md., Professor Ronsheim is survived by two other daughters, Jane Ring of Evanston, Ill., and Carol Martin of Cos Cob, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
"
        Besides her husband, Ms. Chusmir is survived by a son, Steven, of Fort Lauderdale; a daughter, Marsha Chusmir-Shapiro of Daytona Beach, and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Straus, born in Elberon, N.J., was the daughter of Bernard Sachs, the neurologist who was a co-discoverer of Tay-Sachs disease.
Mrs. Katz, who worked under the name of Waisman, died of a stroke, said her daughter, Liisa Sclare of Port Washington.
When she retired in 1978 after the death of her husband, the firm was taken over by her daughter and son-in-law, Liisa and Donald Sclare.
Besides Mrs. Sclare, Mrs. Katz is survived by another daughter, Sirkka Hoffman of Queens, and a grandson.
      
; a daughter, Anne Gordon of Indianapolis, and six grandchildren.
      

        Amanda Bryan Kane, former chairwoman of the trustees of Smith College, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Charlottesville, Va. She was 86 years old and lived in Charlottesville and Wickford, R.I.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter Hope Childs of Washington.
