Besides her husband, Mrs. Goldman's survivors include two sons, John D., of Atherton, Calif., and Douglas E., of San Francisco; a daughter, Susan R. Gelman  of Chevy Chase, Md.
Dr. Thompson is survived by her husband, James E.; a daughter, Heather R. Cavalli of Miami; a son, James E., also of Manhattan; her mother, Virginia W. Morosani of Litchfield; two sisters, Virginia Smith of Mill Neck, L.I., and Roopa Morosani of Menlo Park, Calif., and three brothers, George Morosani of Ashville, N.C., Reto Morosani of Litchfield and John Morosani of Manhattan.
      
; a daughter, Wendi Rose of New York; a son, Andrew Rose of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Barbara Lembo of New York.
      
Mrs. Rorimer-Dushkin is survived by her daughter, Edie Soeiro of Santa Fe, and two grandchildren.
      

        Anna Mikhailovna Larina, the widow of Nikolai I. Bukharin, a father of the Bolshevik Revolution who was executed under Stalin, and herself a survivor of the Soviet gulag, died of lung cancer here on Saturday, her daughter, Nadezhda Fadeyeva, said.
Miss Larina was the adopted daughter of a leading Communist revolutionary, Yuri Larin, and grew up in the Metropole Hotel, the residence of many Soviet leaders, dandled on the knee of Lenin.
In addition to her daughter and her son Yuri Larin, Miss Larina is survived by her second son, Mikhail Fadeyev.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Felice K. Shea, a Justice of the New York State Supreme Court.
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Felice K. Shea, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court.
; a daughter, Ann Weil Richards, of Alstead, N.H., and a brother, Robert Ehrenfeld, of New York City.
      
The daughter of Baron Egmont van Zuylen de Nyevelt de Haar, a Dutch diplomat, and an Egyptian mother, the Baroness was educated at Marymount College in New York.
She was born in Manhattan, the daughter of the restaurateurs Aaron and Rose Chinitz, and attended Smith College.
She is survived by a daughter, Missy Vineyard of Amherst, Mass.
The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Maria Elena Leal, said in newspaper reports.
Her mother, a housewife who liked to sing around the house, exposed her daughter both to the hits of the day and older standards.
Ms. Beltran is survived by her daughter, born of her marriage to the bullfighter and actor Alfredo Leal.
      
The daughter of Francis Sims and Neva van Zandt Smith McGrath, Mrs. Rockefeller was born in New York and grew up in Mount Kisco.
Her death was due to complications from a stroke, her daughter Charlotte Ford said.
"She could knit in her sleep," her daughter, Helen McDonald, said yesterday,  estimating that her mother had knitted at least 4,000 pairs of mittens over the  last 47 years, and probably a lot more.
When she died, her daughter said, her needles were empty.
In addition to her daughter, of Alexandria Bay, N.Y., she is survived by two sons, Roy, of Strasbourg, France, and Jack, of Watertown; 11 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
Born in Centerville, Tenn., Sarah Ophelia Colley was the daughter of a well-to-do businessman in the lumber industry.
Born in Centerville, Tenn., Sarah Ophelia Colley was the daughter of a well-to-do businessman in the lumber industry.
She was the daughter of the sculptor William Ordway Partridge, whose stone Pieta sits in St. Patrick's Cathedral, and the poet Margaret Livingston Partridge.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nora; her parents, Virginia and Ashton O'Donnell, of Woodside, Calif., and three sisters, Sherry Burns, of Cupertino, Calif.; Joan, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Jennifer Conner, of San Rafael, Calif.
Ms. Payan, who was divorced, is survived by her daughter, Genevieve Gabrielle Gazon of Manhattan, and her sisters, Luisia Payan of Manhattan, Marva Payan of Orange City, Fla., and Lil Palau of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years and co-worker, Thomas Keehn; a daughter, Deborah Keehn Black of Manhattan; five sons, Jonathan, of Grass Valley, Calif., David, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Benjamin, of Holliston, Mass., Adam, of Queens and Burkina Faso, and Joel, of Peekskill, N.Y.; a brother, William McKee, of Lafayette, Calif.; two sisters, Beatrice Watson, of Barstow, Calif., and Margaret Seder, of Stonington, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Bianca Lanza of Miami, and a grandson.
      
According to Barbara Brown, an adopted daughter, Mrs. Kornegay had a heart attack while attending a board meeting of an addicts rehabilitation organization, one of the many community groups to which she lent her efforts.
Ms. Shepard is survived by a son, Steven Hanft of Arlington, Va.; a daughter, Laura Korobkin of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Three years ago, when she moved to a daughter's  house in Maryland, she deeded her Long Island home, known as Peacesmith House, to the Long Island Progressive Coalition.
Dr. Klein is survived by a daughter, Dr. Susan Harris Molnar of Scarborough,  N.Y.; a son, William Harris of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and three grandchildren.
Her mother was Adele Lewisohn, the daughter of Adolph  Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Bettina Gray of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; a daughter, Elisabeth Goth of Del Mar, Calif.; three brothers, Christopher Bancroft of Denton, Tex., Hugh Bancroft 3d of Aspen, Colo., and William P. Liscomb 3d of Carlsbad, Calif., and a sister, Kathryn Kavadas of Waban, Mass.
Mrs. Carden was born in Manhattan, a daughter of Walter S. Sullivan, a New York Times advertising manager.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. George A. Carden; three sons, Dr. George  Alexander Carden of Palm Beach, Fla., William of Manhattan and Timothy of Montclair, N.J.; a daughter, Constance of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a sister, Jeanet Curtis of New Haven.
Ms. Price, a dentist's daughter from Charleston, W.Va., was a precocious student who entered Ohio University at 16 and later studied dentistry at Northwestern University before dropping out of school to pursue a writing career.
She was the daughter of a czarist army colonel and his wife, who were fleeing the Bolsheviks.
The couple settled in Paris, where their daughter became a pupil of  Olga Preobrajenska, a Russian-born teacher.
She is survived by her husband, Adil Shaikh, of Mansfield, and an infant daughter.
      
Dr. Cox was born in Murray, Ky., the daughter of a country doctor who served  as a role model as she accompanied him on his rounds in a horse-drawn buggy.
; a daughter, Rosemary C. Masters of Manhattan; five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Beverly Losey, both of San Jacinto, and two brothers, Ira Blevins of Mena, Ark., and Kenneth Blevins of Florida.
      
"My mother was not only the greatest aerialist in her field, she was a very dignified lady," said her daughter, Carla Wallenda Guzman.
In addition to her daughter, Carla, she is survived by two other children, Jenny Wallenda Anderson and Mario Wallenda; six grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Holland was born in London, the daughter of a British major and an Ethiopian princess.
Mrs. Frelinghuysen was a native of Manhattan, the daughter of Rodney Procter, a stockbroker and investor, and the former Beatrice Sterling.
She is survived by her husband, Steve Williams; a daughter, Sarah Haberthur;  her parents, Margaret and Charles Buchanan, of Winter Haven, Fla., and three brothers, Charles Buchanan of Winter Haven and Ross and Keith Buchanan, both of  Palm Beach, Fla.
      
The author denied being her father until she was 9, when he took a blood test and then acknowledged her as his daughter.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Alexandra Herzan.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a brother, Henry P. van Ameringen of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      
Mrs. Weiner is survived by her husband, Charles J., a daughter, Toby White, two sons, Barry and Steve, a sister, Miriam Komesar, and a brother, Saul Weinberg, all of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a Prussian Army officer who died when she was a toddler, Ms.
Then her mother, who had no such notions, sent her daughter's photograph to Lang's wife, the screenwriter, Thea von Harbou, and Ms.
Helm's survivors include a son, Mathius Kunheim of London, two other sons and a daughter.
      
She was 80 and lived in Alpine, N.J.
        Mrs. Braga was born in London, a daughter of the Marchese Guglielmo Marconi,  the Italian developer of wireless telegraphy and 1909 Nobelist in physics.
She is survived by a son, Michael, of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Allegra, of Manhattan; a sister, Degna Paresce of Rome, and two grandchildren.
Mrs. T, as she preferred to be known, remained active in the management of the Tyler Place, although in recent years she shared the task with her daughter and son.
Besides her daughter, Pixley T. Hill, and son, Edward J. Tyler 3d, both of St. Albans, she is survived by 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Two ancestors, Isaac T. Hopper and his daughter, Abigail Hopper Gibbons, founded the association in 1844; she was president from 1957 to 1967.
Her husband, Probien Lee Elmore, and her daughter, Ann Stephenson, died in 1985; her son, James Elmore, died in 1993.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Constancia Romilly.
Jessica Mitford was born on Sept. 11, 1917, at Batsford Mansion in Gloucestershire, England, one of seven children and the youngest daughter born to Lord Redesdale (David Mitford) and Lady Redesdale, the former Sydney Bowles.
Another daughter, Unity, went to Germany,  became a disciple of Hitler, shot herself and died nine years later in a nursing home.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; a  son, Benjamin Treuhaft of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Deborah Devonshire of Chatsworth, England, and Diana Mosley of Paris, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Bauer of Mesa, and two sons, Michael  of Los Angeles and David of Belmont, Calif.
In addition to her son, of Columbia, Md., and her daughter, Anne Allen of East Windsor, N.J., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
Among the most popular of her 41 movies were "Aliki in the Navy," in which she played an admiral's daughter, and "Spanking From Heaven," in which she played a rebellious high school student.
Pamela Helen Mason was born in Southend-on-Sea, England, the daughter of Isadore and Helen Ostrer.
"
        She is survived by her two children with Mr. Mason: a daughter, Portland, and a son, Morgan.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Irina Ohl of Chester, Vt.; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James, and a daughter, Harriet.
      
Her daughter, Bonnie Brier of Penn Valley, Pa., said she died of complications after heart surgery.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Jean Hershell of Tinton Falls, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Wayne, N.J.; a daughter, Pamela, of Chicago; a sister, Marlene Bagdikian of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Elizabeth R. East, her daughter.
The daughter of Ulysses Grant Shipe, a bank president in Huntington, W.Va., and Bertha Woody Shipe, a homemaker, Ms. East was educated at Marshall University in Huntington, where she received a bachelor's degree in history in 1943.
In addition to her daughter Elizabeth, of Ithaca, Ms. East is survived by another daughter, M. Victoria East of Seattle; a brother, Charles D. Shipe of Great Falls, Va., and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her daughter Elizabeth, of Ithaca, Ms. East is survived by another daughter, M. Victoria East of Seattle; a brother, Charles D. Shipe of Great Falls, Va., and a granddaughter.
      
Dr. Broverman is survived by a son, Clifford, of Worcester; a daughter, Sherryl A. Broverman-Wray of Stony Brook, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Joshua, she is survived by another son, Jonas Cohn Livingston, both of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jennie Livingston of New York City, a film maker; a grandson, Richard Gibbons Livingston, and a sister, Hannah Pakula, a biographer.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosenblum is survived by her mother, Fannie Koppelman of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth, of Ashland, Mass., and a brother, Frank, of Queens.
She was born in Washington, the daughter of Heyward Isham, a former United States ambassador to Haiti, and Sheila Isham, a painter.
Ms. Kushnick is survived by a daughter, Sara Rose (the other twin), and a brother, Joseph Gorman, of New York City.
      
Phyllis Isobel Gross was born in 1906, the daughter of an Irish-Italian mother and a Hungarian mapmaker.
Her daughter Nancy Sureck said the cause was pneumonia.
The daughter of a department store executive, Mrs.
In addition to her daughter Nancy, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Caryl Goldsmith of Manhattan, and three granddaughters.
      
In addition to her daughter Nancy, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Caryl Goldsmith of Manhattan, and three granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband of 46 years, John Dirk Nies; two sons, J. Dirk, of Rockville, Md., and Eric W., of New York City; a daughter, Nancy N. Sloan of Las Vegas, Nev.; her mother, Lida Wilson of Rockville; a brother, George E. Wilson, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Quarles is survived by a daughter from a previous marriage, Mary Helen Dressner of the Woodlands, Tex.
She is survived by her daughter, Anne Strong of Shingle Springs, Calif., and two grandsons, Nicholas Eyre of Napa, Calif., and Paul Eyre of Honolulu.
      
The Palm Beach shop, operated by Mrs. Phillips's daughter, Lynn Manulis, remains, and Mrs. Phillips went in almost daily until shortly before her death.
''
        Shortly after, she and her daughter, who joined her several years earlier, found a location at Park Avenue and 58th Street where in plush  surroundings she coddled her customers with tea and cookies while models paraded the clothes or saleswomen carried them out.
Besides  her daughter, who lives in Palm Beach, Mrs. Phillips is survived by a son, Herbert R. Phillips, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Milton Rollins of Brooklyn, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
In an interview when she was in her mid-80's, Mrs. Phillips, who was chairwoman of her company -- her daughter was president -- said she had no intention of ever retiring.
She is survived by her children,  Richard Haymes Jr. of New York City and Helen Joanna Santos of Monterey, Calif. (a daughter, Barbara Nugent Haymes, died three years ago); six grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and her brothers, Peter Marshall, the television game-show host, and David Moss of Sedona, Ariz.
      
Ms. Besch, a daughter of the actress Gusti Huber and the mother of the actress Samantha Mathis, appeared on such television series as ''Northern Exposure,'' ''E.R.,'' ''L.A.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, Ms. Besch is survived by her brother, Andrew Besch of Manhattan; two sisters, Drea Gillogly of Los Angeles and Christina MacDonald of Monceaux, France, and her stepfather, Joseph Besch of Manhattan.
      
The daughter of a blue-collar worker from Auburn, Mass., who had to hold two jobs to support his family in the Depression, Mrs. Noyce was majoring in English at Tufts University in the early 1950's and dreaming of becoming a writer when she signed on as costume director of a summer theatrical production and caught the eye of one of the cast members, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology named Robert N. Noyce.
''
        By then the life of the blue-collar worker's daughter had changed considerably, largely because her husband had become a co-inventor of the microchip, which laid the foundation for the vast personal computer industry, and had helped found three of the industry's premier companies, including the giant Intel Corporation.
Annabella, whose real name was Suzanne Georgette Charpentier, was the daughter of a French publisher.
''
        She is survived by a daughter, Anne Werner Power of Boston.
      
So Japanese imperial-watchers are debating the possibility of seeing Chrysanthemum throne go to a daughter.
Miss Lamour was born on Dec. 10, 1914, in New Orleans as Mary Leta Dorothy Slaton, the daughter of John Watson Slaton and the former Carmen Louise La Porte.
Miss Lamour was born on Dec. 10, 1914, in New Orleans as Mary Leta Dorothy Slaton, the daughter of John Watson Slaton and Carmen Louise La Porte.
She died of complications from a lung illness, said Catherine Luft Mead, a daughter.
; a daughter, Catherine L. Munson, of Fort Mill, S.C.; a son, Ethan V. Munson, of Milwaukee, and one grandchild.
      
The daughter of a Missouri farmer with an ear for alliteration, Miss La Plante, who was born on a farm outside St. Louis, really was given that unlikely name at birth, almost.
Miss La Plante, whose husband died in 1985, is survived by a daughter, Jill Murray of Mill Valley, Calif.; a son, Tony Asher of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
Although her open-hearted welcome to the Jewish woman who knocked on her door one snowy night in 1940 has been considered the beginning of the Chambon movement, Mrs. Trocme's daughter, Nelly Hewitt of Minneapolis, stressed yesterday that in an area where secrecy was a way of life and virtually every home eventually harbored one or more refugees, it is impossible to know whether her mother had been the first.
Mrs. Trocme's initial effort almost backfired, her daughter recalled, when she placed her visitor's soaked shoes next to the hearth to dry and they caught fire.
''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Trocme is survived by a son, Jacques, of Paris, 10 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
Correction:  November 9, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Magda Trocme, a Frenchwoman who helped shield Jewish refugees from the Nazis in World War II, misspelled the name of her daughter and misstated the daughter's hometown.
Correction:  November 9, 1996, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Magda Trocme, a Frenchwoman who helped shield Jewish refugees from the Nazis in World War II, misspelled the name of her daughter and misstated the daughter's hometown.
''
        Julia Leffel, the daughter of Harry and Anna Leffel, was born in Manhattan and reared in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
She is survived by a daughter, Shirley Waldbaum Witkin of Glen Cove, L.I.
She is survived by two sons, Charles H., of Pottersville, N.J., and Perry S. 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J.; a daughter, Esther B. Wilkens of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Anne H. Boynton of Stonington, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      
The couple's daughter, Liz Kahlenberg Bordow, said her mother had died of lung cancer and her father of complications of kidney failure.
In addition to their daughter, of Berkeley, Calif., they are survived by  a grandchild.
In addition to her son, Stephen Jr., of San Diego, she is survived by a daughter, Judith Coldvin, of Marlton, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Philadelphia; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Stephen Brown of Oak Park, Ill., and Joshua Cohen of Chicago; a daughter, Judith Cohen Brown of Seattle; a stepdaughter, Alison Montgomery of Chicago; a stepson, Douglas Montgomery of Libertyville, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
Dr. Bernard is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Jackson of Washington; two sons, Claude, of Laurel, Md., and David, of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
A Norwegian immigrant's daughter who grew up on a North Dakota farm, graduated from Concordia College in 1934 and spent a year studying voice and piano at the Juilliard School before returning to North Dakota to teach school, she married in 1940 and settled in the little town of Oklee, Minn., just across the state line.
She is survived by her husband, William Diebold; four sons, David Corcoran of Northvale, N.J., John Corcoran of Red Hook, N.Y.; John Diebold of Nyack, and William Diebold of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara Wick of Northfield, Ill.; a brother, Joseph Brody of Indianapolis; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Martin Gershon; a daughter, Leah, and two sons, Joel and Robert, all of Brooklyn Heights; a sister, Anne Lyons of Manhattan, and her mother, Gussie Moskowitz, also of Brooklyn.
      
Dr. Steimer is survived by her husband, Prof. Martin Wilson; a daughter, Acacia, also of Benicia; and her father, Harry Steimer of Sacramento, Calif.
      
Then more help arrived, first in small bequests from patients' wills, then finally through Preston Robert Tisch, who owns 50 percent of the Giants and who married Joan Hyman, Dr. Hyman's daughter from his first marriage.
Mrs. Miller is survived by her second husband, Rabbi Philip Horowitz; three sons, Aaron Miller of Washington, Richard Miller of Boston and Abraham Miller of Cleveland; a daughter, Gabrielle Miller of Wellesley, Mass.
Her survivors include her son, David, of Washington, and her daughter, Ann Dulles Joor, of Manlius, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Morales is survived by a daughter, Alexandra Morales of Brooklyn, and her mother, Nancy Salamo, and sister, Linda Salamo, both of El Cerrito, Calif.
She is survived by her husband, Lyle Bettger, an actor; two sons, Frank L., of Los Angeles and Lyle R., of Atascadero, Calif.; a daughter, Paula Newell, of Paia; a sister, Betty Darr, of Seminole, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
When her brother, Selden Rodman, a poet and prominent art collector, introduced them at a party, she, the daughter of a New York architect, was fresh out of college, and he was a writer for Fortune magazine.
A doctor's daughter, Mrs. Gaiser was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1923, and taught school in Bronxville, N.Y. until she married Mr. Jewett in 1925.
Mrs. Gaiser is survived by a son, George Frederick Jewett Jr. of San Francisco; a daughter, Margaret Jewett Greer of Chevy Chase, Md.
Mrs. Goldsmith is survived by her husband, Robert L. Goldsmith; a daughter, Hedy Hartman of St. George, S.I.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Robbins is survived by a daughter, Debra Matteson of Ilion, N.Y.; her mother, Adalyn Matteson, and her siblings, Christine Phinney and David Matteson, all of Oswego.
      
Her search for a suitable program for the child led her, her daughter and some other parents in the Princeton region to start their own school.
She is survived by her daughter, Pamela Pulleyn Machold of Princeton; a brother, Gurdon W. Wattles of Oldwick; a sister, Elizabeth Wattles of Hightstown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Young Madga was 5 in 1939 when her father, Gyula Denes, a wealthy publisher, fled Budapest, abandoning his daughter, son and wife, who sought refuge in houses protected by Swiss diplomats.
She is survived by a daughter, Carmen R. de Pinies of Spring Lake;  six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
In the 1980's she starred in Claude Pinoteau's film "La Boum" ("The Party") and on the stage in a French version of the play "Arsenic and Old Lace," with the roles of her sister and her daughter played by her daughter and her granddaughter.
In the 1980's she starred in Claude Pinoteau's film "La Boum" ("The Party") and on the stage in a French version of the play "Arsenic and Old Lace," with the roles of her sister and her daughter played by her daughter and her granddaughter.
The cause was cancer, a daughter, Victoria Wilson, said.
In addition to her daughter Victoria, of Manhattan, Mrs. Wilson is survived by another daughter, Erica Silverman, also of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter Victoria, of Manhattan, Mrs. Wilson is survived by another daughter, Erica Silverman, also of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Allyson Forsythe; a brother, David Diamant, and two grandchildren, all of Weston.
      
His widow, Lady Bird Johnson, led Texans in mourning their  native daughter.
A daughter, Alice Arlen of Manhattan, said the death was caused by complications after a stroke.
Besides her daughter Alice, Mrs. Albright is survived by another daughter, Dinah Albright Rojek of South Woodstock, Vt.; two sons, Joseph Medill Patterson  Albright of Moscow and Adam Medill Albright of Richmond, Mass., 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Alice, Mrs. Albright is survived by another daughter, Dinah Albright Rojek of South Woodstock, Vt.; two sons, Joseph Medill Patterson  Albright of Moscow and Adam Medill Albright of Richmond, Mass., 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Davenport's first marriage, to Frank D. Clarke, ended in divorce, as did her 1929 marriage to Russell Wheeler Davenport, a novelist who became a prominent editor at Time Inc.
        She is survived by a daughter, Cornelia Davenport Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 47 years, Mrs. Wofford is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Wofford of Madison, Wis.; two sons, Daniel, of Malvern, Pa., and David, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Leigh-Hunt was born in Paris, the daughter of the French poet and novelist Louise de Vilmorin and the American entrepreneur Henry Leigh-Hunt.
The novelist was born Suzanne Doreau, the daughter of an army officer and a teacher, in a village near St.-Tropez on the French Riviera.
They married in 1944 and had a daughter, Anne-Francoise.
      
The elder daughter of W. Averell Harriman, the former Governor of New York and Ambassador to the Soviet Union and Britain, Mrs. Fisk worked without fanfare through the New York City Volunteer Program, of which she was a founder, and the Public Education Association.
She is survived by two sons, Robert C., of Washington, and Averell H., of Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Kathleen F. Ames of Brookline, Mass.
Mrs. Benjamin is survived by a daughter, Mary B. Arnstein of Hamden, Conn.; two sons, Robert M. Jr., of Manhattan and Stephen, of Santa Fe, N.M., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Wonza Sinclair.
In addition to her daughter, of Brooklyn, she is survived by a grandson.
      
Miss Chukovskaya was the daughter of a prominent writer and the widow of an author who died in the Stalinist purges of the 1930's.
Miss Chukovskaya is survived by her daughter, Yelena, of Moscow.
      
"
        The daughter of Albert and Rose Nierenberg of New York, she first became involved in social causes while an undergraduate at Smith College.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Cassie Arnold of Washington; two  sons, Tony Schwartz of New York City and James Schwartz of Boston; a brother, Theodore Nierenberg of Armonk, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Steindl is survived by a daughter, Ethel J. Steindl of Manhattan, and her companion, Ira Adler of Scarsdale.
The oldest daughter of Rabbi Mordecai Kaplan, the founder of the Reconstructionist branch of Judaism, Dr. Eisenstein was the first woman to have  a bat mitzvah, in 1922.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Ivana Lowell.
Among her works was "The Stepdaughter," a short epistolary novel about an abusive woman abandoned by her husband and left with his hideous daughter.
Another novel, "The Fate of Mary Rose," was about an increasingly deranged mother's fatal obsession with her daughter's safety.
During the next years she endured a series of Job-like catastrophes: the death of Citkowitz; Lowell's crippling manic depression and early death; the death from AIDS of her brother, Sheridan, to whom she was very close; the death of her eldest daughter, Natalya, after a drug overdose, and her own bout with cervical cancer, for which she had an operation that left her in constant pain.
"
        In addition to her daughter Ivana, of Manhattan, she is survived by her mother, of London; a sister, Lady Perdita Blackwood, of Ulster; another daughter, Evgenia Citkowitz of Los Angeles, and a son, Sheridan Lowell of Manhattan.
      
"
        In addition to her daughter Ivana, of Manhattan, she is survived by her mother, of London; a sister, Lady Perdita Blackwood, of Ulster; another daughter, Evgenia Citkowitz of Los Angeles, and a son, Sheridan Lowell of Manhattan.
      
The White Star Line had proclaimed the Titanic the "unsinkable ship," a claim that caused Miss Hart's mother such apprehension that even as they walked up the gangplank, her daughter later recalled, she renewed her warning that calling a ship unsinkable was "flying in the face of God.
" She was so convinced of impending doom, her daughter later maintained, that she slept during the day and stayed awake in her cabin at night fully dressed.
She is survived by a daughter, Hollister Douglas Houghton of Boca Grande, Fla.; two brothers, Arthur C. McCall of Greenville, S.C., and Julien McCall of Hunting Valley, Ohio.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by children from two previous marriages: a son, Arthur Debernarde of Minneapolis, and a daughter, Donna Maria  Lynn of Westport, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Chris Maxwell of Los Angeles, and five  grandchildren.
      
Both in those books and in her norels, including "Baldur's Gate" (1970) and "Camping Out" (1986), Miss Clark seemed especially moved by landscape, an interest that was grounded in her childhood amid the rolling hills around Roxbury, Conn., her daughter, the poet Rosanna Clark, said yesterday.
In addition to her daughter, of Needham, Mass., she is survived by a son, Gabriel, a sculptor, of Wood River Junction, R.I., and four grandchildren.
      
