They sent their daughter and her three sisters to Barbados, where the children lived with a grandmother until 1934.
''
        In a column published last November, Ms. Williams wrote of her helping her daughter dress in an elaborate Halloween costume.
''
        In addition to her husband and her daughter, Ms. Williams is survived by her son, Will, and her sisters, Wistar Rawls of Monkton, Vt., Anne Williams of Ringoes, N.J., and Rosina Williams of Jersey City.
      
Ms. Frankfurt was born Suzanne Allen on Aug. 21, 1931, in Los Angeles, the daughter of Eva and Isidore Allen, the owner of a linen distribution company.
Ms. Mayo, whose real name was Virginia Clara Jones, was born on Nov. 30, 1920, in St. Louis, the daughter of Luke W. and Martha Raustenstrauch Jones.
They had one daughter, Mary Catherine Johnston, who survives her, along with three grandsons.
      
His daughter's six-volume catalog of his collection of 30,000 specimens, which she completed in 20 years beginning in 1953, firmly established her as the flea authority other experts consulted.

        Anne Cox, a New York socialite who designed high fashion for high society in the 1950's and became the mother-in-law of a president's daughter, died on Tuesday in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of Palm Beach, Fla.
In addition to her son Howard Ellis Jr. of Boston, she is survived by a daughter, Mazie Livingston Delafield Cox of Northampton, Mass.
They sent their daughter and her three sisters to Barbados, where the children lived with a grandmother until 1934.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Jennifer Thelen of Richmond, Calif.
        Dr. Thelen, a psychology professor at Indiana University, was known for studying childhood development through the conceptual framework called dynamic systems theory.
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Thelen is survived by her husband, David, a history professor at Indiana; a son, Jeremy, of Providence, R.I.; a sister, Harriet Saeck of Sacramento; and one grandson.
      
In addition to her son, Mark, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, Victor, a lawyer and activist; a daughter, Abby, of Hamburg, N.J.; a stepson, Peter, of Clinton, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Joni, of Pittsburgh; a half-sister, Mary Jane Hubbard of Norwich, N.Y.; a half-brother, James Hubbard of Orlando, Fla.; and two step-grandchildren.
      
''
        Elizabeth Hall Janeway was born Oct. 7, 1913, in Brooklyn, the granddaughter of an Episcopal minister and the younger daughter of Charles H. Hall, a naval architect, and Jeanette F. Searle Hall.
Justice Altman is survived by her husband, Herbert I. Altman, a former justice of State Supreme Court; two sons,, Michael T., of Woodmere, N.Y., and Daniel, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Sarah R. Stark of Raanana, Israel; a brother, William Jarblum of Los Angeles; and nine grandchildren.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Yolanda Gonzalez.
She is survived by her daughter, and one relentless community group.
      
'' Her first substantial role came in Vincent Minnelli's romantic comedy ''The Reluctant Debutante'' (1958), in which she played the American-raised daughter of the Londoners Rex Harrison and Kay Kendall.
She moved to Universal for Helmut Kautner's ''Restless Years,'' portraying the illegitimate daughter of a neurotic woman (Teresa Wright) trapped in a stifling small town.
Playing the neglected daughter of a driven, manipulative Broadway star (Lana Turner), Ms. Dee projected a genuinely touching fragility, and convincingly turned on her uncaring mother in one notable scene.
In between, however, Ms. Dee returned to teenage roles, playing James Stewart's peacenik daughter in ''Take Her, She's Mine'' (1963).
She won the hijackers' pity for one passenger by explaining that his daughter had been delivered by a Lebanese doctor.
In addition to her son, Insoo, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Gwin Joh Chin, a magazine production editor at The New York Times, and a granddaughter, Andria Meredith, both of Manhattan, and a grandson, Eric, of Greensboro, N.C.
      
The cause was gallbladder cancer, said her daughter, Dr. Dena Reed, who is also psychoanalyst.
Besides her daughter, her survivors include two sisters, Susan Winbourne of Sudbury, Mass., and Jessie Roland of Navarre, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was multiple myeloma, her daughter, Amanda Kramer, said.
Her only survivor is her daughter, a musician, singer and composer who plays keyboard in the group the Psychedelic Furs.
Her death was announced by her daughter, Susan Hathaway Packard.
Her daughter and two grandsons survive.

        Elsa H. Zion, a city official and former publishing executive who campaigned successfully to regulate the workload of interns and residents in New York State's hospitals after the highly publicized death of her daughter, Libby, in 1984, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
In 1995, a jury in a negligence suit brought by the Zions against the hospital and the doctors who treated their daughter found that an intern and two other doctors had contributed to her death.
''
        Mary Cushing Niles was born in Hartford on June 25, 1926, the daughter of Henry Edward Niles and the former Mary Cushing Howard.
She was the daughter of an obstetrician, Dr. J.
''
        In addition to her husband of 64 years, Dr. Jones is survived by two sons, Dr. Howard Wilbur Jones III of Nashville and Lawrence Massey Jones of Denver; a daughter, Dr. Georgeanna Jones Klingensmith of Denver; a brother, King Seegar of Towson, Md.

        Isabelle Goldenson, who worked for people with disabilities, including her oldest daughter, as a founder of United Cerebral Palsy, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84.
People with disabilities were often separated from their families and institutionalized at the time that Mrs. Goldenson and her husband, Leonard H. Goldenson, former head of ABC, were raising their daughter Genise.
Her daughter Genise died at the age of 29 in 1973, and her husband died in 1999.
      
The cause was a heart attack, her daughter, Mary-Kelly Busch, said.
After seeing her on Broadway, Samuel Goldwyn, the legendary producer, asked her to play the role of Bette Davis's daughter in ''The Little Foxes'' in 1941.
Ms. Busch, Miss Wright's daughter, said the two remained close.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Clinton, Conn., Miss Wright is survived by her son, Niven Perence Busch of Indianapolis, and two grandchildren.
Ms. Ellis is survived by four sons, William, Thomas, Oliver and Arthur, and a daughter, Sarah.
Another daughter, Rosalind Mary, died in infancy, and a son, Joshua, died in an accident as a teenager.
She was born in Vienna on Jan. 15, 1926, the daughter of a Swiss writer and an Austrian actress.
Survivors include Maximilian; her son, Oliver, from her first marriage; and her daughter, Marie-Theres, from her second marriage.
      
She died after a long decline that began with a stroke in 1998, her daughter, Starr Rohrman, told The Associated Press.
She is survived by her daughter, from her first marriage, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jeffrey M. Duban; a daughter, Jean Petrek-Duban of Brooklyn; a son, Paul Petrek-Duban of Bronxville; her mother, Emily Petrek of Manhattan; three brothers, John Petrek of Bainbridge Island, Wash., Jim Petrek of Danville, Calif., and Jerry Petrek of Denver.
      
She is survived by two sons, Richard A., of Arlington, Va., and Robert S., of Ocean Township; a daughter, Lois Ann, of Los Angeles; and four granddaughters.
Besides her granddaughter, of Madison, Mrs. Shapiro is survived by a daughter, Irina Shapiro Corten of Minneapolis, and one great-grandchild.
The daughter of a factory worker, Ms. Struchkova was born in Moscow on Oct. 5, 1925, and graduated from the Bolshoi school in 1944.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter Meg McDonald Seltzer.
)
        Besides her daughter Meg, a resident of Los Angeles, she is survived by two other daughters, Pat McDonald Zavad of Palmdale, Calif., and Liza Mc Donald of Los Angeles.
      
He survives her, as do a son, MacFarlane Hoffman of Swarthmore; a daughter, Kate H. Siddiqi of Philadelphia; and two sisters, Nancy Ranew of Milton, Fla.; and Janice Volz of New York City.
Ms. Laredo is survived by their daughter, Jennifer Laredo, who lives in London with her husband, the cellist Paul Watkins, and by a granddaughter.
'' Mr. Nichols won an Oscar, while nominations went to Ms. Bancroft, Mr. Hoffman and Katharine Ross, who played Mrs. Robinson's daughter.
'' Other major roles included '''Night Mother,'' as a woman struggling with her daughter's decision to commit suicide, and ''84 Charing Cross Road,'' in which she played an American writer whose correspondence with a London bookseller (Anthony Hopkins) develops into a long-distance romance.
The cause was uterine cancer, her daughter Judith Hochberg said.
Audrey Elaine Golden was born in Stamford, Conn., on June 26, 1933, the daughter of Abraham H. Golden and the former Fannie Dodek.
Besides her husband and daughter, both of Scarsdale, Ms. Hochberg is survived by a sister, Merle Bogin, of Manhattan; another daughter, Brenda Hochberg, of Brookline, Mass.
Besides her husband and daughter, both of Scarsdale, Ms. Hochberg is survived by a sister, Merle Bogin, of Manhattan; another daughter, Brenda Hochberg, of Brookline, Mass.
A third daughter, Carol, died in 1998.
      
In addition to her husband and her sister Eileen, of Stamford, Conn., Mrs. O'Brien is survived by her daughter, Kate, of Nantucket; her son, Miles, of Cockeysville, Md.
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
Besides her son, of Los Angeles (an actor on Broadway and in films, Mr. Burstyn changed the spelling of his name as an adult), Ms. Lux is survived by a daughter, Susan Roth of Westfield, N.J.; and a sister, Beatrice Friedman of Washington.
      
Besides her son, of Oakland, Ms. Benedict is survived by a daughter, Ellen Hawley, of Minneapolis; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      
Ms. Alexander also wrote several nonfiction books, including ''Anyone's Daughter'' (Viking, 1979), about Patty Hearst; ''Very Much a Lady: The Untold Story of Jean Harris and Dr. Herman Tarnower'' (Little, Brown, 1983); and ''When She Was Bad'' (Random House, 1990), about the Bess Myerson conspiracy trial.
Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Thomas Kempner Jr. of Manhattan and James L. Kempner of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Adeline Field Kempner of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
Frances Langford was born April 6, 1913, in Lakeland, Fla., the daughter of Vasco Langford, a carpenter, and his wife, Anna, who was an accomplished pianist.
She had Alzheimer's disease for more than a decade and was essentially incapacitated in recent years, leading to a respiratory infection that finally killed her, said her daughter, Susan Scheftel, a clinical psychologist in New York.
Born in 1913, the daughter of a Dublin solicitor, Geraldine Fitzgerald was drawn into the legendary Gate Theater by her aunt, Shelagh Richards, one of its stars.
Her death was reported by her daughter, Barbara Shepherd.
Mary Thelma Morrison was born in Vicksburg, Miss., on April 21, 1906, to Daisy and William Morrison, a carpenter, who boasted to friends that his young daughter could read the entire newspaper.
The cause was complications of a fall, a daughter, Amy Bass, said.
She grew up in the Bronx and the Upper West Side, the daughter of a seller of cardboard boxes.
She is survived by Ms. Bass of Port Washington; another daughter, Rita Christopher Frank of Madison, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
She arrived in New York by way of Camden, N.J., where she struck up a friendship with Anna Sosenko, her landlady's daughter and a budding songwriter, who became the architect of her career.
She arrived in New York by way of Camden, N.J., where she struck up a friendship with Anna Sosenko, her landlady's daughter and a budding songwriter, who became the architect of her career.
Although she was nominated for an Academy Award for her performance as Katrin Hanson, the daughter of Norwegian immigrants in ''I Remember Mama'' (1948), Ms. Bel Geddes made relatively few movies, working primarily in theater and television.
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, from her first marriage, and a daughter, Betsy, from her second.
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, from her first marriage, and a daughter, Betsy, from her second.
Her father was a textile merchant and her mother a schoolteacher who nurtured her daughter's early interest in writing.
Ms. Smith's daughter Beatrice Smith Robinson died in 1988.
Ernesta Drinker was born into a distinguished Philadelphia family, a daughter of a prominent lawyer, Harry Drinker, and Sophie Hutcheson Drinker, a feminist and author.
Mary Lee Settle was born on July 29, 1918, in Charleston, W.Va., the daughter of Joseph Edward and Rachel Tompkins Settle.
''
        Kathleen Anne Higdon was born in Quonset Point, R.I., the daughter of a Navy pilot and a homemaker.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
The cause was complications of colitis, her daughter, Kitty Bruce, said.
With her daughter, Ms. Friedman lent her support to the campaign to win the pardon.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Pennsylvania, Ms. Friedman is survived by her husband, Jeffrey Friedman, whom she married in 1984.
      
The daughter of a milkman and a sickly woman who worked part time in a bakery, she grew up in a tenement and later in a public housing project.
Ms. Yard was the family's third daughter.
A daughter, Joan Garrett-Goodyear, died in 1992.
Ms. Nikel is survived by her husband, Sam Leiman; her daughter, Ziva Hanan; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren, all of Moshav Kidron; and a sister, Sara Bock, of Rockaway Beach, Queens.
      
The mother and daughter also appeared in Melissa Hacker's Academy Award-winning 1996 film ''My Knees Were Jumping.
Mrs. Groszmann and her daughter lived in a small flat while Lore attended Bedford College in London.
Each day at 7 a.m., the daughter would take the elevator down to have breakfast with her mother, who until three years ago rose at dawn to squeeze grapefruit juice for the two of them.
      
In addition to her husband and son, Ms. Leslie-Melville is survived by her daughter, Dancy Bruce Mills of Glen Arm, Md., and five grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
Ms. Jones is survived by her son, Michael A. Jones; her daughter, Monica Jones Shareef; three brothers; four sisters; and two grandchildren.
By the mid-1960's she had stopped touring and decided to restrict her performing to the Washington and Baltimore areas so she could spend more time at home raising her daughter, Rainy.
; her daughter, Rainy Smith, of Maryland; and several grandchildren.
Her father was a civil engineer; according to an article in The New York World-Telegram in 1934, it was her mother who steered her daughter, at first reluctant, onto the stage.
''
        Mrs. Raphaelson is survived by her son, Joel, who lives in Chicago; her daughter, Naomi Yocum of Lancaster, Pa.; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.

        Ruth Clement Bond, an educator and civic leader who in the mid-1930's, in her first and only foray into quilt design, helped transform the American quilt from a utilitarian bedcovering into a work of avant-garde social commentary, died on Oct. 24 at her daughter's home in Manhattan.
Earlier this year, Crown Prince Naruhito of Japan announced that he would raise his daughter, Princess Aiko, by its tenets.
Mrs. Nolte is survived by two children from her first marriage, Joyce Jameson of Gold Canyon, Ariz., and Gerald Law of Rancho Santa Margarita; a daughter from her second marriage, Lisa Mulvania, of Huntington Beach, Calif.; a stepson, David Nolte, of Kailua, Hawaii; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
      
Constance Cummings was born Constance Halverstadt -- she took her mother's maiden name professionally -- in Seattle on May 15, 1910, the daughter of a lawyer and a concert soprano.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Jemima Levy.
''
        Constance Mary Laibe was born in Manhattan on Aug. 8, 1961, the daughter of John Laibe and the former Ann Davis.
''In those times in Medellín, there were three women who drove: a foreigner, the daughter of a trucker and me,'' she said.
The cause was a pulmonary embolism after surgery, her daughter, Ellen J. Silberman, said.
Besides her daughter, of Newton, Mass., she is survived by a son, Michael Silberman, of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Alberta N. Grossman of Manhattan and Westport; and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Michael, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Patrick, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Megan Styles of Danville, Calif.; a brother, Joseph Madden of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Jane Rupp of St. Petersburg; and two grandchildren.
      
