Their daughter was named after an Etruscan queen and was 3 when the family moved to New York.
Mrs. McIntosh is survived by a daughter, Susan Lloyd of Tinmouth, Vt.; 4 sons, James, of Ann Arbor, Mich., R. Carey, of Tyringham, Kenneth of West Newton, Mass., and J. Richard, of Boulder, Colo.; 10 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
Millicent Carey McIntosh was born on Nov. 30, 1898, in Baltimore, the daughter of Anthony Morris Carey, who ran a machinery supply business, and the former Margaret Cheston Thomas, both active Quakers.
Princess Vera was born near St. Petersburg, a daughter of Grand Duke Constantine and Princess Elisabeth of Saxe-Altenburg.
In 1953, Mrs. Collins and her husband, Marion, were vacationing away from Turlock, in the Central Valley of California, when their daughter Linda, a high school sophomore, cut her finger while playing with an air rifle.
He placed the words ''Medic Alert'' alongside the emblem and listed his daughter's medical condition on the back.
I am allergic,' or 'I have a daughter with diabetes,' '' Linda told The Los Angeles Times in 1978.
The daughter of an Army colonel, Ms. Ball was born Anne Carter in Osaka, Japan, in 1948.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ball is survived by her mother, Lillian Harwell Carter of Pulaski, Tenn.; a sister, Paige Carter Garner of Nashville; and a daughter, Jayne Denison Ball of the Marshall Islands.
      
The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria José in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, whose father, King Vittorio Emanuele III, cooperated with Mussolini before and during World War II.
''
        Then the mother and daughter returned home to Pennsylvania, but they soon received a call from the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
Schaeffer Galleries is now owned and directed by the Schaeffers' daughter, Cornelia Bessie, who had been its vice president.
Mrs. Schaeffer is survived by her daughter, Cornelia Bessie of Lyme, Conn.
      
Mrs. Nauts was the daughter of Dr. William B. Coley, a surgeon and cancer specialist who, trying to help seriously ill patients for whom he had been able to do nothing, hit on the idea of injecting them with a mixture of live bacteria.
Helen Lancaster Coley, his daughter with his wife, the former Alice Lancaster, was born Sept. 2, 1907, in Sharon, Conn., and was raised in New York City.
G. E. M. Anscombe was born March 18, 1919, the daughter of Allen Wells Anscombe and Gertrude Elizabeth Thomas Anscombe.
She was born Elizabeth Kemp-Welch on July 14, 1906, the daughter of Brian and Verena Kemp-Welch, a couple who spent much of their marriage living apart and conducting indiscreet romances.
The situation led to an early experience of being a social outcast that might have influenced the daughter's subsequent attention to class preferences and enforced ignorance of extramarital affairs.
''She was my mother, but I lent her out a lot,'' said her daughter Heidi E. Murkoff.
''
        The first ''what to expect'' book emerged from the 1984 pregnancy of Mrs. Murkoff, Mrs. Eisenberg's younger daughter and a writer who was dismayed that she could find few books about pregnancy that were not excessively didactic and authoritarian -- not to mention full of incomprehensible medical terms.
The mother and daughter and another daughter, Sandee E. Hathaway, a nurse, teamed up to fill the void.
The mother and daughter and another daughter, Sandee E. Hathaway, a nurse, teamed up to fill the void.
They delivered their book proposal to the publisher hours before Mrs. Murkoff gave birth to a daughter, Emma.
They delivered the book the day Mrs. Hathaway felt the first kick from the fetus that was to be her daughter Rachel.
She is survived by her husband, Frank Steindler; a daughter, Catherine Steindler; a son, Frederick Steindler; and two sisters, Elizabeth Baker and Anne Baker, all of New York.
      
She grew up on a dairy farm near Bridgeville, also in the Catskills, her daughter Barbara Halio said.
In addition to her daughter Barbara, of Oceanside, and her sister, Muriel Merritt, of San Antonio, Mrs. Buck is survived by another daughter, Joan Buck of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Barbara, of Oceanside, and her sister, Muriel Merritt, of San Antonio, Mrs. Buck is survived by another daughter, Joan Buck of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
After Walker died in 1919, her daughter A'Lelia Walker took over the company.
Ransom, was the company's general manager and lawyer during the years A'Lelia Walker was president, and named his daughter for her when she was born on Aug. 14, 1918.
After graduation, she got a master's degree in library science from Columbia University, where she was the only black person in her year of the program, said one daughter, the writer Jill Nelson.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ariane Sutowski of San Diego, and a sister, Jeanette Errio of Vence, France.
      

        Rose Freedman, the last survivor of the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in which 146 of her co-workers perished in 1911, died on Thursday in her apartment in Beverly Hills, Calif., her daughter said.
In 1995, she moved to Los Angeles, where her son Robert and her daughter, Arlene March, live.
In addition to her son, of Chicago, Dr. Vermeule is survived by her husband, the archaeologist Cornelius Clarkson Vermeule III of Cambridge, and a daughter, Blakey Vermeule of Chicago.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Vera Chimens of Austin, Tex.
In 1950, she teamed up with Senator Charles Tobey of New Hampshire, whose daughter had multiple sclerosis, to lobby Congress for what is now the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
Mrs. Anderson is survived by a daughter, Constance A. Tate of Wilton; three grandsons, and seven great-grandchildren.
Born in Thornhill, Canada, Ms. Wright was the daughter of Ivan Leonard Wright, a theater critic for The Toronto Globe, and Edith Stevenson Wright, a portrait painter.
Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that her mother had suffered adverse effects from her advancing age and from strokes and was ''often confused in her mind, and in fragile health.
Her mother was Elizabeth Reeve Cutter Morrow, an educator and poet who was Smith College's acting president in 1939 and 1940 and who publicly criticized her daughter and son-in-law for their America First views.
Mrs. Lindbergh's elder daughter, Anne Spencer Lindbergh, who was also a writer, died in 1993.
In addition to her daughter Reeve, Mrs. Lindbergh  is survived by her sons Jon, Land and Scott.
She also began writing inspirational books like ''Angel Unaware'' (Revell, 1953) the story of her daughter Robin, who was born in 1950 with Down syndrome and heart problems and died a few days before her second birthday.
Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14.
Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14.
''
        She was born in New York in 1912,  the daughter of immigrants from Russia.
She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Born in Manhattan on July 3, 1913, Mrs. Levin was the daughter of Rene and Samuel Hoffman.
Her survivors include a daughter, Catherine Levin, and a son, Adam Levin, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Akesson is survived by a daughter, Mona Moeller-Nilesen, and a grandchild.
      
''
        The daughter of an English Army officer, she was born Edris Stannus in County Wicklow, Ireland, in 1898; her family moved to England when she was 10.
The song was originally written for a 1969 NBC special, ''Debbie Reynolds and the Sound of Children'' and dedicated to Ms. Horne at the birth of her daughter.
In 1943 she married the actor Robert Sterling and had a daughter.
''
        Ms. Sothern is survived by her  daughter, Tisha Sterling, an actress and designer; a sister, Sally Adams of Boise, Idaho; and a granddaughter.
She is survived by a son, James A. Heller of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan K. Heller of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      
Timothy Fales of Paris; a son,  Enrico Fales; a daughter, Susan Fales-Hill; and a sister, Adele Premice, all of New York.
      
After the family moved to Brooklyn, Mr. Dovgolenko went to the box office of Loews State, a movie house in Manhattan, and asked where his daughter could take ballet lessons.
He survives her, along with a son, Alexander of Oceanside, Calif.; a daughter, Katherine Irving Stark of South Salem, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Surviving are her husband and son, both of Cambridge, and her daughter, Larissa, of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eugenia Dunham, and a sister, Zoya Slive, both of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Susanna.
      
Before they divorced in 1987, they had a daughter, Tayla, who survives her.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Krakauer is survived by a son, the clarinetist David Krakauer; a daughter, Lisa Schultz, of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Theodore Lieberman of New York; and her mother, Jean H. Lieberman of Florida.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Mairwyn.
      
She is survived by a son, William, of New Jersey; and a daughter, Elizabeth Dudley, of Florida.
      
She is survived by a daughter from her second marriage, Ruth Grdseloff, of Berkeley, Calif.
      
Dr. Jahoda is survived by a daughter from her first marriage, Lotte Bailyn of Belmont, Mass., a professor of management at M.I.T.
Lillemor Taylor Robb, known as Lee, was born in Stavanger, Norway, the daughter of the American consul general there.
Ms. Francis was born Arlene Francis Kazanjian on Oct. 20, 1907, in Boston, the daughter of an Armenian immigrant.
According to a daughter, Katharine Bernstein of Brattleboro, Vt., she had not initially been leftist but became increasingly persuaded by her husband's increasingly leftist opinions.
In addition to her daughter, Ms.
In addition to her husband, a producer for ''60 Minutes II,'' she is survived by their daughter, Anne Moses, and a granddaughter, both of San Francisco.
      
) She shares it with her 28-year-old companion, Oliver Ray, a guitarist in her band, and her daughter, Jesse Paris, 14, and son, Jackson, 19, from her 1980 marriage to the former MC5 guitarist Fred (Sonic) Smith, who died in 1994.
It is Father's Day, and a candle is to be lit by her daughter in remembrance.
Ms. Moyer is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ana Bess; a son, Niall; her parents, Dr. Reed Moyer and Sue Moyer of Palo Alto, Calif.; and two sisters, Dr. Patricia Moyer of Watertown, Mass., and Ellen Moyer of Oakland, Calif.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Annie Gardiner of Oakland, Calif., and a son, Peter, of Middletown, Conn.
      
Her father, John J. O'Reilly Sr., was a New York State highway patrolman who did ''everything to keep me from becoming a police officer,'' Sergeant O'Reilly recalled, adding, ''I'm sure he saw his share of things he didn't want his daughter to see.
Ms. Francis was born Arlene Francis Kazanjian on Oct. 20, 1907, in Boston, the daughter of an Armenian immigrant.
Anthropological texts say the line of Modjadjis started in 1800, when Mugodo, a chief of the Dzugudini tribe, had a vision that he must marry his daughter and found a female dynasty.
It was her daughter, Mmakheala, not her granddaughter, Makobo.
      
Mrs. Estill is survived by her daughter, Barbette Tweed Hunt of Los Angeles and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Imogene Coca was born in Philadelphia on Nov. 18, 1908, the daughter of José Fernandez de Coca, a violinist and vaudeville band leader, and Sadie Brady Coca, a dancer who also performed in a magician's act.
Another daughter, Ellen S. Straus, died in 1995.
      
Another daughter, Ellen S. Straus, died in 1995.
Nora Ephron, in her review of the best-selling memoir in The New York Times Book Review, wrote of Mrs. Graham, ''The story of her journey from daughter to wife to widow to woman parallels to a surprising degree the history of women in this century.
She was scathingly critical and often harsh with her daughter, the fourth of five children.
Mr. Meyer also arranged for him to hold more stock in the company than his daughter because, he explained to her, ''no man should be in the position of working for his wife.
(Her daughter was not a candidate in her plan.
Besides her son Donald, she is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Weymouth, known as Lally; her sons William and Stephen; a sister, Ruth Epstein of Bronxville, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
Just two weeks ago she was surrounded by friends at the annual party her daughter gave for her in Southampton, N.Y., and last week was in Idaho for a conference of media executives where she saw more friends and colleagues.
She was awarded a Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for her novel ''The Optimist's Daughter.
''
        A Clan of Readers
        Eudora Welty was born on April 13, 1909, in Jackson, the daughter of Christian Webb Welty, an Ohio native, and the former Chestina Andrews, who had been a West Virginia schoolteacher.
After the deaths of her mother and brothers, she returned in the 70's with the novels ''Losing Battles'' and ''The Optimist's Daughter.
In ''Delta Wedding,'' Miss Welty concentrates on the frenzied activities of the extended Fairchild family in the week before the marriage of a daughter to the plantation's overseer, who is considered by several of the Fairchilds to be an intruder unworthy of admission into the family.
She is survived by a brother, Jack Levin of Omaha; a daughter, Dail Neugarten of Denver; a son, Jerrold, of Hannacroix, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by a son, William S. of Washington; a daughter, Emily McGrath of Manhattan; a brother, Les Honig of California; and three grandchildren.
Ms. Cigna, whose given name was Geneviève, was born in Paris in 1900, the daughter of a French general of Italian descent.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Asha, who was born on June 7; her parents, Dena and James Kilgallen, of Rockville, Md.
''
        The daughter of a high-ranking civil servant, Ms. Roy was born in India on Dec. 10, 1915, one of 11 children.
She was born Caroline Robinson, in Benton Harbor, Mich., the third of 10 children and the eldest daughter.
She died after a prolonged illness, said her daughter Rachel Ryder Zahn.
Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career.
By 1957 she had been though another divorce and remarriage, this time to the actor and director Alfred Ryder, by whom she had another daughter, Rachel.
The daughter of a husband-and-wife vaudeville team, Ms. Freeman was literally born into show business, growing up on the song-and-dance circuit.
She is survived by her father, Willie Hearne; her husband, Robert Tragesser; a daughter from a previous marriage, Colleen Mendelsohn; and a brother, James Hearne.
      
She is survived by a son, John Parkinson III, who was appointed a trustee of the museum in 1976 and is its treasurer; a daughter, the pianist Zaidee Parkinson; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Victoria McKee of London, and two grandchildren.
      
In the 1950's, after ''The Living Room,'' she played, among other roles, Sally Bowles, Joan of Arc in ''The Lark,'' Archie Rice's daughter (opposite Olivier) in ''The Entertainer,'' and a panoply of Shakespearean characters at Stratford-on-Avon.
She is survived by her husband, their daughter, Amanda, and son,  Nicholas, both of whom are actors.

        Maureen Reagan, the outspoken daughter of former President Ronald Reagan who was often at odds with her father's policies, died yesterday at her home in Sacramento.
A thaw between father and daughter began when Mr. Reagan ran for president in 1980.
''
        In 1987, after the Iran-contra affair, when Ms. Reagan asserted that Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security aides,  should be court-martialed for their actions, Mr. Reagan told Republican leaders, ''I gave up arguing with my daughter long ago.
'' In her 1989 book, ''First Father, First Daughter,'' (Little, Brown & Company), Ms. Reagan recalled, ''I went out on so many auditions I began to think of changing my middle name to Rejection.
Her husband of 20 years, Dennis Revell, a public relations executive in Sacramento, survives her as does a daughter, Rita, whom the couple adopted from Uganda in 1994.
Mrs. Schwartz is also survived by a daughter, Lorraine Commanday of Charlottesville, Va., and a son, Martin Russ Pulvers of Mountainview, Calif.
The family tradition continues at Russ & Daughters, with Mrs. Federman's son Mark, his wife, Maria, and their daughter, Niki, owning and operating the store.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Dvonch Swingle, of Bainbridge Island; a sister, Faye Popper, of Indianapolis; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara L. Fabricant of New Albany, Ind.
The fifth child and third daughter of immigrants from Poland, Isaac Paul Kael and the former Judith Friedman, she was born in Petaluma, Calif., on June 19, 1919.
Married and divorced three times, she supported herself and her daughter, Gina James, by writing advertising copy, clerking in a bookstore and working as a cook, a seamstress and a textbook writer.
''
        Assignments from magazines began to flow in, and in 1965, Ms. Kael, her daughter and Ms. Kael's two basenjis (dogs that, interestingly, cannot bark) moved to New York.
Her daughter, an artist, lived nearby with her family.
She is survived by her daughter, Ms. James, of Great Barrington, and a grandson, William Friedman, also of Great Barrington, and two sisters, Anne Wallach and Rose Makower, both of Berkeley.
Dr. Calloway is survived by her husband of 20 years, Robert Nesheim of Seattle; a son, David, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Candace Calloway Whiting of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sandra Rankin of Danbury, Conn., and Barbara Mowry of Denver; and nine grandchildren.
The daughter of the late Robert L. Berenson, a United States Foreign Service officer, and Gogo Schiaparelli Berenson, Ms. Perkins was a granddaughter of the French couturier Elsa Schiaparelli.
Miss McGuire broke her leg three weeks ago and then developed arrhythmia, said her daughter, Mary Hackett Swope.
It also starred James Dunn, who won an Oscar as best supporting actor for his performance as Miss McGuire's doomed husband; Peggy Ann Garner, who received a special Oscar for her role as their daughter Francie; Joan Blondell; and Lloyd Nolan.
Celeste Holm won an Oscar as best supporting actress for the film, and Miss McGuire was nominated for best actress but lost to Loretta Young in ''The Farmer's Daughter.
''
        Dorothy Hackett McGuire was born on June 14, 1918, in Omaha, Neb., the daughter of Thomas Johnson McGuire, a lawyer, and Isabelle Flaherty McGuire.
Miss McGuire is survived by her daughter and a son, Mark Swope.
Mrs. Crawford is survived by Kim, who lives in Dana Point, Calif.; another son, Jay, of Rolling Hills Estates, Calif.; a daughter, Jan Crawford of Torrance, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Her father was a florist, and her mother was a painter who frequently took her daughter to museums.
Ms. Hudson was born in Cambridge, Mass., a daughter of the artist Eric Hudson.
Their next, ''One-Man Show,'' which had a brief run on Broadway in 1945, was set in the world of art dealers and was about the relationship between a father and daughter.
Searching for a subject, Mrs. Goetz suggested to her husband that they dramatize ''Washington Square,'' about a domineering father and his painfully shy daughter.
After the couple finished the play, a producer persuaded them to contrive a happy ending, in which the daughter, Catherine, reconciles with her faithless suitor.
With Jed Harris as the director, the play was recast with Basil Rathbone as the father and Wendy Hiller as the daughter.
''It was a different story -- the daughter's finding herself through her tragedy.
''
        She is survived by her daughter, Judy Goetz Sanger, a poet, and a granddaughter, Katie Firth, an actress.
She is survived by her daughter, Constance Heath, of Concord, and a cousin, Constance Anderson, of Philadelphia.
      
The New York Times reported in November 1954 that the Queen Mother, whose daughter's coronation had taken place a year earlier, stopped by a day-care center during a visit to New York.
There, in one of her first auditions, she landed the plum role of Cordelia Biddle, daughter of Col. Anthony J. Drexel Biddle, the eccentric socialite and title character of ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' a popular comedy drawn from Ms. Biddle's memoir.
''
        In addition to her husband, Ms. van der Vlis is survived by a son, Matthew, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Adrienne of New York.
      
She had been suffering from heart problems and rheumatoid arthritis, her daughter Mary Beth Waits said.
In addition to Ms. Waits, of Silver Spring, Md., Ms. Shanahan is survived by another daughter, Kathleen Waits of Tulsa, Okla.; a sister, Dr. Kathleen Shanahan Cohen of Teaneck, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
The formulas were passed on to his daughter, Ova Heath Spoonemore, who, sometime later, acted as the hostess at a Stanley Home Products party where Mrs. Ash was conducting the demonstration.
Her daughter, Marylyn Reed, died in 1991.
The formulas were passed on to his daughter, Ova Heath Spoonemore, who, sometime later, acted as the hostess at a Stanley Home Products party where Mrs. Ash was conducting the demonstration.
Her daughter, Marylyn Reed, died in 1991.
She is survived by a daughter, according to The Telegraph.
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Winona Flying Earth.
Ms. Locke's Indian name was Tawacin Waste Win, which, her daughter said, means ''she has good consciousness -- compassionate woman.
''
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Wakpala, she is survived by a son, Kevin Locke, also of Wakpala, a performing artist who works to preserve Lakota music; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James, a resident of Luxembourg; a daughter, Nina Agel of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wexner, with a professional background in the clothing business, joined her son, Leslie H. Wexner of Columbus, when he incorporated the Limited in 1963, as did her husband, Harry, and her daughter, Susan.
In addition to her son and her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Wexner is survived by four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
Her sister said she devoured books and seldom went outdoors, leading neighbors to think that the family had only one daughter.
The cause was heart disease, diabetes and complications from a stroke that she suffered several years ago, according to her daughter, Priscilla Holberton of Silver Spring, Md.
In addition the her daughter Priscilla, Mrs. Holberton is survived by her husband, John Vaughn Holberton, and another daughter, Pamela Holberton, both of Rockville.
      
In addition the her daughter Priscilla, Mrs. Holberton is survived by her husband, John Vaughn Holberton, and another daughter, Pamela Holberton, both of Rockville.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her daughter Elisa W. Johnston said.
Although she spent several months of the year in Hawaii, the island she came to love in the 1940's while covering the war in the Pacific for Reuters, Ms. Johnston was a ''dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker,'' her daughter said.
In addition to Elisa Johnston, Ms. Johnston is survived by another daughter, Dana Johnston of New York City and Honolulu; a son-in-law, Barry Layne Morrison, and a granddaughter, Katie H. J. Morrison, all of Honolulu
      
