She is survived by her husband; a daughter by a previous marriage, Karen Bercovici of Montpelier, Vt.; a granddaughter, Toby Bercovici, and two stepchildren, Pamela Tengdin of Cranston, R.I., and Roger Bowers of Charlottesville, Va.
      
She is survived by a son, Bromley Smith Jr. of Kenya, and a daughter, Suzanne Arias of Madrid.
      
"
        Ms. Fosburgh was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Hugh Whitney Fosburgh, a journalist and author who died in 1976, and Helen Edwards Fosburgh.
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Georgina Bates of Antioch, Calif.
      
"
        Ms. Fosburgh was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Hugh Whitney Fosburgh, a journalist and author who died in 1976, and Helen Edwards Fosburgh.
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
The daughter of a missionary teacher, Miss Wood was born in Nara, Japan, and grew up in Bloomington, Ill. After receiving bachelor's and master's degrees in rhetoric at the University of Michigan, she taught English for four years at Vassar College.
In "Sabrina" (1954), she was a chauffeur's daughter forced to choose between wealthy brothers, played by William Holden and Humphrey Bogart.
Miss Carpenter was born in Bath, England, the daughter of vaudevillians, and began performing as a child.
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Julianna A. Mortensen, of Darien, Conn.
        Mrs. McClinton, a native of San Francisco, graduated from Stanford University in 1921 and received a master's degree from Columbia University.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a stepson, Rear Adm. Robert Brock McClinton, retired, of Sequim, Wash., two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Valentina Fratti, an actress who lives in New York, and a nephew, Paul Dubman of San Francisco.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Susan Hamovitch of Brooklyn, and a brother, Monty Berger of Montreal.
      
Also surviving are a daughter, Madeleine Krug of Burke, Va.; a son, Robert, of Northport, L.I.
Surviving are a son, Mark, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Elizabeth Neuffer, of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, Philip J., and a daughter, Cynthia J., all of New York.
      
Married Amid Royalty
        When the Germans overran Greece in World War II, Alexandra and her mother, the former Aspasia Manos, the daughter of a royal equerry, again traveled to London.
Her daughter, Elise S. Pettus of Manhattan, said the cause of death was uterine cancer.
Besides her daughter Elise, Dr. Clark is survived by a daughter, Ashley S. Pettus, and a son, Brewster W. Pettus, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Whitney Armstrong and Janet York of Manhattan, and a brother, Benjamin Brewster, also of Manhattan.
      
Besides her daughter Elise, Dr. Clark is survived by a daughter, Ashley S. Pettus, and a son, Brewster W. Pettus, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Whitney Armstrong and Janet York of Manhattan, and a brother, Benjamin Brewster, also of Manhattan.
      
Her daughter, Amanda Vaill Stewart, said the cause was complications of a stroke.
Besides her daughter, Amanda, a writer in New York City, she is survived by a sister, Virginia Jane Scott of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
Her daughter, Elizabeth Ellen Dance, said she died of lung cancer.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      
She is survived by two sons, Talbot, of The Plains, Va., and John, of Washington; a daughter, Lucy, of Brookline, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      
She also published reminiscences of the year she spent in London as the daughter of the United States Ambassador to Britain.
She is survived by a daughter, Anne Snee, and a son, Godfrey C., both of Manhattan.
      
"
        Lillian Diana Gish, a daughter of the former Mary Robinson McConnell and James Gish, was born on Oct. 14, 1893, in Springfield, Ohio.
When the Gishes were together in New York, they shared quarters with Charlotte Smith, whose daughter Gladys was a bit player on Broadway.
"In it I played Elsie, the sweet and virginal daughter of the family around which the action was built," Miss Gish said in 1975.
The cause of death was cancer, said her daughter Kathleen Lowe.
In addition to her daughter Ms. Lowe and her son Al Jolson Jr., she is survived by another son, John Lowe Jr., and two other daughters, Theresa Hall and Christine Pratt.
      
"I was once the typical daughter, then the easily recognizable wife, and then the quintessential mother.
Mrs. Brown was delighted to encourage her daughter as a performer, and soon afterward Helen made her professional stage debut in a local stock production of "The Prince Chap.
Meeting Destiny At the Age of 8
        Deciding that her daughter was destined for an upper-crust life, Mrs. Brown took in washing to pay for French lessons to supplement the curriculum of the Sacred Heart Academy in Washington, where Helen was enrolled.
Thus prepared, mother and daughter, then 8 years old, took the train to New York and waited outside Mr. Fields's office.
Mr. Frohman, one of the titans of the theater, went down with the Lusitania in 1915 and so was not able to quash the false rumors -- which circulated for years -- that Miss Hayes was actually his illegitimate daughter by Maude Adams, a stage star of the day.
"
        Miss Hayes gave birth to her daughter, Mary, in February 1930.
Her daughter, Mary, a novice actress, died of polio in 1949, and Miss Hayes then spoke and wrote movingly of her grief.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fox is survived by a daughter, Constance; two other sons, Frank and Michael; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Reid Willis of Edmonton, Alberta, and a daughter, Robin Willis of Manhattan.
      
; a daughter, Penelope Shaw, an instructor in modern dance and Yoga at Hunter; two sons, Patri, who teaches physics at Harvard, and Paul, a cartographer for Time magazine; six grandchildren, and one great grandson.
      
The cause of death was complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Fiona Rhodes of Laguna Beach, Calif.
        Ms. de Groot was born in a suburb of London and studied acting at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London and appeared in British productions beside John Gielgud, Ralph Richardson and Tyrone Guthrie.
Their first daughter, Christina, died of a heart ailment at the age of 26.
      
Surviving are her husband, Max Greenwood; a daughter, Gwenn Miller; her mother, Sarah Stoler of Stowe, Vt.; a brother, Will Stoler, of Montpelier, Vt., and her sister, Ann Stoler of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      
The cause of death was pneumonia, said her daughter Christine Noel Cameron of Manhattan.
In the early 1950's she acted in the television series "Johnny Jupiter," and in 1955, on Broadway, she played the spitfire younger daughter in the Tony Award-winning play "The Desperate Hours," acting with Paul Newman and Karl Malden.
In addition to Ms. Cameron, she is survived by another daughter, Anne Cameron of Albuquerque, N.M., and a grandson, Alexander Cameron Little.
      
She was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Charles M. Higgins, the inventor of liquid India ink.
She is survived by a daughter, Ann Everson of Westport; four sons, John, of Westport, Peter, of Norwalk, Conn., Robert, of Edmond, Okla., and Alfred Jr., of Palm City, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Jenne Magafan Currie of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Glenda Garvey of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Thomas Q. Garvey 3d of Potomac, Md., and a grandson.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Jenne Magafan Currie of Manhattan.
      
She was the daughter of Joseph F. Cullman Jr. and Frances Wolff Cullman.
She had also served on the boards of Stratford Hall Plantation in Virginia and the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif.
        A native of Dallas, she was a member of a prominent business family in Texas as the daughter of Kenneth Murchison.
Mrs. Gerrity is survived by her husband, Edward J. Gerrity; a daughter, Katharine C. 2d of Greenwich; a son, Edward 3d of Rye Brook, N.Y.; two sisters, Angela Marshall of Dalton, Pa., and Grace Kavanagh of Peoria, Ill., and a brother, Robert, of Scranton.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marjorie Hawkins of Manhattan, three grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren, and three great-great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, survivors include a daughter, Julianna Sara, and a son, David Stephen; her parents, Dr. Milton Pack and Phyllis Pack of Brooklyn, and two brothers, Dr. Philip Pack of Scarsdale and Dr. Michael Pack of Boston.
      
The cause was gastrointestinal illness, said her daughter Malu Nay Block of Provincetown.
In addition to her daughter Malu, she is survived by another daughter, Fayette Block, also of Provincetown; a sister, Dorothy Nay Carter of Vine Grove, Ky.; a brother, Benjamin Franklin Nay of Bremerton, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Malu, she is survived by another daughter, Fayette Block, also of Provincetown; a sister, Dorothy Nay Carter of Vine Grove, Ky.; a brother, Benjamin Franklin Nay of Bremerton, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rader was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Edward G. Sperry, who was for some years president of the Sperry Products Company, which manufactured railroad and subway track-testing equipment and other products in Connecticut and on Long Island, and the former Mary Elizabeth Garvin, who was a company director.
She is survived by a daughter, Tatiana Benetkova of Prague, and two grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from a stroke, said her daughter Suzy Sarna.
In addition to her daughter Suzy, of Anacortes, Wash., she is survived by a brother, Frank Flanagan, of Phoenix; a sister, Calla Haye, of Santa Fe; another daughter, Holly Hughes of Rowe, N.M.; a son, Antony A. Hughes, of El Paso, Tex.
In addition to her daughter Suzy, of Anacortes, Wash., she is survived by a brother, Frank Flanagan, of Phoenix; a sister, Calla Haye, of Santa Fe; another daughter, Holly Hughes of Rowe, N.M.; a son, Antony A. Hughes, of El Paso, Tex.
She is survived by a sister, Angela Conner of London, and a daughter, Nolan Osborne Parker of East Sussex.
      
In addition to her husband and son John, Mrs. Feinstein is survived by another son, Robert, and a daughter, Margaret, both of McLean, and a brother, Peter Richman of Lexington, Mass.
      
Mrs. Clement was the daughter of Samuel Prescott and Flora Sheldon Bush, President Bush's grandparents.
Mrs. Clement served as trustee of the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn.
        She is survived by two sons, Stuart Holmes Clement Jr. of Saybrook, Conn., and Samuel Prescott Bush Clement of Litchfield, Conn.; a daughter, Mary Bush Clement Estabrook of North Haven, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and 14 great-granchildren.
      
Dr. Harrison is survived by her husband, David; a son, Andy of Evanston, Ill.; a daughter, Rachel Harrison of Brooklyn; her parents, Rose and Harry Horowitz of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Eleanor Dain of Kingston, R.I.
      
Her death was caused by complications from a stroke, said her daughter, Beatrice Berle Meyerson.
In addition to Ms. Meyerson, of Washington, Dr. Berle is survived by another daughter, Alice Berle Crawford of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a son, Peter A.
She is survived by her son, James Carroll of Greenfield, Mass; her daughter, Nedda Carroll of High Falls, N.Y.; her niece, Cynthia Leigh Young of New York City; three sisters, Inez Alexakos of Stafford, Va., Jeanette Lucas of Crofton, Md., and Josephine Lee of Lake Katrine, N.Y., and her brother, Eriel Saunders of Willow Springs, N.C.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Evelyn Fyler of Ossining; her son, John Neumann of Carmel, N.Y, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret R. Bennett of Washington; a brother, Abbot Low Moffat of Hights town, N.J.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Before she was a year old, her mother, Kate, a German-born woman with a son and daughter from a previous marriage, prevailed on her husband to leave the mines.
Just before the campaign started, the Nixons' older daughter, Patricia (Tricia), was born, on Feb. 21, 1946.
In Representative Nixon's first term, another daughter, Julie, was born, on July 5, 1948.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Natasha Tubelskaya, of Rome.
      
Daughter of Dentist
        She was also a consultant to the National Institute of Health and the American Fund for Dental Health.
Ms. McLean, the daughter of a dentist, was born in Buffalo.
She is survived by a daughter, Marianne Doran of Pleasantville; three sons, John, of Fort Collins, Colo., Peter of Solebury, Pa., and Paul, of Fresno, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Survivors include a daughter, Suzanne Froundjian of Manhasset; two sons, Karl of Bellerose Village, L.I.
Her survivors include her husband of 20 years, Stanley; a son, Walter Frisch of Manhattan; a daughter, Devin Feldman of Queens; a brother, E. Jerrold Miller of Capri, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, Joseph L., survivors include a daughter, Ellen Feingold of Newton; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Born in New York City, she was the daughter of the historian and critic Carl Van Doren and of Irita Van Doren, for many years literary editor of The New York Herald Tribune.
Surviving are her companion, Irving Appleman; her mother, Catherine Forbes of Wyckoff, N.J.; a daughter, Patricia Kimberly Sposa of Vernon, N.J.; two sons, Lawrence 3d, also known as Kip, and Patrick, also known as Kelly, both of Paterson; three brothers, Cyril Forbes of Montclair, N.J., William Forbes of Paterson and Paul Forbes of Morristown, N.J., and two sisters, Joan Forbes of Wyckoff and Nancy Braithwaite of Nassau, the Bahamas.
      
The daughter of a pioneer of New Mexico's statehood, she was born and raised in the remote pueblo of Abiquiu in the foothills of the Valle Grande mountains.
Her survivors include her son, Lee K., of Wilmington, N.C.; a daughter, Cathy Prince of White Plains; a brother, Nathan F. Klein of Titusville, Fla.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
Her daughter, Gloria Kane, said the cause was heart failure.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Dallas, she is survived by a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her grandson, she is survived by a son, John G. Simon of New Haven; a daughter, Peggy Traktman, and a sister, Helen Marshall Borchard, both of New York City, and another grandchild.
      
Her daughter, Charlton Yarnall Phelps, said the cause was congestive heart failure.
"
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Denholm Muir Jacobs of Northeast Harbor; 6 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Constance Cooper Batuscheck of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Kenneth, of Manhattan; a brother, David Buxbaum of Milwaukee, and a grandson.
      
She was born Elisabeth Carrington Frank in New York City in 1900, the daughter of Charles and Louise Frank.
Her survivors include a son, Douglas 3d, and a daughter, Courtney Cramer.
      
Mrs. Dubnick is survived by her husband of 43 years, Dr. Lester Dubnick; her daughter, Monica L. Mowery of Scarsdale, N.Y., and a sister, Stella Monchick of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      
Mrs. Nevil is survived by her husband of 48 years, Harry J. Nevil Jr.; a daughter, Deborah L. of Scotia, N.Y.; two sons, Laurence F. of Saugerties, N.Y., and Robert M. of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Louise Starzenski of Galway, N.Y., and London; two brothers, Foster Nichols 3d of Brookville, N.Y., and Allen Nichols of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and four granddaughters.
      
Born in Manhattan, she was a daughter of George F. Baker Jr., a banker, and the former Edith Brevoort Kane.
" Born in New Orleans
        Miss Ballard, whose given name was Lucinda Davis Goldsborough, was born in New Orleans, the daughter of Richard Goldsborough and the former Anna Farrar.
"
        Dr. Gordon, who was divorced, is survived by two sons, Marc, of Manhattan, and Dr. Jon W. of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a daughter, Sara, of Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to her daughter and son, Mrs. Morrell is survived by four grandchildren.
      
Mr. Gothelf's daughter, Sue Marx, joined Pamela Conn in directing "Young at Heart," which was shown at the New York Film Festival and won the Academy Award in the short subject category in 1988.
Mr. Gothelf's daughter, Sue Marx, joined Pamela Conn in directing the film "Young at Heart," which focused on Mrs. Shwayder's career and remarriage late in life and how she coped with the losses of her first husband and sons Warren, who died in a scuba accident, and Richard, who died of cancer soon after.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Stephanie LaFarge of Hastings-on-Hudson; her companion, Len Tillett of Norwich, England; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Janet of Tacoma Park, Md.
; a daughter, Janet of Takoma Park, Md.
"
        In addition to her son, Ms. Karin is survived by a daughter, Rochelle Axelrud of Woodmere, L.I.
She is survived by a daughter, Margery B. Franklin of Manhattan; two grandsons, Kenneth and David Frankin, and a sister, Lilian Uviller Pilat.
      
In 1967 McCall's published an exclusive interview that she had with Stalin's daughter, Svetlana Alliluyeva, who had immigrated to the United States after burying her fiance's ashes in India.
Big Moment on Broadway
        Her co-starring performance in the 1956 comedy "The Reluctant Debutante," as a busybody mother who tried to marry her daughter to an eligible suitor, was lauded by one critic as crisp, alert and highly enjoyable.
She is survived by her daughter, Anna, who performed with Miss Allen on the stage, and by a son, Daniel, who is also an actor.
      
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1984, she is survived by their daughter, Megan Elizabeth Gelstein; her mother, Kathryn Johnson of Brooklyn; and a sister, Janet Grimminger of Townsend, Del.
      
Her first novel, "Daughter of Strangers," was published in 1950.
Mrs. Coker was born in Darlington on April 21, 1909, the daughter of Purvis Jenkins and Bessie Heard Boatwright.
She is survived by a daughter, Penelope Coker Hall of Millbrook, N.Y.; a son, James L. Coker 4th of Stonington, Conn., and Charleston, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Peter; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Jessica, and her parents.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Megan Elias of San Rafael, Calif., and two sisters, Elizabeth Christenfeld of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and Lucy Vincent-Daviss of Evesham, England.
      
Ms. Caro is survived by a daughter, Jo Victory Sadalla of Phoenix, and a grandson, Jed.
      
She is survived by two sons -- Adrian, of Pittsburgh, and David, of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Laura, of Hartford, and a grandson.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Rachel Klein, of La Jolla, Calif.
        Miss Boris, who was born in Johnstown, Pa., studied at the Art Students League in the early 1930's and worked for the Works Progress Administration, teaching classes in a settlement house.
She is survived by her daughter and a grandson.
      
Her daughter, Elinor Fuchs, said her mother had Alzheimer's disease.
Besides her daughter, Ms. Kessler is survived by a brother, Dr. Edwin S. Kessler of Washington, and two granddaughters.
      
She had suffered a long illness, said her daughter, Katy Klarnet.
Besides her daughter, a resident of West Haven, Conn., Mrs. Klarnet is survived by two grandchildren.
Correction:  September 30, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Betty Klarnet, the retired managing editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine who died on Sept. 26, misstated the residence of her daughter, Katy Klarnet.
She is survived by a son, Luke Breit of Mendocino, Calif.; a daughter, Miranda Breit of Piney River, Va.,and three grandchildren.
      
; a half-sister, Linda Levy of Boulder, Colo.; a son, Peter, of San Francisco; a daughter, Julie Johnson of Norwalk, Conn., and a grandson, Travis Johnson, also of Norwalk.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Edward Rosenthal of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Hannah Wit of Oakland, Calif.; a son, David Wit of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Julie Sovern of New York City and Elizabeth Sovern of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; two stepsons, Jeffrey Sovern of Queens and Douglas Sovern of Oakland, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hoagland died of cancer, said her daughter, Molly Hoagland.
She is survived by her daughter, of Manhattan, and a brother, Henry Magid of Oradell, N.J.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Lenore Ridgway of Kingston, N.Y., three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Wardell Michael Gaynor of Brooklyn and Matthew Small Gaynor of Cincinnati; a daughter, Brenda L. Gainer of Wilmington; 10 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Adam was born in Glasgow, the daughter of a Presbyterian minister.
She died in her sleep, said her daughter, Anne Thomas.
She is survived by her son, Ranald H. Jr. of Denver; her daughter, Anne M. Thomas of Locust Valley, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel Feinberg; a brother, Edward Gilbert; a daughter, Dr. Jaimy Honig, and two grandchildren, all of New York City.
Her daughter Patricia Brooks Mann, a soprano with the New York City Opera, died in January.
She is survived by her other daughter, Joan Palermo of Manhattan; a stepson, Allan Brooks of Great Neck, L.I., and three grandsons.
Mrs. Bozyk is survived by her daughter, Suzanne Armetta of Parlin, N.J.; four grandsons, and a great-grandson.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Kim Allen of Minneapolis; a son, Kerry Allen of New York City; a sister, Mary Behr, and two grandchildren.
      
In July 1940, her premature daughter, her only child, died in a Honolulu hospital after only 24 hours of life.
His daughter's share of the estate was appraised in 1927 at more than $50 million, most of it in trust funds.
She is survived by her husband, J. Mitchell Jablons; a daughter, Pamela Jablons of Manhattan; a son, Dr. David Jablons of San Francisco, and a sister, Grace Burke of Colonie, N.Y.
      
The cause of death was a stroke after a long illness, said her daughter, Sandra Bandler of Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter Sandra, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Ruskin of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a brother, Nate Krevitz of Bakersfield, Calif.; three sisters, Edna Goldberg, Minnie Krevitz and Molly Moise, all of Griffith, Ind., and five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Sandra, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Ruskin of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a brother, Nate Krevitz of Bakersfield, Calif.; three sisters, Edna Goldberg, Minnie Krevitz and Molly Moise, all of Griffith, Ind., and five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her parents were William C. de Mille, a Broadway playwright and screen writer, and Anna George de Mille, a daughter of Henry George, the social reformer, economist and single-tax advocate.
Dr. Feitel is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Fieman of Denver; two sons, Thomas of Summit, N.J., and Charles of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Leeds of Albuquerque, N.M., and six grandchildren.
      

        Aimee Mott Butler, a philanthropist who was a daughter of a founder of the General Motors Corporation, died on Thursday at her home in St. Paul.
Mrs. Butler was the daughter of Charles Stewart Mott, who at the turn of the century became the largest stockholder in General Motors.
She is survived by a daughter, Melinda C. Luke, also of Ridgefield; four brothers, John, Donald, Clifford and Raymond Munger, all of Pittsfield; two sisters, Dorothy Panzeri of Canaan, N.Y., and Ruth Durant of Pittsfield, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Judge is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Judge Howes of Great Neck, L.I.
Mrs. Harris is survived by her husand of 40 years, James T.; a daughter, Karen H. Weidemann of Korsor, Denmark; a son, Christopher T. of Medford, Mass., and a grandson.
      
The cause was liver failure, said a daughter, Penny Robbins.
Penfield Roberts, Crane Brinton and Walter Bogner, is survived by a daughter, Jane Roberts Gill of Brookline; a sister, Catherine Allphin of Middletown, R.I.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      

        Anne Spencer Lindbergh, a writer and the elder daughter of the aviation pioneer Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh, died Friday at her home in Thetford Center, Vt. She was 53.
Ms. Lindbergh is also survived by a daughter, Constance Feydy, and a son, Marek Sapieyevski, both of Thetford Center; two step-daughters, Elisabeth Perrin, of Seattle and Amy Perrin, of White River Junction, Vt.; a sister, Reeve Tripp, of Barnet, and three brothers, Jon, of North Bend, Wash., Land, of Missoula, Mont., and Scott, of Brasilia.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
'The Thin Man,' a 'Quickie'
        The most bizarre of these 60 or so oddities were two 1932 melodramas -- "The Mask of Fu Manchu," in which Miss Loy reluctantly portrayed the sadistic daughter of the archvillain Boris Karloff, and "Thirteen Women" in which, as a skulking Javanese half-caste, she plotted to do in 12 sorority sisters.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
The most bizarre of these 60 or so oddities were two 1932 melodramas: "The Mask of Fu Manchu," in which Miss Loy reluctantly portrayed the sadistic daughter of the archvillain Boris Karloff, and "Thirteen Women" in which, as a skulking Javanese half-caste, she plotted to do in 12 sorority sisters.
At 18, Mr. Margolin won her first professional role as the lead in "Daughter of Silence" on Broadway.
She earned her role in "Daughter of Silence" that summer, after working for $9.65 a week building and painting scenery at the New York Shakespeare Festival.
Mrs. Coleman's watercolors and acrylics were on display at galleries in Santa Monica, Calif.
        She is survived by three sons: Francis Goldwyn of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., John Goldwyn of Los Angeles, and Tony Goldwyn, the actor, of Hoboken, N.J., and a daughter, Catherine Goldwyn of Boston.
      
At 18, Ms. Margolin won her first professional role as the lead in "Daughter of Silence" on Broadway.
She earned her role in "Daughter of Silence" that summer, after working for $9.65 a week building and painting scenery at the New York Shakespeare Festival.
She trained with Anna Freud, daughter of Sigmund Freud and herself a founder of child analysis.
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Sandra van Heerden.
She is survived by a son, Vladimir Mlynar, and a daughter, Michaela Barlova, both of Prague.
      
