Mrs. Todd died of congestive heart failure after a long illness, her daughter, Christine Todd Whitman of Far Hills, N.J., said.
Her daughter, Mrs. Whitman, was narrowly defeated by the Democratic incumbent from New Jersey, Bill Bradley, in her recent campaign for the United States Senate.
Besides Mrs. Whitman, Mrs. Todd is survived by another daughter, Kate Beach of Washington; a son, Webster B. Todd Jr. of Pray, Mont.
She died of cancer of the colon and the liver, said her daughter, Katharine P. Darrow of Brooklyn.
Surviving are a daughter, Katharine P. Darrow, who is vice president of The New York Times Company for broadcasting, information services and corporate development; a sister, Marion Schild of Brooklyn, a retired librarian at the Library of Congress, and three grandchildren.
      
She died of complications after emergency surgery for an ulcer, her daughter, Margaret Faron, said.
She was a daughter of George McAneny, who was Manhattan Borough President from 1910 to 1913 and president of the New York City Board of Alderman from 1914 to 1916.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Summit, N.J., Mrs.
; a daughter, Sharon Cohen, also of Brookline, and a brother, Martin R. Arick of Newton, Mass.
      
Mrs. Provaznik, whose husband, Frantisek, died in 1948, is survived by a daughter, Dr. Alena Polesny, of Altamont, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She died of complications of pneumonia, said her daughter, Allison P. Coudert of Tempe, Ariz.
        Mrs. Coudert was a member of the A.S.P.C.A.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Alexis, of McLean, Va.; a sister, Nina Moore Galston of Huntington, L.I.
She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Leonard Haber, a New York architectural and industrial designer; three sons and a daughter from her marriage to the Texas businessman Clinton Murchison: Clint Murchison 3d, Burk Murchison and Robert Murchison, all of Dallas, and Coke Anne Saunders of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      
Miss Martin's son, the actor Larry Hagman, and daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, introduced the program.
Mrs. Peskin was the daughter of Louis Schnitzer, founder of the Yiddish Art Theater in New York, and his wife, Henriette, a noted actress on the Yiddish stage.
She died of brain cancer, said her daughter, Margot Sohmer of Jackson Heights, Queens.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two granddaughters, Emily Tai and Olivia Sohmer, and two great-granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Dietz is survived by a daughter, Elaine Fenton of Manhattan; a son, Lee E. Surut of Bethesda, Md.
Twice widowed, Mrs. Burtin is survived by a son, Thomas Pineles Golden of Stony Point, N.Y.; a daughter, Carol Burtin Fripp of Toronto, and two grandchildren.
      
She had graduated from Radcliffe College in 1967, and was a potter from 1967 to 1976, owning a ceramics store in Cambridge, N.Y.
        She is survived by a daughter, Jessica L. Oakley of Pelham; her parents, Richard and Edythe, also of Pelham; three sisters, Kelly, of Goldens Bridge, N.Y,, Margaret, of Salem, N.Y., and Nena Levine, also of Pelham; and two brothers, Patrick Donovan of Providence, R.I., and Dr. William Donovan of Manhattan.
Mrs. Mertz became a general partner in Publishers Clearing House, the magazine-subscription business, soon after its founding in 1953 by her husband, Harold E. Mertz, and their daughter, Joyce Mertz Gilmore.
The Joyce Theater on Eighth Avenue at 19th Street, which opened in 1982 and is devoted to dance, is named in memory of her daughter, who died of cancer in 1974.
The daughter of a Manhattan stockbroker, she grew up in Republican surroundings; when she moved to Washington in Roosevelt's first term she was a prime example of what people called "a traitor to one's class.
She was 87 years old and lived in Salisbury, Conn.
        She died of an abdominal aneurysm, said her daughter, Diana Thompson of Cambridge, Mass.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a stepson, Donal Borland of Lithonia, Ga., and two grandchildren.
      
She was 100 years old and died in her sleep, said her daughter, Elizabeth Wiggins of New Hope.
In addition to her daughter, Elizabeth, she is survived by another daughter, Joan Cook of Princeton, N.J.; 7 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Elizabeth, she is survived by another daughter, Joan Cook of Princeton, N.J.; 7 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
She died of respiratory failure, her daughter, Diedre Greenway of Manhattan, said.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her father, Edward Burton, of Manhattan; a brother, James Burton, of Manhattan, and a sister, Lorraine Burton Koiner, of the Bronx.
      
Mrs. Mondadori, who was known as Mimma, was the daughter of the late Arnoldo Mondadori, who founded a publishing empire in Italy 80 years ago.
She is survived by her husband, Rumsey; a daughter, Louise Griggs of Hanover, N.H.; a son, David, of Forest Hills, Queens; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Landes was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Joseph Schlossberg, a co-founder of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America.
In addition to her son Robert, she is survived by another son, Ward F., of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a daughter, Caroline Mark of Wausau, Wis.; a sister, Harriet Dickenson of Binghamton, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was a heart attack, said her daughter, Pamela Kay Brown.
Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Hutson of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She raised money for several organizations, including the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which gave scholarships to Sephardic youths in Israel, and Fountain House, a Manhattan rehabilitation center for the mentally ill.
        She is survived by her husband, Salvador J. Assael, president of Assael International, which produces cultured pearls; a daughter, Arlette, of Sausalito, Calif.; and two brothers, Daniel Vock, a lawyer, of Greenwich, Conn., and David Vock, a businessman, of Nice, France.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
She died of kidney failure, said her daughter, Jan DeVries.
Miss Loeser is survived by her husband and three children: Jan DeVries of Media, Pa.; Peter Jon, of New York City, and Derek, of Santa Monica, Calif. Another daughter, Emily, died of leukemia in childhood and is remembered in Miss Loeser's story "Whose Little Girl Are You?
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband, Donald, a retired procurement officer for the Grumman Aerospace Corporation; two sons, Donald, of Boston, and Theodore Charles of Brattleboro, Vt.; a daughter, Meredith Ann Brown of Harwinton, Conn.; two brothers, Robert G. Schwartz of Exton, Pa., and Louis Schwartz of Buffalo, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jenny Higginbothan Caldwell of Newton, Mass., five grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      
She was a native New Yorker, the daughter of two prominent physicians of the 1890's, Dr. Alexander Abrams and Dr. Amelia Fendler.
Violet Ingeborg Else Popper was born in Hamburg, Germany, the daughter of an importer who died in 1917.
Mrs. Kramarsky is survived by two sons, Bernard, of Great Neck, L.I., and Werner, of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Sonia Kramarsky of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and three-great grandchildren.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Jane, of Riverside, Conn.
        Mrs. Milliken, who opposed the use of animals in medical and scientific experiments, was a director of the Humane Society of the United States and a founder of the Manhattan-based American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Milliken is survived by a granddaughter.
      
She died of cardiac arrest, said her daughter, Virginia Egan of Cairo.
"
        Miss Page was born in Indianapolis on March 22, 1899, the daughter of Dr. Lafayette Page, a brain surgeon, and Marian Heinly, a pianist.
She died of intestinal bleeding and complications of diabetes, her daughter, Dr. Debra Brand, said.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Farmington, Conn., Dr. Zaidens is survived by a sister, Isabel Levin of Manhattan.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Donna, of Los Angeles; a son, Jonathan, of Manhattan, and two sisters.
      

        Louise Dickinson Rich, the author of "We Took to the Woods," a best seller during World War II, died on Tuesday at her daughter's home in Mattapoisett, Mass.
She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Dinah Anderson, said.
She is survived, in addition to her daughter, by a son, Rufus, of Dresden, Me.
She was born in Morristown, the daughter of George W. Jenkins, president of the family-owned Remington Arms Company, and Helen Hartley Jenkins, a benfactor of Columbia University.
She is survived by a daughter, Helen Hartley Mead Platt of Madison, N.J..; a son, Robert Hartley Mead of Norfolk, Conn., and 12 grandchildren.
      

        Marjorie Lee Collins Bishopric, one of the early residents of the Devon Colony in Amagansett, L.I., died on Monday at her daughter's home in Amagansett.
She was 79 years old and lived in Amagansett and Greenwich, Conn.
        She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Lucy Allison Sprunger, said.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Allison Bishopric Jr.; a brother, J. Rawson Collins of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Jay, of Geneva, Mrs. Colebrook is survived by another son, John Van Kirk of Boston, and a daughter, Binda, of Seattle.
      
As a child, Ms. Perkins said, she performed in the children's Sailor Circus, along with Emmett Kelly's daughter and a daughter of one of the Flying Wallendas.
As a child, Ms. Perkins said, she performed in the children's Sailor Circus, along with Emmett Kelly's daughter and a daughter of one of the Flying Wallendas.
She is survived by a son, Joseph, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Babette Sonneborn, also of Scarsdale; 10 grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
"
        Survivors include a daughter, Mary Ann Anderson, and a son, Robert Lansing Jr.
      
Mrs. Taylor was born on Jan. 8, 1933, in New York, the daughter of Theo von Bergen-Maier, an architect, and the former Martina Weincerl, a painter.
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
Mrs. Taylor was born on Jan. 8, 1933, in New York, the daughter of Theo von Bergen-Maier, an architect, and the former Martina Weincerl, a painter.
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
She fled to New York with their daughter in 1941 and began designing hats for Henri Bendel.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Liberman is survived by a daughter, the writer Francine du Plessix Gray, of Warren, Conn., a sister, Lila Duchess of Caylus, France, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by a daughter, two sons and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Buhler is survived by a daughter, Lucille Ford of Manhattan; two stepsons, Ferdinand Schoettle of Minneapolis, and Michael Schoettle of Rolling Hills, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Joan S. Carville of Point Pleasant, N.J., and Mary Alice Jones-Ohlemann of Lake Oswego, Ore.; and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Allison D., of Little Falls, N.J., and David A., of New Canaan, Conn.; a daughter, Kathryn Clark of Weston; 9 grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her son, Robert, an astonomer, author and professor of earth sciences at Dartmouth College; a daughter, Dorothy Heller of Creston, N.C., and a sister, Yolanda Pesce, of Tucson.
      
She was 94 years old and lived in Hallandale, Fla.
        She died of bronchitis, her daughter, Oriole Farb Feshbach, said.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Leonia, N.J. and Amherst, Mass., Mrs. Horch is survived by a brother, Nathan Stone of Lake Worth, Fla., four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      

        Alison Stilwell Cameron, a daughter of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell who became an artist, author and lecturer on China, died Thursday at the Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron died of pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
The daughter of a prominent Baptist minister, she was the wife of Walter Washington, the first elected Mayor of the District of Columbia.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Bennetta Jules-Rosette, an anthropologist, of Leucadia, Calif.; two brothers, Dr. Samuel C. Bullock, of Philadelphia, and Joseph B. Bullock, of Washington; a granddaughter, and a great-granddaughter.
      
; a daughter, Leah Ann , an intern at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston; her mother, Sadie Fuchs of the Bronx; a sister, Norma Resnick of Woodmere, L.I., and two brothers, Daniel Fuchs of Tenafly, N.J., and Leonard Fuchs of Armonk, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her husband, William, chairman of Time Warner Trade Publishing; two sons, Jeffrey and Richard, both of Manhattan, and a daughter, Nancy, also of Manhattan.
      
Her father, Siegfried, whom she adored, died in 1930, along with her grandmother Cosima, who was Franz Liszt's daughter.

        Wally Toscanini, a daughter of Arturo Toscanini who was known in Italy for her charitable works, died yesterday at the home of her daughter in Rome.

        Wally Toscanini, a daughter of Arturo Toscanini who was known in Italy for her charitable works, died yesterday at the home of her daughter in Rome.
Besides her sister, the widow of the pianist Vladimir Horowitz, she is survived by her daughter, Emanuela Castelbarco, and a grandson.
      
She died of cancer, her daughter said.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
She died after a stroke, her daughter said.
A widow, she is survived by her daughter, Edith Woodruff Kunhardt of Manhattan, four grandchildren and four great-granchildren.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, H. Clifford Page; a son, Ronald, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Lois Drew of Manhattan; a sister, Alice LeGrand of Fair Lawn, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, her daughter, Sheri Naaman-Mujica, said.
Besides her daughter, of Kew Gardens, Queens, Mrs. Naaman is survived by her husband, Walter; her parents, Doris and William Davis of Plattekill, N.Y.; three brothers, Wilbert Davis of Manhattan and Robert and Frank Davis, both of Plattekill; a sister, Yvonne Ellis of San Diego; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a daughter, Kathleen Wheatman of Fremont, Calif; three sons, David, of Rye, Philip, of Yonkers, and William, of Farmingdale, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sorel died of complications from leukemia, said her daughter, Claudette.
She is survived by a daughter, Claudette, a concert pianist and a professor of music at the State University of New York at Fredonia, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Elena Mezzetti of Perugia, Italy; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She was born in London on Jan. 11, 1899, the daughter of Richard Le Gallienne, a then-famous poet and journalist, and the former Julie Norregard, a Danish journalist.
Her mother was a concubine and her father a small-town landowner who beat mother and daughter until they fled home.
Her only known child was a daughter, Li Na, fathered by Mao.
At her daughter's refusal, Ms. Jiang is said to have hurled a watermelon to the ground and protested: "Even you do not care for me.
The daughter rethought her career goals and plunged into the study of economics.
Besides Mr. Fox, a public-relations counsel, she is survived by a daughter, Chris Del Cuore of Norway, Me.
She is survived by her husband, Lee; her mother, Jenny Hart; a brother, Herbert Hart of Monte Carlo, Monaco; and, by a former marriage, a daughter, Elise Hart of Berkeley, Calif., and two sons, Michael Sheffrin of Majorca, and Ivan Sheffrin of Washington, and a grandson.
      
She was 90 years old, said her daughter, Linda McGuire.
Her daughter said that Miss Dunnock died of old age.
Mildred Dunnock was born in Baltimore Jan. 25, 1901, her daughter said.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
She was 90 years old, said her daughter, Linda McGuire.
Her daughter said that Miss Dunnock died of old age.
Mildred Dunnock was born in Baltimore Jan. 25, 1901, her daughter said.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Carl Uhr, a professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside; a daughter, Alexandra Beatty, and two grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, her daughter said.
She was born in Manhattan, the daughter of George Frankenthaler, a State Supreme Court justice, and Marion Hendricks Frankenthaler.
She is survived by three children from her first marriage: a daughter, Aileen Godsick of Manhattan, and two sons, Richard Lewisohn 3d of Manhattan and Clifford Lewisohn of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Anne F. Kohn of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband of 21 years, Kip Gowans, a producer; a daughter, Kate Colleran Sullivan; a son, Matthew Remick Colleran; two stepdaughters, Justine Gowans Solly and Nicola Gowans, and her mother, Pat Packard.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Charlotte Foy, of Troy; a daughter, Alexandra Rubinstein, of Pasadena, Calif., and two step-daughters, Erika Schickel, of Los Angeles, and Jessica Schickel, of Northampton, Mass.
      

        Clara Parker, who was the daughter of the founder of the Concord Resort Hotel in Kiamesha Lake, N.Y., and who took an active part in its development and interior design, died on Sunday at her home in Kiamesha Lake.
; a daughter, Aggie Kapelman of Manhattan; three step-daughters, Toni Scribner of St. James, N.Y., Wendy Scribner of Manhattan and Nancy Jaslow of Abington, Pa., and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jules Cohen, a New York cardiologist; two sons, David, of Los Angeles, and Michael, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Linda, of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      
She died of congestive heart failure, a daughter said.
Dr. Goldberg died of natural causes, said her daughter, Alla.
She is survived by a daughter, Alla Goldberg of Manhattan; a sister, Freyda of Dnepropetrovsk, U.S.S.R.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her son, Del, Mrs. Davis is survived by a daughter, Mona Shorey of Sutter Creek, Calif.; a brother, Edward Ponder of Chicago; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Natalie Raetz of Long Beach, Calif., and a son, George Raetz of Denver.
      
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski of Cambridge, a daughter, Anita Robboy of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by a son, Charles M. Wyzanski, and a daughter, Anita Robboy, both of Cambridge; a sister, Anita Warburg of Manhattan, and four granddaughters.
      
In addition to Mr. Feinstein, she is survived by her younger son, Patrick Dakin of Poughkeepsie; a daughter, Colleen Trogisch of Pleasant Valley, N.Y.; and two granddaughters.
      

        Marietta Tree, a daughter of privilege who won plaudits as a representative to the United Nations in the 1960's and as a tireless worker for New York City causes, died yesterday at New York Hospital.
"
        Mrs. Tree was born in Lawrence, Mass., the daughter of the Right Rev.
Her mother was the former Mary Parkman, daughter of a prominent New England family.
The couple had a daughter, Frances FitzGerald, an author whose nonfiction best-seller "Fire in the Lake,"
        about the Vietnam War, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973.
The two had a daughter, Penelope Tree, who became a model.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Erlanger is survived by a daughter, Peri, of Manhattan; two sisters, Lillian Picoult of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Rose Finkelstein of Ellenville, N.Y., and four brothers, Ruby Mayer of Lakewood, N.J., Harvey and Murray, both of Fort Lauderdale, and Leonard, of Hauppauge, L.I.
      
"
        She is survived by her mother, Addie Hutchins of Los Angeles; two sons, Darrin and Raymond, and a daughter, Tracey, all of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
She died of cardiac arrest, said her daughter, June Dorflinger Hardy.
In addition to her daughter, of Naples, she is survived by three stepdaughters, Marilyn M. Wortman of Montclair, N.J.; Cynthia D. Brown of Darien, Conn., and Sally M. Batchelder of Weston, Mass.
      
Ms. Lefcourt is survived by her husband of 26 years, Robert, of New York City; a daughter, Jenny; a son, Daniel; her mother, Marjorie Hoffman of New York City, and a sister, Elaine Hoffman Rattet of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      

        Eva Bertrand Adams, a gold miner's daughter who presided over the United States Mint for eight years, died Friday at a hospital in Reno.
Besides her son, Dr. Linus Abrams of Brookline, Mass., Dr. Abrams is survived by her husband, Nathan, and a daughter, Lydia, of New York City.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Schapiro's survivors include a daughter, Jane G., also of Manhattan; a son, Robert A., of Columbia, Md., and a sister, Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum of United States District Court in Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York City, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Carr is survived by her husband, Anthony M. Radice; a daughter, Julia; her mother, Dorislee Kadis Carr, and a half-sister, Amy, all of New York City.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Jacobs Jr., former chairman of Bache Group Inc., now known as Prudential Securities; a daughter, Nancy Jacobs Haneman of Rye, N.Y.; a son, Harry A.
Mrs. Cline is survived by her husband, Hugh F.; a daughter, Lynn Hunter Cline of Princeton, and a son, Hugh D., of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      

        Oona Chaplin, the daughter of one of the great tragic playwrights of the century, Eugene O'Neill, and wife of one of the screen's greatest comic geniuses, Charles Chaplin, died yesterday at the age of 66 in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland.
The Ellsworths were living in Greenwich, Conn., in the early 1950's when her 15-year-old daughter by her first marriage, Patricia, developed myasthenia gravis.
Mrs. Ellsworth's daughter, a Barnard College graduate and former editor for the Encyclopedia Americana in New York, is now Patricia Wilson, a resident of Holland, Mich. Mrs. Ellsworth's first husband, Mr. Farrell, lives in Manhattan.
She died of causes related to a stroke she suffered two years ago, said her daughter, Whitney Voss.
She spent a good deal of time at colleges as the daughter and niece of trustees.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, John Burnett, of Bali, Indonesia, and six grandchildren.
      
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Joan Binkley of Lake Bluff, Ill.
        Mrs. Zeisler, whose maiden name was Block, was born in Cincinnati on April 18, 1903, and showed a strong interest in art from childhood.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two sons, Peter Florsheim of Sedona, Ariz., and Thomas Florsheim of Milwaukee; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
In 1942 the author said the pen name had been used to protect her daughter, Eleanor Perenyi, who was living in occupied Europe, and because Mrs. Stone's husband, Ellis, was the United States naval attache in Paris, where they were living.
Surviving besides her daughter, a writer, of Stonington, are a grandson and a great-graddaughter.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Frances Commins Bennett of New Haven, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
De Kooning, Warhol and Ruscha
        Born in Portland, Ore., she was a daughter of Meyer Simon, who with Mrs. Weisman's brother, Norton Simon, went on to found Val Vita Food Products, a forerunner of Hunt Wesson Foods.
Besides her brother, she is survived by a sister, Evelyn Simon Prell; two sons, Richard and Daniel; a daughter, Nancy, and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jonah Perry Sr.; her mother, Eva Rutledge; a son, Jonah Jr.; a daughter, Nicol, and several brothers and sisters.
      
Mrs. Bachrach is survived by her twin sons, John, of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., and Robert, of Manhattan and Southbury, Conn., and a daughter, Ellin Gordon, of Williamsburg, Va.
      
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
She died of emphysema, said her daughter, Dena Kaye of Manhattan.
Mrs. Kaye is survived by her daughter, a magazine and television journalist, and a sister, Rhoda Gamson of New York City.
"
        She is survived by two sisters, Lessie M. Holloway of the Bronx and Wilma Taborn of Virginia Beach, Va.; a brother, Samuel K. Epps of Brooklyn; a daughter, Phyllis Davis of Baton Rouge, La., and four grandchildren.
      
' " Effects of Apartheid
        In her stories and in such novels as "A Guest of Honour," "Burger's Daughter" and "My Son's Story," Miss Gordimer has written of the effects of apartheid on the relationships of men and women, parents and children.
More than 20 years later, it banned "Burger's Daughter," a novel described by the academy today as one of her masterpieces, along with "The Conservationist" and "July's People.
The daughter of an Episcopal bishop and a Procter & Gamble heiress, Mrs. Dooling was born in Glendale, Ohio.
She had requested that her remains be made available for research at the Alzheimer's Research Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C.
        Mrs. Bohmrich, a daughter of a Foreign Service officer, traveled and studied in Western Europe, focusing on German culture and tradition.
Mrs. Feldman is survived by her husband, Edgar; a brother, Sherman Yellen; a daughter, Mindy Schanback, and a grandson, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      
They had a daughter, Daria, in 1943, who was born retarded, a condition attributed to the German measles Miss Tierney contracted during her pregnancy.
They had another daughter, Christina, in 1948.
Her daughter, Joan Sweeney of Manhattan, said the cause of death was heart failure.
She is survived by her daughter; a sister, Katherine, of Manhattan; her step-son, Charles Wilson Kingsbury Jr., of Orlando, Fla., and three granddaughters.
      
She was born in New York City, the daughter of Alice Leal Pollock, an actress and playwright, and was educated at the Gardner and Finch Schools.
Mrs. Blum is survived by her husband, Robert E.; a son, John R. H., and a daughter, Alice B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville; a brother, Donald Halsey of New Orleans; 10 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Martin, a daughter of Ellen Doubleday and Atwood Violett, was born in New York City.
In addition to Mr. Doubleday, who lives in Hobe Sound, Fla., and Locust Valley, L.I., she is survived by a daughter, Lavinia Dimond of Ranchos de Taos, N.M.; two sisters, Ellen Violett of Manhattan, and Neltje, of Banner, Wyo.
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
She is survived by a son, James H. 3d, of Jupiter Island; a daughter, Barbara Sweet of Lake Placid; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, John, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Anne Dow of Cambridge, Mass.
"
        Dorothy McElroy was born on Dec. 8, 1916, in Baldwyn, Miss., the third daughter of a postmaster.
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M. of New York, chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M., of New York, who is the current chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, who is the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      
She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Daisy Dickson of Norfolk, Va.
        Miss Kempton, who was born in Vienna, started painting life-size portraits while still a child.
In the 1940's she painted portraits of several members of the Truman Administration and their families, which led to commissions for portraits of the President, his wife and daughter.
