In addition to her husband, an astrophysicist at Harvard and at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Dr. Thaddeus is survived by a daughter, Eva Thaddeus of Albuquerque; a son, Michael Thaddeus of Manhattan; a sister, Alison Wilson of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a brother, Curtis Farrar of Washington.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Earley Jr., a physician whom she wed after the war; a son,  Stanley III; a daughter, Judith Earley; two brothers, Senior Bishop John Adams of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and E. Avery Adams; and a sister, Dr. Lucy Rose Adams.
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Nicki Lee Foster.
They were married in 1943 and she said in a 1982 interview that he asked her for a divorce in 1951, ''because he didn't want his daughter to see him with his problem.
She had more heart problems in the early 1990's, her daughter said, and suffered a stroke in 1998 that left her bedridden.
In it, the daughter has returned to care for her mother, and repeatedly suggests that life has passed her by as a result.
''You've had enough fun in your life,'' she tells her daughter, who never stops protesting that she wants to move to New York or Paris.
Her daughter flirted briefly with a singing career and stayed in Grey Gardens for two years before selling it.
Mrs. Lindgren, who was widowed in 1952, is survived by a sister, Stina Hergin; her daughter, Karin Nyman; seven grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
''
        Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Efraim's daughter Longstocking was indeed a strange girl.
The cause was cancer, her daughter, Kate Phillips, said.
Her mother, Tanya, was, in Ms. Phillips's words, a difficult and depressive woman who drove her daughter to intellectual pursuits.
Ms. Phillips is survived by her daughter, of Los Angeles; her brother, Matthew Miller of Weston, Conn.; and her son-in-law, Modi Wiczyk of Los Angeles.
Shortly before she died, Ms. Phillips recalled with a laugh that she had her daughter's 1999 wedding-rehearsal dinner at -- where else?
Nela, as she was known, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, the daughter of Emil Mlynarski, the founding conductor of the Warsaw Philharmonic and later director of the Warsaw Opera.
Barbara Mackin Barker Warner, the daughter of the geologist Joseph Hoover Mackin, was born in Seattle.
Hildegard Frieda Albertina Knef was born on Dec. 28, 1925, in Ulm, Germany, the daughter of Hans Theodor and Friede Auguste Knef.
She later married David Anthony Palastranga, an actor and director, with whom she had a daughter, Christina.
She is survived by her daughter and her third husband, Paul von Schell, according to The Associated Press.
In addition to Mr. Auer, Ms. Patchett is survived by their daughter, Amy Auer of Westhampton Beach, N.Y.; a sister, Mrs. J. Fred King; and a brother, Frank Patchet.
      
Mr. Adoff survives her, as do two sisters, Nina Anthony, of Columbus, Ohio, and Barbara Davis, of Los Angeles; two brothers, William Hamilton, of Englewood, N.J., and Kenneth James Hamilton Jr., of Chula Vista, Calif.; a daughter, Leigh Hamilton Adoff, of Berlin, and a son, Jaime Levi Adoff, of Manhattan.
Mrs. Fadiman, who as a member of the Hemlock Society supported a right to suicide, took her own life, said her daughter, Anne.
She is survived by her daughter, of Massachusetts; a son, Kim, of Wyoming; a sister, Carol Whitmore of California; and two grandchildren.
''
        Princess Margaret Rose was born on Aug. 21, 1930, at Glamis, Scotland, the second daughter of the Duke and Duchess of York, six years before her father became King George VI with the abdication of his brother, Edward VIII.
Anne, the princess royal and the queen's only daughter, was permitted to divorce her husband, Capt.
''
        Princess Margaret is survived by her son, Lord Linley, her daughter, Lady Sarah, and three grandchildren.
An obituary of her daughter Princess Margaret on Sunday also included the error.
''She really played the death of her son,'' said her daughter, Cynthia, ''and it was too painful for viewers to watch.
In addition to her husband, daughter and son, Jeffrey Krolik of California, she is survived by two grandchildren.
She responded to as much of her fan mail as she could, her daughter said.
Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commissioner, said she died at North Shore University Hospital.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
She is survived by her husband, Lawrence LeShan, and their daughter, Wendy, who also lives in Riverdale.
      
Mr. Newhouse survives Miss DeLay, as do their son, Jeffrey Newhouse, of Bronxville, and their daughter, Alison Dinsmore, of Boston, as well as four grandchildren.
Lakshmi used only her given name as a dancer, but those who knew her as Balasaraswati's daughter knew that she was descended from a continuous line of distinguished musicians and dancers at the court of Tanjore in South India.

        Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the enduringly popular grande dame of the British royal family and the country's most beloved symbol of courage and self-sacrifice during World War II, died in her sleep this afternoon at the Royal Lodge at Windsor Palace, a spokesman for her daughter, Queen Elizabeth II, announced.
]
        When King George died in 1952, she was thrust at the age of 51 into what would be the longest role of her life: that of the queen mother, necessarily taking a back seat to her daughter, Queen Elizabeth.
She was the fourth daughter and ninth child of Lord Glamis, a Scottish nobleman whose family occupied Glamis Castle in Scotland, said to be the place where Macbeth murdered Duncan in Shakespeare's play.
With the death of her husband, Elizabeth had to face the fact that she was no longer on center stage, would have to leave Buckingham Palace, and would, if protocol was strictly followed, have to curtsy to her own daughter, Queen Elizabeth.
The operators at Clarence House, which became the queen mother's official residence, soon became used to putting through her daughter's daily telephone call: ''Your majesty?
''
        Another Divorce Crisis
        Soon afterward, another crisis befell the monarchy when Princess Margaret, the queen mother's younger daughter, fell in love with a divorced man, Peter Townsend, a hero of the Battle of Britain.
Nor did she lose her rather sly, flirtatious smile, her beguiling manner (''I work awfully hard, but Mummy has all the charm,'' her daughter Elizabeth once said) or her easy way with the public.
Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commissioner, said she died at North Shore University Hospital.
''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said.
Shelley Smith Mydans was born on May 20, 1915, in Palo Alto, Calif., the daughter of a professor of journalism at Stanford University.
Mrs. Mydans is survived by her husband; their son, Seth, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times; their daughter, Shelley, known as Misty, of Sacramento, Calif.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Georgina Nkulenu; her daughter, Vincentia Canacco; her sons Vincent Malm, Christian Biassey and Stephen Jr., and six grandchildren.
She was deeply impressed by Mr. Reagan's presence and joined his campaign for governor, then moved to Washington with the Reagans in 1980, said her daughter, Cheryl Crispen of Alexandria.
She is survived by her husband; their son, Julius, who is the Brooklyn parks commissioner, and their daughter, Mindy Spiegel of Montreal.
      
The daughter of a supermarket owner in Minnesota, she took skis.
She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, said her daughter, Anna Harrison.
Ms. Harrison is survived by her daughter, who lives in Bethlehem, Conn., and her son, Josh Harrison of Manhattan.
Her daughter said her mother returned to the religion of her early childhood, Roman Catholicism, in her 40's, partly as a result of interviewing Dorothy Day of the Catholic Worker movement and partly because she hoped to meet in heaven the high school English teacher who had first appreciated her writing.
      
She had long been in declining health, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter, Sydney Gurewitz Clemens.
Morton and Helen Sobell had fled to Mexico in 1950 with their infant son, Mark, and her daughter, trying to find passage to Europe but lacking passports.
Besides her daughter, a resident of San Francisco, and her son, who lives in Menlo Park, N.J., Mrs. Sobell is survived by a sister, Dr. Edith Garduk of Bethesda, Md.
''
        Mrs. Handler named the doll after her daughter.
The youngest of 10 children of Polish immigrants, Ruth Mosko was the daughter of a blacksmith who had settled in Denver.
Inspired by her daughter's fascination with paper dolls that looked like teenagers or adults and came with multiple outfits and accessories, Mrs. Handler decided to produce a doll that she described as looking more or less like a real teenager.
She is survived by her husband of 63 years; a daughter, Barbara Segal of Los Angeles; a brother, Aaron Mosko of Denver; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      

        Indra Devi, the daughter of European nobility who introduced the ancient discipline of yoga to the Kremlin leadership, Hollywood stars like Gloria Swanson and even students in India, died on Thursday in Buenos Aires.
A woman at her foundation who identified herself only as Anna said that she had an adopted daughter named Rosita.
      
In the film, a romantic comedy, Ms. Félix played the daughter of a wealthy patriarch in a Mexican town seized by revolutionary troops.
; a daughter, Betty Hillman of Wilmington, Vt.; and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was widespread cancer, her daughter Martha Levinson said.
She is survived by a daughter, Diane Freudenheim Lange of Danbury, Conn.; a son, Milton, who is a reporter for The New York Times; seven grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
A native New Yorker, Mrs. Matzkin was the daughter of Louis and Jennie Cohen.
Survivors include a son, Dr. Michael Matzkin; a daughter, Hannah Lavine; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. de Saint Phalle is survived by a brother, John de Saint Phalle, of Florida; a daughter, Laura Duke, of Paris; a son, Philip Mathews, of New York; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
''There were not a lot of female businesspeople then,'' said Katharine Delahaye Paine, her daughter.
She left Madeira to work during the Depression, her daughter said.
The daughter of a doctor, she detested dolls, and her earliest ambition was to be a writer.
Her only survivor is her daughter, Margaret Wirt of Logansport, Ind.
Harriet Stratemeyer Adams, the daughter of the syndicate's founder, for years said that she alone was the author of Nancy Drew.
Barbara Anne Betts was born on Oct. 10, 1910, in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, the daughter of a socialist tax inspector who taught himself ancient Greek and a strongly socialist mother, both of Quaker background.
Ms. Tish is survived by her daughter, Frances Tish, and a sister, Diana Durkin, both of Manhattan.
      
Professor Roswell is survived by a son, Dr. Arthur, of Bridgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Elaine Roswell of New Haven; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.
Their daughter Sheila Gruson died in 1999.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
Mrs. Spoerri was born Elka Zagaroff in Sofia, Bulgaria, in 1924, the daughter of a prominent economist.
Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Ms. Jordan was born in Harlem, the daughter of Jamaican immigrants, Granville Ivanhoe Jordan, a postal clerk, and Mildred, a nurse.
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Oriana Rodman.
By now Mrs. Lederer was an affluent housewife and the mother of a daughter.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Phillips, Mrs. Lederer is survived by her daughter, Margo Howard, of Cambridge, Mass.
By now Mrs. Lederer was an affluent housewife and the mother of a daughter.
In addition to her sister, Mrs. Phillips, Mrs. Lederer is survived by her daughter, Margo Howard, of Cambridge, Mass.
Her daughter, Barbara, known as Boo Boo, died in 1984.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.
Their daughter Sheila Gruson died in 1999.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
Besides her son Eric, of Larchmont, N.Y., she is survived by her husband of 50 years, David Gelman; another son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Amy Haugesag of Kansas City, Mo.
Barbara Scott was born July 6, 1924, in Washington, the daughter of a real estate broker and a chemistry teacher.
Born Phyllis Cannon in 1905 in Salt Lake City, she was a great-granddaughter of the Mormon founder Brigham Young and the daughter of a prosperous sugar company executive.
She is survived by a son, Paul Wattis, of Paicines, Calif.;, a daughter, Carol Casey, of San Francisco; five grandsons; three granddaughters; and eight great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Cook was 90 and had been in failing health for a decade, said a daughter, Martha Robes.
Mrs. Cook was an active philanthropist, though she preferred to give anonymously, her daughter said.
Mrs. Cook gave large sums to institutions throughout New England, from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University to animal shelters, her daughter said.
; David, of Lafayette, Colo.; and Erich, of Los Angeles; and a daughter, Stacey Mann, also of Los Angeles.
      
She had lived with her daughter, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, since 1996, Ms. Thomas said.
Her mother, the former Bessie Holmes, remarried and moved with her daughter to Riverside, Calif., and then Los Angeles.
She is survived by her daughter, her son, who lives in Belmont, Mass., three grandchildren and three great-granddaughters.
She is survived by her daughter, Anne Marshall of London, who is a doctor, and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Fritchey is survived by three sons, Graham Wisner of Great Falls, Va., Ellis Wisner of Washington, Frank Wisner of New York City, a former ambassador to Zambia, Egypt, India and the Philippines; a daughter, Elizabeth Wisner Hazard of Belgrade, Me.
She was the daughter of William Claiborne Hall, an executive of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, and the former Christine Collins.
They live in a small walk-up apartment in the East Village, with their 8-year-old daughter, Paris 99.
She is survived by a daughter, Natalie Fell Spencer; two stepsons, David T. Schiff and Peter G. Schiff; 13 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York City; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York; and two grandchildren.
(Her son, Sandy Bull, a noted guitarist, died last year; she is survived by a daughter, Daisy Paradis, and a son, Digger St.
''
        Ms. Hellman's daughter, Daisy Paradis, said that her mother, who sometimes smoked a pack of Salems a day, had slowed down only slightly over the last few years.

        Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57.
Her daughter Chloe had cerebral palsy and developmental delays.
Ms. Lipton is survived by her husband; Chloe, who, with some help, lives on her own in Emeryville, Calif.; and a daughter from her second marriage, Daria Armstrong.
      
An Ohio doctor's daughter, Mrs. McCollum was a concert and opera singer for a short time after graduating from Florida Southern College.
''
        The daughter of a tennis instructor and a native of Ventura, Calif., she played on the men's tennis team at the University of Southern California because there was no women's squad.
In addition to Whitaker, whom she married in 1991, she is survived by three children from her marriage to Kiner, the longtime Mets broadcaster; sons Michael and Scott Kiner, and a daughter, Kathryn Freeman, all of Palm Desert, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      
With her daughter, Georgia, she formed the vocal duo the Pamela Sisters.
Nowadays her daughter, Georgia Frontiere, is best known as the owner of the St. Louis Rams.
The cause was complications of cancer, her daughter, Alexandra, said.
She is survived by her daughter, Alexandra Whyte; and two granddaughters.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Raven is survived by a son, Raven Anderson, and a daughter, Anabel Anderson, both of Setauket, and a sister, Deborah Libaire of Bellport, N.Y.
      
''
        Joan Maud Littlewood was born in London in 1914, the daughter of a 16-year-old unmarried housemaid.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Reinhart is survived by her daughter, Ariane M. Reinhart of New York; her mother, Florence Keren of Washington; and three stepsons, Taylor, of Los Angeles; Adam, of Honolulu; and Scott, of Geneseo, N.Y.
      
Ms. Mink is survived by her husband; their daughter, Gwendolyn; and a brother, Eugene Takemoto.
      
She died of a heart attack in her apartment above the Cherry Lane Theater in the West Village, said her daughter, Kathryn Emmett.
and Mark, of Oberlin, Ohio; a daughter, Lisa Winsor of Mattapoisett, Mass.
'')
        She is survived by a daughter, Clara Johnson, of Los Angeles.
She told of baking 70 pies and 14 plates of ''nothings,'' a traditional Amish pastry, for her daughter's wedding.
In addition to her son, of Manhattan, Ms. Lessing is survived by her husband, Tito Enrique Canepa, also of Manhattan, and a daughter, Dr. Cathy Canepa of White Plains.
      
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Yvonne May of Zurich; a stepdaughter, Patti Anderson of Honolulu; and two stepsons, Bruce Soule of Newport Beach, Calif., and Wallace Soule of Bakersfield, Calif.
A daughter, Catherine, a magazine writer, died in a car crash at age 23 in 1969, and a prominent prize for women in journalism is named for her.
She was the daughter of two Harley Street physicians and had a privileged upbringing.
Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, the daughter of David Whitmire Hearst and Hope Chandler Hearst, was born on March 24, 1939, in Los Angeles and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1961.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Kinga; and her son, Sebastian.
      
She had a heart attack at a diner in Brooklyn Heights, the neighborhood where she lived, her daughter, Martha Potter, said.
Her mother had another daughter, Rachel Swoger of Providence, R.I., who was Ms. Tiger's half-sister and survives her.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Tiger's other survivors include three grandsons and three great-grandsons.
Ms. Slavenska is survived by a daughter, Maria Ramas, of Culver City, Calif.
      
She is survived by a son, Piers, and a daughter, Auriol.
      
List, who received the National Medal of Arts from President Bill Clinton in 1996, was born Vera Glaser in 1908 in Brookline, Mass., the daughter of a housepainter from Latvia.
One daughter, Jo Levinson, died last year.
      
Dr. Gesell was a pioneer in the compassionate treatment of research animals and helped his daughter shape the Animal Welfare Institute and its guiding principles.
She is survived by a daughter, Christabel Gough of New York.
      
She is survived by her husband; her 13-year-old daughter, Jessica Smith; her mother, Barbara of Philadelphia; and her father, John of Benson, Ariz.
        She summed up her career by saying: ''I needed to run for all the wrong reasons.
''She had an Agent Orange claim that we will continue to pursue for her daughter, Molly,'' said the spokesman, Rick Weidman.
'' That experience led her to write her own book in 1992, ''American Daughter Gone to War.
Ms. Van Devanter, a native of Arlington, Va., is survived by her husband, Tom Buckley, and their daughter, Molly; a stepdaughter, Brigid Buckley of Raleigh, N.C.; and Ms. Van Devanter's mother, Helen Van Devanter of Sterling, Va.
      
She is survived by her partner, Tim Barclay; her sons, Christopher Stone of Brooklyn, and Nicholas Stone of Falls Church, Va.; and her daughter, Rebecca Stone of Brookline, Mass.
      
She had been in declining health since she suffered a broken hip in a fall last month, said her daughter, Martha Doerr Toppin.
She grew up with nannies and servants, as well as more intangible blessings: her family loved reading and lively discussions, her daughter said.
The cause was lung cancer, said Lisa Grossman Thomas, her daughter and co-author of ''Lobscouse and Spotted Dog,'' a companion book to Mr. O'Brian's Aubrey-Maturin series of 18 nautical novels set during the Napoleonic Wars.
Mrs. Grossman and her daughter set out to recreate 18th-century cooking, a feat akin to reproducing the orchestral sound of the period.
Besides her daughter, a resident of Babylon, N.Y., Ms. Grossman is survived by her husband of 51 years, Herbert Grossman, a conductor, and by a brother, Blair Chotzinoff of Denver.
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
Her survivors include a daughter, Lesley Lowe Israel of Royal Oak, Md.
Mrs. Patterson is survived by a daughter, Patricia Marvin Patterson of Kingston, N.H.; and a grandson.
      

        Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven.
In 1994, Simon & Schuster published ''The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White,'' a portrait of life in the black bourgeoisie drawn by her daughter, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip.
Her daughter, Mrs. Haizlip, used all means, from private eyes to public records, to trace their many strands of ancestry and relate their stories.
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Watts of Shelburne; two sons, David Watts of Charlotte, Vt., and Lanny Watts of Burlington, Vt.; and four grandchildren.
      
