; a daughter, Nadine Rea of Sharpsburg, Ga.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
''
        As Miss Lillie left her booth, she loudly told the salon proprietor, in her most proper and meticulously enunciated English: ''You may tell the butcher's daughter that Lady Peel is finished.
She is survived by a daughter, Irina Lasoff of St. Paul, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ryder is survived by 2 sons and a daughter from a first marriage, William and Richard Donnelly and Sister Ann Donnelly, all of Washington; 3 daughters by Mr. Ryder, Susan Skaggs of West Chester, Pa., and Mary Jane Belber and Molly Ryder, both of Washington; 16 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Gould is survived by a daughter, Sesaly Kraft of Federalsburg, Md.
Mrs. Ege, daughter of the playwright Percy MacKaye, wrote ''The Secret Iron of the Heart,'' published in 1982, and ''The Battle for the Sunlight: A Modern Legend,'' which was reissued in 1983, both by the Admonis Press.
She is survived by a daughter, Sandra L. Clark of Manhattan and Greenwich, and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Low is survived by a sister, Hortense Mayer Hirsch of Manhattan, who is 101; by two sons, Stuart, of Darien, Conn., and Robert, of Manhattan, a former New York City Councilman and Environmental Protection Administrator; a daughter, Doris Hirsch of Stamford, Conn.; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Betsy Magnus of Stamford, Conn.; two sons, Henry, of Denver, and Victor, of Weston, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Anne Marie Roth of Weston; a sister, Illa Jones of Naples, Fla.; a grandson, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ruth Reinhold of Tenafly, N.J.; a son, Albert, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; a sister, Sylvia Robinson of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
'' She also appeared with Maurice Schwartz in 1947 in ''Shylock and His Daughter'' and with Leo Fuchs in 1957 in ''Finley's Fan Club.
She is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bruen of East Falmouth, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, France-Helene Weindling of Manhattan, and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bruen of East Falmouth, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
Fish, whose husband died in 1979, is survived by their daughter, Marilyn Munro of Westport; a sister, Margaret Tongue of East Orange, N.J.; three grandchldren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Johanna Garfield, and a son, Frank Rosengarten, both of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Schuman, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      
Miss Syrkin was born in Bern, Switzerland, the daughter of Dr. Nachman Syrkin, a prominent Socialist Zionist theoretician.
Mrs. North is survived by a son, David, of Washington and a daughter, Arielle North Olson of Harding Township, a sister, Edith Buchanan Baker of Zionsville, Ind., a brother, Howard A. Buchanan of Downers Grove, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin Collett Vare of New Haven; a daughter, Glenna Kalen of Caracas, Venezuela, and a brother, Edwin A. Collett of Brewster, Mass.
      
Barbara Wertheim was born on Jan. 30, 1912, in New York, the daughter of Maurice Wertheim, an investment banker, art collector and philanthropist, and Alma Morgenthau Wertheim, a sister of Henry Morgenthau Jr., who was Secretary of the Treasury under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
''
        ''The tyranny of men not being quite as total as today's feminists would have us believe,'' she added, writing in 1981, ''our first daughter was born nine months later.
Surviving are a daughter, Christine, of Oakland, and a sister, June McVeigh, of Sarasota, Fla.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Babette Cole of Brooklyn; two sisters, Mary Shapiro of Manhattan and Frances Goodman of Hawthorne, N.J.; a brother, Sidney Davidoff, of Queens, and a granddaughter.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Mary Lefkowitz of Wellesley, Mass; two sons, Peter, of South Londonderry, Vt., and John, of Manhattan; a sister, Janice W. Byfield of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Robert, of Livingston, N.J., and Matthew, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Rosemarie, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joseph; a daughter, Christine Bagley of Hampton, Va.; two sons, Vincent, of Minneapolis, and Timothy, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Frederic Armand-Delille, of Faverolles, France; a daughter, Angelique, of West Germany; a sister, Paola, of Parfondeval, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Logan was a daughter of Edward Harrigan, the composer, writer and vaudeville performer, and the wife of Joshua L. Logan, the director, producer and writer, from 1945 until he died in July.
She is survived by her husband, Norman; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a son, Daniel, of Claremont, Calif.; her father, Louis Ginsberg of Brooklyn, and a granddaughter.
      
; a daughter, Judith, of Milton, Mass.
Princess Dok Hye, the daughter of King Kojong, was sent to Tokyo by the Japanese in 1925, at the age of 13.
Princess Dok Hye, the daughter of King Kojong, was sent to Tokyo by the Japanese in 1925, at the age of 13.
She is survived by a daughter, Helen, of Cambridge, Mass.
Daughter of a Pianist
        Lucille Desiree Ball was born on Aug. 6, 1911 in Celoron, outside Jamestown, N.Y. She was the daughter of the former Desiree Hunt, a pianist, and Henry Dunnell Ball, a telephone lineman, who died when she was 3.
Daughter of a Pianist
        Lucille Desiree Ball was born on Aug. 6, 1911 in Celoron, outside Jamestown, N.Y. She was the daughter of the former Desiree Hunt, a pianist, and Henry Dunnell Ball, a telephone lineman, who died when she was 3.
''
        For many years she and Mr. Morton had homes in Beverly Hills and Palm Springs and in Snowmass, Colo.
        Miss Ball is survived by her husband, her daughter, her son and three grandchildren.
Her first novel, ''Mom, the Wolf Man and Me'' (1972), was about the daughter of an unmarried, sexually active woman.
; a daughter, Grace Doria of Queens; a brother, Ricardo Miscioscia of Naples; 17 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband, their daughter, Marina Beadleston of Aspen, Colo., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Felix Mitchell of London; a daughter, Gisela Weil of Elmhurst, Queens; two sisters, Emmy Braun of Binyamina, Israel, and Ruth Fleck of South Orleans, Mass., and a grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Norval, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Mary Fearey of Chestnut Hill, Pa.; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert; two sons, Jonathan, of Tenafly, and Joseph, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Rachel, of San Francisco, and a brother, Michael Bernstein, of Murray Hill, N.J.
      
Surviving Mrs. Newhouse are her daughter, Meg Kirkpatrick, and a brother, George Roche, both of Manhattan, and a grandson.
She is survived by her husband, Allen Solomon; a daughter, Laurie Rudach of Kyoto, Japan; her mother, Dina Heiblum of Brooklyn, and a sister, Claire Kotchmar of Thiells, N.Y.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Izetta Jewel Smith of Portland, Ore.; a son, Rex W. D. Smith 3d.
Mrs. Takatsukasa was the third daughter of the late Emperor Hirohito, Japan's longest-reigning monarch, who died on Jan. 7.
Mrs. Takatsukasa was the third daughter of the late Emperor Hirohito, Japan's longest-reigning monarch, who died on Jan. 7.
; a daughter, Dorothy Russell of Rockport; five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sally Kirkland, the actress, of Los Angeles, and a brother, Robert T. Phinney of Santa Fe, N.M.
Born to a Musical Family
        She was born in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, on May 17, 1906, the daughter of a bandmaster named Rudolf Kunc.
'' and went on, ''Dear Mum and Dad, Son Wrote, I Have Now Become Your Daughter.
She was the daughter of Georges Goutiere and the former Alicia Wintle.
Surviving are her husband, Forrest E. Mars Sr., the former head of the company, of Las Vegas, Nev.; two sons, Forrest Jr. and John; a daughter, Jacqueline Mars Vogel; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Lois Lawrence of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Glasser of Highland Park, N.J.; a sister, Betty Bernstein of Miami Beach; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Honor Lilbush Wingfield Tracy was born on Oct. 19, 1913, in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk County, England, the daughter of a surgeon.
She is survived by a son, Dr. John Randolph Backman of Encinitas; a daughter, Susan Patricia Niehaus of San Antonio; a sister, Henrietta Lieberman of North Bergen, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jean Putnam of Devon, Pa.; a son, David, of Indian River, Ontario; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Patricia O'Reilly of Falls Church; a son, James, of Bridgehampton, L.I., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, James; two sons, Matthew and Joshua; a daughter, Margaret, of Monmouth Hills, N.J., and a brother, Dawes Walter of Wilton, Conn.
      
She is survived by two sons,the rock singer Country Joe McDonald, of Berkeley, and Billy of Oakland; a daughter, Susan Amoroso of Bolinas, Calif.; a brother, Sidney Plotnick of Los Angeles, and 10 grandchildren.
      
Ms. West is survived by a daughter, Piri Halasz of Manhattan; three stepsons, and a stepdaughter.
      
; a daughter, J. Marion Nentwig of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Grace Koster-Chase of Park Forest, Ill; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      

       Kyriena Siloti, a piano teacher who was the daughter of the pianist and conductor Alexander Siloti, died of a heart attack at New York Hospital on Friday.
Kyriena Siloti, a piano teacher who was the daughter of the pianist and conductor Alexander Siloti, died of a heart attack at New York Hospital on Friday.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. F. Mitchell Cummins; a daughter, Rosamond Mitchell Cummins of Boston, and a son, Christopher K. Cummins, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving is a daughter, Tanima Cynthia Bossart, of Jamaica, Queens.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Anne Klass of Washington; a son, John, of Hanover, N.H.; two sisters, Elizabeth Rosenfeld of Larchmont, N.Y. and Bernice Newmark of West Palm Beach, and one grandson.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Lester; a daughter, Judith Aviva Lyons of New Rochelle; a son, George David Lyons of West Harrison, Ind., and one granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Lady de Rothschild of London; two sons, Nash, of Washington, and Steven, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Ivy Alvorado of Stamford.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Avis Godbout of Dublin, N.H.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Mary Wilson of Fort Lee, N.J.; a son, John S., of Alexandria; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Pamela, of Manhattan; a son, Michael, of Paris, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Marvin; two sons, John, of Princeton, N.J., and Richard, of Randolph, N.J.; a daughter, Barbra London of West Orange, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alastair B.; a son, Robin, of Washington; a daughter, Dorothy B. Moore of Greenwich, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are the children of the first marriage, Mortimer W. Hall of Millbrook, N.Y., and Adele Hall Sweet, of Manhattan; a daughter from the second marriage, Sarah-Ann Kramarsky, also of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Judith Rosen of Alexandria; a son, Steven Jacobs of Tucson, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
Her father, Earl D. Reutz, a lawyer, encouraged his talented daughter, whose given name was Janice.
A daughter, Christina Johnson, is now design director of a line of lingerie for Warnaco called Olga's Christina, which is aimed at a younger, sports-oriented customer.
''
        She is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Barbara; a sister, Letty Osserman, and her brothers, Eugene and Andrew, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Susan Hartman of Carson City, Nev., and three grandchildren.
      

       Agnes C. Maginnes, who was active in charitable work in Westchester County, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at the home of her daughter, Nancy Kissinger, in Kent, Conn. She was 94 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y.
        Agnes C. Maginnes, who was active in charitable work in Westchester County, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at the home of her daughter, Nancy Kissinger, in Kent, Conn. She was 94 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y.
        Mrs. Maginnes, a resident of Ardsley for the last five years, had lived previously in White Plains.

       Agnes C. Maginnes, who was active in charitable work in Westchester County, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at the home of her daughter, Nancy Kissinger, in Kent, Conn. She was 94 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y.
        Agnes C. Maginnes, who was active in charitable work in Westchester County, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at the home of her daughter, Nancy Kissinger, in Kent, Conn. She was 94 years old and lived in Ardsley, N.Y.
        Mrs. Maginnes, a resident of Ardsley for the last five years, had lived previously in White Plains.
In addition to her daughter, who is the wife of Henry A. Kissinger and also has a home in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, David, of Chevy Chase, Md., and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Brown leaves her husband, Dr. Edward E. Shev, a neurologist; a daughter, Ann Elizabeth Shev-Dearborn of Tilton, N.H.; two stepchildren, Randall Shev of San Jose, Calif., and Karen Dunn of Ithaca, N.Y., and two sisters, Kay Cunningham of Phoenix and Barbara Holekamp of St. Louis.
      
''  Anguish and Acclaim  Role of a Lifetime In 'All About Eve'
        With the end of the Warners era, Miss Davis's third marriage, to William Grant Sherry, an artist by whom she had a daughter, Barbara Davis Sherry, was also ending.
She won custody of her daughter.
During that period it also became apparent that the Merrills' adopted daughter, Margot, was retarded, and at the age of 3 she had to be put in a special school.
''
        It was never a secret that Miss Davis was temperamental, opinionated and often difficult to get along with, but in 1985 a scandalous book about her, by her own daughter, shocked her critics as well as her fans.
She confessed later that her estrangement from her daughter pained her.
She is survived by her husband, Denis Nahum; a daughter, Angela, of Bogota; her parents, Maurice and Beatrice Lernoux of Hemet, Calif.; and a sister, Lisa, of San Diego.
      
Mrs. Liotta was an alumna of New York University, Surviving are her husband, Silvester; a daughter, Anita Ness of Bricktown, N.J.; two sons, Michael, of Coram, L.I., and Alfred, of Yonkers, and nine grandchildren.
      
Also surviving is a daughter, Sarah, of Seattle.
      
She is survived by a son, Harry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Caroline, of Atlanta, and one grandchild.
      
Collecting Since the 1930's
        Mrs. Malbin, who was born in Detroit on Nov. 13, 1897, was the daughter of Albert Kahn, an industrial architect who designed the Ford Motor Company's River Rouge plant in Detroit, among other important factory complexes in the United States and abroad.
She is survived by her mother, Elizabeth Firestone of Akron and Newport, R.I.; a daughter, Elizabeth Leatherman of Boston, and two sisters, Martha Ford of Detroit and Anne Ball of Greenwich, Conn.
      
In addition to her daughters Laura Goeldlin and Beatrice Steinhaus, survivors include a third daughter, Elinor B. Preis of Rancho Bernardo, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marvin; a daughter, a son, her mother, three sisters, seven brothers and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Greenacre is survived by a daughter, Ann R. Roy of New Orleans; a son, Dr. Peter Richter of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mary Therese McCarthy was born on June 21, 1912, in Seattle, the daughter of Roy Winfield McCarthy, a member of a prominent Roman Catholic family in Minneapolis, and the former Therese Preston, whose father, a transplanted New Englander, was one of Seattle's most successful lawyers.
She is survived by a daughter, Mary Amory of Washington; a brother, William Taylor of South Natick, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Pierre; two sons, John, of Paris, and James, of Rochester; a daughter, Juliet, of Watertown, Mass.
Surviving are a son, Carl, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Marjorie Kittredge, of Boxford, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Jill, of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Michael, of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She was a native of Marietta, Ohio, the daughter of Daniel Hand Buell and the former Ellen Lewis Nye.
Surviving are her husband, Alan; a daughter, Laurie, and a son, Gordon, both of New York, and a sister, Alice Glass of Plano, Tex.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Joan Bull of New York City; a son, Peter, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Harriet Bein of Hanover, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      
At Mrs. Ibarruri's bedside when she died was her sole surviving child, her daughter Amaya, and other relatives, The Associated Press reported.
      

       Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Civic League, died of a heart attack Sunday at the home of her daughter Frances Wood in Mt.
Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Civic League, died of a heart attack Sunday at the home of her daughter Frances Wood in Mt.
She is survived by another daughter, Holley Smith of Glen, Mont.
She is survived by her husband, Francis; a son, John, of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Patricia Phillips of Fairfield, Conn.; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Chantal McCarroll of Lawrenceville, N.J., four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Mazzola is survived by a daughter, Mary Rooney of Manhattan; a brother, Charles, of Forest Hills, Queens, and a grandson.
      
''
        Mrs. Buttenwieser, who was born in Manhattan, was the daughter of two leading figures of ''our crowd,'' the 100 or so German Jewish families who founded leading banking, securities and retailing empires.
Her mother, Adele Lewisohn, was the daughter of Adolph Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products.
Surviving are her sister, Mary Harwood of Washington, Conn., and her daughter, Sister Catherine, of Evansville, Ind.
      
Two husbands and a daughter had died earlier.
      
Mrs. Robertson is survived by a daughter, Charlotte, of Berkeley, Calif.; two sons, Cary Jr., of Lexington, Ky., and Henry P. S., of Louisville, Ky., and two grandchildren.
      
She came to the United States in 1940, when the Nazis invaded Belgium, with her American husband, Sylvain, a diamond merchant, and their infant daughter.
She is survived by her daughter, Anne-Marie Levine of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Francine Schwarzkopf, also of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jesse; two sons, David, of Great Neck, and Louis, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Miriam Harris of Great Neck; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Henry; a daughter, Anita Greenbaum-Brush of Auburndale, Mass.

       Mary Rogers Brooks, the daughter of the humorist Will Rogers, died Wednesday after a brief illness.
Mary Rogers Brooks, the daughter of the humorist Will Rogers, died Wednesday after a brief illness.
; a daughter, Marina, of Santa Fe, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
      
She was born Aileen Bisbee in San Francisco, the daughter of George W. Bisbee, the president of the Pioneer Fruit Company, and was educated in private schools in Paris and London, where she went on the stage in 1915.
Mrs. Ward said her daughter's leukemia prognosis had been good, but Brooke continued to be afflicted with a condition in which the body rejects the transplanted marrow.
She is survived by her husband, Jules L. Green of Manhattan; a son, Morley Anthony Stern of Los Angeles; a daughter, Susan Cookson of Southfield, Mass.
She also wrote two novels, ''Gaunt's Daughter'' and ''Wake and Find a Stranger.
