''We are hoping to get helpers in every town and school district throughout the world,'' said Barbara Dorsey, Ms. Plummer's daughter, who said she plans to continue with her mother's work.
As a single parent seeking to provide for herself and her daughter, Ms. Plummer went to work as a housekeeper.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Savannah, Ms. Plummer is survived by a grandson.
She was 8 when her parents divorced and her mother, a native of Murfreesboro, Tenn., took her young daughter and her two sons, Cameron and Frederick, back to her birthplace.
''
        A scholar's daughter, Miss Hsieh was born in a village in Hunan province.
She is survived by a daughter, Lily Chia Brissman of Nacogdoches, Tex.
She is survived by her husband of 35 years, James Denman; two sons, Daniel Stanton of Ridgewood, N.J., and James L. Denman of Manhattan; a daughter, Diana Denman of Atlanta; a brother, Rupert Welch of Falls Church, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Morgan Most of Agoura Hills, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Jill Allgauer of Munich, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Lamarr was born Hedwig Eva Marie Kiesler in Vienna, the daughter of a well-to-do banker and a concert pianist.
She adopted a son, James, and had two children with Loder, a son, Anthony, and a daughter, Denise; they all survive her.
''  Miss Lihotzky was born in Vienna, the daughter of an Austrian civil servant.
After separating from her first husband, Edward Dalziel, she moved to the United States in 1923 with her daughter, finding work as a legal secretary, her lifelong career.
' ''
        She is survived by her daughter, Nydia Levick of Port Angeles, five grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and four great-great grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Margaret Lescher of Riverdale, the Bronx.
''
        On divorce, she gave voice to many readers' feelings in a ''Hers'' column in The Times in 1980, describing the day she and her former husband watched their older daughter's high school graduation: ''There on stage is someone who is half he, half she; their blood, their genes.
''
        Besides Margaret Lescher, she is survived by another daughter, Katherine Lescher of Sydney, Australia;  her mother, Mary G. Cantwell of Bristol; a sister, Diana Nickerson of Pittsburgh; and a granddaughter.
      
The daughter of a small-town banker, Ms. Davies told her niece that she had ''always felt a hankering to go to New York.
''
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Simon is survived by a daughter, Sheila Simon of Carbondale; a son, Martin, of Crofton, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Peri Yusef of London; a son, Roy P., of Brookline, Mass.
Ms. Cashin was born on Sept. 28, 1915, in Oakland, Calif., the daughter of Carl Cashin, a photographer and inventor, and Eunice Cashin.
Smiling broadly, the mother told officials that her daughter was 21 -- a bit of calculated revenge for centuries of female disenfranchisement.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Besides her two sisters and her daughter, Alexandra, of Sparkill, Mrs. Pelletier is survived by her mother, Madeline Moran of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; another daughter, Etain, also of Sparkill; a son, Kieran, of Turbotville, Pa.; another sister, Marie Long of Jersey City; three brothers, John Moran of Manalapan, N.J., Joseph Moran of Ireland, and Robert Moran of Wappinger Falls, N.Y.; and two grandsons.
      
Besides her two sisters and her daughter, Alexandra, of Sparkill, Mrs. Pelletier is survived by her mother, Madeline Moran of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; another daughter, Etain, also of Sparkill; a son, Kieran, of Turbotville, Pa.; another sister, Marie Long of Jersey City; three brothers, John Moran of Manalapan, N.J., Joseph Moran of Ireland, and Robert Moran of Wappinger Falls, N.Y.; and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eddie Starr II, of Phoenix, and a daughter, Evelyn Starr, of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Melvin Faggs, of New York City, and Steve Murray, of Huntsville, Ala.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Cleon J. Wingard; a son, Cleon Jr., of College Hill, Ohio; a daughter, Diane Lynn Peterson, of Denver; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides their son John, of Lakeland, she is survived by their two other sons, Josiah Bartlett Steinberg of Lakeland and Marc Steinberg of White Sulphur Springs; their daughter, Alexandra Kaghan Macaluso of Reston, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      

        Louisa Matthiasdottir, an exemplar of the strain of painterly representation that runs through the history of postwar American art, died Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y. She was 83 and lived in New York from 1942 until late 1999, when she moved to Delhi to live with her daughter, Temma Bell, who is also painter.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Matthiasdottir is survived by four granddaughters.
She is survived by her daughter, Pilar; her parents, of Lincoln City, Ore.; and her sisters, Kathryn Amrani, Sheila Coventry and Sharon Borgford, who all live in the Portland, Ore., area.
      
Her father, a Pennsylvania Railroad mechanic, remained in Chicago, visiting his wife and daughter regularly until his death in 1967.
Ms. Howard's circle included Tyrone Power, Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Jennifer Jones, Merle Oberon, Gary Cooper, Marlene Dietrich, Greta Garbo, Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe -- impressive company for the daughter of a traveling salesman.
Ms. Grau's survivors include a daughter, Hilda Aguero, six grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Amy Reed Geiger of Fairbanks, Alaska; three sons, Hayward C., of Spokane, Wash., Ogden Cartwright Reed Jr. of Philadelphia and Chris B., of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by a son, Reed Erskine of New York, and a daughter, Jane Erskine of Seattle.
Known as Rocky, Ms. Cooper was the daughter of a governor of the New York Stock Exchange.
She was born in Brooklyn, and is survived by her daughter, Maria Cooper Janis.
      
The cause was lung disease, said her daughter, Ruth Mayer.
In 1995 she appeared in ''Party Girl,'' a film written and directed by her daughter, Daisy Von Scherler Mayer.
In addition to Daisy and Ruth Mayer, both of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Paul Avila Mayer, and another daughter, Rachael, of Glen Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Micheline Blum-Picard was born in Paris, the daughter of a French government official.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Glover is survived by a daughter, Christiane, of Ossining, N.Y.; four sons, Derek of Ridgefield, Conn., Brian of White Plains, Renny of Boulder, Colo., and Wayne of North White Plains; and six grandchildren.
Two years later they collaborated again on ''The Virgin Spring,'' which was inspired by a 13th-century ballad about a deeply religious farming family whose young daughter is raped and murdered.
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
Sackville-West had already begun her enduring relationship with Violet Trefusis, the daughter of Alice Keppel, Edward VII's mistress.
She is survived by a son, Bryant, of New York; a daughter, Elisabeth Hayes of Chicago; a grandchild; two step-grandchildren and two step-great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Benesch is survived by a son, Andrew, of Highland Park, N.J.; a daughter, Susan, of Milford, Conn.; a sister, Madeleine, of London; and two granddaughters.
The daughter of teachers, Ms. Abramowicz was born in 1909, when Vilna was part of the czar's empire; it was to live under Polish, Lithuanian, German and Soviet Russian governments before she left.
Janet Hasbrouck Carter was born in Syracuse, the daughter of a mechanic and a housewife.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Austin Aardema of Fort Myers; a daughter, Paula Dufford of Valrico, Fla.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her  daughter, K. Ann McDonald.
Besides her daughter, K. Ann McDonald of Manhattan, a litigation lawyer with the Manhattan law firm of Robinson Murphy & McDonald, Judge McDonald is survived by a brother, Malcolm Patrick Austin of Chicago.
      
''  She is survived by a son, Michael; a daughter, Betsy; and a grandchild, all of New York.
      
Barbara Hamilton Cartland was born in Warwickshire County, England, on July 9, 1901, the daughter of Bertram Cartland and Nancy H. Scobell Cartland, who was better known as Polly.
But he could never have been the prototype for the novels his daughter would write.
''Poor I may be, but common I am not,'' Polly said, sounding not unlike the heroines her daughter would later create.
Dame Barbara is survived by a daughter, Raine, Countess Spencer, who was the stepmother of Diana, Princess of Wales; and two sons, Ian and Hugh McCorquodale.
''A lot of people would have gone down, too,'' Ms. Fitzgerald's daughter Maria told a writer for The New York Times magazine last year.
She is survived by Maria, of London; another daughter, Christina Dooley, of Cornwall; a son, Valpy Fitzgerald of Oxford, and nine grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Fitzgerald's daughter Maria said that she worked until the week she died.
Ms. Thornton is survived by two sons, Kenneth Thornton of Detroit and Kelly Glusovich of New York; a daughter, Rose McKinney-James of Las Vegas; and six grandchildren.
      
A native of Baltimore, she was the daughter of Dr. Gordon Wilson, a physician, and Elizabeth Elliott Wilson, and she attended Bryn Mawr School in Baltimore.

        Priscilla Rudin Stern, who took pride in being the daughter, wife and mother of rabbis, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan Stern of Washington, D.C., and Rabbi David Stern of Dallas, whose wife, Nancy Kasten, is also a rabbi; a daughter, Elsie Stern, of Brooklyn; her stepmother, Lili Rudin of New York City;  a brother, Stephen Rudin of Manhasset, N.Y.; a stepbrother, Jeffrey Laikind of New York City; four grandchildren; and nieces and nephews.
Ms. Sosenko was born in Camden, N.J., on June 13, 1909, the daughter of Rebecca and Simon Sosenko.
Hildegarde was then Hildegarde Sell, the daughter of German immigrants who had left her native Milwaukee and was working as an accompanist to singers of varying luster.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Stoliar is survived by a daughter, Lee Stoliar Dufresne of Charlotteville, N.J.; a son, Evan, of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Virginia Stein of Somerville, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
      
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
She was born in the Bronx, the daughter of Alexander Kahn, a founder of the New York Liberal Party and former general manager of The Jewish Daily Forward.
Mrs. Rubin was born Rifke Rosenblatt in Montreal on Sept. 1, 1906, the daughter of Jewish immigrants from Bessarabia.
She is survived by a daughter, Susan Harts of Bedford Hills, N.Y.; two sons, Jonathan P. Gilman of Flemington, N.J., and Harrison P. Gilman of Middletown; a stepdaughter, Beatriz A. Guerreiro-Rowe of Darien, Conn.; a stepson, Matthew Guerreiro of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
      
Her daughter Katie Sparer Bowe said that no specific cause of death was given, but for several years the actress had been suffering from cancer and chronic pulmonary disease.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
Some years later on television's ''Spearfield's Daughter,'' she switched cities and became the publisher of The New York Courier.
She is survived by a daughter, Najuma Ide Christian of Berkeley; her parents, Judge Alphonso A. and Ruth Christian of St. Thomas; three sisters, Dr. Cora Christian of St. Croix, Reubina Gomez of St. Thomas and Alicia Wells of Philadelphia; two brothers, Alphonso Christian of Washington and Delano Christian of San Francisco; and a stepson, Imetai Malik Henderson of New York.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Bunny McMunn, of Ormond Beach; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
The eldest daughter in her poor family, Ms. Goncalves da Silva was born in 1922 in Madureira, another Rio neighborhood, and moved to Mangueira as a child.
Her daughter, Janina, was born in April 1936.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her daughter Kate Maxwell said.
In addition to her daughter Kate, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; another daughter, Brookie Maxwell, also of Manhattan; a grandson; and two brothers, Robert Noyes of Portland, Ore., and H. F. Noyes of Athens, Greece.
      
In addition to her daughter Kate, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; another daughter, Brookie Maxwell, also of Manhattan; a grandson; and two brothers, Robert Noyes of Portland, Ore., and H. F. Noyes of Athens, Greece.
      
Beginning in 1967, from a series of shops located in unlikely quarters of London and Paris, and later at I. Magnin in San Francisco and Giorgio of Beverly Hills, she made and sold clothes whose inspiration was drawn from her far-ranging travels and a childhood spent as the half-French, half-English daughter of a missionary posted to the Middle East.
She is survived by a daughter, Venetia.
      
Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter.
      
Born Dorothea Schlesinger in Munich in 1902, she studied piano and was tutored by her father, a lawyer, author and violinist who had married the daughter of a wealthy banker.
She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif.
        Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress for her performance in ''The Farmer's Daughter'' in 1947, later became a favorite of television viewers as the glowing star who twirled onto the stage in a designer gown each week to introduce an uplifting drama on ''The Loretta Young Show.
'' In addition to ''The Farmer's Daughter,'' in which she played an effervescent Swedish-born maid who runs for Congress, she appeared in nearly 100 films, often in the arms of such matinee idols as Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, Tyrone Power or Cary Grant.
In 1994, her adopted daughter, Judy Lewis, maintained in an autobiography, ''Uncommon Knowledge,'' that she was the daughter of Miss Young and Clark Gable and that she was conceived during the making of ''Call of the Wild,'' in which the two starred.
In 1994, her adopted daughter, Judy Lewis, maintained in an autobiography, ''Uncommon Knowledge,'' that she was the daughter of Miss Young and Clark Gable and that she was conceived during the making of ''Call of the Wild,'' in which the two starred.
For years, Miss Young refused to confirm or deny her daughter's account, dismissing it as ''a rumor from a bygone era.
'' After the book's release, mother and daughter did not speak to each other for months.
''
        Career Highlights  Films:
        Laugh Clown Laugh 1928
        The Squall 1929
        Loose Ankles 1930
        Kismet 1930
        The Devil to Pay 1930
        Taxi 1932
        Zoo in Budapest 1933
        A Man's Castle 1933
        Call of the Wild 1935
        Ramona 1936
        Suez 1938
        He Stayed for Breakfast 1940
        And Now Tomorrow 1944
        The Stranger 1946
        The Farmer's Daughter 1947
        The Bishop's Wife 1947
        Rachel and the Stranger 1948
        The Accused 1949
        Mother Is a Freshman 1949
        Come to the Stable 1949
        Because of You 1952
        Television:
        A Letter to Loretta (series), 1953-54
        The Loretta Young Show (same series, new name), 1954-61
        The New Loretta Young Show (series), 1962-63
        Christmas Eve (TV film), 1986
        Lady in a Corner (TV film), 1989
        Correction:  August 19, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of Loretta Young on Sunday misidentified ''Come to the Stable.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a  daughter, Katherine O'Keeffe of Kent, Ohio, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Steven; a son, Jay; and a daughter, Jennifer.
      
Mrs. Sagan was born Ginetta Moroni, the daughter of doctors who would both work for the Italian Resistance.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Janet Hague of Portland, Ore., and a son, Andrew Hague of Manhattan.
      
She was the daughter of Ernst Pakenham-Walsh, a judge on the high court in Madras, India, and Marion Pakenham-Walsh.
The daughter of a West Texas cattleman, she was reared on her father's tales of frontier life on the Great Plains.

        Dawn Langley Simmons, an author whose tumultuous life included a sex change operation and an interracial marriage that scandalized her adopted hometown, Charleston, S.C., died on Sept. 18 at her daughter's home there.
Mrs. Simmons, who was the adopted child of the English actress Margaret Rutherford, had Parkinson's disease, said her daughter, Natasha.
His daughter says he is now an outpatient.
She continued to support her husband and daughter on her meager earnings as a writer.
Her daughter said she would prefer not to discuss her mother's past.
''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Simmons is survived by three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Tania Lichine Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Sylvia Linguiti of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
''
        Her daughter Dorothy Herrmann said Miss Fletcher got the idea for the drama after an obnoxious well-dressed woman refused to permit her to go ahead on a supermarket checkout line on Manhattan's East Side when Miss Fletcher was buying some milk or cereal for one of her children, who was sick.
Besides Ms. Herrmann, of New Hope, Pa., Miss Fletcher is survived by her other daughter, Wendy Harlow of Phoenix, Md.
Ms. Richards was the daughter of a Baptist minister and a seamstress.
Looking back to her childhood as the daughter of a minister, Ms. Richards said: ''I always relate the theater to the church.
Ms. Yates and Mr. Hutchence had an intensely passionate affair and one child, a daughter they named Heavenly Hiraani Tiger Lily.
She was only seven years older than Knox's daughter, Penelope, who as Penelope Fitzgerald began publishing novels in her late 50's and died last spring at the age of 83.
Miss Shepard was Auntie Mary to Fitzgerald's three children and had only one other relative, Minette Hunt, the daughter of her brother, who was killed in World War II.
Ms. Doran, who was born in Amarillo, Tex., was the daughter of Carrie Barnett, an actress who appeared in silent films and had her child performing in front of the cameras almost as soon as she could walk.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Naima Hazelton.
In addition to Ms. Hazelton of Los Angeles, she is survived by another daughter, Cavana Lee-Hampel of Berlin; a son, Ruomi Lee-Hampel of New York; and a grandson.
      
She was born Sophie Schidlovsky  in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1903, the daughter of Sergei Schidlovsky, the last vice president of the Czar's Duma, or Parliament.
In the final years of her life, her daughter, Chandrika Kumaratunga, succeeded her as the standard bearer of the family party and has served as president of the country since 1994.
The father, mother and daughter have led Sri Lanka for 21 of the 52 years since it gained its independence from the British.
The daughter's years in office have been dominated by her as-yet-fruitless efforts to end a 17-year-old war with separatist Tamil rebels.
During five years of her daughter's presidency, Mrs. Bandaranaike served as prime minister, which had become a largely ceremonial role under the Constitution adopted in 1978.
She lived on Rosemead Place with her elder daughter, Sunethra, a philanthropist who is 57 and never got involved in politics.
But both the son, as a leader of the opposition, and the daughter, as president, have carried on the family's political tradition.
      
She was born in 1903, the daughter of a Jewish tailor named Tworkovsky in Biala, a village on the Russian-Polish border.

        Gwen Verdon, whose high-kicking artistry, flaming red hair and head-turning figure made her an unforgettable presence in musicals like ''Can-Can,'' ''Damn Yankees'' and ''Chicago,'' died yesterday in Woodstock, Vt. She was 75 and had homes in Bronxville, N.Y., and Quogue, N.Y.
        She died at the home of her daughter, Nicole Fosse.
In 1963 their daughter, Nicole, was born.
She is survived by a daughter from her marriage to Mr. Webb, Lisa Breen of Manhattan Beach, Calif. She also left three children from her 39-year marriage to Mr. Troupe: a daughter, Kelly Ronick, and twin sons, Jody and Reese, all of Los Angeles.
She is survived by a daughter from her marriage to Mr. Webb, Lisa Breen of Manhattan Beach, Calif. She also left three children from her 39-year marriage to Mr. Troupe: a daughter, Kelly Ronick, and twin sons, Jody and Reese, all of Los Angeles.
''
        As an understudy for the actress playing Bankhead's daughter in Hellman's ''Little Foxes'' in 1939, Miss Rawls met the woman who would become her mentor and lifelong friend.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Brook Ashley of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Brockman Seawell of New York; two brothers, Hubert F. Rawls Jr. of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Richard Russell Rawls of Fernandina Beach, Fla.; a sister, Dorothy Louise Rawls Tuttle of California; a granddaughter; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons:  Brooks, of Canandaigua, N.Y., and Jonathan, of New York City; a daughter, Emily Lyon, of Cambridge, Mass.
''There was nothing to be compared with coming home after school and sitting down with my parents,'' Ms. Logan's daughter said.
She is survived by two sons, James, of Manhattan, and Stephen, of Richmond; a daughter, Penelope Yungblut of Round Hill, Va.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her choice of word was surprising, said her daughter, Penelope Carter, of Rochester.
''
        Mrs. Dyk emphasized to her daughter that it was not necessary to marry, and that it was important to get the education that would allow her to live independently.
She is survived by their two sons, G. Clay, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Dickerman Jr., of Greenwich; a daughter, Catharine H. Ecton of Cabin John, Md.
She was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Florence and Abe N. Adelson, a real-estate developer, and attended Barnard College.
She was Wilson's elder daughter, by the first of his four wives, Mary Blair.
Correction:  January 8, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Nov. 9 about Rosalind Baker Wilson, a writer and daughter of the critic Edmund Wilson, misstated her age.
Besides her husband, director of the Rutgers Latin American studies program, Dr. Rotker-Martinez's survivors include their daughter, Sol Ana Martinez, 14; her parents, David and Cecilia Rotker; and a brother, George Rotker, all of Caracas.
      
In 1949, she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
Her survivors include a daughter, Nora Brooks Blakely, and a son, Henry Blakely.
The 30-page title poem described a mother's frantic search for her missing daughter in a sprawling, decrepit building called the Mecca, which once was one of Chicago's fanciest apartment houses.
All done with seeing her fat little form
        Burst out of the basement door;
        And with seeing her African son-in-law
        (Rightful heir to the throne)
        With his great white strong cold squares of teeth
        And his little eyes of stone;
        And with seeing the squat fat daughter
        Letting in the men
        When majesty has gone for the day --
        And letting them out again.
Her mother was a cellist who gave up her career to nurture her musical daughter.
Mr. Ford's daughter, Charlotte Ford, met Stavros Niarchos, the Greek shipping tycoon whom she later married, at the Kanzler residence in St. Moritz.
The case turned into a legal and emotional crucible for her, her son and daughter, her mother and three teachers, as well as the accusing parents.
On the basis of testimony from children and doctors but little corroborating evidence, a grand jury in March 1984 indicted Mrs. Buckey; her son, Raymond; her daughter, Peggy Ann Buckey; her mother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the school; and three teachers.
Mrs. Buckey's survivors include her husband, Charles, and her son and daughter.
She is survived by her son and daughter, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. MacColl was the daughter of the folk songwriter Ewan MacColl.
''It was Bunny or Lily,'' said her daughter Christina Fleur, ''and they called her Lily.
In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
Because he was imprisoned at the time of her birth, his daughter was named Libertad, or Liberty.
That same year her husband took their daughter, Mirtha, with him to live in neighboring Uruguay.
After an effort involving a lawyer and several friends, including Hector Artola, her new romantic partner and future husband, Ms. Lamarque succeeded in gaining custody of her daughter.
Ms. Lamarque is survived by her daughter, Mirtha Romero Lamarque, of Argentina.
      
She was born Esther Bradford, the daughter of Lithuanian immigrants, in Syracuse and grew up in Iowa.
Mrs. Aresty is survived by a son, Robert, and a daughter, Jane Silverman, both of Princeton; and three grandchildren.
In 1949  she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
She is survived by a daughter, Nora Brooks Blakely, of Chicago; a son, Henry Blakely III; and one grandchild.
The 30-page title poem described a mother's frantic search for her missing daughter in a sprawling, decrepit building called the Mecca, which once was one of Chicago's fanciest apartment houses.
All done with seeing her fat little form
        Burst out of the basement door;
        And with seeing her African son-in-law
        (Rightful heir to the throne)
        With his great white strong cold squares of teeth
        And his little eyes of stone;
        And with seeing the squat fat daughter
        Letting in the men
        When majesty has gone for the day --
        And letting them out again.
Surviving is their daughter, Kathryn Krone of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Wilkens Michael, a son, Hugh Levey, and five grandchildren.
      
Ms. Kauffman's sense of mission began with an embarrassing experience at the theater, her daughter Dorothy Kauffman said.
Ms. Kauffman told her daughter that she was walking into a Broadway theater in the early 60's with a group of blind people when one of the group's leaders called out for ''all the blind people to put their hands on the shoulder of the blind person in front of them'' as they moved to their seats.
But her daughter said the unpleasant incident did not plunge her into further despair, but rather made her angry.
A tall, dark-haired woman always seen in dark glasses, Ms. Kauffman strove to convey an impressive presence, her daughter said.
