Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she was a lifelong writer who made her debut in 1968 with two books of fiction for children, ''Speaking Terms'' and ''The Sixth Seal.
Her daughter said the cause of death was head injuries suffered when she fell last week.
She is survived by her daughter, Caroline Eliacheff.
A native of Manhattan, she was the granddaughter and daughter of league members and suffragists.
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, Dr. Irving Mauss; two sons, Steven and Peter, and a daughter, Susan Tunick, all of New York City; two brothers, Dr. Herbert L. Abrams of Neponsit and Mason Adams of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Diamond is survived by a daughter, Jean, and two grandsons.
Married and divorced twice, Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Tracy, and by two sons, Joshua and Daniel.
      
Born in New York City in 1915, Ms. Fisher was the daughter of the songwriter and music publisher Fred Fisher, with whom she wrote many of her first songs.
She is survived by her daughter, Frederica Fisher Thea, of Manhattan; her son, Ned Gershenson, of Henderson, Nev.; and two grandsons.
      
The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter Leslie Carlson-Soloway.
She also studied issues like altruism and political ideology, and wrote psychobiographical works on historical figures including Nathaniel Hawthorne and Karl Marx's daughter Eleanor.
In addition to her daughter Leslie, of Santa Fe, N.M., Dr. Carlson is survived by her daughter Tracy Carlson of Oakton, Va., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Leslie, of Santa Fe, N.M., Dr. Carlson is survived by her daughter Tracy Carlson of Oakton, Va., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Avery is survived by her daughter, March Avery Cavanaugh, and her grandson, Sean Avery Cavanaugh, who are artists in New York.
      
''
        She played W. C. Fields's daughter in several films, including ''The Man on the Flying Trapeze'' (1935).
She is survived by a son, James J., also of Columbia; a daughter, Jean Rosenberg of Middlebury, Vt.; a sister, Emily Jack of Washington; and three grandchildren.
In addition to Christopher, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Kerr is survived by her sons Colin of Port Jefferson, N.Y., John of Portland, Me., Gregory of Coopersburg, Pa., and Gilbert of Ponte Vedra Beach, Fla.; her daughter, Kitty of Arlington, Mass.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, Ms. McClendon is survived by a granddaughter and great-granddaughter.
A doctor's daughter, Amy Bess Williams was born in El Paso and grew up in Worcester, Mass.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her twin sister, Bertha Freeman of Miami; a brother, David Feinberg of West Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Frances Linderman of Trinidad, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Jennifer Gerard Maric; three grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin.
      
She is survived by two sons, Henry, of London and Carl, of Frankfurt; a daughter, Deborah Ramsden of Woodstock, N.Y.; two grandchildren; and a sister, Elizabeth Trace of Peekskill, N.Y.
      
She was the American-born daughter of Japanese immigrants, and Mr. Bridges was an immigrant from Australia.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Flynn is survived by a daughter, Katherine Bridges Wiggins of Bandon, Ore., and two stepchildren, Robert Bridges of Fremont, Calif., and Marie Shell of San Francisco.
      
But when Philippe's daughter, Philippine, was to be married in 1961, Liliane de Rothschild fulfilled her frequent role of unifying the family.
Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times praised what he called her ''grim acting of the rich man's daughter'' as ''an accurate and fearless sketch of character without loss of time or motion.
She is survived by a daughter, Maggie McDermott-Walsh of Bernardsville, N.J.; two sons, Burr, of Boston, and Michael, of Beijing; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Redwood City, Calif., she is survived by a daughter, Antonia West, of Stroud, Gloucestershire, England, and three grandchildren.
Dr. Davis is survived by her husband of 47 years, Dr. Walter Adam Wichern Jr., chairman emeritus of surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; a son, Walter A. III, and a daughter, A. Logan Wichern, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol Goodman of Morristown, N.J.
      
Elaine Jacobs, the daughter of a traveling salesman, was born on July 16, 1915.
She is survived by a daughter, Sue Lynn Hawkins of Irvine, Calif.; a son, Loren Heacock of Fountain Valley, Calif.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Susan Johnson, who sang in musical theater on and off Broadway in the 1950's, died on Feb. 24 at her daughter's home in Sacramento.
Her survivors include a daughter, Corianne, from her second marriage.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert Wilson; her son, Rob; and her daughter, Hilary.
      

        Margaret Formby, a rancher's daughter whose collection of cowgirl costumes, stored in the basement of a local library, evolved into the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, died on April 10 at her home in Hereford, Tex.
Her husband, Clint Formby, who owns the local country radio station, survives her, as do her sons Chip of Hereford, Marshall of Lubbock and Scott of Manhattan; her daughter, Mary Beth Powell of Hereford; and four grandchildren.
Her survivors include three brothers, a sister and a daughter, Lisa, a singer and actress known professionally as Simone who is currently appearing on Broadway in ''Aida.
She was born Martha Wright in Pierce City, Mo., the daughter of a rural mail carrier, and became a champion debater in high school.
The Scotts, who had a daughter, were divorced in 1949.
She is survived by her daughter, Waverly Scott Kaffaga, of New York City; a stepson, Thomas Steinbeck; four grandchildren; and two sisters, Jean Boone of New York City and Frances Atkinson of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
In addition to her son, of Orangeburg, N.Y., she is survived by a daughter, Karen S. Jeanneret-Druckman, of Rolle, Switzerland, and three grand-daughters.
      
Marcel LaBeija and Mr. Lantelme said that Pepper was also survived by a son and daughter, but did not know these survivors' names.
Rachel Kempson was born in Dartmouth, Devon, on May 28, 1910, the daughter of Eric William Kempson, an educator, and the former Beatrice Hamilton Ashwell.
Her daughter, Joan Fromm Greenstone, died in 1996.
Hale's daughter Sunny Hale is one of the leading women's players in the world, having competed with men at polo's premier event, the United States Open.
In addition to Sunny, of Norman, Okla., and Coral Gables, Fla., and Stormie, of Pacific Grove, Calif., she is survived by another daughter, Dawn, of Pacific Grove; a son, Trails, of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Harold Jones, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
She and Mr. de la Salle, from whom she was later divorced, had a daughter, Georgia, of Paris, who survives her.
In 1963 she married Mr. Dillman, who survives her, along with their daughter, Dinah Kaufman of Irvine, Calif.; their sons Charles, of Los Angeles, and Christopher, of Encinitas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Dr. Sarah Baden, who added that her mother lived in Westport, Conn., and had come to New York for Mother's Day.
In addition to her daughter Sarah, Dr. Densen-Gerber is survived by another daughter, Trissa Baden of Hopewell, N.J.; a son, Lindsey, of Brookline, Mass.
In addition to her daughter Sarah, Dr. Densen-Gerber is survived by another daughter, Trissa Baden of Hopewell, N.J.; a son, Lindsey, of Brookline, Mass.
Mr. Gow died in 1993, and Dame Wendy's survivors include their daughter, Ann, and their son, Anthony.
In addition to Mr. Nelkin, she is survived by a daughter, Lisa Nelkin of Baltimore; a sister, Nancy Wolfers of London; and a granddaughter.
That role led to a Hollywood screen test and her first film role, as John Barrymore's daughter in ''A Bill of Divorcement'' (1932).
On an autumn evening in 1942 she was in her early thirties and had finagled passage on a cargo ship from Africa to escape a troubled marriage and join her young daughter in Connecticut.
They left their only daughter, Niccie, in England.
She is survived by her daughter, Niccie Sesson of England, and a grandson, Ms. Crann said.
Lois Rosenfield grew up in Chicago, the daughter of a clothing manufacturer.
In addition to her sister, Sheila Cole of Sonoma, Calif., Mrs. Fischbach's survivors include her husband, Herbert X. Fischbach of Sonoma; sons Peter, of St. Petersburg, Fla., John, of New Orleans, and James, of Phoenix; a daughter, Sally Fischbach-Willard of Geneva, Switzerland; and grandchildren.
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Catherine Barrett Andrews of Madison, Ga.; two sons, Charles Sperry Andrews IV of Sedona, Ariz., and Albert Ballard Andrews of Wilton; and a brother, Bruce Bass of Louisville.
      

        Anne Belle, a documentary filmmaker who specialized in portraits of New York City Ballet dancers, died last Wednesday at her daughter's home in Los Angeles.
In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a judge, Khieu Ponnary led a privileged life in the French colonial era.
Once the Vietnamese overthrew the Khmer Rouge in 1979, Pol Pot separated from Khieu Ponnary and took a much younger wife, with whom he had a daughter.
In an unexpected burst of energy, she completed ''Unless,'' a feminist story about a writer whose oldest daughter, Norah, drops out of college and takes up silent begging on a sidewalk with a cardboard sign reading ''Goodness'' hanging from her neck.
Moving to Fifth Avenue, she went to the Dalton School, became friends with Oona O'Neill, the daughter of the Eugene O'Neill who later married Charlie Chaplin, and started meeting other people in the theater.
They had a son, Aram, and a daughter, Lucy, who died earlier this year.
'' (Crowell, 1974); ''Mottele: A Partisan Odyssey'' (Harper, 1976); ''Adam's Daughter'' (Crowell, 1977); ''Of David and Eva: A Love Story'' (New American Library, 1978); and ''Yours, Brett'' (Lodestar, 1988).
She is survived by her husband, John, a composer who grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Stubin of Passaic, N.J.; a son, David, of Athens, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Frances R. Olivieri of Manhattan; three sons, John R., of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., George B., of Manhattan, and Alexander S., of Hughsonville; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Anna Hopwell Madge; a son, James Madge; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
In addition to him, Mrs. Borsten is survived by a son, Joseph Borsten of Los Angeles; a daughter, Joan Borsten Vidov of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Minkowski of Santa Cruz; and a grandson.
      
The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter, Gigi Downs.
After working for years, she returned to high school and graduated after her daughter, Rose.
''
        Mrs. Foster is survived by her son, James Foster of Indianapolis; her daughter, Rose Davis of Salt Lake City; her brothers, Dr. Sullivan Jackson and Thomas Martin, both of Selma; and three grandchildren.

        Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan.

        Norma Storch, a white woman whose decision to have her 4-year-old mixed-race daughter raised by a black couple became the subject of an Emmy Award-winning documentary made by the daughter in adulthood, died on Aug. 28 at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said the daughter, June Cross, the producer of the documentary, ''Secret Daughter,'' which PBS broadcast in 1996.
The cause was cancer, said the daughter, June Cross, the producer of the documentary, ''Secret Daughter,'' which PBS broadcast in 1996.
The film was heralded as a searing look at race relations in the 1950's and 60's, and drew praise for its emotional rawness and the bravery of both mother and daughter.
Other reviews suggested that the documentary's power came from a mother's willingness to reject her daughter and then rationalize it.
They told friends and acquaintances that the black girl who visited them at their Hollywood home was their adopted daughter, who lived with a black family for most of the year.
Mrs. Storch fled Mr. Cross soon after their daughter's birth in 1954, because of his drinking, drug use and violence toward her, she said.
In 1947, she had a brief romance with Larry Storch, and gave birth in 1948 to a daughter, Candace, whom they put up for adoption.
In addition to June Cross and Lary May, Mrs. Storch is survived by her husband, who lives in Manhattan; her daughter Candace Herman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
Ms. Murie is survived by her sister Louise Murie-MacLeod of Jackson, Wyo., who was the wife of Olaus's brother Adolph, who was a National Park Service biologist and an author; two sons, Martin, of North Bangor, N.Y., and Donald, of Palm Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Joanne Miller of Brookline, Mass.
Sun lasted in office only a few months before his coalition disintegrated, and after he fled to Japan, he hired Mr. Soong's second daughter, Soong Qing-ling, as a secretary.
Chiang Kai-shek, a severe-looking military aide to Sun who established a school for officers in southern China, may have been as attracted to the Soongs' financial and political connections as he was to their youngest daughter.
She was unmarried at her death, and is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bunch of Palmdale.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter Sara Johns Griffen.
In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      
''
        Carolyn Gold Heilbrun was born on Jan. 13, 1926, in East Orange, N.J., the only child of Archibald Gold, an accountant, and Estelle Roemer Gold, who, her daughter would recall, ''sat at home and was bored out of her mind.
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Smith; a sister, Gloria Chadima of Minneapolis; four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Susan Whiting of Chilmark and Stuart, Fla.
''
        Mrs. Hicks, a lawyer and the daughter of a prominent South Boston judge, spent a decade fighting against forced integration in Boston before it was ordered in 1974 by Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. of Federal District Court.
She was the only daughter of William J. and Anna McCarron Day.
Carla Valentine Pryne, Mary Valentine's daughter, Ms. Farnan's goddaughter and an Episcopal minister, said in an interview on Thursday.
She is survived by her husband, J. Truman Bidwell Jr.; a daughter, Molly O'Neil Frank, of Manhattan; two sons, Stephen T. O'Neil, of Lookout Mountain, Tenn., and Charles Thomas O'Neil, of Stockbridge, Mass.
Dr. Berlin was considering theatrical use of an anonymous monologue by someone suffering from AIDS when her daughter told her she had written it.
Mrs. Love, who also had an apartment on Park Avenue in Manhattan, was the daughter of Edyth Guggenheim and Adm. Louis Josephthal, and was raised in Manhattan in a family devoted to the arts and philanthropy.
Guest was amused when her daughter, Cornelia was hailed by Life magazine as ''the debutante of the year'' in 1982 and herself became the darling of columnists and photographers.
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
Guest was amused when her daughter, Cornelia, was hailed by Life magazine as ''the debutante of the year'' in 1982 and became the darling of columnists and photographers, as Mrs.
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest, of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
Her real adventure began when she met Gianna Thompson, the daughter of a Milanese aristocrat, who ran Save the Children's operation in the Abruzzi region.
Ms. Loudon was born in Boston on Sept. 17, 1933, the daughter of James and Dorothy Shaw Loudon, and showed an early interest in performing, learning some 1,500 songs from her mother, who played piano in a Boston department store.
Ms. Loudon was born in Boston on Sept. 17, 1933, the daughter of James and Dorothy Shaw Loudon, and showed an early interest in performing, learning some 1,500 songs from her mother, who played piano in a Boston department store.
At 20, she married a British dancer, Ernest Berk, with whom she had a daughter, Esther.
Her marriage to Ernest Berk lasted about 30 years, and she is survived by their daughter, Esther Fairfax, of Hungerford.
Mrs. Sebastiani was born Sylvia Scarafoni on May 10, 1916, in Cordelia, Calif., the daughter of Italian immigrants.
The family kept the historic winery in Sonoma, with Mrs. Sebastiani's daughter, Mary Ann Cuneo, as president.
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Candace Ovesey.
She is survived by a foster daughter, Patricia Dreyer, of Minnetonka, Minn.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Lange is survived by her son, Christopher, of Malibu, Calif., and a daughter, Patricia Murray of Arroyo Grande, Calif.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse.

        Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said.
Mrs. Stevenson was born Isabelle Lubow in Vineland, N.J., on May 15, 1913, the daughter of Sonia Lubow and Samuel Lieberman, who were married but lived separate lives.
When the show was taken on the road, Mrs. Lubow refused to allow her daughter to travel with it.
They also played Britain and took part in a command performance for Queen Mary and King George V. Mrs. Lubow accompanied her daughter everywhere.
She is survived by her daughters, Susan Brown of Manhattan and Laura Maslon of Venice, Calif.; her niece and foster daughter, Francine Ringold-Johnson of Tulsa, Okla.; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She dressed Rockefellers, Fords and Paleys and designed wedding dresses for Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci Baines Johnson, as well as Richard M. Nixon's daughters, Tricia and Julie.
Survivors include two sons, Robert, of Ipswich, Mass., and Richard, of Boston; a daughter, Betsy, of Ipswich; two sisters, Natalie Cahill of Reading, Mass., and Marjorie Townsend of Lexington, Mass.
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Bates is survived by her husband, George Carnevale, a fluid physicist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and a daughter, Julia Carnevale.
      
