Dominique de Menil, the daughter of Conrad Schlumberger and his wife, Louise Delpech, was born in Paris on March 23, 1908.
She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Leslie Lopato of San Francisco; a son, David, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bunting-Smith is survived by three sons, Charles I. Bunting of Shelbourne, Vt., William H. Bunting of North Whitefield, Me., and John E. Bunting of New Boston, N.H.; a daughter, Mary B. Decher of Bellevue, Wash; three stepdaughters,  Pamela Smith of Harvard, Me., Gail Smith Biggar of Concord, Mass., and Hilary Smith of Peacham, Vt.; a stepson, Reynolds Smith of Harvard, Me.
''
        Ms. Sunn, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Dave Parmenter; a daughter, Jan Carreira of Los Angeles; her parents, Elbert and Roen Sunn of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; a brother Eric of Makaha, and three sisters, Val Fenwick of Kailua-Kona, Anella Dehr of Makawao, Hawaii, and Kula Sunn of Haiku, Hawaii.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Paley of Manhattan; a daughter, Hilary Paley Califano of Roxbury, Conn., and Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Joy H. Briggs of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by a daughter, Gail Adelson of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
      
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Mrs. Haje, who grew up in Altoona, Pa., and married a local Lebanese-American businessman, seemed content with her role as an  American housewife and mother.
Her survivors include two sons, Charles, of Destin, Fla., and Albert Jr., of Washington; a daughter, Sharyn Corry of Middleburg, Va.; two sisters, four brothers and two grandchildren.
      
The daughter of Flora and August Hanson, a peripatetic railroad accountant, Alice Hanson was born in Alexandria, Va., in 1903.
Mrs. Lollis, whose daughter Ruby Jewett died in December, is survived by her other daughter, Alice E. Wilson of Atlanta, 3 grandchildren, 6 great-grandchildren and 20 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lollis, whose daughter Ruby Jewett died in December, is survived by her other daughter, Alice E. Wilson of Atlanta, 3 grandchildren, 6 great-grandchildren and 20 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Scripps Davis and her daughter Michelle Macfarlane were among the top-ranked mother-daughter teams nationally in horse breeding and training.
Ms. Gellhorn's father was a doctor in St. Louis with progressive notions and her mother, whom she adored, was a suffragist and social reformer who sometimes took her daughter  with her to rallies and protests.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara C. Marziali of Charlottesville, Va.; a son, F. Bosley Crowther 4th of Los Angeles; a brother, Edward George Benson Jr. of Storrs, Conn. and a sister, M. Ophelia Benson of Seattle.
      
''
        Their first published project was a bedroom for the 9-year-old daughter of a friend, with tall bookcases made of bamboo poles and topped with burnt-orange felt valances.
Mary Catherine Raugust was born on Sept. 2, 1932, in Grand Forks, N. D., the daughter of a businessman and a former public-school teacher.
One of her teachers was Yolande Du Bois, the daughter of W. E. B. DuBois.
They had one daughter, Jean Frances, who died in 1992.
After her marriage to Owen Kampen, an artist and illustrator whom she had met in college, the couple settled in Levittown, on Long Island, where Mrs. Kampen kept house, took care of her young daughter, and, in a concession to her training, contributed society columns to the weekly Levittown Tribune.
Taking no chances during a summer research vacation, she ordered her college-age daughter to go out and have fun and adventures in every city they visited.
Her daughter chafed a bit, but provided enough good subject matter that for a while she became a virtual subsidiary of the family enterprise.
Similarly, her daughter's wedding became ''Here Comes the Bride, There Goes the Mother'' (1967), and while Mrs. Kampen did not accompany the couple on their honeymoon, she was right there when they went to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin, turning out ''Due to Lack of Interest, Tomorrow Has Been Canceled,'' the story of a 45-year-old divorced woman who returns to college in the hippie era.
In addition to her daughter, Christine Gutherie of San Francisco, Mrs. Kampen is survived by her companion, Louis Ferioli, and a sister, Joyce Miller of Washington.
      
Her subjects tended to be relatives or art-world friends: her grandmother; the painter Helen Frankenthaler; Mimi Gross, the daughter of the sculptor Chaim Gross; and the mother of her first husband, Philip Graham Harden, shown in a work from 1931 titled ''My Nude Mother-in-Law.
Her mother was the daughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt 2d, who built the Breakers as the family's summer home.
The Countess is survived by a son, Paul, and a daughter, Gladys Szapary, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Countess Ferdinandine Eltz of Salzburg, Austria.
''
        Mrs. Young was born into a family of diplomats in Milton, Mass., the daughter of Ralph Emerson Forbes and Elise Cabot and a great-granddaughter of Ralph Waldo Emerson.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.

        Betty L. Santangelo, a retired teacher and school administrator who was long active in Italian-American and other civic affairs, died on March 15 at the home of a daughter in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 80 and formerly lived in the Bronx.
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      
She bore him a daughter, Nia, in 1975, but before the couple could marry, Mr. Smith died.
In 1979, they, too, had a daughter, Coronda, but never married.
Her mother, carrying her daughter in her arms, was helped into a lifeboat, and little Harold, who had been carried to the deck by one of the Swedish girls, was dropped down into the boat after them.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
''
        Her First Speech, In a Subway Station
        Bella Savitzky Abzug was born on July 24, 1920 in the Bronx, the second daughter of Jewish immigrants from Russia.
When she won her case, she cried with happiness, and went on to adopt her son, David, in 1967, and her daughter, Susan, in 1969.
Maybe not what she had in mind when she was studying opera at the Mannes College of Music in Manhattan, but not at all bad for a Queens-born daughter of a Ukrainian virtuoso who wanted her to play the violin.
When Mrs. Cormier, the daughter of former slaves, was born in New Iberia, La., during Reconstruction, Rutherford B. Hayes was President of the 38 United States and Thomas Alva Edison had just invented the electric light bulb.
The daughter of a fisherman who operated a hotel, Mrs. Meilleur, whose maiden name was Levesque, was educated at a local convent, married a man named Leclerc and had four children before her husband died of pneumonia in the early years of the century.
While a student in Arizona, she married and had a daughter, but the marriage ended in 1963.
In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
Kathleen Fitzgerald Connelly was born on Dec. 26, 1948, in Holyoke, Mass., the daughter of Thomas and Mary Fitzgerald.

        Jane Reid-Petty, director, playwright and founder of New Stage Theater in Jackson, Miss., died on Thursday in Jackson at the home of her daughter, Diane Petty Maddux.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was complications of heart disease, her daughter, Alexandra Altman, said.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Ms. Skelly is survived by her husband, Eugene Altman of Scottsdale, and a son, Jonathan Altman of Los Angeles.
      
She and Mr. Jones had a daughter, Georgette, in 1970.
She and Mr. Jones had a daughter, Georgette, in 1970.
Mrs. Sonz is survived by her husband, Ben Sonz Sr.; a daughter, Ann Mantranga of Sausalito, Calif.; two sons, Benedict Sonz Jr. of Bethesda, Md., and Paul Sonz of Mill Valley, Calif.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
Marjory Stoneman was born April 7, 1890, in Minneapolis, the daughter of Frank and Lillian Stoneman.
She died of a heart attack, said her daughter, Karen Spence.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York City, she is survived by a son, Michael Spence of New York, and a grandson.
      
Miss Connolly was born in Swansea, Wales, on January 24, 1921, the  daughter of an insurance man originally from Waterford, Ireland, and a half-Welsh, half-English mother.
Ms. Faye, whose original name was Alice Leppert, was the daughter of a New York City policeman and grew up in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan.
Ms. Faye, whose original name was Alice Leppert, was the daughter of a New York City police officer and grew up in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan.
She is survived by two sons, Steve, of Ann Arbor, and Philip, of Boise, Idaho; a daughter, Carol, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and six grandchildren.
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Katherine Kormendi.
Mrs. Kormendi is survived by her daughter.
      
She had suffered a stroke a week earlier, said her daughter, Holly Wright of Charlottesville, Va., and Manhattan.
Besides her daughter, Miss Nolan is survived by her sister, Miriam Walker of Ashland, Ore., and a grandson.
      
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
Born in New York on Sept. 5, 1923, Ms. Ross was the daughter of Justice Alfred Frankenthaler of the New York State Supreme Court and Martha Lowenstein Frankenthaler.
Besides her son Clifford, she is survived by another son, Alfred F. Ross, of New York City; a daughter, Beverly Ross; two sisters, Marjorie Iseman and Helen Frankenthaler, the artist, both of New York; a stepdaughter, Ann Bookman of Brookline, Mass.
''
        Woody Allen gave Ms. O'Sullivan her most luminous screen role, when she was 75, in his 1986 hit ''Hannah and Her Sisters,'' in which her children included her daughter Mia.
'' After the highly public breakup of Mr. Allen and Ms. Farrow, Ms. O'Sullivan was very outspoken about siding with her daughter.
She passed a screen test to perform as his daughter and went to Hollywood to complete the film.
She is survived by her daughter, Maryon Davies Lewis of San Francisco, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
In addition to Mr. Price, she is survived by her husband, Stefan Brecht (the son of Bertolt Brecht); a daughter, Sarah, and a son, Sebastian, all of New York City.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Beryl Snyder Trost, and two sons, Brian and Jay, all of New York, and five grandchildren.
      
Erika McMahon-Turner was born in London on July 7, 1939, a daughter of wealthy parents, Eric A. Turner, Under Secretary to the Admiralty, and Helen Lilian McMahon Turner.
Mrs. Rennie was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 3, 1914, the daughter of Edwin Tower and Bessie Applegate Tower.
Survivors include a son, Roxburgh Rennie of Providence, R.I.; a daughter, Missie Rennie Taylor of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
For the Brooklyn-born middle daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants, especially one whose mother wanted her to be a boy, the triumph was hardly a fluke.
''
        Growing up as the awkward middle daughter between two raven-haired beauties, Miss Polykoff, who saw her blond hair as her only physical distinction (at least until she began to develop what she called her ''sexy curves''), was so distraught when her hair began to darken as a teen-ager that she began having a local hairdresser lighten it, just to make the back match the front.

        Galina Brezhnev, the high-living daughter of the former Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev whose antics often led to scandal, died today in a Moscow hospital.
She is survived by two sons, a daughter and seven grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a St. Louis jeweler, Ms. Thompson was a pianist with the St. Louis Symphony in 1928.
The cause of death was lung cancer, according to Kathleen Harragan, her daughter.
In addition to her daughter, Kathleen, of Boston, she is survived by three brothers, Robert Lehan of Tempe, Ariz.; Richard Lehan of Sacramento, Calif., and William Lehan of Anaheim, Calif.; two sisters, Geri Pollack of North Hills, Calif., and Judy Ascasio of Laguna Hills, Calif., and a grandson.
      
In addition to her husband, Rabbi Timoner is survived by her mother, Mary Surasky of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Aviva, of Paris; a son, Samson, of Germantown, Md.
She is survived by her husband of 73 years, Carl S. Shoup; their daughter, Dale S. Mayer, of Center Sandwich, N.H.; a son, Paul S., of Charlottesville, Va., eight grandchildren  and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She was born in Halifax, Nova Scotia, the daughter of a British Army officer, and spent her childhood in Ireland and England.
In this semiautobiographical tale, the strong-willed, light-skinned Cleo Judson -- modeled on Miss West's mother -- tries to remake her darker-skinned  daughter, and breaks up her own  marriage to a former slave who had made himself ''the Black Banana King.
Mrs. Smith is survived by her husband, Robert Kimmel Smith, an author; a daughter, Heidi M. Smith of San Francisco; a son, Roger K. Smith of New York City, and a sister, Harriet M. Levine of Orangeburg, N.Y.
      
For someone born in the Victorian era, Miss Smith adapted well to 20th-century culture, much to the occasional dismay of her mother, a staid woman who had derived her Victorian outlook in situ, growing up in  England, and who was properly shocked when her daughter, who had not come of age in the Roaring Twenties for nothing, would go off for weekends with her young man of the moment.
She was 78 and had emphysema, said her daughter, Helena Paz Garro.
Ms. Garro spent her last years with her daughter and more than a dozen cats in a two-bedroom apartment in Cuernavaca.
      
Like her business acumen and her boundless good humor, her religious commitment seems to have come from her father, Frank, a Pennsylvania Railroad executive with a weakness for practical jokes and such a spiritual bent, his daughter later recalled, that ''he would pray all the way to work, and when I went with him, I would pray, too.
She is survived by a daughter, Pooja, of Bombay.
She was the daughter of Abraham B. Hurwitz, a college professor who doubled as a magician, and Ann Hurwitz, a music coordinator for the New York City Board of Education and an accomplished pianist.
Her mother was an energetic woman who began teaching her daughter piano at the age of 2.
When he discovered that his daughter had been able to throw her voice there, he found a former vaudevillian to coach her.
He survives her, along with their daughter, Mallory.
Both her husband and daughter collaborated with her in her projects.
In the early 1940's, she was Dorothy Price Vanderpool, a divorced mother with a baby daughter to support because of what she called an ''unfortunate teen-aged marriage.
She is survived by Mr. Rivkin and her daughter, Donna Dale Carnegie of Lake Oswego, Ore. Another daughter, Rosemary Crom, died earlier.
She is survived by Mr. Rivkin and her daughter, Donna Dale Carnegie of Lake Oswego, Ore. Another daughter, Rosemary Crom, died earlier.
Dr. Karlin is survived by her daughter, Jessica Feierman of Philadelphia; a son, Joshua Feierman of New York City; and her mother, Rosa Karlin of Madison.

        Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines.
Her daughter Sara Thompson said the cause was complications from hepatitis C.
        When Mrs. Irwin and her young partner, Lee Hadley, also an Iowa State English professor, put their heads and names together in the early 1970's, their target audience was 12- to 16-year-olds, an age group known in the publishing trade as young adults.
In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her survivors include their 7-year-old daughter, Mary.
      
''
        In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Ann Wandell of Windham; a brother, Bruce McWilliams of Little Deer Isle, Me; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
Dr. Edey was the former Helen W. Kellogg, a daughter of Morris W. Kellogg, an industrialist who founded the Kellogg Company, a New Jersey-based manufacturer of oil industry equipment.
Miss Rhinelander was born in Manhattan on May 19, 1921, the daughter of Helen G. and Philip Kip Rhinelander.
Besides Mr. Weller, she is survived by a daughter from an earlier marriage, Valerie Reuther of Seattle, and a brother, Dr. Homer House of Sherwood, Md.
      
''
        Born in Berlin on April 29, 1913, Ms. Long was the daughter of Russian-born Tatiana Mouraviev and Robert Crozier Long, a British journalist.
Calif.; a daughter, Mary Jane Joyce of Derwood, Md., four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son and a daughter.
      
The natural successor to Mother Cleusa is her eldest daughter, Monica Millet.
''
        Dr. Calderone, the daughter of the photographer Edward Steichen, was a woman of many talents and diverse interests who did not find her true calling until midlife.
She grew up as the daughter of a working artist.
Her 8-year-old daughter, Nell, died of pneumonia, plunging her into a debilitating depression.
Her marriage to Dr. Calderone, who later became chief administrative officer of the World Health Organization, produced two more daughters, Dr. Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist, and Dr. Maria Calderone, a veterinarian in Galena, Ohio, born almost 20 years after her oldest daughter, Linda Hodes, a psychotherapist in Albuquerque, N.M.
The list of survivors also misidentified the public health degree held by a daughter, Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist.
In a letter she wrote in 1952, Mrs. Judd, an Indiana native and the daughter of a minister, called the dismemberment ''a ghastly deed'' but again maintained that she shot the two women in self-defense.
She is survived by her daughter, Elena Mannes, of Manhattan.
      
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She grew up in Tokyo, the daughter of a prominent Japanese statesman and a mother who was an American of Japanese descent.
Her father had other ideas, insisting that his daughter obtain a measure of self-sufficiency by learning to type, ''until a millionaire comes along, as he put it.
''
        A dutiful daughter, Miss Parla obliged, but since she was a little girl her real passion had been dancing, and when a man who ran a dance studio in her apartment building marveled at her skill, she began to get the notion that she might actually become a professional.
To make ends meet the former Queen of the Rumba, her father's daughter to the end, spent 20 years working as a typist.
Miss Parla is survived by a daughter, Ileana Comas, and a sister, Zilia Navarete, both of Miami, and two grandsons.
      
mom cum after-school chauffeur with the usual array of committee meetings and volunteer work, Mrs. Lukens, a labor organizer's daughter who was also active in the antinuclear and civil rights movements, did pretty much what any suburban mother of her era did.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
She was also a consultant to the San Francisco Performing Arts Library and Museum and assisted Irina Nijinska, the daughter of the dancer and choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, in restaging Nijinska's ballets.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Elysabeth Kleinhans, a lawyer who manages the real estate business with other family members.
''Even into her old age, everyone thought she was a charming, lovely little woman,'' her daughter said.

        Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death became nationally known only recently.

        Kyra Nijinsky, a dancer who was the daughter of Vaslav Nijinsky, one of this century's greatest ballet dancers and choreographers, died on Sept. 1 at the Pine Ridge Care Center in San Rafael, Calif. She led a reclusive life in San Francisco and details of her death become nationally known only recently.
Miss Hobson, a British naval officer's daughter, starred in British films of the 1930's and 1940's.
She is survived by a son, Edgar S. Cahn of Washington, and a daughter, Mary Cahn Schwartz of Chevy Chase, Md., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Disposable was not what Mrs. Donovan had in mind in 1946 when her second daughter came along and proved as maddeningly reliable as the first: Put her down for a nap and by the time the light was out her diaper would be wet, and her clothes and crib sheet would soon be soaked and in need of changing.
The daughter of a prosperous Latvian businessman, Mrs. Elianoff, a Riga native whose maiden name was Levitt, learned to sew as as child, but her girlhood heart belonged to the theater.
With war clouds looming (and many of her Western clients being evacuated) Mrs. Elianoff brought  her daughter, Anna Lou, to the United States in March 1941.
She is survived by her daughter, Anna Lou Aldrich of Manhattan, five granddaughters and two great-grandsons.
      

        Helen Herrick Malsed, a lumber baron's daughter whose imagination gave rise to the popular Slinky Dog and Slinky Train toys, died Nov. 13 in Seattle, her home for almost 60 years.
But he lost $12 million in the Depression, and his daughter Helen was forced to drop out of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.
        After studying advertising in San Francisco, she was offered a job at the Frederick & Nelson department store in Seattle, where she met and married Marion Parker Malsed, who sold men's clothing in the store.
Born in Odessa, Ukraine, Ms. Youshkevitch was the daughter of the playwright and novelist Semyon Youshkevitch, who was well known in Russian emigre circles after the Russian Revolution.
Among her other work was ''Mooltiki: Stories and Poems from India'' (1957); ''A House with Four Rooms'' (1989), which takes up where ''A Time to Dance'' ended, and ''The Peacock Spring'' (1975), a novel about a British father and daughter in India who fall in love with Asians.
Two years after her husband's death Ms. Godden moved to Scotland to live with her daughter Jane.
''
        As a daughter of Walter R. Benjamin, a onetime New York Sun reporter who founded what is now the nation's oldest autograph dealership in Manhattan in 1887, Miss Benjamin, a native of Yonkers who graduated from Barnard, did not so much inherit her expertise as absorb it by osmosis during a 13-year apprenticeship at her father's elbow.
When it came to tracking down valuable documents, she was very much the daughter of the man who catapulted himself into the first ranks of his field in 1907.

        Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago.
In 1966 she published ''Jubilee,'' which told the life story of the daughter of a slave and a white plantation owner.
''
        In addition to her daughter Marion, Dr. Alexander, who was a widow, is survived by another daughter, Margaret Williams, and two sons, Firnist Alexander and Sigismund Alexander, all of Jackson, and nine grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her daughter Marion, Dr. Alexander, who was a widow, is survived by another daughter, Margaret Williams, and two sons, Firnist Alexander and Sigismund Alexander, all of Jackson, and nine grandchildren.
      
Miss Graham was born on July 4, 1912, in Chicago, the daughter of David S. Komiss, a women's clothier, and the former Bessie J. Feiges.
Miss Graham is survived by a daughter, Lynn Bohrer, and a granddaughter, Jan, both of New York; and a grandson, Stephen, of Singapore.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Gail Christensen of Los Angeles, and a son, Jack Jones of Indian Wells, Calif.
      

        Honoria Murphy Donnelly, the daughter of Gerald and Sara Murphy, the golden couple at the center of the modernist whirl in 1920's Europe, who was dandled on the knees of the towering figures of the avant-garde, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Palm Beach in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 81 and lived in Palm Beach Shores and East Hampton, N.Y.
Attractive, cultured and well-to-do (Gerald was heir to the Mark Cross leather goods fortune, Sara the daughter of an industrialist and a grandniece of Gen. William Tecumseh Sherman), the Murphys epitomized the urbane insouciance of the jazz age.
''
        A devoted daughter who was ever conscious of her responsibility as the sole surviving child, Honoria fulfilled that prophecy.
Dr. Nyswander was born on Sept. 29, 1894, the daughter of Albert Dixon Bird and the former Margaret Collins Miller.
''
        The daughter of a poetry-spouting English professor, Miss Lewis was born in Chicago and grew up in Oak Park where she and her 1899 contemporary, Ernest Hemingway, contributed their first works to the same high school literary magazines, she deriving inspiration by summering even deeper in the north woods than he and finding a lifelong fascination with nature and the natural flow of life.
For Miss Lewis, who is survived by a daughter, Joanna Thomson of Madison, Wis.; a son, Daniel Winters  of Davis, Calif., and three grandchildren, her family was always more important than her work, and her life is well reflected in her final collection, ''The Dear Past,'' (1994) with poems covering most of the century.
The California-born daughter of a Japanese farmer and an aspiring Japanese social worker, Miss Fujikawa was among the first illustrators to command royalties rather than a flat fee.
