She is survived by a daughter, Susan Gossen, of Manhattan; a son, Stewart V., of Roslyn, L.I.
''American Daughter'' was published in 1946.

       Rebecca Hourwich Reyher, a veteran suffragist, author and lecturer, died of pnuemonia last Saturday at the home of her daughter, Faith Jackson, in St. Inigoes, Md.
Rebecca Hourwich Reyher, a veteran suffragist, author and lecturer, died of pnuemonia last Saturday at the home of her daughter, Faith Jackson, in St. Inigoes, Md.
In addition to her daughter, three grandsons and two great-grandchildren survive.
      
Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Peter Schilder of Annapolis; a daughter, Jane S. Knowles of Santa Fe, N.M.; three grandchildren, and a brother, Karl Bender of Milwaukee, Ore.
      
She is survived by her husband, Naphtali Lewis; a daughter, Dr. Judith L. Herman, of Cambridge; a son, John B., of Cambridge, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Elizabeth H. Muench, of Lexington, Mass.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Gloria Mae St. Lifer, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Pantaleoni is survived by a brother, Tadeusz Adamowski of New York; by four sons, Michael and Anthony of New York, Guido 3d of Bronxville, N.Y., and Hewitt of Oneonta, N.Y.; a daughter, Nina Hillgarth of Toronto, and 14 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
''
        She is survived by a daughter, Belinda Bacon of Cambridge, Mass.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph W. De Fossett, a daughter, Michelle, her mother, Annie, of Manhattan, three sisters, Floretta St. Ange, of the Bronx; Faustina Jenkins, of Los Angeles, and Persis Myers, of Manhattan, and a brother, Kendrick, of Brooklyn.
      

       Helen Hallet Kennedy, a civic leader in Bedford, N.Y., died Sunday at her daughter's home in Bedford after a brief illness.
Helen Hallet Kennedy, a civic leader in Bedford, N.Y., died Sunday at her daughter's home in Bedford after a brief illness.
''
        The Wickers had a son, Walter Charles Jr., who died in action as a fighter pilot in World War II, and a daughter, Nancy.
Mrs. Hammer is survived by her daughter, Nancy Eilan of Stamford, Conn.
      
She is survived by two sons, Leonard, of the Bronx, and Robert, of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Bowie of Bloomington, Ind.
She is survived by two sons, Leonard, of the Bronx, and Robert, of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Bowie of Bloomington, Ind.

       A daughter of former New Jersey Gov.
A daughter of former New Jersey Gov.
Born in London the daughter of a Viennese father and a French mother, Miss Handl took up acting when she was 36 and over the years appeared in stage plays, films and television comedies as well as becoming an accomplished writer.
She is survived by a daughter, Rhoda, of Manhattan; a son, Basil, of Queens; a sister, Anna Stein of St. Petersburg, Fla.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas E. Huser Jr. of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Eleanor H. Kirk of Bronxville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      

       Lillias Dulles Hinshaw, a Presbyterian minister and the daughter of the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, died after a long illness Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Lillias Dulles Hinshaw, a Presbyterian minister and the daughter of the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, died after a long illness Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Alexander Zabriskie Jr., and a daughter, Mary Zabriskie.
      
She is survived by two sons,, Peter, of Providence, R.I., and Jeoffrey, of Manhattan, and a daughter, Jenniffer, of Manhattan.
      
The daughter of Sir Johnston Forbes-Robertson and Lady Gertrude Forbes-Robertson, a well-known actor and actress, Mrs. Sheean was born in London and spent most of her childhood in Kent, near the cliffs of Dover.
Born in Charleston, the daughter of a former slave, Mrs. Clark was widely recognized for her work in civil rights.
Born in Charleston, the daughter of a former slave, Mrs. Clark was widely recognized for her work in civil rights.
She is survived by a daughter, Rosary Gilheany of Nutley.
      
Mrs. Nason, who was a daughter of a well-known real-estate developer, William E. Harmon, served from 1928 until 1985 as a director and, for a time, as president of the Harmon Foundation.
The book reflected her life as the surviving parent of a son and daughter, ages 9 and 5.
Mrs. Caine is survived by her son, Jonathan Saul, and her daughter, Elizabeth.
      
The latter was a joint exhibition with her daughter, the photographer Ruth Orkin, who was best-known for her photographs of Central Park before her death in 1985.

       Ruth G. Bonner, mother-in-law of the Soviet physicist Andrei D. Sakharov and a victim of Stalin's purges in the late 1930's, died Friday at the age of 87, her daughter Yelena G. Bonner said today.
Ruth G. Bonner, mother-in-law of the Soviet physicist Andrei D. Sakharov and a victim of Stalin's purges in the late 1930's, died Friday at the age of 87, her daughter Yelena G. Bonner said today.
Yelena Bonner said she hoped her son, Alexei, and her daughter, Tatyana, would be granted visas to attend the funeral, which she said would probably be held Tuesday.
      
Her son, Joseph, is a photographer in Paris, and her daughter, Monika, lives in New York City.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; two sons, Mark and Ned, and a daughter, Dorsey, all of Bloomsbury; her mother, Katherine Symington, and two sisters, Lee Mathews and Kathy Seiler, all of Baltimore.
      
''
        Mrs. Barr is survived by a daughter, Victoria, a painter who lives in New York City.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Harry and David, and a daughter, Jennifer, all of Queens.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Smith is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Richard B. Griffin Jr. of Washington; three sons, John T. Smith 2d of Washington, Gerard L. Smith of New York City and Hugh M. Smith of Easton, Md.
She was the daughter of William Howard Taft, the 27th President and, until his death in 1930, the 10th Chief Justice of the United States.
Mrs. Burton is survived by their daughter, Joy Temes.
Surviving are her husband, Andrew; a daughter, Melinda, of Brewster; a stepson, Roger, of Sudbury, Mass., and a sister, Marguerite Britter, also of Brewster.
      
Also surviving is a daughter of Professor Meiman by a previous marriage, Olga Plam of Boulder, Colo.
        INNA MEIMAN, EMIGRE, DIES AT 53
      
She is survived by a daughter, Bernice L. Rudnick of Manhattan, who is vice chairman of the Einstein College board of overseers; a son, Maurice, of Manhattan, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Youngman is survived by a daughter, Marilyn; a son, Gary, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Greenwood, born in the Chelsea section of London on March 4, 1921, was the daughter of Sydney Earnshaw Greenwood, an artist.
She is survived by a daughter, Joan Freilich of Cleveland, Ohio, and two sons, Frederick, of Hopewell Junction, N.Y., and Jonathan, of Amherst.
      
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Peggy Friedman, and two grandchildren, Matthew and Susannah Friedman, all of Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Deborah, of San Francisco; two sons, Howard 3d, of Apollo Beach, Fla., and Scott, of Bozeman, Mont., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Johnston leaves a daughter, Barbara Baggesen of Westborough, Mass.
'' Won Tony Award in 1979
        In 1950, after her marriage to Mr. Kirby had ended in divorce, she married Mr. Jackson and temporarily retired from singing to raise her daughter, Paula.
''
        She is survived by her daughter, Paula Morris, and her son, Orville Williams.
She is survived by her husband, Wilbur; a daughter, Allyson, of Manhattan; a son, Louis, of Freeport, L.I.
Charlotte Murray Curtis was born in Chicago on Dec. 19, 1928, the daughter of George Morris and Lucile Atcherson Curtis.
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
Since 1981 the actress had been under the care of her second daughter, Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, who by publicizing her mother's tragic illness had drawn national and international attention to Alzheimer's disease, about which little was known until recent years.
They named their daughter Margarita Carmen Cansino, but she shortened the name to Rita Cansino when she began dancing professionally at the age of 12, and kept that name for her first 10 movies.
Spotted by a Fox Producer
        Mr. Cansino's career took the family to Los Angeles, where his daughter attended school through the ninth grade.
Marriage to Orson Welles
        Miss Hayworth, who had divorced her first husband, married Orson Welles in 1943, and they had a daughter, Rebecca.
Miss Hayworth's other daughter, Rebecca Welles, lives in Tacoma, Wash.
        Princess Yasmin, testifying in 1983 before a Congressional committee concerned with appropriating funds for Alzheimer's disease research, said that the disease had reduced her mother to ''a state of utter helplessness.
Mrs. Warburg, the daughter of the late Conde Nast and the late Mrs. Clarisse Onativia Coudert, was born in Manhattan.
She is survived by a daughter, Jeremy Warburg Russo of Chicago; a son, Jonathan, of Boston; two stepchildren, Geraldine Zetzel of Cambridge, Mass., and Felix M. Warburg 2d of San Francisco; a sister, Lady Bonham-Carter of London; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
and City College; a daughter, Elaine W. Conway of Bronxville, N.Y.; a son, John, of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a son, Daniel, of Washington; a daughter, Susan Lindheim, of El Cerrito, Calif.; a stepbrother, Ralph Colp Jr. of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
Miss Gray is survived by a daughter, Portia Brown, and a sister, Helen.
      
''
        At the City Opera, Ms. Auerbach presided over such revivals as ''Carmen,'' ''The Daughter of the Regiment'' and ''L'Heure Espagnol.
She is also survived by a daughter, Sandra Schwartz, and a sister, Beatrice Abbe of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
She was born in Durham, N.H., the daughter of Caspar Whitney, a sportswriter, explorer and architect, and Florence Canfield, a founder of the League of Women Voters.
Mrs. Mattson was the widow of Walter Edward Mattson Sr. She is also survived by a daughter, Mrs. Hugh W. Hastings of Fryeburg, Me.
Mrs. Ross, who was divorced, is survived by a son, Mark, of Ann Arbor, Mich; a daughter, Johanna Ross, Newton Centre, Mass.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Yonatan, of Manhattan and Omri Eytan, of Tel Aviv, and a daughter, Tula, also of Tel Aviv.
Miss Harrison, the daughter of the late Floyd and Henrietta Harrison of New York City, was a graduate of the Madeira School in Greenway, Va., and Smith College in Northampton, Mass., and was the director of volunteers for the British War Relief Society during World War II.
Mrs. Cox is survived by her son, Dr. Denton Sayer Cox, of Manhattan; a daughter, Patricia Cox Mansfield, of Weston, Mass., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, David Silverberg; her mother, Helen G. Brody; a sister, Dr. Sheila B. Kamerman, and a daughter, Dr. Sue A. Shapiro, all of Manhattan.
      
; a daughter, Judith Singer of Jacksonville, Fla.; two brothers, Dudley Feit of Brooklyn and Herbert Feit of Jamaica Estates, Queens; a sister, Rose Blau of Brooklyn, and six grandchildren.
      

       Lady Rama Rau, a pioneer of family planning in India and a leader of the world family planning movement, died of kidney failure Sunday in a hospital in Bombay, India, her daughter said.
Lady Rama Rau, a pioneer of family planning in India and a leader of the world family planning movement, died of kidney failure Sunday in a hospital in Bombay, India, her daughter said.
She is survived by her daughter, the Indian writer Santha Rama Rau, of Amenia, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Levi is survived by a daughter, Tamara, of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Fahy was a daughter of Ernest T. Carter, a musician, composer and Princeton organist and choir master at the turn of the century.
She is survived by three sons, James, of Hampton, N.H., Richard, of Center Ossipee, N.H., and Harold, of Raymond, N.H.; a daughter, Mrs. Noel Robertson of St. Catherines, Ontario; a brother, Roger, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      
Ms. Hinderas is survived by her mother, Leota Palmer; her husband, Lionel Monagas, and a daughter, Michele.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Hawes, a daughter, Evalie Horner, and a granddaughter.
      
Priest is survived by a son, Jamie Priest, and a daughter, Esther Blue, both of Manhattan; a sister, Hinda Neufeld of Ithaca, N.Y., and two brothers, Elias Cohen of Philadelphia and Sam Crane of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, Seth L. Schapiro of Manhattan, and a daughter, Cherry S. Krassner of New Rochelle; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a civil libertarian, Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, she was the first woman to hold a judicial office above magistrate in the state.
She is survived by two sons, Stephen Wise Tulin of Larchmont, N.Y., and Jonathon Wise Polier of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Trudy Festinger of Manhattan; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Watts was the daughter of Gustave Hinrichs, a conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra and of the Metropolitan Opera Company at the turn of the century, and of Katherine Fleming, a contralto who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.
Mrs. Watts was the daughter of Gustave Hinrichs, a conductor of the Philadelphia Orchestra and of the Metropolitan Opera Company at the turn of the century, and of Katherine Fleming, a contralto who sang at the Metropolitan Opera.
She is survived by two sons: Llewellyn 3d, of Hightstown, N.J., and Dr. Harvey, of Devon, Pa.; a daughter, Elise W. Gebelt of Seattle; 13 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Allana Chesney of Point Lookout, and three grandchildren.
Miss Bauersmith is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Warren, an actress living in Los Angeles; a son, Paul Warren, dean of the School of Education at Boston University, and three grandchildren.
He was sent to prison and, although he was ultimately released, he did not return to his wife and daughter.
Survivors include her husband, Lester, and a daughter, Vivian Reinvald, of Tacoma.
      
Mrs. Price is survived by a daughter, Claire Krischok of Manhattan; a brother, Sol Westheimer, also of Manhattan; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Hammerstein is survived by a sister, Eleanor Biow of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two sons, Henry Jacobson of Santa Barbara and James Blanchard Hammerstein of Manhattan and London; a daughter, Susan Blanchard of Manhattan; two stepchildren, William Hammerstein of Kent, Conn., and Alice Mathias of Harrison, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Donald Jr., of Naperville, Ill.; a daughter, Delia A. Mulvaney of Southboro, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Elizabeth Morrill of Beverly, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Warburg was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Felix M. and Frieda Schiff Warburg.
She is survived by her husband, D. Rex Edwards; two sisters, Marjorie Smith of Rosedale and Bernice Patterson of Jamaica, Queens; an adopted son, Ralph Barkley of Virginia Beach, Va.; an adopted daughter, Freda Muldoon of Newburyport, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Charlotte Van Winkle of Hamden, Conn.; a son, Van Burgess of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Claire Phillips of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin, of Ghent, a retired Supreme Court justice; a daughter, Elaine Johnson of Somers, N.Y., three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rothschild was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Felix M. and Frieda Schiff Warburg.
In 1936, she was the center of one of Hollywood's most spectacular scandals when she sued Dr. Franklyn Thorpe for legal custody of their 4-year-old daughter, Marylyn.
Miss Astor was granted custody of her daughter for nine months a year, with Dr. Thorpe allowed custody the three other months.
Won Beauty Contest at 11
        During the 30-day trial, Hollywood producers, fearing the scandal would damage the film industry, pressed Miss Astor to drop the suit, but she refused, risking her reputation and career to keep her daughter.
''
        Mary Astor was born Lucile Langhanke on May 3, 1906, in Quincy, Ill., the only child of the former Helen Vasconcells, an American, and Otto Ludwig Wilhelm Langhanke, a German immigrant who made an uncertain income from such diverse activities as teaching German and poultry farming until he began to cash in on his daughter's film success.
Besides her daughter and son, the actress is survived by an undisclosed number of grandchildren.
Survivors include a daughter, Julia, of Egg Harbor City, N.J., and two sons, William, of Iselin, and Steven, of Clifton, N.J.
      
Mrs. Raditsa was born in Turin, Italy, the daughter of Guglielmo Ferrero, an Italian historian and anti-Facist exiled by Mussolini, and of Gina Lombroso Ferrero.
; a daughter, Bosa, of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
Clare Boothe was born in New York City on April 10, 1903, the daughter of William Franklin Boothe, a pit orchestra violinist and sometime businessman, and the former Anna Clara Snyder, who had been a chorus girl.
After six years of marriage she won a divorce on grounds of mental cruelty and was awarded $425,000 plus education expenses for her daughter, Ann Clare Brokaw.
Her 19-year-old daughter was killed in an automobile accident that year.
Before Sheen had talked three minutes, she demanded, ''Listen, if God is good, why did He take my daughter?
'' A Farmer's Daughter
        Eleanor Murdock Johnson was born Dec. 10, 1892, in Washington County, Md., a daughter of a farming couple.
'' A Farmer's Daughter
        Eleanor Murdock Johnson was born Dec. 10, 1892, in Washington County, Md., a daughter of a farming couple.

       Elizabeth Remsen, the daughter of the founder of Remsenburg, L.I., died Saturday at her home in Remsenburg.
Elizabeth Remsen, the daughter of the founder of Remsenburg, L.I., died Saturday at her home in Remsenburg.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gino; a daughter, Adriana Scalamandre Bitter; seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Monroe, who was born on Oct. 23, 1906, in New York, was the daughter of Anna Laughlin and Dwight Monroe, a diamond importer.
Dr. Weithorn is survived by her husband, Stanley S. Weithorn; a daughter, Lois A. Weithorn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a son, Michael J., of Los Angeles; her mother, Frieda A. Breslow of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and a sister, Elaine M. Brody of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Lundin Shapiro of Chevy Chase, Md.
She is survived by her husband, John; a son, David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Virginia, of Cambridge, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard Moss of Scarsdale; two sons, John, of Wayland, Mass., and William, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Vanessa, of Chicago, and her mother, Ethyl Hoffert of Manhattan.
      
But neither daughter lived up to her vow.
She was the daughter of John Carroll of Ireland and Helene de Rosiere Tuaillon, a Frenchwoman.
; a daughter, Eleanor Elliot of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Nathaniel, and a daughter, Caitlin, both of Manhattan; a brother, John Campbell of Chittenden, Vt., and her parents, Ford and Miriam Campbell of Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
      
