The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said a daughter, Miriam P. Eley.
Besides her husband and her daughter, of San Francisco, she is survived by another daughter, Victoria P. Corbett of Manhattan; a son, David W., of Mountain View, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband and her daughter, of San Francisco, she is survived by another daughter, Victoria P. Corbett of Manhattan; a son, David W., of Mountain View, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Doerflinger, a 1929 graduate of Smith College, was the daughter of Louise Homer, a noted Metropolitan Opera contralto.
She is survived by her husband, William; three sons, Thomas, of Summit, N.J., Jonathan Warner of Pelham, N.Y., and William Warner of Buffalo; a daughter, Ann Resmond of San Francisco; a sister, Katherine Homer Fryer of Manhattan, eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Irene Moore Jaglom, who teaches acting; a granddaughter, Leona Jaglom Hirsch; a grandson, Andre R. Jaglom, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joel H. Hupper; a daughter, Anne Gans of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, David of Sudbury, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Claire Haye, and two granddaughters, all of Taos, N.M.
      
; a daughter, Anne Farber of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      
In addition to Mr. Dessart, she is survived by her mother, Sylvia Field of Fall Brook, Calif.; three stepbrothers, James Truex of New York City and Philip and Barry Truex of California; three sons, Harold Dozier of West Nyack, N.Y.; Aaron Dozier of Los Angeles, and Brendan Dozier of San Diego; a daughter, Shauna Kellin of West Nyack, and two grandchildren.
      
Among other Broadway roles in the 1920's, she played Shylock's daughter, Jessica, in the David Warfield production of "The Merchant of Venice," and was cast by David Belasco as the star of "Rosa Machree.
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daughter, Felicity Turner.
In addition to her daughter, of Cambridge, Mass., she is survived by her mother, Freda Tabachnick of Manhattan; a son, David Newbro, also of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
In addition to Matilda, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Nancy Mazzola, of Montville, N.J.; three sons, Frank, of Lake Success; Sam, of Syosset, L.I., and Joseph, of San Diego, 15 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
"She just took a breath and she was gone," her daughter, Cheryl Crane, was quoted as saying in Daily Variety, a trade newspaper.
The most sensational incident occurred in 1958 when her lover, Johnny Stompanato, threatened to disfigure her and was stabbed to death with a carving knife by her 14-year-old daughter, Cheryl Crane.
A jury exonerated her daughter with a finding of justifiable homicide.
She is survived by her daughter.
      
Mrs. Hooper was born and reared in Grosse Pointe, Mich., the daughter of Dexter Mason Ferry, an insurance executive who was the founder of the Ferry Seed Company, and Jeanette Hawkins.
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Ruth A. McQuiggan Rosenbloom.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by two brothers, David F. Doyle of Los Angeles and John R. Doyle of Lincoln.
      
Mrs. Ries is survived by her daughter, Dr. Jane Ries Pitt Socolow of Princeton, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
"She just took a breath and she was gone," her daughter, Cheryl Crane, was quoted as saying in Daily Variety, a trade newspaper.
Her daughter is her only survivor.
The daughter of Sidney Reinhardt and Alice Blum Reinhardt, she attended Washington University and the College of the Incarnate Word in San Antonio.
She is survived by a daughter, Ann Smith, and two grandsons, Bertram and Nicholas Nikola; all of Patterson, N.Y., and a sister, Alice Harrington of San Diego.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, John; a daughter, Lily Clare; two stepsons, Cosmo and Justin Jencks, all of London, and her mother, Clare Lady Keswick of Portrack, Scotland.
      
As she later recalled in "I Knew a Phoenix: Sketches for an Autobiography," her mother carried with her from Belgium a copy of "Leaves of Grass," and passed on a love of poetry to her daughter.
Mrs. Sawyer, a graduate of Briarcliff College, was the daughter of Barbara and Clifford Michel, an investment banker and senior partner in Loeb, Rhoades & Company and Kuhn Loeb & Company.
Dr. Swap is survived by her husband, Walter; a son, Clifford; a daughter, Alison, all of Winchester; her parents, John and Pauline McAllister of Fairfield, Conn.; two sisters, Joan Howard of Winterville, Ga., and June McAllister of Stratford, Conn., and a brother, Jef McAllister of Great Falls, Va.
      
Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a daughter, Phyllis Barbara Lambert of Montreal; two sons, Edgar M. of Manhattan, the chairman of Seagram, and Charles R. of Montreal, co-chairman; 11 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren.
Dr. Wortis was born in New York City, the daughter of Dr. Haven Emerson, a former City Commissioner of Health.
And for all her infectious optimism and perpetual good cheer, even as a "granny," as midwives were known in the South, Mrs. Logan, the daughter and granddaughter of midwives, was hardly unique.
Ms. Cayne is survived by her husband, Maurice Cayne; a daughter, Naomi Finerman of San Rafael, Calif., and a brother, David Liebert of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
She was born in New York City, the daughter of Estelle and David Fox.
She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
She went from being a small-town lawyer's well-read daughter to being a regular on fashion magazines' lists of well-dressed women, with her trendy designer gowns and hats from Bergdorf Goodman.
Their first child, William P. Hobby Jr., was born on Mrs. Hobby's 27th birthday, and her daughter, Jessica, on her 32d.
Mrs. Hobby was born on Jan. 19, 1905, in Killeen, Tex., the daughter of Isaac and Emma Hoover Culp.
Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Kaplan is survived by her husband of 15 years, Charles P. Lazarus; two sons, Dr. Phillip Kaplan and Dr. Peter Kaplan, a daughter, Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, all of the Upper East Side; a brother, Frank Singer of California, and two grandsons.
"
        Mrs. Simpson was born Adele Smithline in New York City, the fifth daughter of Latvian immigrants.
For the wedding of President Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci, in 1966, Mrs. Simpson designed for the mother of the bride a wrinkle-resistant yellow silk street-length coat, matching princess-line dress and hat.
Her daughter, Joan Raines, and son-in-law, Richard Raines, ran the business after her retirement.
In addition to her daughter, Joan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Simpson is survived by a son, Jeffrey, also of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      
When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.
She is survived by her daughter, Carol Davis Evans of Tucson; four grandchildren and three step-grandchildren.
      
Miss Lupino is survived by a daughter, Bridget Duff, and a sister, Rita Lupino.
      
"
        Brigid Antonia Brophy was born in 1929 in London, the only daughter of the Anglo-Irish novelist John Brophy.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Kate.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jacqueline Coslow of Manhattan, who is also an actress, and by two grandchildren.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter Patricia Winter.
In addition to Ms. Winter, she is survived by another daughter, Deborah Herschel, both of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a daughter, Wilhelmine; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
"She believed in treating the whole person," said her daughter, Suzanne Bunzel, noting that her mother was known for the accuracy of her wide-ranging diagnoses beyond her specialty.
Until she was stricken by a gastrointestinal infection two days before her death on Aug. 11, her daughter said, she called her broker every day.
Beside Mrs. Bunzel of Los Angeles, Dr. Belcher is survived by another daughter, Kate Webster of Bainbridge Island, Wash., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, the writer and producer Norman Corwin; a daughter, Diane Corwin Okarski of Spokane, Wash., and a son, Anthony, of Thousand Oaks.
      
Ms. Chernin is survived by her daughter, Kim, of Berkeley, Calif., and a sister, Lillian Doran of Camarillo, Calif.
      
Mrs. Cummings was born in Chicago, the daughter of Harriet Toor and Harold Toor, former chairman of the United States Shoe Corporation.
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
In addition to Miss Quayle, she is survived by her daughter, Lady Quayle, the widow of the actor Anthony Quayle; two other grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
They had a son, Khari, now 22 and a student at Morehouse College in Atlanta, and a daughter, Maya, 18, who plans to attend Spelman next year.
In addition to her sister Joyce, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Heather Steele, of South Dakota; another sister, Emalie Daniel, of Houston, and a granddaughter.
      
The Colonial Dames own the site on East 61st Street that includes what is now the Abigail Adams Smith Museum, which once stood on an estate owned by President John Adams's daughter Abigail and her husband.
Mrs. Kean is survived by a daughter, Mary Alice Raynolds of Lander, Wyo.
Mrs. Hazen had what her daughter, Cynthia Hazen Polsky, called "a great passion for family" and took a personal interest in the activities she supported.
Mrs. Hazen and her husband also established the Gwynne Hazen Cherry Memorial Laboratory in Oncology and Hematology, in memory of their other daughter, at the Marion Davies Hospital, a unit of the University of California, Los Angeles, Medical Center.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Aissatou Parks of Manhattan; her mother, Elizabeth Dearing of Tuskegee, Ala.; her father, Charles, of Manhattan; two sisters, Carole, of Tuskegee, and Bianca, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Charles, of Tuskegee, and Andre, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by two sons, Dr. Sidney Silverman of Boca Raton, Fla., and Stanley S. Sills of North Hills, L.I.
The cause of death was cancer, her daughter, Charlene Factory, said.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, Bruce; a sister, Helen Huggins; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, of Encino, Calif., Miss Andrews is survived by a daughter, Aleda Hunt, and a son, Peter Levy, both of Salt Lake City; by Ms. Wells, whom she adopted and who lived with her in Auburn, Calif.; Steve Sharpe of Los Angeles, whom she considered a foster son, and one grandchild.
And when the New York authorities ruled that her 18-year-old daughter, Sarah Snyder, had committed suicide in 1973, Mrs. Goodman, citing her daughter's astrological chart among other evidence, refused to believe that the body identified by her husband was Sarah's.
And when the New York authorities ruled that her 18-year-old daughter, Sarah Snyder, had committed suicide in 1973, Mrs. Goodman, citing her daughter's astrological chart among other evidence, refused to believe that the body identified by her husband was Sarah's.
She later spent so much time trying to find her daughter that she was forever running out of money, at one point living for several months on the steps of St. Patrick's Cathedral.
In addition to her son Michael, who is a resident of Keaau, Hawaii, she is survived by another son, William Snyder of Colorado Springs; a daughter, Jill Goodman, of Manchester, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications from rheumatoid arthritis, said her daughter, Lena Tabori.
"
        Her 1955 Broadway debut in the title role of "Anastasia," a drama about a woman claiming to be the missing daughter of Czar Nicholas 2d, won her immediate acclaim from critics and an award from the Drama League.
In addition to her daughter, whose father was Folke Rogard, she is survived by two sons, John Tabori of Washington, whose father was Henry Hasso, and Kristoffer Tabori of Los Angeles, whose father was Don Siegel, and four grandchildren.
      
She was born in Heidelberg, Germany, the daughter of Karl Wilmanns, a professor and director of Heidelberg University's psychiatry department.
Miss Deane is survived by a daughter from her second marriage, to John Fuelling, a restaurateur, who is deceased.
      
A sharecropper's daughter who was born in Scott, Ark., and never made it through high school, Mrs. Blackston was accustomed to running her own life.
Mrs. Baumann, who was born in Manhattan, was a daughter of Fred Hirschhorn, the founder and chief executive officer of the General Cigar Company, and the former Hannah deRothschild Sharps.
Ms. Cash was his strong-minded daughter, the family's principal wage-earner.
Mrs. Greenberg traced her success to a day in 1957 when her 16-year-old daughter, Mary Jane, came home raving about the performance of four classmates at a Passaic High School assembly.
She is survived by her daughter, Mary Jane Goff of Upper Saddle River, N.J.;  a son, Stanley, of Los Angeles; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
"
        A diplomat's daughter who had lived in a dozen countries before going to Radcliffe in 1937 to study Chinese history and French literature, Mrs. Bruce moved to London during World War II to work in the London office of the O.S.S.,  the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency.
It was named for Mrs. Bruce's 28-year-old daughter, Alexandra, who was known as Sasha and was shot to  death on the family estate in Virginia in 1975.
She is survived by a son, Anthony H. and a daughter, Dorothy Smith, both of Jacksonville; 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      

        Dorothy Porter Wesley, a librarian who played the primary role in building Howard University's collection of books and other materials for the study of black history and culture, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., at the home  of her daughter, where she had moved recently from Washington.
Her survivors include her daughter, Constance Burnett Porter Uzelac of Fort Lauderdale.
      
Alexina Sattler was born in Cincinnati on Jan. 6, 1906, the daughter of Dr. Robert Sattler, an ophthalmologist who ran his own hospital with a free clinic attached, and his second wife, the former Agnes Mitchell.
"
        Born Thelma McQueen in Tampa, Fla., daughter of a housekeeper and a stevedore, Ms. McQueen first developed a fondness for acting as a child, when she would recite whole books of the Bible at home.
Mrs. Loring is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Murrel Loring;  a daughter, Sherry Loring-Warren of Los Angeles; a son, David, of Reno; a sister, Lois Mudrick of Los Angeles, and three grandsons.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Rene Kuhn Bryant of Lexington, Mass.
They were neighbors of George and Louise Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford), and the Willises' daughter eventually married the Jeffersons' son, Lionel.
Mrs. Gambee is survived by three sons, Sumner, of San Pedro, Calif., Craig, of Nantucket, Mass., and Robert, of Rye, N.Y.; a daughter, Fay Gambee of Manhattan, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Herbert, a son, John S., of Las Vegas, and a  daughter, Anne Rothenberg of Taunton, Mass.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Karma Bene Bambara of Philadelphia.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her mother, Helen Brehon of Queens, and a brother, Walter Cade of Queens.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane, of New York City; a son, John, an author and a drama critic for The New Yorker, of London, and two grandchildren.
      
She had been suffering from leukemia and osteoporosis, said her daughter, Eloise B. Segal.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
Valerie Cossart Livingston was born in London, the daughter of a well-known British actor, Ernest Cossart.
Ms. Sulka is survived by her mother, Anna, of Maspeth, Queens; a daughter, Deirdre, of El Paso, Tex., and two sisters, Barbara Bonomi and Marie Schaefer.
"
        She played a mother who realizes that her daughter (Patty McCormack) is a murderous psychotic and tries to atone for her crimes.
She is survived by a daughter, Kelly Caro Rosenberg, of Howell, N.J., and three granddaughters.
      
In addition to her son, who is on the Superior Court bench in Union County, she is survived by a daughter, Naomi Margolies of Plainfield; a brother, Dr. Morton Bertin of Orlando, Fla., six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, David, a retired corporate lawyer; a daughter, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; two sisters, Annette Bloch of Manhattan and Frances Epstein of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Laurinda Barrett.
A daughter of Kate Ross and Henry Collins Brown, a founder of the Museum of the City of New York, Kay Brown was born in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
In addition to her daughter Laurinda, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Kate Barrett of Greensboro, N.C.
      
In addition to her daughter Laurinda, of Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Kate Barrett of Greensboro, N.C.
      
In 1980 there was another retrospective, this time at the Museum of the City of New York, which opened with a party attended by Princess Grace of Monaco and her daughter Princess Caroline.
She is survived by a daughter, Carey Cameron Ferrero; two sons, Scott and Arthur Cameron; a stepdaughter, Minnie Tucker Biggs, and two stepsons, Richard and Samuel Tucker.
      
Tragedy Intrudes On a Privileged Life
        Raised in Boston, the daughter of John (Honey Fitz) Fitzgerald, a Boston mayor and Massachusetts Congressman, the young Rose Fitzgerald knew a life most only dream of -- private schools, debutante balls, summers on Cape Cod, winters in Palm Beach, trips to Europe and Asia, and hosts of suitors entranced by her young Irish charm and directness.
And a daughter, Kathleen, died in a plane crash in 1948.
Her eldest daughter, Rosemary, was diagnosed as mentally retarded and has lived in a nursing home for 40 years.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Tragedy Intrudes On a Privileged Life
        Raised in Boston, the daughter of John (Honey Fitz) Fitzgerald, a Boston mayor and Massachusetts Congressman, the young Rose Fitzgerald knew a life most only dream of -- private schools, debutante balls, summers on Cape Cod, winters in Palm Beach, trips to Europe and Asia, and hosts of suitors entranced by her young Irish charm and directness.
And a daughter, Kathleen, died in a plane crash in 1948.
Her eldest daughter, Rosemary, was diagnosed as mentally retarded and has lived in a nursing home for 40 years.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F.  Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
"
        Mrs. Kennedy, whose sons John and Robert were assassinated, whose son Joseph P. Kennedy Jr. died in a wartime plane explosion, and whose daughter Kathleen was killed in a plane crash, was quoted by her grandson Edward M. Kennedy Jr. as saying in her autobiography, "Times to Remember" (Doubleday, 1974):
        "The most important element in human life is faith.
One absentee who was frequently recalled was Mrs. Kennedy's oldest living daughter, Rosemary, who resides in an institution for the mentally retarded in Wisconsin.
She is survived by her husband of 30 years, George Campbell; a daughter, Heather, of Santa Fe, N.M.; and two sons, James, also of Santa Fe, and Nial, of Manhattan.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter Freddy Espy Plimpton.
Mrs. Ryan, known as Nin, was a daughter of the financier Otto Kahn, a turn-of-the-century multimillionaire who became a benefactor of the Metropolitan Opera even though the Met at first would not assign him a box in its "diamond horseshoe," where rich New Yorkers hobnobbed at intermission.
Father and daughter, Mr. Kobler wrote in "Otto the Magnificent" (Scribners, 1989) "golfed together, rode together, swam together, chaffed each other, went to the opera together, and when apart, corresponded frequently.
Besides her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Virginia, the Countess of Airlie, who lives in London; eight grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications from diabetes, said her daughter, Joan H. Armer of Menlo Park.
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Forrest is survived by three grandchildren.
      
"
        The daughter of Matthew Halton, a Canadian journalist, Mrs. Tynan was reared in Canada and England and attended Oxford University.
She is survived by a daughter, Roxana, of Los Angeles, and a son, Matthew, of London, from her marriage to Mr. Tynan; her mother, Jean Halton of Ottawa, and a brother, David, of Washington.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      
The cause was AIDS, said her daughter, Trina Doerfler.
In addition to her daughter, of Seattle, she is survived by her twin brother, Lee, of Greenville, Tex., and a son, David, also of Seattle
      
Mrs. Masson was a daughter of Earle Perry Charlton, a pioneer in retailing who became one of the five founders of F. W. Woolworth after his 54 stores, E.P.
She had a long illness, said her daughter, Angele A. Elliott-Smith.
In addition to her daughter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by a sister, Inge Stegmuller of Princeton, N.J..
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Robert, of Bern, Switzerland; a daughter, Carolyn Hoehn of Heidelberg, Germany; a sister, Helen Sutton Gulick of Sacramento, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
The daughter of a lead miner, Evelyn Tripp was born in 1927 on a small farm in Flat River, Mo.
The cause was breast cancer, said her daughter, Jezebel, of Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two other children, John Barlow of Winchester, England, and Joseph Cook of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Catherine, of Pearl River, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Green is survived by her daughter, Rochel Klein of Brooklyn; two sisters, Jacqueline Lowenthal and Allene Warzer, both of Freeport, N.Y., and six nieces and nephews.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Sara Gill, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Lise Houlton Gilliland, a former member of American Ballet Theater and the Stuttgart Ballet.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Dr. William Houlton; three sons, Laif, Joel and Andrew, and four grandchildren, all of Minneapolis, and two sisters, Jewell Kraemer of Wausau, Wis., and Ardeth Becher of St. Paul.
      
The cause was complications after surgery, said her daughter, Mary A. DeBare of Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Thomas I. Unterberg of Manhattan, five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Ronald Jr., of Atlanta; a brother, Thomas, and a daughter, Susan Akkad, both of New York City.
      
Mrs. Berlin is survived by two sons, Bruce B., of Southport, and Carswell R., of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret M. Berlin of Manhattan; a sister, Margaret M. Blackwell of Setauket, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Bobbe Dodge of Ossining, N.Y.; a son, Steven of Los Angeles, and two sisters, Belle Lipsett of Kensington, Calif., and Pearl Jacobson of Davis, Calif.
      
She was born in Toronto, the daughter of an astronomer and an industrial physicist.
Correction:  March 10, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Jean Davis, a philanthropist and the mother of the financier Marvin Davis, omitted a surviving daughter.
The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her daughter Norma Brunswick of Rydal, Pa.
        Mrs. Solomon, who was always known as Peggy, represented the United States in several international bridge competitions.
In addition to Mrs. Brunswick, Mrs. Solomon is survived by a sister, Lisa Dickson of Beverly Hills, Calif.; another daughter, Joan Ash of Elkins Park; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Mr. Rangel, she is survived by a daughter, Frances McDermott of the Bronx; a brother, Percy Wharton of Camden, N.J.; a sister, Sylvia Curtis of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. M. Lawrence Furst; a son, Merrick, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura F. Jacobs of Merion, Pa.; her mother, Anne Platzer of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
"There have been discrepancies," Mr. Quintanilla told reporters at the hospital where his daughter died this afternoon, two hours after she was shot.
When Rutgers offered in 1961 to make her a full professor at Douglass, its women's division, she accepted, and spent the next 18 years dazzling students like her own daughter, Tamar Skvir, who recalled her mother yesterday as a mesmerizing lecturer who made Pushkin, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy come alive.
In addition to her husband and her daughter Tamar, she is survived by another daughter, Marina Naumann of Norwich, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her daughter Tamar, she is survived by another daughter, Marina Naumann of Norwich, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla. and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla., and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Brereton Jones; Jon Jory, artistic director of the Actors Theater of Louisville; other Kentucky dignitaries, and her daughter Eleanor Bingham Miller.
While her graceful dancing was on display in her many musicals, Miss Rogers also won renown in dramatic roles including an aspiring actress in "Stage Door" (1937) and a prostitute's daughter in "Primrose Path" (1940).
Their daughter was called Ginger because a cousin could not pronounce Virginia, and she took her later surname from John Rogers, who was briefly her stepfather.
She is survived by a daughter, Carolyn Brown of Millbrook, N.Y., a former lead dancer with the Merce Cunningham Dance Company; a son, J. Parker Rice Jr. of Ashburnham, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Gladding, a retired Red Cross executive; a daughter, Sylvia Lucas of Columbia, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
The disease was diagnosed in Ms. Hermanson in 1989, six months after the birth of her only daughter, Leora.
She is survived by her husband, Hugo Mareno and her daughter of Manhattan; her parents, Harlow and Roslyn Hermanson of Belmont, and two sisters, Emily Hermanson Levin of Great Neck, L.I., and Julie Hermanson Ratner of New York City.
She is surived by two brothers, Scott, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Bill, of Rossmore, Calif.; a daughter, Heidi Gundlach Smith of Willets, Calif.; two sons, John Scott Gundlach of Helen, Ga., and Michael Gundlach of Cordova, Alaska, and a grandaughter.
