She is survived by her daughter, Jan Norman, of Ithaca, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Andrew; a daughter, Paulette Barrett of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      
The daughter of Samuel Edwin, a Hollywood producer, she appeared in films with Rudolph Valentino and Will Rogers, who also was her godfather.
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daughter, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman; several grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Marianne Hatfield of Porterville, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Ross, of Hartsdale, and a daughter, Janet, of White Plains.
      
Queen Sofia went to Mrs. Franco's Madrid apartment to deliver condolences to Mrs. Franco's daughter, Carmen Franco de Martinez-Bordiu, 60, and her husband, on behalf of King Juan Carlos and herself.
''
        Mrs. Franco was born Carmen Polo on July 9, 1900, in the northern city of Oviedo, the daughter of a wealthy businessman.
A man who answered the telephone at the apartment of Mrs. Franco's daughter said burial was scheduled for Sunday in the village of El Pardo on the outskirts of Madrid.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Franco is survived by seven grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, John Howard, who founded the Cresset Press, and by a son and a daughter.
      

       Daisy Turner, the daughter of a slave who ran away from a plantation and moved to Vermont after the Civil War, died Monday.
Daisy Turner, the daughter of a slave who ran away from a plantation and moved to Vermont after the Civil War, died Monday.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by a daughter, Barbara Cramer of Chicago; a son, Robert Goldberg, of Anchorage, Alaska, and six grandchildren.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Olivia, of Manhattan; two sisters, Anny Hochschild of Chile, and Elsa Drucker of Riverdale, and three grandchildren.
      
Nora Astorga Gadea was the daughter of a wealthy lumber exporter and rancher.
Her 14 month-old daughter, Marina, survived the crash unharmed.
Her 14 month-old daughter, Marina, survived the crash unharmed.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel, and her daughter, both of Winchester; her parents, Beth and John Parker of Pittsburgh, and her brothers, Joseph and John Jr. A memorial service will be held this evening at 6:30 in the former spaces of the gallery, at 36 East 75th Street.
      
Mrs. Krock was born in Lake Forest, Ill., a daughter of Alfred Hoyt Granger, an architect, and Belle Hughitt Granger.
She is survived by her husband, Mitchell; two sons, Franklin, of Cambridge, Mass., and Wesley, of Princeton; a daughter, Joanne Peterson of Woodbridge, Conn.; a brother, Joseph Oshiver of Kansas City, Mo., and eight grandchildren.
      
In her late work, it was as apparent as ever she had an unsentimental confidence that one day, somehow, the lot of women in the city would be changed for the better, Miss Bishop was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, on March 3, 1902, the daughter of John Remsen Bishop, a schoolmaster, and his wife, Anna Bartram Bishop.
Mrs. Williams is survived by a son, Alexander, of Chicago; a daughter, Elizabeth Fox of Philadelphia; a brother, Charles Evans of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sue Saniel Elkind, of Pittsburgh, and a son, James Brook, of New York.
Mrs. Grinnell is survived by a brother, John R. Hoopes, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Helen Lapp, of Hatboro, Pa.; a daughter, Nancy G. Barnum, of Washington; three sons, Robert S. Jr., of Guilderland, N.Y., Alexander, of New York City, and Lawrence I., of Waitsfield, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stuart Rosenthal; a son, Kennan, of Waltham, Mass; a daughter, Ayla, of Short Hills; her mother, Makbule Aral of Ankara, and three sisters, Nurhan Freie-Aral of Maastricht, the Netherlands, and Gunsel Renkgorur and Aysel Celikadam, both of Ankara.
      
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
The only daughter among Dunhill's four children, Ms. Dunhill joined the board of Dunhill Holdings in 1944, explaining ''they were rather short of men,'' and in 1961 became chairman, succeeding her eldest brother, Alfred.
After the 1982 film, she appeared in television shows such as ''Webster'' and ''Still the Beaver'' and had a recurring role on ''Happy Days'' as the daughter of Henry Winkler's girlfriend.
Surviving are three sons, Robert and John, of Manhattan, and Francis, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Beatrice Manice of Manhattan; 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      

       Martha Love McCagg Snow, an architect, died of colon and stomach cancer Wednesday at her daughter's home in Edison, N.J. She was 83 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Martha Love McCagg Snow, an architect, died of colon and stomach cancer Wednesday at her daughter's home in Edison, N.J. She was 83 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Mrs.

       Martha Love McCagg Snow, an architect, died of colon and stomach cancer Wednesday at her daughter's home in Edison, N.J. She was 83 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Martha Love McCagg Snow, an architect, died of colon and stomach cancer Wednesday at her daughter's home in Edison, N.J. She was 83 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Mrs.
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a daughter, Dr. Caroline O. McCagg of Edison; a son, Edward K. McCagg of Seattle; two sisters, Dorothy Love Saunders of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Mary Love Glenn of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mignonne; a daughter, Cappy Carey; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard, of Millbrook; two sons, Cornelius and Richard 3d, and a daughter, Eleanore, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Eleanor Lohn of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hopf is survived by her husband, Ernest; a son, Christopher, and a daughter, C. C. Hopf.
      
Holly, N.J.; a daughter, Nina Duryee Wood of New Haven, and four grandchildren.
      
Miss Donnell is survived by her son, Phineas Anderson, of Tucson, Ariz., and a daughter, Sally Durham, of Brisbane, Calif.
      
Mrs. Pincus is survived by a son, John, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Laura P. Bernard of Newton, Mass.
She is survived by a daughter, Sidney Bacon Stafford of Bellport, L.I.
Surviving are a son, Russell H. Long of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan R. Lehman of San Francisco; a sister, Susan Bloom of Ganges, British Columbia, and a brother, Smith Bagley of Washington.
      
Survivors include her husband, William; a daughter, Diane, and a sister, Eunice Simon, of Los Angeles.
      

       Kate Rodina Steichen, a daughter of Edward Steichen, the photographer, and a niece of Carl Sandburg, died of lymphoma sarcoma Monday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 79 years old.
Kate Rodina Steichen, a daughter of Edward Steichen, the photographer, and a niece of Carl Sandburg, died of lymphoma sarcoma Monday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 79 years old.
''
        The actress was born Irene Luther in Buffalo on Oct. 13, 1891, the daughter of William and Mabel Luther, who later moved to the isolated mining town of Stites, Idaho.
The marriage, to Elvo Deffenbaugh, produced a daughter, Frances, and ended in divorce in two years.
She married Maj. Charles Rich of the Army, with whom she had a daughter, Jane.
The daughter of Alicia Spaulding, a United Fruit Company heiress, and Count Lorenzo Paolozzi, she was born in New York, grew up in Rome, and was educated in Switzerland and at the Madeira School in Greenway, Va.
        She began her modeling career in New York at age 17.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Rachel, of Atlanta; a son, Robert, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Hughes Bergler of Danville, Calif.; a son, Dr. John, of Tucson; a sister, Lempi Pagnucco of Cincinnati, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Yoneda's survivors are her daughter from a previous marriage, Joyce Ebangelista, her son, Thomas Yoneda, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Elliott C. Arensmeyer and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
Surviving are a daughter, Barbara Lipke of Newton, Mass.
''She loved Helen Keller dearly,'' said Mrs. Walter's daughter, Evelyn D. Tonner of Margate, Fla. She added that her mother had promised Miss Keller and Polly Thompson that she would never write a book about her experiences as a companion, a promise she honored.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Walter is survived by her husband, Fred, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two sons, Stephen and Richard; a daughter, Dana Spellman O'Neill, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived a son, Robert Kanof Tendler of Boston, a daughter, Rebecca Jane Tendler of Rosemont, Pa., and a grandson.
She is survived a son, Robert Kanof Tendler of Boston, a daughter, Rebecca Jane Tendler of Rosemont, Pa., and a grandson.
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Elliott C. Arensmeyer and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      

       Aliza Sass Rubin, who founded the West Side Jewish Community Nursery School 10 years ago and directed it until her retirement last year, died early yesterday at her daughter's home in Connecticut, following a brief illness.
Aliza Sass Rubin, who founded the West Side Jewish Community Nursery School 10 years ago and directed it until her retirement last year, died early yesterday at her daughter's home in Connecticut, following a brief illness.

       Aliza Sass Rubin, who founded the West Side Jewish Community Nursery School 10 years ago and directed it until her retirement last year, died early yesterday at her daughter's home in Connecticut, following a brief illness.
Aliza Sass Rubin, who founded the West Side Jewish Community Nursery School 10 years ago and directed it until her retirement last year, died early yesterday at her daughter's home in Connecticut, following a brief illness.
She is survived by her husband, Rice, and a daughter, Helena Sileo of Brooklyn.
      

       Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass.
Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass.
; a daughter, Dr. Katherine K. Treadway of Weston; a sister, Elizabeth Hudson of Dover, Del.
Mrs. Gurko is survived by her husband, Leo, of Manhattan; a son, Stephen, of Frisco, Colo., and a daughter, Jane, of Willits, Calif.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Greenberg of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Patricia Cummings of Westport, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles; and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Martiny, and three grandchildren.
      
She was born in Chattanooga, Tenn., the daughter of Milton B. Ochs and Frances Van Dyke Ochs, and was a niece of Adolph Ochs, publisher of The New York Times from 1896 to 1935.
The daughter of a clergyman, Mrs. Woodhouse developed her knack with animals as a child when her mother boarded dogs.
She was the daughter of the famous vaudevillian Eddie Foy Sr.

       Elsa Mott Ives, a philanthropist and the daughter of a founder of General Motors Corporation, died yesterday at King Edward Hospital in Hamilton, Bermuda.
Elsa Mott Ives, a philanthropist and the daughter of a founder of General Motors Corporation, died yesterday at King Edward Hospital in Hamilton, Bermuda.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      
Miss Eldridge is survived by her daughter, Penelope Fantacci of Florence, Italy; five grandchildren; a great-granddaughter, and two brothers, David I. McKechnie, who lives in Oregon, and Cromwell McKechnie, of Carpenteria, Calif.
      
Ms. Harris was born on Dec. 4, 1927, in Cairo, the daughter of the Rev.
''
        Mrs. St. Johns was the daughter of a California criminal lawyer, and she spent much time in courtrooms in her youth.
'' Began Career in 1913
        She was born in Los Angeles on May 20, 1894, the daughter of Earl Rogers and the former Harriet Belle Greene.
She is survived by a daughter, Elaine St. Johns of Arroyo Grande; two sons, McCullah St. Johns of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and Richard Rogers St. Johns of Los Angeles; 10 grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren and four great-great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Henry Wise Wood Distler of Tangier and London; two sons, John, of Cambridge, Mass., and Horace, of Menlo Park, Calif.; a daughter, Hope Brock Winthrop of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
A native of Vienna, she was the daughter of an industrialist and came to the United States in 1929.
She is survived by a daughter, April H. Herbert of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Geyelin is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Antoinette Hoar of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Eames is survived by her daughter, Lucia Demetrios of San Francisco, and by five grandchildren.
      

       Queenie A. McFarland, who was ac tive until two years ago in the manage-ment of Sweets seafood restaurant, a family business at Fulton and South Streets, died of cardiac arrest Sunday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. She was 91 years old and lived in Caldwell, N.J.
        Queenie A. McFarland, who was ac tive until two years ago in the manage-ment of Sweets seafood restaurant, a family business at Fulton and South Streets, died of cardiac arrest Sunday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. She was 91 years old and lived in Caldwell, N.J.
        Mrs. McFarland was a daughter of James Lake, who in 1917 acquired Sweets, the oldest seafood house in New York City, founded by Abraham M. Sweet in 1842.

       Hazel Dawn, a celebrated singer and actress in the early decades of the century who was known as ''The Pink Lady,'' died Sunday at the home of her daughter in Manhattan.
Hazel Dawn, a celebrated singer and actress in the early decades of the century who was known as ''The Pink Lady,'' died Sunday at the home of her daughter in Manhattan.
''
        Miss Dawn is survived by her daughter, Dawn Gruwell Kaufman, and her son, Charles E. Gruwell, both of New York, five grandsons and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Robin, of New York City; a son, Bruce, of Darien, Conn., and a brother, Charles Jacobs of Palm Desert, Calif.
        Funeral services are to be held tomorrow at 10 A.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1976 Madison Avenue, at 80th Street.
      
Mrs. Kostellow is survived by a daughter, Adele Morrill of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Collazo-Levy graduated from Brooklyn College and New York University, Surviving are her husband, Alan Levy; a daughter, Rosita, and Marcos, all of Manhattan.
      
''
        A widow, Mrs. May is survived by a daughter, Barbara Reinsmith, of Elmira; two grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alfred Prettyman; a daughter, Nina; two sons, Asa Hale, of Madison, Wis., and Emilio; a stepdaughter, Meryl Prettyman, and a stepson, Evan Prettyman, both of New York; her mother, Loretta Conwell, and a sister, Francine Conwell Brown, of Rochester.
''
        Nancy Hale was born in Boston on May 6, 1908, the daughter of Philip L. Hale and Lilian Westcott Hale, both painters.
Surviving are a daughter, Joy, of Sedona; a son, Hugh, of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. McGraw is survived by a daughter, Mitzi Wertheim of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gerber, a native of Ithaca, Mich., who married Daniel Gerber in 1923, liked them and, more important, so did her 7-month-old daughter Sally.
Besides her daughter, Sally Phinny of Fremont, Mrs. Gerber is survived by four other children, Paula Warm of Grand Rapids, Mich., and Gay Cummings, Scottie Merrill and Daniel Gerber Jr., all of Fremont.
Mrs. Snowden is survived by her husband, a daughter and a granddaughter.
      
The daughter, wife and mother of Yiddish actors, she made her stage debut at age 3 in Chicago, where she was born.
Dr. Baruch, who earned her doctorate at Bryn Mawr College, is survived by her husband, Franklin; a daughter, Susannah, and her mother, Ruth Kestenman of East Providence, R.I.
      
She is survived by a son, Max, of Alexandria; a daughter, Joan Campbell of Toronto; two stepsons, Wolfgang, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Ernst, of Vincentown, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Hendrik, of Boston; a daughter, Katrina McClintock of New City, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Feinberg's husband died in May 1986, and her daughter, Arlene, died in an automobile accident in 1985.
She is survived by her husband, Moses; a daughter, Naomi Cohen of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of a physician.
Surviving are a son, Robert, of San Francisco; a daughter, Kathleen, of New Rochelle, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan; a son, Ralph Jr., of London; a sister, Aileen Davis of Washington; a brother, Booker Harris of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by her mother, Sadie Fink of the Bronx; a sister, Anita Berger of Providence, R.I.; a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Cindy, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      

       Miranda Reeves, a slave's daughter who was believed to be 113 years old, died Thursday at a convalescent home here.
Miranda Reeves, a slave's daughter who was believed to be 113 years old, died Thursday at a convalescent home here.
Miss Boswell died in Peekskill Community Hospital, where she had been admitted with pneumonia, her daughter, Chica Minnerly, said.
Vet Boswell is survived by her daughter, three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      

       Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday.
Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday.
He looked upon himself as a burned-out case, and he was having trouble turning out movie scripts to pay for his daughter's education and his wife Zelda's mental asylum bills.
Miss Graham is survived by her daughter, Wendy Fairey, who is dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Brooklyn College; her son, Robert Westbrook, now living in Khania, Crete; and by three grandchildren.
Mr. Onassis died in 1975 in France and his daughter and only surviving child was left in charge of the Onassis Group, with assets then variously estimated at $500 million to $1 billion, most of it in shipping.
Marries Frenchman
        She married a French businessman, Thierry Roussel, in 1984 and had a daughter with him, Athina, the following January.

       Janet Kidd, socialite daughter of the first Lord Beaverbrook, the Canadian-born press baron and politician, died on Friday at home in Ewhurst, southwest of London, her family reported today.
Janet Kidd, socialite daughter of the first Lord Beaverbrook, the Canadian-born press baron and politician, died on Friday at home in Ewhurst, southwest of London, her family reported today.
As the daughter of the publisher of The Daily Express, she was surrounded by celebrities from childhood, including the likes of Rudyard Kipling and David Lloyd George.
Mrs. Frank is survived by a daughter, Maud E. Frank of Bellerose, L.I., and a grandchild.
      
Born in Budapest, Mrs. Cafritz was the daughter of a Hungarian father and an American mother.
Surviving are her daughter, Barbara Sprogell Jacobson, of New Hope, Pa., and Manhattan; a sister, Mildred Scott Olmsted, of Rose Valley; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Stephen, of Syracuse; a daughter, Kathleen, of Nantucket, Mass; a brother, William F. Collins, of Stamford, Conn., and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alfred; two sons, Russell, of Holtsville, L.I., and Elliot, of Bayside, Queens, and a daughter, Sandra, of Washington.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Joan Ebenstein Porter of Pipersville, Pa., and two grandchildren.
Surviving are a daughter, Jill, and a son, Stephen, both of Manhattan; her mother, Ida Berger, and a sister, Jean Chimsky, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
