Besides her son Lance of Holmdel, N.J., she is survived by her daughter, Sondra Plotkin of Valley Stream, and her son, Dr. Ronald Primis of East Meadow, L.I.
Her daughter and successor, Dr. Kathy Fryer, estimated yesterday that the center had served more than 10,000 people and their families.
In a new book, ''The Story of Barbara,'' Mrs. Fryer wrote of her daughter's condition, which might have had a different outcome with the alternative treatments for schizophrenia emerging then.
It told of her daughter Kathy's successful emergence from a mysterious ailment that befell her at 13 and a mother's years of searching for the right diagnosis and cure.
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Senturia of Brookline, Mass.
''
        She was born in Manhattan on Nov. 13, 1908, the daughter of Howard and Edna (Dolma) Brokaw.
Mrs. Schieffelin was born in New York City, a daughter of the former Annette Butler and James Wright Markoe, J. P. Morgan's friend and  physician.
Besides her husband of 67 years, Mrs. Schieffelin was predeceased by a son, William Jay Schieffelin 3d, and a daughter, Anne Louise Bradley.
Her mother was a daughter of Lord Stalbridge, who, despite being the younger brother of the first Duke of Westminster, had little money.
Major Grant and his wife, now the owners of a pig and maize farm, had hoped that their daughter would eventually return to Kenya.
Dime store fiction could undoubtedly have accommodated her cliche origins as the daughter of a patrician, Harvard-trained lawyer and a distinctly declasse Irish girl, who died in childbirth, setting up her father's marriage to a disapproving, if not quite wicked, stepmother.
He left his daughter to be reared by a paternal grandmother with such a haughty and virulent disdain for the Irish that it was years before Miss Bancroft learned that the woman had herself been an Irish working girl before marrying into the august Bancroft family.
After the war, her daughter said, Miss Bancroft settled in New York, wrote a few novels, lectured on Jung, became active in local Democratic politics, became friends with Woody Allen and became Luce's confidant.
When her daughter, Mary Jane, married Horace Taft, the son of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, the wedding pictures were published in Life, -- ''a present from Luce,'' Mrs. Taft said.
In addition to her daughter, of Atlanta, Miss Bancroft is survived by 6 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Roma Torre of Manhattan, a news anchorwoman; a son, Adam Jeffrey Friedman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Torregrossa of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
He was taking his wife, Elizabeth, and his daughter Edith to Seattle, where he intended to open a new hotel.
''
        Her father, Jose Celso Barbosa, was the founder of the Puerto Rican statehood movement and the precursor of the New Progressive Party, which has continued to embrace his ideals -- as modified over the years, to be sure, by his daughter, who insisted that the party of statehood also commit itself to social justice.
A daughter of Polish immigrants, Ida Rutenberg earned a bachelor's degree in English literature at Sophie Newcomb College of Tulane University in New Orleans.
''
        Mrs. Dixon was born Jeane L. Pinckert in Medford, Wis., the daughter of a businessman who was in the lumber industry.
When her husband, Paul Ziporkis, died in 1953, Ms. Roberts was left with a daughter to bring up alone.
She is survived by a daughter, Karen deFrancis of Brooklyn, and a stepsister, Grace Herman of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Bouteneff is survived by their son, Archpriest Sergei C. Bouteneff of Trumbull, Conn., rector of St. George Albanian Orthodox Church; a daughter, Dr. Marina Koulomzin of North Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Vera C. Bouteneff; a brother, Dr. Eugene S. Troubetzkoy of Hastings-on Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Scorsese, the daughter of Sicilian immigrants, was born on Elizabeth Street in Little Italy, where she met her husband, Charles.
Born in Englewood, N.J., she was a daughter of the late Joseph H. Daniels, the founder of Palisades Newspapers, a chain of weekly newspapers in Bergen County, N.J.
        Miss Daniels is survived by her mother, Eleanor Daniels of Hackensack, N.J., and three sisters, Joanne Daniels Solomon of Manhattan, Bonnie Lee Daniels of Miami and Sheryl Daniels of Hackensack.
      
''Her mother, Pepi Lande, was a very courageous lady who went up to the colonel of the Gestapo and asked him that he should give her a paper that she and her daughter and her parents should be able to stay and not go to the camps,'' Rabbi Handelsman said.
The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease complicated by pneumonia, said her daughter, Linda T. Buckley.
Surviving her, in addition to her daughter, of East Hampton, L.I., is a granddaughter.
      
When a friend proposed to introduce her to Mr. Niebuhr, a faculty member, she was skeptical, her daughter, Elizabeth Sifton, recalled yesterday.
By then, her daughter noted, their theological differences had dwindled to liturgical quibbles between Mrs. Niebuhr's Episcopalian ideas and her husband's Congregationalist notions.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Niebuhr is survived by a son, Richard, of Stockbridge; a sister, Barbara Moravec of Sutton, England, and three grandsons.
The daughter of an Army officer who was killed in World War I when she was 8, Miss Panter-Downes was born in London and grew up in Essex.
She is survived by her daughter, Anna, chief dance critic of The New York Times.
      
She was 92, said her daughter, Carola Boxer Vecchio.
At a time when such pregnancies were often kept secret, she chose not only to keep her baby daughter, Carola, but to proclaim her birth proudly.
Soon after their daughter's birth, Major Boxer was captured by the Japanese and put in a prison camp.
But fearing for the safety of her daughter, she fled Hong Kong in 1943.
''My younger daughter once rebuked me for not being the kind of mother one reads about,'' Ms. Hahn once told an interviewer.
His daughter Brooke Hayward even suggested in her book, ''Haywire,'' that her last stepmother absconded with a string of pearls her mother had left to her.
She was born in Yonkers, the daughter of Reinhold Halsey, deputy superintendent of buildings for New York City public schools.
She is survived by a daughter, Deborah Halsey Stern, of White Plains.
      
Mrs. Gatov was born in Montreal, the daughter of a Canadian-American industrialist.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Jackson of Oakland, Calif.; a son, Daniel Smith of Kentfield; four granddaughters, and two great-grandsons.
      
In addition to her sister, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Julia, who now heads the English Theater; her mother, Anna K. Brinkmann of Delray Beach, Fla.; a brother, Klaus Brinkmann of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Along the way, she consistently took such a hard line against the Soviet Union and was such a passionate and articulate advocate of military might that her colleagues sometimes had to remind themselves that she was, in fact, the daughter of the Rev.
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Norman Farris of East Falmouth, Mass., and a daughter, Abigail Gilman of Tillson, N.Y.
      
A daughter of H. Irving Pratt and Ellen H. Pratt, she was born in Manhattan and reared in Glen Cove and Oyster Bay, L.I.
Mr. Cohan is survived by her daughter, Leslie Cohan of New York; a sister, Felice Hurwitz; a brother-in-law, Brian Hurwitz, and a nephew, Jesse Hurwitz, all of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and her former husband, Ronald Cohan of New York.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Wertenbaker is survived by a daughter, Timberlake Wertenbaker, a playwright who lives in London, and three grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a well-to-do Geneva furrier and his athletic Danish  wife, Ms. Maillart grew up rich and restless.
Her daughter, Jane Cuozzo, said the cause of death was complications from Parkinson's disease.
She is survived by her daughter, Jane Cuozzo of Manhattan.
      
''
        In 1983, Mrs. Clark's daughter Judith, who was in the radical Weather Underground, was convicted of helping to rob a Brink's armored car in Rockland County, N.Y.
Besides her son, of Portland, Ore., and her daughter, Mrs. Clark is survived by four grandchildren.
Ms. Bernstein is survived by her daughter, Jessica, a graduate student at University of California at Berkeley; her mother, Sara Sherman of Los Angeles, and three brothers, Alan and Victor, both of Los Angeles, and Sheldon, of San Diego.
      
Despite repeated pleas from Marks & Company staff members to visit them in England (by the 1950's Frank Doel was offering her the use of his grown daughter's bedroom), Ms. Hanff's precarious finances never allowed her to make the trip until 1969, after Mr. Doel's sudden death from peritonitis.
Helene (pronounced heh-LAYNE) Hanff was born on April 15, 1916, in Philadelphia, the daughter of Arthur and Miriam Levy Hanff.
Concise and beautifully composed and lighted, they include some of the last images of Stieglitz and his gallery, as well as portraits of other people she was close to, among them Lewis Mumford, Theodore Dreiser, John Cage, Jawaharlal Nehru and his daughter, Indira Gandhi.
She is survived by a daughter, Nancy Lassalle of Manhattan, who is vice president of the School of American Ballet; a son, Andrew E. Norman of Palisades, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
His widow continued to manage B. G. Sulzle, assisted by a daughter and son-in-law, Lora and Alfred Flanagan.
Besides Mr. Koplowitz, she is survived by a son, William, and a daughter, Alexandra, both of New York City, and a sister, Lillian Katell of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
Mrs. Sharp is survived by a daughter, Mary Sharp Cronson of Manhattan, now the president of the foundation; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a prosperous businessman and an international society figure, Miss Frooks was born on a 400-acre Hudson Valley farm near Saugerties, N.Y., and grew up there and at the family's winter residence at the Waldorf Hotel.
Ms. Woodhull is survived by her husband, William Watson, and a daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson, both of Pittsford, and her mother, May Cromwell, of Matawan, N.J.
      
Mrs. Rockefeller was the daughter of John French and Mary Billing French and granddaughter of Frederick Billings, the 19th-century president of Northern Pacific Railroad.
Her daughter, Sally Bell, who succeeded her in managing the Romper Room production company, said the cause was cancer.
Besides Mr. Claster of Los Angeles and Mrs. Bell, of Baltimore, Mrs. Claster is survived by another daughter, Candace Claster; a brother, Robert Goldman, and a sister, Sue Baker, all of Baltimore, and four grandchilden.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Elisabeth, of Cromwell, Conn.
      
But it was her relationship with Nehru's daughter, Mrs. Gandhi, from the time both were teen-agers that helped her assume a dominant and controversial role in the nation's cultural affairs during the height of Mrs. Gandhi's power in the 1970's and early 80's.
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Indeed, Ms. Flannery, who also had a son, spent so much time ferrying her brood to and from one athletic field or another that a daughter described her yesterday as ''the original soccer mom.
In addition to her son, Ms. Kravis is survived by a daughter, Kimberly R. Kravis, and a sister, Sharon Beckerman, all of Manhattan.
      

        Mary Dewart Gleason, whose family owned The New York Sun from 1926 until 1950, died of liver failure yesterday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland, her daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar, said.
Mrs. Gleason is survived by her husband of 57 years, Frederick B. Gleason Jr.; a brother, Thomas W. Dewart of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Frederick B. Gleason 3d of Savannah, Ga.; a daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar of Riverside, Conn.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
The Mumfords' daughter, Alison Mumford Morss, died in 1993.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter S. Heins of Thousand Oaks, Calif.; a daughter, Margery E. Heins of Shelburne Falls, Mass.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daughter, Maria Youskevitch.
The daughter of a Russian mother and an Italian father, Mrs. Youskevitch, whose original name was Anna Scarpa, was born in Urbino, Italy.
She remained with it until 1944, danced on Broadway in the musical comedies ''Sadie Thompson'' (1944) and ''Marinka'' (1945) and then left the dance world to care for her daughter.
She is survived by her daughter, of Hartford, who is a rehearsal assistant for the Hartford Ballet.
      
In addition to her husband she is survived by a son, Spencer Mason of Pforzheim, Germany; a daughter, Leslie Scarlett Mason of Manhattan, and one grandchild.
      
The woman was Carolyn Quintana, the daughter of a legendary Conchiti storyteller, and Miss Goldfrank was so enthralled with her detailed and vivid descriptions of the minutiae of Conchiti culture that she moved into the Pueblo and began taking notes.
Except for a brief return visit to New Mexico in 1924, partly to alleviate postpartum depression after the birth of a daughter, Miss Goldfrank spent most of the next two decades as a homemaker and mother in White Plains, although an unusually prolific one who kept the typewriter clacking.
''
        Miss Goldfrank, whose second husband died in 1988, is survived by a daughter, Susan Lenhoff of Israel; a stepson, Thomas Goldfrank of Mamaroneck; 6 step-grandchildren, and 12 step-great-grandchildren.
The apparent cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Deborah.
Besides her daughter, of Albany, Calif., she is survived by two stepdaughters, Anna and Renae Brascum of Richmond, Calif.; three brothers, Eugene Tilley of Marshall, Ark., Ovalee Tilley of Springfield, Ore., and Hershel Tilley of Columbus, Ind.
She is survived by a daughter, Peggy Piers, of Portland, Ore.; a son, Matthew, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gurwin is survived by their daughter, Laura Flug of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Livingston, N.J.; her twin brother, Murray Brizell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Her father, Thomas Coffin, a tea taster, left home when she was 3 and never returned, forcing her mother first to open a boardinghouse in Edgartown and later to leave her daughter with her parents to pursue teaching jobs in Pennsylvania and Brooklyn.
When she visited a daughter in Turkey, where her son-in-law had been sent by the State Department, Mrs. Riggs became so involved with the local poetry scene that she helped translate hundreds of Turkish poems into English.
In addition to her husband of 65 years, Mrs. Neuberger is survived by their daughter, Ann N. Aceves of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Roy S., of North Woodmere, N.Y., and James, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Monroe appeared in a promotional film for war bonds after Walter Pidgeon, the actor, discovered her at an aircraft parts factory in Ypsilanti, Mich., said Mrs. Monroe's daughter, Vicki Jarvis of Clarksville.
''
        Even before she became a riveter, Mrs. Monroe had proven herself while growing up in Somerset, Ky., her daughter said.
She remained a tireless worker after the war, driving a cab, operating a beauty shop and founding Rose Builders, a construction company that specialized in luxury homes, her daughter said.
Out for an afternoon flight with her daughter and four other people, Mrs. Monroe's small propeller plane stalled on takeoff and plunged to the ground.
In addition to Mrs. Jarvis, Mrs. Monroe is survived by another daughter, Connie Gibson, of Clarksville; six sisters, Vera Gastineau and Lelia Stiers of Lafayette, Ind., Gladys Jones of Merritt Island, Fla., Eula Stone of Jeffersontown, Ky., Flonnie Cope of Lake Worth, Fla., and Christine Witt of Port Clinton, Ohio; nine grandchildren, and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Hibberd was in Virginia picking up her daughter from college, and found out when she called her answering machine from a pay phone in a Wendy's and heard urgent messages from reporters.
She was born Jan. 7, 1909, in London, the daughter of Henry and Mildred Cruso.
Dr. Hedges is survived by her husband, Dr. William L. Hedges; a daughter, Marietta, and a son, James L., both of San Francisco; a sister, Dorothy Faye of Greenwich, Conn., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
Survivors include a daughter, Nora Poling of Mountville, Pa.; a son, Alan Bramley of North Attleboro, Mass.
She was the middle child and younger daughter of a Jewish banker who was to die in Auschwitz.
Jewel Stradford was born in Chicago, the daughter of C. Francis Stradford -- a lawyer -- and Aida Arabella Cartera, and grew up there.
In addition to her son Morgan of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Nick Delaney of Seattle; a daughter, Topher Delaney of San Francisco; two sisters, Eliane Koevas of Chester, Conn., and Jenny de Kergolay of Paris, and six grandchildren.
      
The Duchess was born Mathilda Coster Mortimer in 1925, the daughter of Stanley and Mathilda Mortimer of Litchfield, Conn.
The daughter of Max Popkin, a successful portrait painter who helped establish the Grand Central Galleries, Dr. Trell grew up in a genteel Bohemian atmosphere in New York, surrounded by music and art, none of which explains why at the age of 21 she received a law degree from New York University and embarked on a decade of private practice.
Mrs. Bartlett was the daughter of William Fortune, who for many years was president of the Indianapolis Telephone Company as well as other telephone companies and a director of Eli Lilly and Company.
Her daughter, Valerie, is an accomplished trapeeze artist.
Miss Fratellini, who is survived by Mr. Etaix as well as her daughter, also appeared in several movies, including ''Zazie Dans le Metro,'' a 1961 film by Louis Malle.
      
Besides her husband, Dr. Fruchter is survived by a son, Lev, also of Brooklyn; a daughter, Chenda Fruchter of San Francisco; her mother, Gertrude Gillett of London, and three brothers, Simon, who lives  in Pakistan, and Matthew and Peter, both of London.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Carol Hess-Vait.
The daughter of a vaudeville house manager, Ms. Brown picked up tap techniques from dancers performing at her parents' theater in Syracuse, among them Eleanor Powell and Bill (Bojangles) Robinson.
She is survived by  her daughter and two granddaughters, all of Baltimore.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Daniel H. Frank of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Katherine L. Frank of Manhattan; two sisters, Delia H. Cantor and Harriet H. Simpson, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Adriano, of East Hampton, she is survived by two other sons, Alexander Ratensky of Tampa, Fla., and Luca Valentino of New York City; a daughter, Dr. Antonia Meltzoff of La Jolla, Calif., and a grandchild.
      
During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
She is survived by her son; her daughter, Camilla Chandler Frost, eight grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Oku was born in Fukui Prefecture in western Japan in 1895, the eldest daughter of a blacksmith.
''
        Mrs. Oku is survived by a daughter, Kii Nakamura, who also served as a chairman of the Housewives' Association, and a son, Kyoichi Oku, both of Tokyo.
Dr. Fleischner is survived by her husband, Peter; a daughter, Julia, of Manhattan; three sons, Robert, of Buffalo; Paul, of Phoenix, and Michael, of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Patrick O'Shaughnessy of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
They had one child, a daughter, Yvonne, whose marriage to Joseph Billot produced a single child, Frederic Billot, in 1926.
In recent years, Mrs. Stillwell had lived in a mobile home on the edge of the ranch where her daughter established a park for recreational vehicles with a replica of the cabin room she lived in as a bride in the 1920's.
''
        Mrs. Stillwell is survived by two sons, Roy and Guy, and a daughter, Dadie, all of the Big Bend region; a sister, Glen Harris of Presidio; 9 grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son James, of Des Moines, she is survived by another son, Dr. Robert C., of East Lansing, Mich.; a daughter, Maggie of Jamestown, Calif.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
Her oldest daughter, Donna Ungar, died in 1995.
      
''
        Mrs. Henson is survived by a son and a daughter as well as by several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
Ruth Adler was born in Rochester  on July 10, 1910, the daughter of Ida Lichtenstein and Mortimer Adler.
''
        A native of New York City, she was the daughter of John and Anna Tree of Lawrence, N.Y.
Survivors include her son, of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret Peet Anderson of Hoboken, N.J., and five grandchildren.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Suzanne Nalbantian Reynolds.
Besides her daughter, of Old Westbury and Sagaponack, N.Y., Dr. Balakian is survived by a son, Haig Nalbantian of New York City, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by two sons, Roy, of Newark, Del., and Edward, of Marlboro, Vt.; a daughter, Peggy Lopata of Francestown, N.H.; five grandchildren; a brother, Philip Good of Somers, N.Y., and a sister, Esther Goffman of Houston.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Westwood is survived by a son, Richard E. Westwood Jr., of Highland, Utah; a daughter, Beth Davies of American Fork; two brothers, John K. Miles of Provo, Utah, and David H. Miles of Orem, Utah; 15 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
      
As a child, she said, her mother took her to suffragist meetings and nurtured her daughter's independent spirit and her wish to become a lawyer, an aspiration hardly befitting a fine Southern lady then.
She is survived by her husband, Edward Sooter; a daughter, Esther Sooter; her mother, Annette Herr of Seattle, and two sisters, Jennifer and Heidi Herr, of Chlan, Wash.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sallie Tennant, of Bradenton; a son, Ricardo Dellera, of Hawaii; a sister, Josephine Staral, of Barrington, Ill., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Nathalie Friedman; three sisters, Nathalie Herman and Hilda Fischman of Manhattan and Sylvia Lipton of Los Angeles; a brother, Charles Schlang of Scottsdale, Ariz.; eight grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Weiss, who was on the Socialist Workers Party's national ticket in 1952, 1956 and 1960, was the daughter of an unabashed capitalist, Myron Tanner, who managed an investment syndicate before becoming a top insurance salesman in Los Angeles.
In addition to Ms. Dundy, who lives in Los Angeles, she is survived by another sister, Betty Lorwin of Brooklyn, and a daughter, Wendy, a video artist who also lives in Los Angeles.
As Miss Clarke lay dying, she was visited in her hospital room by her daughter and a group of friends, all film and video makers, who sipped Champagne as they reminisced about her and her work and how it paved the way for the MTV generation.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward; a son, Renell Gonsalves of Detroit; a daughter, April Browne of Queens, and a sister, Marquita Gove of Los Angeles.
She is survived by her son, Robert Foster of Los Angeles, and by her daughter, Gretchen Foster Cotta.
      
The cause was a heart attack, according to her daughter, Joanne Jablow Yunich of Manhattan.
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Jeffrey Jablow of the Bronx; a sister, Gloria Eisner of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
And Miss Goslar made her New York debut in 1937 in ''The Peppermill,'' an anti-fascist revue devised by Erika Mann, daughter of the novelist Thomas Mann.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
The cause was lung cancer, her daughter, Wendy Lyon Moonan of Manhattan, said.
''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Moonan is survived by her son, Denis Lyon Moonan of Camden, Me., and a grandson.
      
Just two weeks ago, she directed Spanish state television's coverage, beamed worldwide, of the wedding in Barcelona of the King's daughter Princess Cristina.
Her subsequent projects included directing television coverage, in 1995, of the royal wedding in Seville of Princess Elena, the King's eldest daughter.
She is survived by her husband, Mark Matthews, the diplomatic correspondent for The Baltimore Sun; a daughter, Sarah; her mother, Elaine A. Bellin, of Rockville, Md.
''
        Mrs. Gottesman was born in Manhattan in 1898, the daughter of Aaron and Sarah Garfunkel.
Under contract to MGM, she wrote a series of films for Esther Williams, including ''Bathing Beauty,'' ''Neptune's Daughter'' (both co-starring Red Skelton) and ''Jupiter's Darling.
She was 66 and the daughter of Maud Hart Lovelace, the creator of the Betsy-Tacy books.
As the daughter of a woman who turned her own childhood into literary fodder, Mrs. Kirchner might have been expected to continue the tradition.
(He was also the author of the novelization of the movie ''King Kong,'' which helps explain why he named his daughter after the movie's director, Merian C.
She is survived by a daughter, Titia Dick Ellis of Santa Fe, N.M.; a son, Edison W., of Washington; a sister, Marion Hodgkins of Lake Forest, Ill.; 9 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
That is because her mother, Maggie Rogers, who joined the White House staff on the fourth day of the Taft Administration, would often take her daughter to work with her.
It was her insistence that her daughter complete the book she had long planned that helped induce Mrs.
As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
She is survived by a daughter, Sarah Douglas of Brooklyn; two sons, James Linkoff of Salt Lake City and Frank Linkoff of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was cancer, said her daughter, Heather Tatkon Powers.
She is survived by her daughter, of Somerville, Mass.
She is survived by a son, Daniel, of Manhattan; a daughter, Judith Goode of Boulder, Colo., and two grandchildren.
      

        Lillian B. Miller, a Boston butcher's daughter who made American cultural history her oyster and the Peale family of painters her particular pearls, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington.
As the daughter of struggling immigrants from Lithuania, Lillian Beresnack grew up all but oblivious to Boston's cultural riches.

        Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91.
Mrs. Kelly, who had cancer, experienced another stroke shortly before her death, her daughter, Maura Patricia Kelly, said.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Kelly is survived by a son, William E. 2d, of Spring Lake, N.J.; a sister, Katherine Duryea of Amityville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. William E. Mitchell, a retired professor of anthropology at the University of Vermont; a daughter and son by her first marriage, Linda Hoffman Matisse of Groton, Mass., and Jon Winer of Owings Mills, Md.
A daughter that the Disneys adopted, Sharon Disney, died in 1993.
She is survived by another daughter, Diane Disney Miller of Napa, Calif., who has played an important role in the plan for the Disney Concert Hall in downtown Los Angeles.
In 1987, the couple's daughter, Halley Cyd Marie Allison, was born, and in 1989 they had a son, Luke Edward Allison.
' ''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a brother, Larry, of Manhattan.
Besides her son Iver, of Lawrenceville, N.J., who is a reporter for The New York Times, Mrs. Peterson is survived by two other sons, Eric N.,  of Alexandria, Va., and Lars E., of Washington; a daughter, Karen K. Wilken of Fort Collins, Colo., and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Chubb is survived by five sons, Hendon, of Cornwall, Conn.; Percy 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J., the president of the Victoria Foundation; Joseph, of Lechlade, Gloustershire, England; James, of Ketchum, Idaho, and Caldecot, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Corinne Zimmermann, of Great Falls, Va.; 12 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
''
        Elizabeth Waterbury Beach, the youngest daughter of Congregational missionaries, was born in Changle, in Fujian Province in China.
Earlier this year she won the Essex three-day event in Gladstone, N.J.
        She was born on Aug. 22, 1968, in Boston, the daughter of Robert S. Pirie, vice chairman of investment banking at Societe Generale Securities Corporation, and Deirdre H. Pirie, also an equestrian.
Born Simone Ovide, she was the illegitimate daughter of a well-known mulatto merchant and scholar, Jules Faine, and one of the maids in his household, giving her a socially dubious lineage that in her later years she sought to conceal.
''
        Judge Scheindlin, the daughter of a Russian immigrant and his American wife, was born in Washington.
Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, her survivors include a son and daughter from another marriage, Bruce Bartley of Little Rock, and Anne Bartley McNeil of San Francisco.
      
Born in St. Petersburg, Miss Geva, who shortened her surname when she came to the West, was the daughter of Levko Gevergeyev, a wealthy manufacturer of church vestments and a patron of avant-garde artists.
