She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
As the daughter of Lee Strasberg, the director of the Actors Studio, and the acting coach Paula Miller, Ms. Strasberg spent her childhood surrounded by celebrated figures of the American theater, people who were, she said, ''supremely talented, alive, sensitive, eccentric, and some were neurotic and miserable.
Her daughter, Jennifer, was born with a congenital birth defect: Ms. Strasberg blamed herself even though there was no medical evidence linking the drugs and the daughter's disabilities.
Her daughter, Jennifer, was born with a congenital birth defect: Ms. Strasberg blamed herself even though there was no medical evidence linking the drugs and the daughter's disabilities.
'' In the book, she criticized her father for being preoccupied with his acting classes and she criticized her mother for being overly supervisory about her daughter's work.
''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in Los Angeles, Ms. Strasberg is survived by her brother, John, who lives in Paris and New York, and by two half-brothers.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Louis Duddleston, and a son, James Breyley Jr., both of Raleigh; a daughter, Diana Caldwell of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      
She was the oldest survivor of one of America's most remarkable families, the daughter of a man who had been born a slave, and the first colored woman -- the term she preferred -- ever permitted to teach home economics in white New York City schools.
Mrs. Mott is survived by a son, Stewart Rawlings Mott of North Salem, N.Y.; a daughter, Maryanne Turnbull Mott of Santa Barbara, Calif.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irving; a son, Anthony Marc Benjamin, and a daughter, Lisa Stern Lasday, all of New York.
      
Mrs. Owings is survived by a daughter, Wendy M. Benjamin, of Durango, Colo., from her previous marriage to Malcolm Millard, a resident of Carmel, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Natalie O. Prael and Jennifer O. Dewey, both of Santa Fe., and Emily O. Kapozi, of Novato, Calif.; a brother, William Wentworth, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Janet Kestenberg of West Chester, Pa., and four grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Lise Engel.
Mr. Engel, a businessman, survives her, as do her daughter, of Manhattan; her son, Paul, of Oceanside, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
Miriam Kottler Freund-Rosenthal was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Harry Kottler and the former Rebecca Zindler, and lived in Perth Amboy, N.J., and Harlem as a child.
In 1915, Bessie married and moved with her husband, Lewis Cohen, to New London, Conn., where her son and daughter were born.
She is survived by her son, Jack, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Sylvia Scott of Calistoga, Calif. A grandson, Jan Tangen, died last year.
      
''
        The daughter of a journalist, Ms. Kane grew up in Brentwood in suburban Essex County, east of London, in a household that went through an obsessive Christian redemption process during her youth.
The cause was a stroke, her daughter, Sukanya Wicks, said.
Their daughter, Indrani, was born that year in Madras.
She was joined by Sukanya, Indrani's daughter and also a dancer, as well as Indrani.
In addition to her daughter, of Orr's Island, Me., she is survived by her son, Ram Rahman, of New Delhi, and two grandsons, Wardreath Wicks of Orr's Island, and Habib Wicks of New York City.
      
Mrs. Max is survived by a daughter, Dr. Claire Max of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Dr. Betty Bernstein of Manhattan and Hilda Morris of Huntington, N.Y.; two brothers, Ira Bernstein of Fairfield, Conn., and Seymour Bernstein of Manhattan, and one grandson.
      
She is survived by her son; a daughter, Jennifer Malahowski of Austin, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was heart failure, and she had been in declining health, a daughter, Leslie H. Lowe, said.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; a daughter, Jill; two sons, Brian and Tim, and a sister, Renee Cohen.
      
A native of Hamburg, Ark., the daughter of a Presbyterian minister and a graduate of the University of Arkansas, she was accustomed to the ways of the South.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
As the the daughter of a womanizing father, Miss Bloch made clear, she had no designs on Kahlo's womanizing husband, a pledge that laid the groundwork for a remarkable friendship.
For that, Miss Bloch, who is survived by two sons, George Ernst Dimitroff of Tumwater, Wash., and Pancho Dimitroff of Aurora, Colo; a daughter, Sita Milchev, of Gualala; a sister, Suzanne Bloch Smith of New York; 8 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, had only herself to blame.
She is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Scott of Whately, Mass.
Lila Hotz was born in Chicago in 1899, the daughter of Robert Schuttler Hotz, an inventor and financier, and Lila Ross Hotz.
They had a daughter, Cordelia, who still lives in Berlin.
In ''Love in Exile,'' Ms. Anderson said that as a widow she considered returning to the United States with her daughter but was deterred by the imagined voice of Max: ''What right have you to deprive her of the Socialism for which so many people died or went into exile?
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a brother, John Bernard Handelsman of Hampton Bays, N.Y., a cartoonist at The New Yorker, and a grandson.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, she is survived by two sons, David of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Daniel of Paris; a daughter, Judith Davison of New York; a brother, Harry H. Herman of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
Mrs. Magruder was the former Countess Felicia Gizycka, the only daughter of the Chicago-born newspaper heiress Eleanor Medill Patterson and Count Josef Gizycki, a fortune-hunting scion of a noble Polish family.
'' Their marriage began in 1925, produced a daughter, Ellen, and was ended in divorce by Mrs. Pearson after three years.
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen Pearson Arnold of San Diego; three grandsons, Joe and Drew Arnold of Laramie and George Arnold of Evanston, Wyo.
Lucille Lortel was born in Manhattan on Dec. 16, 1900, the daughter of Harry and Anna Wadler.
She is survived by a son, Warren,  of Manassas, Va.; a daughter, Sarah Carroll Watson of South Berwick; two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She settled in San Francisco in World War II, briefly married and had a daughter who died in a car accident.
Miss Lutyens (pronounced LUTCH-ens) was a daughter of Sir Edwin Landseer Lutyens (1869-1944), the British architect who planned New Delhi and many of its Government buildings, including the Viceroy's palace.
Her mother was Lady Emily Lutyens, daughter of the First Earl of Lytton, a poet and a Viceroy of India.
She is survived by a daughter from her first marriage, Amanda.
      

        Adele Woodhouse Erb Sullivan, who was president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution in the 1960's, died on April 22 in Wilton, Conn., at the home of her daughter, Nancy E. Thorne.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Sullivan is survived by two granddaughters and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by their daughter, Karen Gilbert of Brentwood, Calif.; two sons from an earlier marriage, Dr. David Flory of Manhattan and Dr. Christopher Flory of Williamsburg, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alex Herenchak; a daughter, Valerie, and a son, Gregory, all of Allentown, and a stepdaughter, Linda, of Stroudsburg, Pa.
      
She was a daughter of Sydney Gruson, a former vice chairman of The New York Times Company, who died last year.
Besides her brother, of Kent, Conn., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Lourie, of Tiverton; her mother, Flora Lewis, of Paris, foreign affairs columnist for The International Herald Tribune, and a sister, Kerry Gruson of Miami.
      
Besides her son, she is survived by her daughter, Jane Hamilton of Denver, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, David, and a daughter, Cathy, both of Los Angeles.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Alex, and a daughter, Elizabeth, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Clayton Lewis of Luxembourg.
      
Ms. Gilbert is survived by a daughter, Gwynne Wolin of Stamford, Conn., and Coconut Creek, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, survivors include a daughter, Dr. Karen A. Brush, and a son, Charles F. 4th, both of Manhattan.
      
Senator Lipman's survivors include her daughter, Karyne Anne Lipman of Atlanta, and a sister, Eloise Ransome of Virginia.
      
The daughter of a singing barber from Seville province, Ms. Jimenez was born on July 28, 1908, in La Puebla de Cazalla, which gave rise to her nickname.
Ms. Ross is survived by a daughter, Linda Proctor of Concord, N.H.; her companion, George Hofmann, an artist and professor at Hunter College, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Thomas, of Fresh Meadows, Queens, she is survived by a daughter, Ann Herman of Lakeland, Fla., five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, a son and a daughter.
She is survived by a daughter, Jean Tredaway.
      
She married John Berriault and settled in the San Francisco Bay Area, writing stories and magazine articles while raising a daughter.
She is survived by a daughter, Julie Berriault of Mill Valley, Calif., and her companion, Leonard Gardner of Sausalito.
      
The daughter of a Zurich newspaper editor, Miss Schoop was essentially self-taught, although she did take some ballet and modern-dance lessons after she had already established herself as a performer.
She is survived by a daughter, Erika Littlewood of Richmond; two sons, Jamin Ben, of Takoma Park, Md., and Noah A., of Vienna, Va.; seven grandchildren, and a brother, Richard Bellman of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marguerite P. Cullman of Severna Park, Md.
The cause was pneumonia, her daughter, Jane Clough, said.
In addition to her daughter, Jane Clough of Paris and Pound Ridge, N.Y., she is survived by a son, Peter A. Cooper of Brattleboro, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      

        Sherley Anne Williams, a daughter of migrant workers who became an award-winning novelist, poet and playwright as well as a professor at the University of California, died on July 6 at a hospital in San Diego.
''
        Ms. Wight is survived by a son, James, and a daughter, Rosemary Page, both of Yorkshire in northern England.
      
Ms. Hussain showed widely in India and in Europe
        She is survived by her husband, Ishaat, and a daughter, Shazmin.
      
Ms. Fleming was born in 1925, the  daughter of the painter Augustus John and of Eve Fleming, the wife of a Maj. Valentine Fleming, Member of Parliament.
Until she was 24, Ms. Fleming believed that she was Eve Fleming's adopted daughter.
''
        In addition to June Carter Cash, of Hendersonville, Tenn., Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Lorrie Bennett, and a son, Jay, both of Goodlettsville.
      
Ms. Guild married the actor Charles Russell, with whom she had a daughter, Elizabeth.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
Ms. Sheely had taken her daughter, Jessye, to the park and apparently had a heart attack, said Grisha Coleman, a friend.
In addition to her daughter, survivors include her husband, Oded Carmi, and two sisters, Betty and Carey Sheely of Belle Glade.
The survivor, Jessye, is her son, not her daughter.
She is survived by a daughter, MaryLouise Patterson of Manhattan, two granddaughters and a great-grandson.
      
She met Charlie Parker when he was 23 and she was 18.In 1950, she and Kim, her daughter, moved in with Parker.
Besides Baird Parker of Lansdale, Pa., she is survived by her daughter, Kim Parker, of Delaware Water Gap, Pa.; another son, Gar Woods of Long Pond, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
Born in the Siberian city of Rubtsovsk, Raisa Titarenko grew up as the daughter of a railway engineer.
They had one daughter, Irina, born in 1956, who survives her along with Mr. Gorbachev and two granddaughters.
''
        Miss Carioca is survived by an adopted daughter, Atiyat Allah.
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Alison de Lima Greene.
In addition to her daughter, of Houston, she is survived by her husband.
      
But Giancana's daughter, Antoinette, said that Giancana disliked Kennedy and that he never mentioned any contact with Kennedy while he was President.
She is survived by her daughter, Helena, of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Helfer of Centerville, Tex.
Miles is survived by a daughter, the actress Joanna Miles; a grandson, Miles Brandman, and a sister, Kitty Daffron of Florida.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter Elizabeth Vereen.
In addition to Ms. Vereen, of League City, she is survived by another daughter, Audrey Johnson of Houston; two sisters, Earline Allen of Houston and Irma Dews of San Pablo, Calif.; three brothers, Cyrus, Robert and Cornelius Thorne, all of San Francisco; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hirschland was born in Baltimore, the daughter of Sidney Berney, a vice president at Isaac Hamburger, a clothing store in Baltimore, and Dorothy Long Berney, a niece of Etta and Claribel Cone, who amassed a world-class collection of 19th and 20th century art, including 42 Matisse oil paintings, which they bequeathed to the Baltimore Museum of Art in 1949.
She also lectured widely on the Cone sisters and, with her daughter, Nancy H. Ramage, recently completed a biography about them, which is to be published by Harry N. Abrams next year.
In addition to her son Edward, of Chicago, and daughter, Nancy, of Ithaca, N.Y., she is survived by another son, Roger, of Washington.
      
''
        Born in Nykoping, Sweden, on Aug. 3, 1908, Miss Cullberg was the daughter of Ella W. Cullberg and Carl Cullberg, a bank director, and attended the University of Stockholm.
Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994).
''
        Ms. Heskes is survived by her husband, Jacob Heskes; a daughter, Deborah Aviva Kraut of Bethesda, Md.
In his memoir ''Paris in the Fifties,'' the American journalist and author Stanley Karnow, who was briefly married to Mrs. Sarraute's eldest daughter, Claude, paints a portrait of the writer as ''a lean, severe-looking woman with a hawk nose, piercing black eyes and combed-back ebony hair.
'' Mrs. Sarraute is survived by her daughter Claude and two other daughters, Anne and Dominique.
Ms. Mortimer, the former Penelope Ruth Fletcher, was born in Oxfordshire, the daughter of a vicar who periodically professed to have lost his faith in God.

        Jessie Lee Brown Foveaux, who sold her first book for $1 million when she was 98, died on Saturday in a hospital in Duluth, Minn., where she was vacationing with her daughter.
One of her early dancers was her daughter, Debbie Blunden-Diggs.
She chose her daughter along with the choreographer and dancer Kevin Ward to succeed her as artistic directors of the company.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
''
        Sufia Kamal was born in 1911 in Barisal, the southern district of what is now Bangladesh, the only daughter of an eminent lawyer.
They had a daughter, Amena Kahnar, and Mr. Hossain died in 1932.
In addition to her first daughter, Ms. Kamal is survived by two other daughters, Sultana Kamal and Saida Kamal; two sons, Shahed Kamal and Sazid Kamal; three grandsons, and three great-granddaughters.
The cause was cancer, said Leslie McCullough Jeffries, her daughter.
The daughter of a lawyer and a socialite, Ms. Leslie was a 15-year-old student at the Brearley School on the Upper East Side when she was discovered by the producer George Abbott and cast as the girl next door in the 1944 Broadway production of ''Snafu,'' a comedy.
Her breakthrough came in 1955, in ''Inherit the Wind,'' in which she played the conflicted daughter of a Bible-wielding reverend.
''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York, Ms. Leslie is survived by a brother, Warren Leslie, also of New York, and two grandchildren.
      
) The couple had one daughter in 1944, Pernette Perriand, now an architect in Paris.
) The couple had one daughter in 1944, Pernette Perriand, now an architect in Paris.
Ms. Sircar was the daughter of Manjusri Chaki-Sircar, one of India's best-known dancers.
But the pride and prize of the lot was Sky Beauty, a daughter of the European champion Blushing Groom and a granddaughter of Nijinsky II.
The cause was emphysema, said her daughter Jessica Mansell Ambrose of East Hampton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Mansell, who was known as Mona, was a recovering alcoholic and a volunteer counselor at the National Council on Alcoholism in New York when she started the Freedom Institute in 1976.
Besides her daughter Jessica, she is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, Charles B. Miller of Twin Bridges, Mont., Christian F. Miller of Hamilton, Mont., and Gordon L. Miller of Santa Fe, N.M.; another daughter, Devon Mansell Laycox of Sherborn, Mass.
Besides her daughter Jessica, she is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, Charles B. Miller of Twin Bridges, Mont., Christian F. Miller of Hamilton, Mont., and Gordon L. Miller of Santa Fe, N.M.; another daughter, Devon Mansell Laycox of Sherborn, Mass.
Mrs. Casadesus is survived by a daughter, Therese Casadesus Rawson of Berwyn, Pa., and another son, Guy Casadesus of Toulon, France, as well as five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Resnick also endowed an academic chair in brain tumor research in memory of her daughter, Susan Resnick Fisher, who died in 1993.
She is survived by two sons, Burton P. Resnick of Rye, N.Y., and Ira Resnick of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Katz of Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Anna Sherman of Yonkers; 10 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
Only hours after his daughter's birth on Dec. 18, 1919, at the Knickerbocker Hotel just a stone's throw from the old Metropolitan Opera House in New York, Caruso, then the most famous operatic tenor in the world, exuberantly tossed the girl into the air, peered into her mouth and announced, ''Ah, she has the vocal cords, just like her daddy!
The press had an immense appetite for even the slightest tidbits of news about the great Caruso's daughter.
Her father, Park Benjamin, a wealthy patent lawyer and New York society figure, fiercely opposed the match between his daughter, then 25, to Caruso, who was 45.
When she was 19, she married a sculptor, Claude Begbie-Clench, and they had a daughter, Julie.
She is survived by her husband and daughter.
She is survived by her husband, Bob; two sons, Alex Allison of Nutley and Robert McBride of Stone Ridge, N.Y.; a daughter, Dorothy McBride of Montville, N.J.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Kaplan, a retired justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; a son, James Kaplan of Northampton, Mass., a daughter, Nancy Mansbach of Newton, Mass.,  and four grandchildren.
Bode was born on July 14, 1943, in Penn Yan, N.Y., the daughter of the late Carl Bode, a professor of English and American Studies at the University of Maryland, and the former Charlotte Watkins Smith.
''
        The daughter of a railway worker, Ms. Iotti was born in Reggio Emilia, the heart of Italy's ''red belt'' and studied literature at the Catholic University of Milan.
The couple adopted a daughter in 1950, the sister of a worker killed by police during a strike in Modena.
She is survived by her daughter, Marisa Malagoli Togliatti.
      
''
        Elizabeth Lloyd-Jones was born near Devon, England, in 1910, the daughter of a naval officer and the woman who invented Meals by Motor, a British forerunner of Meals on Wheels.
The result was a sculptural quality, said her daughter Meg Swansen, who is also a noted knitter and will carry on her mother's business.
''
        In addition to Ms. Swansen, who lives in Pittsville, Wis., Mrs. Zimmermann is survived by her husband, Arnold; another daughter, Lloie, of Pittsville; a son, Thomas, of New Hope, Pa.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
