''
        Ms. Barr is survived by a daughter and a sister.
      
The cause was cancer, according to her daughter, Bennell LaPorte.
In addition to her daughter, survivors include her parents, Benito Martinez and Ramona Figueroa of Juana Diaz, P.R., and 11 siblings.
      
''
        In the play's bittersweet final scene, Heidi has become a single mother to a new infant -- a path Ms. Wasserstein would herself pursue many years later, ultimately at great physical cost, when she gave birth, at age 48, to her daughter, Lucy Jane, in 1999.
Less successful was her 1997 play, ''An American Daughter,'' inspired by the harsh attacks on women in politics, which lasted only 89 performances on Broadway, though Ms. Wasserstein later adapted it for television.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Wasserstein is survived by her mother, Lola Wasserstein; her brothers, Abner and Bruce, the chairman of the investment banking giant Lazard and the owner of New York magazine; and her sister Georgette Levis of Vermont.
Included in ''Shiksa Goddess'' was an essay Ms. Wasserstein wrote for The New Yorker, as poignant as it was hilarious, in which she discussed the medical complications of her late-life pregnancy and her newborn daughter's early struggles.
I believed in the collaboration between the firm will of my one-pound-twelve-ounce daughter and the expertise of modern medicine.
In Stanley Kubrick's ''Lolita'' (1962), James Mason married her to get close to her young daughter; when she finds this out she blindly runs in front of a car and is killed.
The couple divorced in 1954 after the birth of her daughter and only child, Vittoria, who is now a physician working in Connecticut.
Ms. Winters is survived by her companion of 19 years, Jerry DeFord; her daughter, Dr. Vittoria Gassman of Norwalk, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
Joan Thorpe, the daughter of a British coffee farmer, was born in Nairobi.
Andrea Brett Morrison, known as Andy, was born in London on May 30, 1945, the daughter of an American mother, Doris, and a Scottish father, Hyam, who ran a women's clothing business.
She is survived by her daughter, Navah, of Canada, according to the Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot.
      

        Peggy Appiah, who as a daughter of a British chancellor of the exchequer defied the conventions of her time by marrying an Ashanti political leader and who went on to become an author and a revered figure in her adopted homeland, Ghana, died Saturday in Kumasi, Ghana.
The Appiahs are said to have been the inspiration, along with another African-British couple, Seretse Khama and Ruth Williams, for the 1967 film ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' which dealt with a California couple's reaction to their daughter's engagement to a black doctor.
And it became an international story with particular resonance because it involved the daughter of a former chancellor.
Jill Fraser was born in London, a daughter of Alec and Guinevere Fraser.
She is survived by her husband; her mother; her son, Sam, 23, and her daughter, Charley, 21.
Besides her brother, her survivors include her husband, Daniel Seltzer, and their 10-year-old triplets, a daughter, Leila, and two sons, Isaac and Milo, who all have the last name Selchaif; and her parents, Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz.
      
In addition to Mr. Morris, whom she married 23 years ago, she is survived by a daughter from the earlier marriage, Miela Ford of Rochester; a brother, the writer Russell Hoban, of London; a granddaughter; and one great-granddaughter.
The cause was complications of a recent series of strokes, her daughter, Hadley Guest, said.
Besides her daughter, of Berkeley, Ms.
Oree Walker was her best friend and, until her death, in 1991, worked out melodies for her daughter's words.
''Food for her was really a form of cultural and aesthetic expression, one that gave comfort and meaning to peoples' daily lives,'' said her daughter, Lissa Muscatine.
In addition to her husband and daughter, of Bethesda, Md., she is survived by a son, Jeff, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
They had a son, Daniel, and a daughter, Katherine.
When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy.
In addition to her partner, Ms. Calvello is survived by her daughter, Teri Conte, of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Tony and Joey Calvello.
Ms. Braden is survived by a son, James, of San Francisco, and a daughter, Elizabeth, of Austin, Tex.
Another daughter, Anita, died in childhood.
Survivors include a daughter, Marin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, Bard, of La Jolla, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
The daughter of immigrants from the West Indian island of Montserrat, Ms. Morgan was born in Manhattan, grew up in the Bronx and graduated from the Chapin School in Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Sylvan, and her parents, Dr. John and Coralee Morgan of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Ms. Jacobs is survived by her sons, James, of Toronto, and Ned, of Vancouver; her daughter, Burgin Jacobs, of New Denver, British Columbia, and one granddaughter.
She was godmother to his daughter, Ingrid Saxon, and they remained close.
Ms. Nahumck performed Duncan's dances as a member of the company of Irma Duncan, an adopted daughter of Isadora Duncan's, from 1921 to 1931.
The daughter of immigrants from Hungary, she was born Rosalyn Mayer in 1919 in Port Henry, N.Y. Because she disliked her first name as a child, she had her parents change it to Belle.
Ms. Zeck is survived by her daughter, Deborah Zeck Thorne of Nyack, N.Y.; her son, John, of Littleton, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
''
        She was born Muriel Sarah Camberg in Edinburgh on Feb. 1, 1918, the daughter of Bernard Camberg, an engineer whose Jewish family had settled earlier in Scotland, and his wife, the former Sarah Elizabeth Maud Uezzell, a Protestant from a country village near London.
The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Brooke Allen.
''
        Jay Presson was born on March 3, 1922, in Fort Worth, the daughter of a department store manager and a buyer of women's clothing.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Allen is survived by two grandchildren.
She is survived by her daughter, Tova Maria Solo of Arlington, and one grandson.
      
Her daughter and sole survivor, Barbara Buloff of Manhattan, confirmed the death.
Gay's book ''The Jewish King Lear Comes to America,'' written with her daughter Sophie, is to be published next year by Yale.
      
The cause was complications from cancer, her daughter, Jennifer Marre, said.
She suffered a heart attack late last week and had been released from the hospital under hospice care, her daughter Cheri Brand Irwin said.
The model in that piece of advertising history was none other than her daughter, Ms. Irwin, then 3.
Brand said she used her daughter because she ''worked cheap and was convenient.
Brand's survivors include another daughter, Coby Reichstadt of Omaha; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Their daughter, Marie Christine Dunham Pratt, of Rome, who survives her.
The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter Rebecca Moore.
In addition to Rebecca, of Dunedin, Fla., she is survived by a second daughter, Sarah Sullivan of Tacoma, Wash., and a grandson.
The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Diane Tosh.
''
        Norma Lee Becker was born on Feb. 18, 1930, a daughter of Nicholas and Esther Pliskin of the Bronx.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Brooklyn, she is survived by four grandchildren.
      
Her death was confirmed by her daughter, Abigail Blatt of Manhattan, who is her only immediate family member.
Her survivors include her husband; a daughter, Marial; and a son, Valerio, all of Milan.
''
        Correction:  June 29, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the Italian designer and architect Anna Castelli Ferrieri misspelled the given name of her surviving daughter.
''
        Ms. Kopp is survived by her companion, Carolynn Jennings, and their daughter, Hanna, both of New York City.
      
He survives her, along with their daughter, Amanda, of Centreville, Md.
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Kaylie Jones of Manhattan.
In 1998 a character drawn from Mrs. Jones was central in the film ''A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries,'' based on an autobiographical novel by her daughter.
In 1998 a character drawn from Mrs. Jones was central in the film ''A Soldier's Daughter Never Cries,'' based on an autobiographical novel by her daughter.
Their guests, her daughter recalled, included the authors Mary McCarthy, James Baldwin, Romain Gary and William Styron and the actors Peter Lawford and Jean Seberg.
Besides her daughter and son, she is survived by a brother, Mark Mosolino of Bethel Hill, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      
Her daughter, Dorothy, said the cause was colon cancer.
Besides her daughter, of Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Rosenbaum is survived by her son, Daniel, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
Her death was announced by her daughter Margaret Cooke.
In 17 years with the Trumans -- including two years chaperoning their daughter, Margaret, when she was making national tours as an aspiring classical singer -- Miss Odum became close to the family.
The photograph, released by The Associated Press in 1945 and identified as Miss Odum, was actually Jane Lingo (a friend of President Truman's daughter, Margaret).
      
Her death was announced yesterday by her daughter, Pamela Allyson Powell.
Her daughter, Tracy Uhnak, said she died of a deliberate drug overdose.
''You don't have to kill yourself today,'' she said more than once, her daughter recalled.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Kew Gardens, Queens, Ms. Uhnak is survived by her husband, Anthony, and a sister, Mary Ellis of Hartsdale, N.Y.
''
        Zelda Phyllis Leader was born on Aug. 8, 1934, a daughter of Nathan and Ida Leader, the owners of a candy store in the Hell's Kitchen section of Manhattan.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Foster is survived by a daughter, Rachel Kodsi, and a son, Joshua, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Jeanette Katz, of Queens; and three grandchildren.
''
        Carolyn Nye McGeoy was born on Oct. 14, 1936, in Greenwood, Miss., the daughter of a bank president and a homemaker.
''
        Born on Nov. 5, 1926, in Palmers Crossing, the daughter of Mack and Annie Mae Ott Jackson, Mrs. Gray Adams was educated at Wilberforce University in Ohio, the Tuskegee Institute in Alabama and Jackson State College in Mississippi.
Lydia, Duchess of Bedford (who kept her title after the divorce, with the customary addition of her first name to avoid confusion with her husband's new wife) is survived by two sons, Sir Gavin Lyle, third baronet, of Murthly, Perth, Scotland, and Lord Francis Russell of London; a daughter, Lorna Alexander of St. Andrews, Fife, Scotland; a stepson, Lord Rudolf Russell, also of London; and nephews and nieces who include Aga Khan IV, the 49th imam of the Shiite Imami Ismaili Muslims, who lives in Paris.
      
Leslie Anne Kaul was born on July 10, 1958, a daughter of Donald and Suzanne Kaul.
; and her daughter, Isabel Jay, and her son, Florian Jay, both of New York.
      
Besides her son, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is also survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Damsky, of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      
Their daughter, Jenny Johnson Sykes, of Nyack, N.Y., is her only immediate survivor.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ovshinsky is survived by a daughter, Robin Dibner, and a son, Steven Dibner, from a previous marriage; three stepsons, Ben, Harvey and Dale Ovshinsky; and four grandchildren.
Elisabeth May Ogilvie was born in Boston on May 20, 1917, the daughter of Frank and Maude Ogilvie; she had three older brothers.
In her first novel, ''High Tide at Noon'' (Crowell, 1944), the Bennetts' daughter, Joanna, returns to the unoccupied island, soon followed by relatives, then strangers.
Through the years, Mrs. Lawford was close friends with Marilyn Monroe, Tennesee Williams, and Sinatra, for whom she partly named her daughter Victoria Frances.
Patricia Kennedy was born on May 6, 1924, in Brookline, Mass., the fourth daughter of Joseph P. and Rose Kennedy and the granddaughter of John F. Fitzgerald, the popular mayor of Boston who had earlier served in the House of Representatives.
Mrs. Boegner was the daughter of John S. Phipps and of Margarita Grace Phipps, whose family started the Grace Shipping Line.
Mrs. Boegner is survived by a daughter, Dita Douglas Naylor-Leyland of Manhattan; a son, J. Gordon Douglas III of Pawling, N.Y.; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
''
        Through the years, Mrs. Lawford was a close friend of Marilyn Monroe, Tennessee Williams and Sinatra, for whom she partly named her daughter Victoria Frances.
Her name appeared regularly in the society columns of New York, the Hamptons and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Patricia Kennedy was born on May 6, 1924, in Brookline, Mass., the fourth daughter of Joseph and Rose Kennedy and the granddaughter of John F. Fitzgerald, the popular mayor of Boston who had earlier served in the House of Representatives.
Evelyn Gelbman was born in Manhattan on July 4, 1924, the daughter of Joseph Gelbman, an electrical contractor, and his wife, Stella.
Mrs. Levine is survived by a daughter, Anna Thomson-Wilson, of Manhattan.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Karyn Anick Monget, who noted that her mother had a variety of maladies, including pneumonia.
Mrs. Deschamps Adams's daughter said her mother never got the pension that she said had been promised by someone in the Office of Strategic Services, the wartime spy agency that was the C.I.A.
Their daughter said neither knew much of the other's language, but shared what her mother called ''the language of love.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Deschamps Adams is survived by a brother, Henri Deschamps of Maraussan, France.
She stole the records of people marked for execution, including Jews and resistance fighters, and stuffed them in her brassiere, her daughter said, then flushed them down the toilet.
In a story she loved to tell in later life, Ms. Varnay said her mother used the bottom drawer of a dressing table backstage as a makeshift crib for her infant daughter during a performance of Verdi's ''Ballo in Maschera.
''
        Iva Ikuko Toguri was born in Los Angeles on the Fourth of July, 1916, a daughter of Japanese immigrants who owned a grocery store.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, said her daughter, Tina Bayer, a former world-class rower.
Ms. Daly's husband died in 1982; her daughter, Megan McGivern Shaw, died the next year.
Dr. Shapiro is survived by her husband of 39 years, Dr. Peter A. Shapiro, an orthodontist; a son, Evan, and a daughter, Jessica Mirsky; and a grandchild.
      
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter, Drucilla Stender Ramey.
Estelle Rosemary Rubin was born in Detroit on Aug. 23, 1917, the daughter of Jewish immigrants from Europe.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
The daughter of a nurse, Olga Jonasson was born in Peoria, Ill. She attended Northwestern University and in 1958, she received her medical degree from the University of Illinois.
Born on June 12, 1932, in Poojappura in the southern Indian state of Kerala, Ms. Ramachandran was the second daughter of a landlord and a homemaker.
The daughter of a trial lawyer, Ms. Tucker was born Marcia Silverman and grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and then New Jersey in a household that took politics and culture seriously.
Survivors include her current husband, Dean McNeil; their daughter, Ruby; and her brother, Warren Silverman.
Her death was confirmed by her adopted daughter, Deirdre Prussak, in an interview with the Australian ABC radio network, quoted on its Web site.
She later moved to be with her adopted daughter in Australia, where she tried to establish a catering business.
A. Milne's ''Give Me Yesterday,'' as the daughter of an ambitious British politician (Louis Calhern).
Family crises arose -- a son's first dance, a daughter's first crush -- and were firmly but lovingly resolved.
The cause was an aneurysm, her daughter, Elisabeth Cuming, said.
''One of her stunts was to see how hard it was to buy a gun,'' her daughter said.
''
        Ms. Kanner was born on Jan. 21, 1949, a daughter of Adolph and Lillian Kanner of Manhattan.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband of 24 years, David Cuming; a son, Andrew; and a sister, Rita Blake, all of Manhattan.
''
        Elizabeth Ellen Gillease was born on Jan. 25, 1929, in Jersey City, the daughter of Viola and Joseph Gillease.
Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      
As the 1950s began, Ms. Brown's singles for the fledgling Atlantic Records -- like ''(Mama) He Treats Your Daughter Mean'' and ''5-10-15 Hours'' -- became both the label's bankroll and templates for all of rock 'n' roll.
They had two children, a daughter, Susanna, and a son, Alan.
She is survived by her daughter, Susanna Kyle, of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Ellis Gordon Jr., whom she married in 1984; her mother, Doris Moore of Los Angeles; a daughter from her first marriage, Maia Campbell of Los Angeles; a stepson, Ellis Gordon III of Mitchellville, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Andy Ostroy, and a daughter, Sophie.
Hilda Gerarda van Stockum was born in Rotterdam in 1908, the daughter of a Dutch naval officer.
She is survived by Mr. Aronowitz, a distinguished professor of sociology at the City University of New York and the Green Party candidate for governor of New York in 2002; their daughter, Nona Willis-Aronowitz, of Manhattan; two siblings, Michael Willis of Johannesburg, South Africa, and Penny Willis of Queens; four stepchildren, Michael O'Connell of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Kim O'Connell of Montclair, N.J.; Alice Finer and Hampton Finer, both of Brooklyn; and two step-grandchildren.
Ms. Marsh, who was known by her married name, Marian Marsh Henderson, died in her sleep, her daughter, Cathy Scott, said.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Arkansas, Ms. Marsh is survived by another child from her first marriage, Albert P. Scott Jr., of Colorado; eight grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
The death was confirmed by her daughter, Sarah Morgenthau Wessel.
In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration.
Jeane Duane Jordan was born on Nov. 19, 1926, in Duncan, Okla., about 160 miles northwest of Dallas, the daughter of Welcher F. and Leona Jordan.
She is survived by her husband, James Brooks; her son, Jon Vannerson; her daughter, Cathy Smith; and five grandchildren.
