Ms. Adler died as the result of a heart ailment, said her daughter, Pamela Adler Golden of Goldens Bridge, N.Y.
        Ms. Adler, who joined George Carmel Inc., maker of women's coats, suits and ensembles, in the mid-1940's, rose to become the company's head designer.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Adler is survived by her husband, Dr. Eugene B. Silbermann, a New York obstetrician and gynecologist; a stepdaughter, Allison Adler of Manhattan; a sister, Beverly Zaccheo of Long Island City, Queens; two granddaughters and a grandson.
      
She is survived by two sons, Walter Steppaccher of Sarasota, Fla., and John Steppacher of Waccabuc, N.Y.; a daughter, Doris Judell of White Plains; two stepsons, George Naumburg of North Salem, N.Y., and Philip Naumburg of Sante Fe, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Ellen London of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She was the founder and director of Intimate Concerts Association of Westchester and taught violin at the New York College of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., and in public schools in New Rochelle and Pelham, N.Y.
        She is survived by a daughter, Gale Bruzzese of New Rochelle, 10 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Stella Wilkinson of London; a son, Michael, of Cambridge; six grandchildren, and a sister, Stella Ednam of Argentina.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Peggy, of Westchester County; a sister, Rose S. Allen, of Newton, Mass.
Surviving are her husband, Milton; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Eve, both of White Plains; her father, Abraham Letich of Queens; two sisters, Davida Luttenberg of New Hyde Park, L.I., and Judith Kaplan of Ocala, Fla., and a brother, Larry Letich of Verona, N.J.
      
Daughter of a Rabbi
        Mrs. Inselbuch, the daughter of a rabbi, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, then part of czarist Russia.
Daughter of a Rabbi
        Mrs. Inselbuch, the daughter of a rabbi, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, then part of czarist Russia.

        Felicja Blumental, a Polish-born Brazilian pianist who was known for her performances of 19th-century rarities and music by contemporary composers, died on Tuesday in Tel Aviv, where she was attending a recital by her daughter, Annette Celine Blumental, a soprano.
Her daughter lives in New York.
      
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, who is the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by her parents, Mr. Lutz and Mona Furuki, who now live in Los Angeles; a son, Maximillian, and a daughter, China, both of Pacific Palisades, and a sister, Adelle Lutz of Manhattan, the wife of the rock musician David Byrne.
      
She is survived by two sons, Walter Steppaccher of Sarasota, Fla., and John Steppacher of Waccabuc, N.Y.; a daughter, Doris Judell of White Plains; two stepsons, George Naumburg of North Salem, N.Y., and Philip Naumburg of Sante Fe, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Ellen London of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Mary McFadden, the fashion designer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, an actor, and a daughter, Marina, both of Manhattan, and by a brother, Fred Nebelthau of Bremen.
Ms. Adamec is survived by her daughter, Justene Adamec of Los Angeles; her sons, Edward and Paul, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      

        Shirley Berman, whose daughter, born with Down Syndrome, inspired her to wage a battle for a New Jersey law requiring doctors to inform parents if their unborn child is retarded, died on Feb. 8 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Mrs. Berman, a social worker, began a legal battle after her daughter Sharon, now 17, was born with Down Syndrome.
Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.
She is survived by her daughter, Marcella Clark McCormack of Newport and Manhattan, and a sister, Patti Shreve of Bethlehem, Pa.
      
Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.
She is survived by her daughter, Marcella Clark McCormack of Newport and Manhattan, and a sister, Patti Shreve of Bethlehem, Pa.
      
Dr. Barnett is survived by Mr. King; her daughter by a previous marriage, Amy Barnett, of New York City, and her mother, Mary Eubanks, of Houston.
      
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
Mrs. Tang was born in Paris, the daughter of Kuangson Young, a Nationalist Chinese career diplomat who was executed during World War II by the Japanese in the Philippines.
She is survived by a daughter, Merrill Black of New Durham, N.H., and a grandson.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Anne of Montpelier, Vt.; a niece, Lucy Jinishian of Old Greenwich, Conn., and a nephew, Alrick Man 3d of South Londonderry, Vt.
      
Miss Sherman is survived by her husband of 56 years, Henry S. Maurer; their son, Henry S. Jr., of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a daughter, Arnelle Liblit of Commack, L.I., and one grandson.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Pamela.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Pamela.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, George C., an investment banker; a daughter, Diana, of Manhattan; two sons, George, of Riverside, Conn., and Jonathan, of Manhattan; a sister, Sheila English of New Haven; a brother, Alexander White of Manhattan and Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She died of congestive heart failure, her daughter, Sally Carson, said.
Surviving in addition to her daughter are three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robin, and a daughter, Shoshanna.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Maria Marr, of Spring Valley, two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
She died after a long illness, said her daughter, Emma Lewis Mitchell.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by 2 sons, 6 other daughters, 45 grandchildren, 46 great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig, and their daughter, Miranda Craig who lives in Los Angeles.
      
Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig; a daughter, Miranda Craig, and a sister, Betty Lou Barto, both of Los Angeles.
      
She was the daughter of Robert Remsen Laidlaw, managing partner of the former brokerage firm of Laidlaw & Company.
Mrs. Forbes is survived by four sons, Malcolm S. Jr., of Bedminster, Robert L., of Manhattan, Christopher, of Far Hills, N.J., and Timothy C., of Manhattan; a daughter, Moira Mumma of Chester Springs, Pa., and nine grandchildren.
      
Born Anita Counihan in Washington, on Aug. 5, 1914, Miss Colby was the eldest daughter of Bud Counihan, a cartoonist for the New York Evening World and the artist for the Betty Boop series.
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
Toward the end of Dr. Feuer's trip, she and her daughter were roughed up by Soviet agents in a sleeper compartment on a train, she later told American officials.
Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her son, Rene Camano, and her daughter, Rainbow Garcia, both of the Bronx.
      
Mrs. Mandelbaum is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph Mandelbaum, himself a past president of the League School; two sons, Paul Mandelbaum, of Brooklyn, and Dr. Joel Mandelbaum, of Kingston, N.Y.; a daughter, Jo Travis, of Branchville, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hazelton, the daughter of a German diplomat, was born in Rome, attended school there, and studied at the London School of Economics.
Aura of Prestige
        Born in September 1911, Ms. Kang was the daughter of a poor fisherman in Jiangxi Province.
Accounts vary slightly, but her parents apparently did not want a daughter.
She completed her last, yet unpublished, by dictating the conclusion to a daughter from her hospital bed.
; a daughter, Jan Doughery of Sedona, Ariz; a brother, Martin Whitman of New York City; a sister, Judge Phyllis Beck of Philadelphia, and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Macfadden is survived by a son, Jack of Brooklyn; a daughter, Carol Tumbridge of Denver; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wright is survived by her daughter, Rosalind Wright Harris of New York City; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Elaine Audi Macken of Brooklyn; a sister, Aline Nemir Speer of Austin, Tex., and eight grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she leaves a daughter, Cordelia, of South Hadley; her parents, Sylvester Garrett and Molly Yard, former president of the National Organization for Women, of Washington, and two brothers, James Garrett of Pittsburgh, and John Garrett of Rochester.
      

        Musa McKim Guston, a poet and painter who was the widow of the Abstract Expressionist artist Philip Guston, died on Monday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Woodstock, N.Y.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Musa Mayer of New York City.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Josephine McKim Chalmers, also of Woodstock, and two grandsons, David Kadish of White Plains and Jonathan Kadish of Hoboken, N.J.
      
; a daughter, Diane Schachter, of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      
In the 1930's she was commissioned to do busts of Anna Roosevelt, the daughter of Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt; Lily Pons, the opera singer, and Rubin Goldmark, a composer who taught in the 1930's at the Juilliard School.
She married Salomon Markus, a businessman, in 1929 and a daughter, Margot, was born the following year.
On the day Hitler's forces entered Austria in 1938, Mrs. Markus left by train with her daughter and reached England, where she lived for the rest of her life.
Her daughter died in Los Angeles in 1976.
      
Miss Clarke, the daughter of a movie-theater organist, originally was named Mary Klotz.
Surviving are her husband of eight years; their daughter, Catherine Eisenmann; her mother, Barbara Brewster of Ossining; and three sisters, Deborah Ferrenz of Silver Spring, Md., Abigail McGahey of Tyngsboro, Mass., and Alison Henderson of North Andover, Mass.
      
She was born in Budapest, the daughter of an international copyright lawyer, Sandor Marton, who was a pioneering literary agent with clients including Sinclair Lewis, Dorothy Thompson and Thornton Wilder.
Ms. Dryer was born in Toronto, a daughter of Pegeen Synge, an architect, and Douglas Dryer, a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto.

        Janet Wolf Levy, a patron of the arts, died yesterday at her daughter's home in Manhattan.
She is survived by her son, Peter, of Manhattan; a daughter, Betty Hess, of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
Her mother was Wilhelmina Elisabeth Josephine Felsing, the daughter of a well-to-do watch merchant, who soon after being widowed, married Edouard von Losch, a cavalry lieutenant.
They were married on May 17, 1924, and the next year had a daughter, Maria.
" Her daughter, also an actress, married William Riva, a scenic artist, in 1947, and had four sons.
She was deeply devoted to her family, worked hard to advance her daughter's career and helping her daughter and son-in-law financially.
She was deeply devoted to her family, worked hard to advance her daughter's career and helping her daughter and son-in-law financially.
She died of pancreatic cancer, said her daughter, Leslie.
Besides her daughter, who lives on Staten Island, Ms. Brown is survived by a son, Christopher, of Portland, Me., and a brother, Peter Stettenheim, of East Plainfield, Vt.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Carola Chase of the Bronx; two sons, Jonathan of Manhattan and Michael of Chicago; a sister, Jean Farr of British Columbia, Canada, and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Pulaski is survived by her husband of 52 years, Charles A. Pulaski; a son, Charles A. Jr., of Tempe, Ariz.; a daughter, Elizabeth Mertens of Glen Head, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
She was born in Beverly, the daughter of Henry F. Sears, a doctor, and grew up partly in France.
She was the daughter of Princess Guido Pignatelli and Edward V. Hartford, who was an inventor and president of the Hartford Shock Absorber Company.
Mrs. Bryce is survived by a brother, Huntington Hartford 2d of Manhattan; a daughter, Nuala O'Donnell Pell of Newport, R.I. and Washington; a son, Columbus O'Donnell of London; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
She died of lymphatic cancer, said her daughter, Bobbie Abrams of Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Dr. Noel Nathanson of Great Neck, L.I.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Joseph, a theatrical producer and manager; three sons, James, of Pomona, Jeremiah, of New York City, and Joseph Jr., of Teaneck, N.J., and a daughter, Jennifer, of New York City.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Payne of Atlanta; a sister, Harriet Jenkins of Shaker Heights, Ohio; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Professor Jablow died of natural causes, said her daughter, Lisa Jablow.
Professor Jablow is survived by her husband, Joseph, and her daughter, Lisa, also of Manhattan.
      
She died after a lengthy battle with Parkinson's disease, her daughter Kennedy Wright said.
Her daughter, Anna, was born in 1943 and in 1945, she married Donald Friede, a literary agent.
Her second daughter, Kennedy, was born in 1946, and she divorced Mr. Fried two years later.
Ms. Linfield is survived by her 9-year-old daughter, Sarah Linfield Mattingly; by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Jordan L. Linfield of Brooklyn, and by her sister, Susan Linfield of Manhattan.
      
She died after a long battle with Parkinson's disease, her daughter Kennedy Wright said.
Her daughter, Anna, was born in 1943 and in 1945, she married Donald Friede, a literary agent.
Her second daughter, Kennedy, was born in 1946, and she divorced Mr. Friede two years later.
She is survived by her husband, William S.; a daughter, Page E., also of Maplewood; two sons, John O.

        Frances Brice Stark, Fanny Brice's daughter, who became a philanthropist and a well-known figure in show business circles, died on Sunday at her home in Los Angeles.
Mrs. Stark was born in Huntington, L.I., the daughter of Nicky Arnstein and Miss Brice, whose radio and stage career was portrayed in "Funny Girl.
"
        As a teen-ager, the daughter became an accomplished horsewoman, winning awards at Eastern horse shows and the National Horse Show.
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey, and a brother, William Brice, both of Los Angeles, and one grandchild.
In addition to her son, who lives in Philadelphia, Mrs. Sherman is survived by her second husband, Melvin Sherman, a daughter, Barbara Cohen Stanley, of San Francisco, a brother Stanley Silverstein, of Charleston, W.Va., and five grandchildren.
      
Her daughter, Merry, died in 1964.
She was born in Beverly, the daughter of Henry F. Sears, a doctor, and grew up partly in France.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Gail Weed Westcott, of Simsbury, Conn.; two sons, Jonathan, of Yonkers, and Ethan, of London and Vienna; a brother, Rabbi Herbert Gilner of Chambersburg, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Jonathan, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her husband, Dr. Norman Sher; a daughter, Katherine, of San Francisco, and a brother, Dr. Robert Hollenberg, of Hamilton, Ontario.
      
Mrs. Holden, the daughter of Gladys Mills and Henry Carnegie Phipps, was a board member of Phipps Community Development Corporation, a foundation involved in building low-income housing in the New York area.
In addition to her son George, of Mountain Home, N.C., she is survived by two other sons, William D. Miller Jr. of Bethesda, Md., and Clyde H. Ray 3d of Cullowhee, N.C.; a daughter, Caroline Ray Morgan of Annapolis, Md.
Miss Driggs, who had been hospitalized for a fractured pelvis, died in her sleep, said her daughter, Merriman Gatch of Manhattan.
She is survived by her daughter.
      
The daughter of a former Chinese Ambassador to the United States, Ms. Sze was born in China but was educated at the National Cathedral School in Washington and graduated from Wellesley College in 1931.
Mrs. Oppenheimer started doing origami in 1930 to entertain her daughter Molly, who was suffering from meningitis, and quietly continued it as a hobby.
" Today, about 30 countries have origami societies -- her daughter Rosaly co-founded those in England and Israel -- with annual conventions.
She is survived by three sons by Mr. Kruskal, William H. of Chicago, Martin David of Princeton, N.J., and Joseph Jr. of Maplewood, N.J., and a daughter, Rosaly Evnine of Jerusalem; four stepsons by Mr. Oppenheimer, Peter, of Walnut Creek, Calif., Jack, of Sonoma, Calif., Philip, of South Norwalk, Conn., and Herbert, of Manhattan; 26 grandchildren, and 30 great-grandchildren.
      
Correction:  July 10, 1992, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Alice Bennett Dunnington, a Government intelligence officer in World War II, identified a daughter incorrectly.
Surviving are a daughter, Sharman Douglas of Manhattan; two sons, James of Tucson and Lewis Jr. of Denver; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
With her daughter Mary, she wrote "A Word to the Wives" (1970), which offered advice on mother-daughter relations.
" Reluctant Beginnings
        She said one of her earliest influences was her father's suggestion that his 5-year-old daughter "think of everything in the world as dancing atoms.
Ms. Peterson is survived by her husband, Charles; a son, Wesley; a daughter, Ronnie, and three grandchildren, all of Middletown.
      
Mrs. Kallir is survived by a daughter, Evamarie, of Vienna; a son, John, of Scarsdale, N.Y., and two granddaughters.
      
; a daughter, Maida Solomon of Cambridge, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Virginia Wren Moore of Lake Forest, Ill., and a son, Christopher S. Wren of Manhattan, who is editor of new projects for The New York Times.
      
Mrs. Somerville is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Kelley; a son, Chad; a twin sister, Tamara Westover, all of Rye, and her father, Paul Buiar of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      
I could be one of them, or their daughter, and they have to deal with this.
Mrs. Hanes is survived by their daughter, Susan H. Caldwell of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, June H. McKnight of Norwich, Vt., and Ormsby H. Matthiessen of Old Lyme, Conn.; a stepson, John W. Hanes Jr. of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, Lunsford P. Yandell of Scottsdale, Ariz.; 16 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Paxton was born in London, the daughter of the English actor Sydney Paxton and a descendant of five generations of actors.
Mrs. Fordyce, who was born in Watertown, Wis., the daughter of a bank president, graduated from Smith College in 1928 and studied at the Sorbonne and the University of Grenoble in France.
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Kay Abrahams.
Besides her daughter, a Manhattan resident, Ms. Lobsenz is survived by her husband, Dr. Harry Abrahams; a son, Michael Lobsenz of Boyds, Md., and three grandchildren.
      
She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Polly Lincoln.
She is survived by two sons, James W. 3d, of Greenwich, Conn., president and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc., and Peter, of Birmingham; a daughter, Polly Lincoln of West Hartford, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Professor Shklar is survived by her husband, Gerald Shklar, a professor at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine; two sons, David, of Cambridge, and Michael, of Leminister, N.H., and a daughter, Ruth, of Berkeley, Calif.
      
Mrs. Norton, the daughter of a physician, was born in London on Dec. 10, 1903, and educated at a convent school.
The daughter of a doctor, she grew up in Brooklyn and learned to love science while attending Erasmus Hall High School there.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert C. Wilder; a daughter, Rachel W. Smeragliuolo of Baltimore; two sons, Clinton D., of San Francisco, and Robert D., of Washington; a sister, Doris Gould of Atlanta, and a granddaughter.
      
She died of emphysema, said her daughter, Gail Merrifield Papp.
Mrs. Merrifield's only survivor is her daughter, the widow of Joseph Papp, who founded the Public Theater.
      
; a daughter, Field McIntyre of London; eight grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jenifer, of Boston; two stepdaughters, Emily Paine of Los Angeles and Rachel Wilson of London, and three grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Viertel is survived by a daughter, Alice Krieger of Manhattan; two sons, Tom of Manhattan, and Jack of Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Joy Golden of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of the Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of The Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.
She was the daughter of James Herbert Mitchell and Marion Strobel, co-editor with Harriet Monroe of Poetry magazine.
Rosebud Yellow Robe Frantz is survived by her husband, Alfred Frantz; a daughter, Tachawin Moy, of Brooklyn; a granddaughter, Karen Winona Moy, of Manhattan; and a sister, Evelyn Robe Finkbeiner, of Bad Pyrmont and Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
      
She is survived by her husband; her daughter, Sandy Manning Dolnier, and a grandson, John Robert Dylan.
      
She was 85 years old and lived in Collingswood, N.J.
        She died of cancer, said a daughter, Celeste M. Bashaw of Princeton, N.J.
        Mrs. McIntire was deeply involved in the work of Mr. McIntire's church, the Bible Presbyterian Church, in Collingswood, and in the international council, an organization of more than 500 fundamentalist churches.
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 19 years, Dr. Peter Finch; her parents, Sylvia Shepherd of Manhattan and Archibald Shepherd Jr. of Florida; a daughter, Abi Shepherd-Finch of Manhattan; a brother, Lawrence of Manhattan, and her grandmother, Doris Allman of Barbados.
      
She died of cancer of the esophagus, said a daughter, Judith C. Green of Manhattan.
She is also survived by her daughter Elizabeth C. Bierman of Manhattan and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Plainville, she is survived by her husband, Milton M. Koskoff; a daughter, Harriet K. Ziering of San Francisco; two brothers, Alan and Daniel Farber, both of Worcester, Mass; a sister, Lillian Feinberg of New York City, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Miles of Los Angeles, and by a daughter, Leslie Coren of Hallandale, Fla.
      
She is survived by her companion, Gloria I. Joseph of St. Croix; a son, Jonathan Rollins, and a daughter, Elizabeth Lorde-Rollins, both of New York City, and four sisters, Helen Lorde, Phyllis Blackwell and Marjorie and Mavis Jones.
      
Surviving are her husband, Martin; a son, Steven; a daughter, Susan Weprin, who is married to a nephew of the Speaker, and a granddaughter, all of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Haussamen, a real-estate heiress, was born in Manhattan, the daughter of L. Victor Weil, a real-estate executive, and the former Beatrice Schwab.
Mrs. Haussamen is survived by a son, Dale Hemmerdinger of Manhattan; a daughter, Lyn Hemmerdinger of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Jeanette Jones Backs of Atlanta; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Furman is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Julie Rosenthal, and two sons, Matthew and Ted, all of New York City.
She died of Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter, Marion Roach Smith.
In addition to Mrs. Smith, an author and freelance writer who lives in Petersburgh, N.Y., Mrs. Roach is survived by her daughter Margaret, the gardening editor of Newsday, who lives in Manhattan and Copake Falls, N.Y.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Sherry Quist of Boston; two brothers, James Foster of Westport, Mass., and Russell Foster of Rehobeth, Mass., and a sister, Barbara Marchand of Franklin, Mass.
      

        Allison Assante, a composer and songwriter and supporter of the homeless, died on Friday at her daughter Paula Blasband's home in Manhattan.
In addition to her daughter Paula Blasband, she is survived by her daughter Julia Mason of Manhattan; a brother, Arthur Mavity of Indianapolis; two sisters, Marion Greenwald of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Caraway of Watertown, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Paula Blasband, she is survived by her daughter Julia Mason of Manhattan; a brother, Arthur Mavity of Indianapolis; two sisters, Marion Greenwald of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Caraway of Watertown, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Patricia Snyderman of San Francisco.
" After a brief stint as a script reader, an early marriage that ended in divorce and the birth of her daughter, Patricia, she volunteered to raise money for the Loyalist side in the Spanish Civil War.
Miss Whitelaw is survived by her daughter; her brother, Seymour Whitelaw of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
She died in a single-car accident, her daughter, Naomi Miller, reported.
In addition to her daughter, a resident of Middletown, N.Y., Dr. Dinnerstein is survived by two stepdaughters, June Lehrman of Los Angeles, and Nina Lehrman Davis, who lives in India.
      
Her daughter, Lorraine, was driving on 146th Street when she was distressed to see a drug-addicted woman on a crate nodding off with her 2-month-old baby slipping out of her arms.
In addition to her daughter, Lorraine, Mrs. Hale's survivors include two sons, Nathan and Kenneth, and several grandchildren.
Born to a Stage Family
        Stella Adler was born in Manhattan, on Feb. 10, 1901, the youngest daughter of Jacob Pavlovitch Adler and the former Sara Levitzky.
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; a sister, Julia, of Englewood, N.J., and two grandchildren.
" She resisted the invitation with the excuse that she was ill, but after the White House insisted that her daughter, Lorraine, appear in her place, Mrs. Hale eventually gave in.
She died of a heart attack, said her daughter, Jacqueline L. Becker of Boca Raton, Fla.
        Judge Lehrich, who was born in Brooklyn, forged a distinguished legal career at a time when such opportunities were all but closed to women.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a grandson, a granddaughter, and two great-grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss Boyle was born in St. Paul on Feb. 19, 1902, the daughter of Howard P. Boyle and the former Katharine Evans.
She died of pneumonia, said her daughter, Dr. Joyce Brothers, the psychologist and television personality.
Besides her daughter Joyce, Mrs. Bauer is survived by another daughter, Elaine Goldsmith of Somerset, N.J.; a brother, Irving Rapaport of Los Angeles; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Joyce, Mrs. Bauer is survived by another daughter, Elaine Goldsmith of Somerset, N.J.; a brother, Irving Rapaport of Los Angeles; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bernstein is survived by a daughter, Shirley Anne Bernstein of New York, a son, Burton Bernstein of Bridgewater, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Susan Feierabend Peters, of San Francisco.
Professor Lorwin was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Lewis Lorwin, an economist, and Rose Strunsky, a writer.
In addition to her daughter, Professor Lorwin is survived by her husband of 18 years, Alain Virnot; two sons, Tom, of Paris, and Steve, of Plainsboro, N.J; a brother, Boris, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She entered the home in 1989 because of severe osteoporosis, and her condition had deteriorated, said her daughter, Polly Gillespie.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Agnes Nessen, of Lincoln, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
