Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, surviving are their daughter, Amanda Fink, also of Pasadena; a stepson, Stuart, of New York; and a brother, Dr. Barry Braiker of Beverly Hills, Calif.
      
She first attracted attention in 1938, when she played the fudge-making, ballet-dancing daughter in Frank Capra's ''You Can't Take It With You.
He dreamed of having a son he could call John Jr.; instead, he named his daughter Johnnie.
Her daughter, Fanny, said she had had serious heart problems over the past several years, Reuters reported, and the track and field federation said she also had Alzheimer's disease.
In 1940, Koen married her coach, Jan Blankers, 12 years her senior, and by the time the 1948 London Olympics arrived, they were raising a son, Jan, and a daughter, Fanny.
''
        She was born on a 62-acre farm outside the Dutch village of Baarn, the only daughter of a well-off father who became a government inspector.
Her daughter, Elizabeth Lyon Ripley, told The Associated Press that death resulted from unspecified natural causes.
Ms. Ripley was legally separated from John Graham of Charlottesville, Va. She is survived by her daughter Elizabeth, another daughter, Merrill Ripley Geier, and a granddaughter, all of Richmond.
      
Ms. Ripley was legally separated from John Graham of Charlottesville, Va. She is survived by her daughter Elizabeth, another daughter, Merrill Ripley Geier, and a granddaughter, all of Richmond.
      
Joan Aiken was born in Rye, England, a daughter of the American poet Conrad Aiken and his first wife, Jessie McDonald.

        Fraydele Oysher, a star of the Yiddish theater and a member of a musical dynasty, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan, said her daughter, the singer and comedian Marilyn Michaels.
The daughter of a cantor, Ms. Oysher began her career as a child actress in the Yiddish theaters that once dotted Second Avenue on the Lower East Side.

        Georgette Klinger, who 60 years ago mixed a secret ingredient or two with common sense and created a recipe for clear skin -- and a chain of centers to pamper it -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, said her daughter, Kathryn Klinger Belton.
Before Miss Klinger, beauty treatment involved getting one's hair or makeup done, her daughter said.
She opened her first salon in Czechoslovakia in 1938, but was forced to close it a year later when Hitler took over the country and she and her three brothers fled to London, her daughter said.
In addition to her daughter, of Los Angeles, she is survived by two grandsons.
'' in 1962, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter, Leticia Ferrer, said.
''
        Ms. Hagen is survived by their daughter, Leticia, known as Lettie, of New York City; a granddaughter; and a great-granddaughter.
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, N. Linsey Tully.
Eleanor Holm was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of a New York Fire Department officer, and learned to swim at the pool near her family's summer cottage in Long Beach, N.Y.
        She finished fifth in the 100-meter backstroke at the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam.
Janice Miner was born on Oct. 15, 1917, in Boston, the daughter of a dentist and a painter.
Raised in segregated Atlanta, the daughter of a typesetter and a dental hygienist, she was high school homecoming queen and a cheerleader.
The cause was complications after a broken hip, said her daughter, Bonnie Oppenberg.
The first singers to record at the studio were Rufus Thomas and Carla Thomas, father and daughter, and their rhythm-and-blues song ''Cause I Love You'' became the label's first regional hit, followed by Carla Thomas's ''Gee Whiz.
''
        Ms. Axton is survived by her sister, Mary Lucille McAlpin; her brother, Mr. Stewart; her daughter, Doris Axton Fredrick; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Trude Wenzel Lash is survived by three sons, Dr. Peter W. Pratt of Bridgewater, Conn., Roger S. Pratt of New Milford, Conn., and Jonathan Lash of Washington; a daughter, Vera C. Pratt, also of Washington; a brother, Heinz Wenzel of Germany; 11 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Emily; her mother, Linda Hall of Jefferson, N.Y.; and a sister, Debra Hall of New York City.
      
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Elisabeth Kornblee.
In addition to her daughter Elisabeth, who lives in Boston, Ms. Kornblee is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard V. Kornblee of Weston; another daughter, Mary K. Gabriel, also of Boston; a son, John C. Kornblee of Rocky Hill, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Elisabeth, who lives in Boston, Ms. Kornblee is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard V. Kornblee of Weston; another daughter, Mary K. Gabriel, also of Boston; a son, John C. Kornblee of Rocky Hill, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      
(Angelica Garnett, the daughter of Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell, Virginia Woolf's sister, published a well-reviewed book about her Bloomsbury childhood, ''Deceived by Kindness,'' in 1985.
She is survived by her mother, Grace, of Manhattan; her husband, Paul Fishleder, an editor at The New York Times; and her daughter, Lily.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Tracy Straus.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband Joseph F. Cullman III of Manhattan, the chairman emeritus of the Philip Morris Companies in New York; a son, Barney Straus Jr., of Evanston, Ill.; a brother, Leon Paley of Far Rockaway; and a grandson.
      
Her fourth daughter, Christina, arrived shortly afterward from New York.
Born to privilege and wealth, Juliana made much effort, both as the queen and after she turned over her throne to her daughter, to bring the monarchy closer to the people.
In 1947, Christina, her youngest daughter, was born almost blind.
When Juliana did abdicate, in 1980, on her 71st birthday, she took evident pride in handing the throne to her daughter Beatrix.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, William Lopatin of Sanibel; a daughter, Laurie, of San Jose, Calif.; and a grandson.
      
The cause was pneumonia, her daughter Annette de la Renta said.

        Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio.
In addition to her daughter and son, who lives in Pittsford, N.Y., she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son Donald, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Coe of Montevallo, Ala.; two other sons, Charles Jr., of Manhattan, and David, of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Beck is survived by her sister, Catharine Cooper, of Islington, England; her sons Cameron, of Canton, and Gordon, of Larchmont, N.Y.; her daughter, Emily M. Beck, of Larchmont; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Tishman is survived by a daughter, Pat T. Hall of Santa Fe, N.M.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, her daughter Margaret Picotte said.
He survives her, along with her daughter, Dr. Babette Becker, of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Dr. Gretchen Kunitz, of Orinda, Calif.; three granddaughters; and three great-grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Reagan, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Schreuder is survived by a daughter from her second marriage, to Frederik Schreuder.
She was the daughter of Max Mentzer, a hardware man who was the proprietor of a hay and seed store, and Rose Schotz Rosenthal Mentzer, a woman who was much interested in beauty regimens.
She is survived by a daughter, Sharon Lehrer of San Rafael, Calif.; a son, Balfour, of Missoula, Mont.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Selnick, of Las Vegas, from whom she had separated; a daughter, Milan Reinoehl; a brother, Anthony; and three grandchildren.
      
He taught his daughter photography and helped her set up her own darkroom, Dr. Henderson said.
Mrs. Lester is survived by a daughter, Virginia Teslik of West Hills, Calif.; her sons Roy Jr., of Long Beach; John, of Mountain Lakes, N.J.; and Patric of St. Louis and San Diego; and six grandchildren.
The daughter of a scholarly Boston postal clerk, Ms. McGrory was raised on Latin, poetry and a profoundly Irish love of the game of politics.
The cause was kidney failure, said Kim Oliver, her daughter and only immediate survivor.
''
        Mrs. Hudson is survived by her daughter, Annie Maude Horton, of Carthage, Miss.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Fuller is survived by her sons, Jonah and Gabriel; her daughter, Cecily; and one granddaughter.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her daughter Sara F. Henderson.
Rita Rich Fraad, a lawyer's daughter, was born in Brooklyn.
Mrs. Fraad is survived by Ms. Henderson and another daughter, Dr. Martha F. Haffey, both of Manhattan; a sister, Janet Bradley of Tulsa; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications of myelodysplasia, a blood disease, said her daughter Paula Pape.
In addition to her daughter Paula, Ms. Pape is survived by her husband, Gunther Pape; another daughter, Cristina Maria; and two grandsons.
      
In addition to her daughter Paula, Ms. Pape is survived by her husband, Gunther Pape; another daughter, Cristina Maria; and two grandsons.
      
Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer was born Feb. 24, 1907, the daughter of a railroad accountant who moved the family to stations throughout South Africa.

        Agnes Cunningham, a founder of the influential folk-song journal Broadside, died on Sunday at a nursing home in New Paltz, N.Y., her daughter Jane Friesen said.
Besides Ms. Friesen, of New Paltz, Ms. Cunningham is survived by another daughter, Agnes Friesen, of Berkeley, Calif.; three grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      
The daughter of Charles Shipman Payson, an industrialist, and Joan Whitney Payson, founder of the New York Mets baseball team, she grew up in Manhasset, N.Y., where she founded the Manhasset Stable for thoroughbred racing, which she later moved to Delaplane.
The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Patricia Coleman.
In addition to her daughter Patricia, of Manhattan, Ms. Coleman is survived by three other children: Amy and Anthony Coleman, both of Manhattan, and Nathaniel Coleman of Newcastle, England; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Sanford is survived by two sons and a daughter, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Nora Reynolds, a dancer, and two grandsons, Keenan and Ross McCune.
      
The cause was cancer, her daughter, Stephanie Gorsuch of Denver, said.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her sons, J.J. Gorsuch of Denver and Neil Gorsuch of Vienna, Va.; her mother, Dorothy McGill of Denver; her sisters, Mary Edwards of Severna Park, Md., Theresa Peace of Lincoln, Neb., Dorothy McGill of El Paso, Tex., Veronica Urban of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Rosie Binger of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, Joe McGill of Plano, Tex.
The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her daughter, Zeliha, said.
Dr. Kübler-Ross is also survived by a daughter, Barbara Ross Rothweiler, a clinical psychologist, of Wausau, Wis.; and one of her triplet sisters, Eva, of Basel, Switzerland; and two granddaughters.
''
        Fay Wray was born on Sept. 15, 1907, on a farm in Alberta, a daughter of Jerry Wray, an inventor, and his wife, Vina.
'' She divorced him, she said, after he injected her with drugs while she slept, sold their house and their furniture and kept the money, and disappeared for a time with their baby daughter, Susan.
Her illness was diagnosed about a year ago, when they were moving to the Seattle area to be near Ms. Revsin's daughter, Rachel Arp Ramstead, and her family.
In addition to her husband and daughter, Ms. Revsin is survived by a brother, Ethan Revsin, of New Albany, Ohio, and two grandsons.
'' The obituary also misspelled the surname of Ms. Revsin's surviving daughter.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, Anne Milliken, her daughter, said.
Susan Mary Jay, the daughter of a diplomat, was born in Rome on June 19, 1918, and grew up in South America, Europe, Washington and New York.
Mrs. Alsop is survived by her daughter, who lives in Salt Lake City; her son, Bill Patten, of Worcester, Mass.
She is survived by her companion, Bernard Hanson, whom she married in 1960 but later divorced; the children of her first marriage, a daughter, Anne Blaine Garson, of Amherst, Mass.
After the Weather Girls, Ms. Wash sang, often anonymously, for C and C Music Factory, Black Box and other groups, and Ms. Armstead moved to Germany to found a new Weather Girls group with her daughter Dynell Rhodes, who survives Ms. Armstead, along with six other children and several grandchildren.
      
The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Charlotte Slivka.
She is survived by her daughter, of New York and East Hampton, and a grandchild.
      
Ms. Benson, who was born in Cleveland and raised in Minneapolis, was the only daughter of Charles Benson, a specialty store executive, and his wife, Eleanor.
The cause was heart failure, her daughter, Kati Marton, said.
She later worked with a group now known as Prevent Child Abuse America, created by her daughter, Donna J.

        Virginia Hamilton Adair, a California poet who published her first collection, ''Ants on the Melon,'' when she was 83, died on Thursday in Claremont, Calif., her daughter, Katharine Adair Waugh, said.
''
        In addition to her daughter, of New Paltz, N.Y., Ms. Adair is survived by two sons, Robert, of Pomona, and Douglass, of Thermal, Calif.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Kelly is survived by two sons, Patrick, of Las Vegas, and Francis of Palaiseau, France; a daughter, Florence Shapiro, of Las Vegas; and five grandchildren.
Besides her son Charles, her survivors include another son, John R., husband of the former governor; a daughter, Janet; and three grandchildren.
      
After 1966 Ms. Leigh turned to television, although she did appear with her younger daughter, Jamie Lee Curtis, in John Carpenter's horror film ''The Fog'' in 1980.
The daughter of Orthodox Jews, and the lone non-musician among gifted siblings, Ms. Rubens made family relationships and expectations frequent themes in her stories, placing familiar characters in peculiar circumstances.
The cause was complications of heart surgery, said her daughter, Rose Ellen Meyerhoff Greene.
Her daughter, the violinist Pamela Frank, said the cause was ovarian cancer.
Ms. Kallir also gave performances with her daughter, who survives her, as does her husband.
      
Ms. Yang is survived by two sons and a daughter, The South China Morning Post reported.
      
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      
Ms. Manulis died after having been ill with lung cancer, her daughter, Nancy Glick, said.
She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
        Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported.
''
        In 1995, mother and daughter opened Martha Phillips, which sold less-expensive clothing, in Palm Beach.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her daughter Nasreen.
In addition to her daughter Nasreen Alkhateeb, of Brooklyn, and her sister Nafeesa Ahmad, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Alkhateeb is survived by her husband, Mejdi; a brother, Muhammad Ahmad, of Horsham, Pa; her sisters Shahara Ahmad-Llewellyn of Manhattan and Sayyida Ahmad Jordan of Los Angeles; her daughters Layla Alkhateeb of Arlington, Va., and Maha Buthayna Alkhateeb of Potomac Falls, Va.; and a grandson.
      
Her marriage to Harris Hyman, of Portland, Ore., ended in divorce.Besides Ms. Aull, Ms. Hyman is survived by her daughter, Katrin Tchana of Fairlee, Vt., for whom she illustrated a retelling of ''The Serpent Slayer and Other Stories of Strong Women'' (Little, Brown; 1998); and two grandsons.
      
Ms. Schlein is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth S. Weiss of Union City, N.J.; a son, John M. Weiss of Brooklyn; a brother, Dr. Paul Schlein of Bethesda, Md.
Mrs. Marks took her daughter to a London school run by the ballerina Serafina Astafieva.
Her death was announced by her daughter Ellen Maddow.
In addition to Ellen Maddow, of New York, Ms. Maddow is survived by another daughter, Emily Dawson of Bolton, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Sontag was born Susan Rosenblatt in Manhattan on Jan. 16, 1933, the daughter of Jack and Mildred Rosenblatt.
In addition to her son James, of Manhattan, Ms. Chaney is survived by a daughter, Katharine, of Manhattan; another son, Joseph, of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Peter, of St. Augustine, Fla., and Ann Waswo, of Oxford, England; seven grandchildren; and eight great-granddaughters.
      
In addition to her son, a sculptor, who lives in Roosevelt, Ms. Shahn is survived by a daughter, Abby Shahn, a painter, of Solon, Me.
; another daughter, Susanna Watts, died in 1967.
