'' In 1965, after Mr. Barbour had been sober for many years, they decided to remarry, but a few days later he died.
''I would like it to be known that I have decided not to marry Group Capt.
The queen decided that from then on, anyone someone in her family wanted to marry would be more or less acceptable.
'' She had two sons before her husband, increasingly concerned about the rise of Hitler, decided to leave France.
'' She had two sons before her husband, increasingly concerned about the rise of Hitler, decided to leave France.
When she visited the Museum of the City of New York in the late 1980's to discuss a possible exhibition of her husband's work, curators decided to exhibit her work instead.
In 1958, Ani Pachen sat at her father's side in the war councils as the clan decided to fight back.
She reluctantly decided her Buddhist pacifism must give way to warfare as the only way to save the religion in Tibet.
After a year Miss DeLay transferred to Michigan State University, after her parents decided that they did not want her to study solely music.
Miss DeLay continued touring as a soloist and with the Stuyvesant Trio after her marriage, but by the mid-1940's she decided that she did not like performing.
She briefly considered studying medicine but decided instead to return to the Juilliard School in 1946 for more violin studies.
Mrs. Horman, 57, decided to devote herself to her husband's case after working for 30 years as an information technology consultant.
Inspired by her daughter's fascination with paper dolls that looked like teenagers or adults and came with multiple outfits and accessories, Mrs. Handler decided to produce a doll that she described as looking more or less like a real teenager.
But as she lived on, she decided to create the foundation.
After her arrival in New York in 1953, she took courses in English at Hunter College, but her speech always retained a decided European inflection.
But Mrs. Hayes had decided she would accept nothing less than no road through the park, and no vehicles of any kind in it, including the buses.
When she was told she had been accepted, Deegan decided not to tell management that she had a sprained finger.
He decided he would take his family to live among the legendary Bushmen.
(It's a long story, but her roommate ribbed her for having skinny legs, so she decided to do something about it.
In 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco decided the case in Ms. Lipton's favor and defined standards for judging whether school districts were complying with the 1975 federal law requiring that disabled students be educated to the maximum extent possible and with other children as much as possible.
She decided she could produce independent films as well as distribute them, and hit upon the idea of making films about nudist camps.
She quickly decided, however, that ''curtain theater'' was not for her.
Tiring of squalid surroundings, Ms. Littlewood decided in 1953 to settle her players in the Theater Royal, a dilapidated Victorian playhouse in the area of London described in Chaucer's ''Canterbury Tales'' as Stratford-atte-Bowe, but now simply known as Stratford East.
A 1975 graduate of California State University at Sacramento, she worked for the United States Forestry Service until 1980, when she decided to follow in her father's footsteps and join the Air Force.
He invited her to fly with him for a 2,250-mile leg, but then decided against it because it might endanger the record as a solo flight.
