But the Goldwyn Company decided that the similarities between the two actresses were too strong.
Ms. Elion decided to go into medical research as a teen-ager after her grandfather died of cancer and her father, a dentist and Lithuanian immigrant, encouraged her to develop a career.
Piano lessons, too, were a decided failure, but when she was 13 a music-loving uncle helped arrange lessons with a celebrated former soprano, Elena Theodorini.
''
        While visiting New York with the trio, Ms. Springfield recalled many years later, she heard the Exciters' brash, aggressive song ''Tell Him'' coming out of a Broadway record store and decided that she wanted to go pop.
''Then, one day, I decided I was old enough and established enough.
Her sister Eunice became Lorayne, and Kathleen decided to call herself Patricia.
Mrs. Meserve decided to create a English-style holly that could withstand the harsh winters of the Northeast.
After considering an academic career, Miss Greenfield decided on journalism instead, joining The Reporter, a magazine of analysis and commentary, in 1957 as a researcher in its Washington bureau.
The commission decided not to allow such charges except in hardship cases, and The New York Times attributed the decision to the ''Kryzak problem.
Unlike her husband, who attended journalism school but eventually ran his own advertising agency, Mrs. Whitney decided against professional journalism training and went straight to work for Time Inc. as a promotional copywriter.
Shaw heard her one night at the Madrillon Club in Washington and invited her to replace Holiday, who, weary of racial indignities suffered on the road, had decided to quit the band.
In an optician's window nearby, she noticed the humdrum round eyeglasses for women and decided to design something different.
Mrs. Miranda's glasses were hailed by magazines like Vogue and Life, and she decided to establish her own company to distribute them.
In 1991, Raisa Gorbachev published a book of reminiscences, entitled in English, ''I Hope,'' which she decided to write after a visit with Mrs. Bush in 1990 to Wellesley College where, she said, ''the girls showered me with questions.
After seeing a performance by Anna Duncan in 1927, she decided to devote her life to Duncan dancing.
''
        In anticipation of her death, she decided in the summer of 1995 to give away most of her life savings, saying there was nothing in particular she wanted to buy and no place in particular she wanted to go.
''
        Ms. Roman quit high school in her second year when she decided to become an actress.
Her father was a movie executive who worked with Charlie Chaplin and other early movie stars; her mother, late in life, decided to get an education and graduated from college at 80.
'' She decided to boycott women for a month or two as a means of improving communication with them.
Ms. Raileanu, along with most of the others in the group, decided to remain in the United States.
She became director of the school, and when Bank Street College decided to close it, she moved it to East 90th Street under a new name, the New York School for Nursery Years.
