Shortly afterward, she became acquainted with John Nicholson, an antiques dealer who in 1949 decided to open a restaurant on the East Side of Manhattan.
Though she decided to pursue a career in theater, unlike her parents, both actors, she preferred to work backstage, taking a stage management course at the Central School of Speech and Drama.
''We decided the time had come,'' Mr. Sargant said.
And we decided that we would not want to continue living here with everything going on around us.
Ms. Glaz decided to stay in New York, and Mr. Hurok lent her money to help her bring her parents to America.
      
''She navigated the difficulties in their lives, so she decided she wanted to do something to help people living with paralysis and established the Quality of Life grants program,'' said Maggie Goldberg, spokeswoman for the foundation.
'' When it was heard by the French novelists Joseph Kessel and Maurice Druon, they immediately decided to translate it into French for radio broadcasts to the French Resistance.
It was not until she was in her mid-20's that she decided to become a painter.
It was he who decided that the family should move to Toronto in 1968 after their sons said they would go to jail rather than serve in Vietnam.
Leaving The Post after several years, Ms. Jacobs decided to write a book about dollhouses and, not long afterward, decided she had better own one.
Leaving The Post after several years, Ms. Jacobs decided to write a book about dollhouses and, not long afterward, decided she had better own one.
To fill the vacuum, Mr. and Mrs. Epstein, together with Robert Lowell and his wife, Elizabeth Hardwick, who were guests that evening, decided to put out a book review of their own.
The strike ended in February, but The Review, which had by then come out twice, was so successful that Ms. Epstein and Mr. Silvers, who had been recruited as co-editor, decided to keep it going.
In 1949, while on a two-month vacation in Paris, where her sister Lois Towles was touring with the concert choir of Fisk University, Ms. Church decided to try modeling there.
Forty-two years ago, Mrs. Gray Adams, a teacher, door-to-door saleswoman of Beauty Queen cosmetics and leader of voter education classes from the hamlet of Palmers Crossing, on the edge of Hattiesburg, Miss., decided to take on Senator John C. Stennis, the Mississippi Democrat who at the time had been in the Senate for 16 years.
After inheriting Woburn Abbey in 1953, with its staggering estate taxes and annual heating bills of $14,000, Ian Russell, 13th Duke of Bedford, a former newspaper reporter and rent collector, decided to make the dilapidated property pay for itself by reinventing it as a tourist attraction.
William P. Clements Jr., the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, decided not to run for re-election, Ms. Richards challenged a former governor, Mark White, in the Democratic primary and won.
The Ortners decided to make brownstones -- and Brooklyn -- appealing to many people who had never considered anything but apartment life in Manhattan.
But after several seasons of lackluster farming, they decided to start an ice cream shop.
So the Harmsens decided to add chocolate candy, which they produced in a barn on their farm.
In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won.
In her routines, Ms. Russell tapped into a long tradition of deflating the highly formal manners of the concert hall and its devotees, making fun of bad voices and bad teaching, of all pomp and most circumstance, seeming like a Margaret Dumont figure from the Marx Brothers movies who had decided to join their rambunctious dismantling of pretense.
The princess began casually designing evening wear for herself and her prominent friends, including Jacqueline Kennedy and the actresses Elizabeth Taylor and Audrey Hepburn, and eventually decided to work as a designer.
''I decided to make the best-looking bucket anybody ever saw,'' Ms. Cabot said, according to an interview several years ago with Ms. Kline's mother, Polly Kline.
They decided that moving to Africa might help.
''I'd decided O'Day was groovy,'' she explained in ''High Times Hard Times,'' her unvarnished autobiography written with George Eells, ''because in pig Latin it meant dough, which was what I hoped to make.
It wasn't long before they heard from Mr. Bernstein, their erstwhile accompanist, who said he'd been working on a ballet with Jerome Robbins and that the two of them had decided that the ballet, called ''Fancy Free,'' had the makings of a Broadway show.
''
        Shortly after she arrived in New York in 1939, Ginger Rogers introduced Phyllis Fraser to Harold Ross, editor of The New Yorker, who decided that she would make a nice match for Bennett Cerf.
''
        Shortly after she arrived in New York in 1939, Ginger Rogers introduced Phyllis Fraser to Harold Ross, editor of The New Yorker, who decided that she would make a nice match for Bennett Cerf.
I decided it's first of all a family problem.
But she decided against it, fearing she would split the conservative vote and help elect Vice President George H. W. Bush.
