Cornell Capa, the founding director emeritus of the center, remembered that whatever Mrs. Rose decided to do, "she did it with a full heart and elegance.
When Gleason decided he had had enough of an hourlong show every week, the pieces for a new half-hour show were in place: Gleason as Ralph Kramden; Miss Meadows as Alice; Art Carney as Ed Norton, and Joyce Randolph as his wife, Trixie.
They were divorced six years later after she had met Baron  de Rothschild and he, too, had decided to obtain a divorce.
"I decided that it wasn't fulfilling to clean chrome faucets with a toothbrush.
At 37, I decided it was my time to strike out.
Indeed, it was while on a tour in 1960 to promote one of her two dozen inspirational titles that she and Ms. Blackburn, who had been living in Chicago, happened to stop off in St. Simons and were so enchanted by the beauty and ambiance of the place that they decided they never wanted to leave.
In the mid-1940's, Miss Lorengar moved to Madrid, where she studied with Angeles Ottein and sang in a zarzuela company for several years before she decided to change her focus to the more conventional operatic roles.
When Miss Mitford was 38, she decided that she would become a writer.
She decided that the youthful idealism of, say, a 22-year-old English major might be nicely balanced by the experience and special skills of, say, an agricultural scientist in his mid-50's who did spot-welding in his spare time.
So  effective was she as a saleswoman that the Government put a private railroad car at her disposal when she decided to go on a bond tour.
So effective was she as a saleswoman that the Government put a private railroad car at her disposal when she decided to go on a bond tour.
In 1943, putting herself and her husband at grave risk, she decided to open a home to help these children.
She danced with the Berlin State Opera Ballet during World War II until Nazi doctors measuring her body decided that she must be Jewish (she was not) and sent her to a labor camp.
Chiriaeff decided to transform it into a company for Canadian theaters.
In 1969, when he troupe danced Fernand Nault's ''Symphony of Psalms'' in a Montreal church, many local theatergoers decided that the city no longer found ballet to be morally suspect.
''
        As she approached her 42d birthday, she decided that she and her husband had been squandering their lives.
'' When Syd Pollock, the Clowns' owner (and a sometime business partner of Abe Saperstein, the owner of the clowning Harlem Globetrotters), decided he needed a woman on the Clowns to help attract fans, it was hardly surprising that he chose the 5-foot-7 1/2-inch, 148-pound St. Paul native who had been playing baseball with the boys since she was a girl and with the men ever since.
It was then that Mrs. Macdonald decided to remind the world of their plight.
She has decided to close the Vincent Astor Foundation, and will give away its remaining $25 million by the end of next year.
Mrs. Astor said she had considered keeping the foundation going with someone else at the helm, but decided against it.
The foundation's only mandate was ''the alleviation of human misery,'' but Mrs. Astor decided that since the Astor family money derived in part from New York City real estate, she wanted to return it to the city.
Bored by class work and her fellow students, Mary was expelled from two schools and so, with attending a university out of the question, decided to pursue independent studies in drawing and archeology.
At 18, in the midst of her debutante party, she decided to fly with Alicia to India to hunt tigers.
At age 32, she decided to return to college; her choice this time was the school she later led, New York City Community College in downtown Brooklyn, part of the City University of New York.
