She joined the Yale poliomyelitis unit, and soon decided to devote her career to various aspects of infectious agents.
In 1957, when Mr. Jaffe, who represented playwrights, screenwriters and actors, decided to expand in the literary realm, he hired Ms. Donadio, who was still a secretary but had a reputation for working extremely hard and working directly with some of the clients at McIntosh & McKee.
In the early 1960's, she, her mother, her sister and her brother-in-law decided to move to Orange County, Calif., where Mr. Pushnik had settled.
After her father died in 1936, Mrs. Nauts, who was at home raising two daughters, decided to go through his papers to write his biography.
''But when the responses started to snowball and come from all over the country, I decided to give up the law and let my creative energies spill over into helping M.S.
''
        In her diary volume called ''War Within and Without'' (1980), she said she experienced a ''profound feeling of grief'' over what her husband had said and decided it was ''at best unconsciously a bid for anti-Semitism.
''But they had a conference and decided against it,'' she said.
''
        Anyway, on the basis of hearing the recorded scream, the new producers decided, ''She's the one.
Married to the bandleader Rogert Pryor and living in a huge rented house in Beverly Hills, she decided she had had enough of B movies.
I was just so sick of those pictures, I decided I wasn't going to do them anymore.
After taking a workshop at the Bank Street School, Mrs. Clymer decided to try writing for the young.
With this in mind, I decided to change my work.
While he was recuperating from knee surgery at their Scarsdale, N.Y., home in 1956, Mr. Bernstein decided to work as an independent stockbroker.
The group decided to take the novel step of applying conspiracy laws previously used mainly against the Mafia.
But she decided to fight back.
In 1950 Ritter decided to close Laurel, and the artists Ernst and Peterdi, whom he also represented, urged Ms. Borgenicht to open a gallery on her own.
But soon after her marriage in 1923 to Maurice Sens, a tenor at the Comic Opera, she decided to cultivate her voice, with her husband's encouragement.
Though she did not have to work to support herself, she decided to become a midwife after learning about deficiencies in maternity care in her country.
She soon decided she did not much like acting for the cameras.
But, she had told friends, she wanted to save enough money to go to law school and decided a quicker way to do so than teaching was to become a part of the film industry.
In the mid-1980's, she decided these works were not demanding enough.
The Times of London noted that Lady Jean was a close friend of Princess Margaret, and ''played a pivotal role during her fraught relationship with Group Captain Peter Townsend, acting as a go-between and counselor, especially during the sad period after the princess decided to call off their engagement.
A 1966 profile in Forbes magazine, headlined ''Eileen, the Giant Killer,'' described how she decided to write groundbreaking articles about abuses in the mutual fund industry.
She decided to carry on with her plans, despite the advice of her lawyer and her accountant.
In addition to her financial policy, Mrs. Ash also decided that there would be no fixed territories.
She decided to carry on with her plans, despite the advice of her lawyer and her accountant.
In addition to her financial policy, Mrs. Ash also decided that there would be no fixed territories.
