Her last customer was Loretta Young, who arrived at her studio after Miss Dache decided to retire and bought her last 30 hats.
Miss Dache's husband, Jean Despres, an executive at Coty Inc., the fragrance and cosmetics house, was retiring and she decided to close her business.
''
        Quiet but Decided Influence
        Throughout her life, Mrs. Sulzberger had a quiet but decided influence on The Times.
''
        Quiet but Decided Influence
        Throughout her life, Mrs. Sulzberger had a quiet but decided influence on The Times.
Mr. Ochs relented in his own opposition and decided to publish a Timesian strip, called ''The Roosevelt Bears.
To Mrs. Greneker's astonishment, she found that most mannequins were virtual statues and, in 1937, decided to make her own.
Welcome, who had a bachelor's degree from Morgan State College and a master's from New York University, had been a teacher in the Baltimore public schools for 11 years when she decided to enter politics.
Celebrities Honor Writer
        In 1986, when the Fashion Group decided to honor her at a formal dinner raising money for the group's' scholarship fund, she insisted that some proceeds go toward AIDS research.
''
        When she was starting as a photographer, after studying at Pratt Institute, Mrs. Walz heard Jill Krementz in a lecture at New York University tell how she had decided to concentrate on photographing authors.
''She then decided to specialize in fashion,'' Miss Krementz said.
Ms. Burns decided to write the novel moments after a doctor diagnosed her disease in 1975, her brother, William H. Burns of Atlanta, said yesterday.
In 1982, she decided to run for Congress, hoping she could join her mother on Capitol Hill.
She decided then to close down her chocolate shops, and after that only made truffles occasionally at home for the family.
She decided it was because "I react to an audience.
When it was decided that the two would not be asked to sing a duet, she accepted the offer.
Miss Seton decided to apply a fictional treatment to the woman's life and the result was "My Theodosia," published in 1941 and well received by critics and the public.
