The problem, she decided, was too many egg whites and not enough yolks.
Inspired by Charles A. Lindbergh's solo flight across the Atlantic, Ms. Hahn decided she wanted to be ''free,'' she said, and in 1930 she embarked on a journey to Africa, where she worked in a hospital and lived with a tribe of Pygmies.
Both would have preferred to travel alone, but Ms. Maillart, knowing that foreigners were barred from the warlord-controlled territory, decided it might not be a bad idea to have a companion along in case she landed in prison.
When Ms. Hanff decided to publish her correspondence with the shop as a memorial to Mr. Doel, the result brought her undreamed-of attention.
As the seventh of nine highly articulate children, five of whom became lawyers, Miss Frooks recalled that she was holding her own in animated dinner table conversations on international affairs by the time she was 8 -- two years after she had decided on a legal career.
''
        Still, it was not until she was about 38, as she later recalled, that Ms. Flannery decided to find out what she had been missing.
''I decided I was either going to be Dolly or I wasn't going to be Dolly.
''There is nothing more gracious than this,'' the old farmer said worshipfully, according to Mrs. Sumii's account, and she decided that this reverence was so ridiculous that her country had serious problems that she wanted to work to address.
Jacobs scored only 1 victory in 11 matches against Moody, and that victory was tainted by controversy when Moody decided to retire with a back injury while trailing by 8-6, 3-6, 3-0 in the 1933 United States final at Forest Hills, N.Y.
She said she later decided to stop because she found it distasteful to write about her experiences during the Duke's divorce case.
'' Eventually, she decided to return to the South, moving first to Florida and then in 1983 back to Georgia, making her home in Decatur, where she lived the rest of her life.
Her father was relieved, until she decided to marry Roy Stillwell.
He may not have seemed a suitable husband, but the first time he drove up in his sporty Hudson Super Six, she later explained, ''He decided he liked me, and I decided I liked that car.
He may not have seemed a suitable husband, but the first time he drove up in his sporty Hudson Super Six, she later explained, ''He decided he liked me, and I decided I liked that car.
''
        Mrs. Smith evidently decided to step down when she did because she thought that the question of whether a moderate or a conservative was to succeed her should be resolved as soon as possible so that the party could begin getting ready for the 1978 Congressional and 1980 Presidential elections.
Yesterday, she decided it was, said a person familiar with her decision and who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
''And it is ridiculous for any observer to conclude now that the whole thing is decided and the campaign is all over.
''
        But the whole thing was decided and the campaign was all over.
At 18 she decided to do so and got in touch with the Sisters of Loreto, an Irish Catholic order with missions in Bengal.
In 1960, CBS decided it would expand its staff to cover the Presidential elections and named her its first woman correspondent in February of that year.
She pestered her mother so often for a new story about Betsy Ray and her friend Tacy Kelly that Mrs. Lovelace, who had concentrated on short stories and historical novels, decided to put Betsy and Tacy on paper.
It was just that she decided to follow in the footsteps of her father, Delos Lovelace, a Minnesota-born journalist who was once city editor of the old New York Sun.
She was 10 and decided to become a writer, too.
Four years later, when a grief-stricken Miss Katzenbogen decided to move to the West Coast after the deaths of her mother and brother, she never considered leaving the cats behind, or allowing them to travel without her.
Dr. Miller had briefly considered researching the artists project of the Depression-era Works Progress Administration for her dissertation, but when she discovered how little attention had been paid to the role of art in American history, she decided to fill the gap.
But after district lines were redrawn in 1968, she decided to challenge a strong incumbent, Emanuel Celler, in a different district and lost that race.
Their plan worked so well that they not only raised the money but also decided to go into the restaurant business.
