She decided to study the harp when she was 14, after running her hands across the instrument's strings backstage at a concert of the Cleveland Orchestra.
In an interview at the time with The New York Times, she said that her path into science had been clear because she fell in love with numbers at the age of 4 and decided to study physics and mathematics as a teen-ager in Munich.
Ms. Gellhorn had decided that she could no longer live in the United States, and moved from Cuba to Italy to Mexico to Kenya until finally settling in Britain, where she spent her  last 15 years shuttling between a small cottage in Wales, an apartment in London and the world's trouble spots.
Though accomplished cooks -- Mrs. Rayner wrote three cookbooks -- friends decided that their individual talents, Mrs. Rayner's sense of color and Mrs. Ertegun's architectural eye, would offer more long-term opportunities.
Since Dr. Howell was a Harvard associate dean at the time, she decided to publish it under the pen name Margaret A. Campbell.
She then decided to become a pediatrician.
Their responses reminded her of her own painful journey to become a doctor, she said, and she decided to use them as the basis for what became her book for Feminist Press.
Soon afterward, she decided to take her newfound skill downtown, where she played for change on the sidewalk in front of Wanamaker's department store.
When the album sold poorly, she decided to stick to the worlds of theater and cabaret and returned to Broadway as the narrator in ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat.
She soon abandoned her studies to become an artist and decided to leave for Paris in the summer of 1929 after seeing an exhibition of photographs by the Paris-based Florence Henri, who had embraced New Photography, which was characterized by extreme close-ups, unusual angles, high and low vantage points, and the rendering of everyday objects and reflected surfaces as abstract geometric forms.
Until that fateful day in 1964 when she set out on her lunch hour to buy some decent buttons, Ms. Epstein had been a more or less normal New York career woman, albeit one with a decided artistic flair and a vague feeling that literature might not be her true calling.
A few weeks later, at a party at the store for an artist friend, she got the answer: One of the guests was Ms. Safro, a young antiques restorer who took one look at Ms. Epstein and the jumble of crushed and torn cartons of buttons and decided to set them straight.
But she decided to sell it and accept an offer to teach at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, remaining there until she retired in 1993.
The men were so impressed with their hostess's drive, insights, intuition and commitment that after an elaborate search for a qualified professional, they decided she would be the best person to run the council.
When she saw how Mr. Zanuck had edited the movie, she decided it would be a failure, telling an interviewer decades later, ''I couldn't see anything coming for me but the same old dumb things.
''So I decided to make a new life for myself,'' she said.
When she saw how Mr. Zanuck had edited the movie, she decided it would be a failure, telling an interviewer decades later, ''I couldn't see anything coming for me but the same old dumb things.
''So I decided to make a new life for myself,'' she said.
At around the same time, she met Theremin and decided to study his electronic instrument.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
By 1931, Miss Smith had found her life's work in academia, but after a decade as a statistician and consumer price specialist at the University of Connecticut, she decided that it was time to complete her own college education.
Then her superiors decided it was time for her to get a college education and asked her to switch to a medical career.
When the five autonomous American provinces of the Daughters of Charity decided to consolidate their hospital systems in 1986, Sister Irene was the obvious choice to put the merger into effect and run the operation, which included three dozen hospitals and 19 other operations in 17 states with a combined annual budget of more than $3 billion.
But by her own admission she was an unexceptional actress, and she decided to become a writer.
Earlier this year, Ms. Lewis said she got the idea for ''The Charlie Horse Music Pizza'' during a conversation with her husband, the publisher Jeremy Tarcher, in which they decided that what children liked most was music, pizza and the beach.
When, for example, students decided that Brearley's infamous blue tunic and skirt uniforms, which they had long complained made them look like pears, were symbols of regimentation and oppression, she allowed students to wear more or less whatever they wanted.
But by then, she said, she had decided that there was ''more to life than making rich men richer,'' as she put it.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon Baines Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon B. Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election while the war in Vietnam raged.
In 1948 she began working with Lionel Hampton and his band, staying with the vibraphonist until 1951, when, during a performance in New York, she decided to remain there.
Following graduation from Vassar College, where she majored in chemistry, she decided to go on the stage, but abandoned her acting career when she realized she could never be as good as Katherine Cornell.
At the age of 30, after a failed marriage to a fellow actor, W. Lon Martin, and the birth of two daughters, Nell and Linda, she decided to go to medical school.
During a tour with the Sarah Lawrence European Chorus in the early 1970's, she decided to continue her studies in Europe, and coached in the operatic repertory with teachers in Amsterdam, Zurich and Cremona, Italy.
It was Mrs. Kissinger -- the practical one in the family -- who decided that they had to leave Germany when Hitler came to power.
Asked once by a reporter how she had decided to concentrate on tax law, she said: ''I think at one point Professor Surrey asked me, 'What is creditable tax?
Ms. Godden did not patronize her younger readers and she had decided ideas about how to write for them.
