"The board decided that our stone houses were being threatened with demolition, so funding was acquired and she did the stone house survey in 1979 and 1980," Ruth Van Wagoner, director of the county Office of Cultural and Historic Affairs, said yesterday.
They learned of the adverse behavioral effect on rhesus monkeys reared in isolation and ultimately decided to investigate the role of parent-child relationships in the upbringing of chimpanzees.
Early in their collaboration, they decided on a comparative approach, dividing the animal kingdom so that he would study vertebrates and she invertebrates.
After four years in the Washington school system, she decided she could serve children better by teaching their teachers how to teach.
That led to a part in the revue "Make Mine Manhattan," with Sid Caesar, but Mrs. Landes, who had doubts about the part and her future in the theater, left the show in Philadelphia to accept what she decided was a better offer: to marry Mr. Landes and live happily ever after.
Bessie had planned to become a doctor but ultimately decided to go to dental school.
When she decided to enter the Metropolitan Opera Regional Auditions, she had all the makings of a finalist: a lustrous mezzo-soprano voice and a striking stage presence.
The group broke up in the early 1950's when Patty decided to become a solo performer.
In it, the judges decided that the state must increase the financing of the 30 poorest  districts to a level where their per-pupil outlays would equal the average of the wealthiest districts by fiscal year 1996-97.
Being of a rather radical bent on social issues, she decided that she could achieve more on the outside.
Cast in "The Great White Hope" at the Arena Stage in Washington, she decided to forgo that play, and paid the Arena the equivalent of two weeks' salary so she could return to New York to join the new black theater  company.
I wasn't too happy about the whole thing, but also later in life, as I looked around, I decided to take what I could get and then use it for what I want to do.
"So I decided to lie fallow for a while.
The school had dropped women's basketball in 1932 as unsuitably rough for proper young ladies, but when college officials decided to revive it in 1973, Miss Wade was the obvious choice to coach.
Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell.
