So, when she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''
        She moved on to the House four years later, in the year when President Lyndon B. Johnson decided not to run for re-election.
After he recovered, I decided to make some changes in my life.
When she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''
        She moved on to the House four years later, in the year when President Lyndon B. Johnson decided not to run for re-election.
After he recovered, I decided to make some changes in my life.
Eventually she decided to create her own jewelry, assisted for the last 30 years by a master jeweler, John Chirinian, who will continue to work with her designs, Ms. Boening said.
But she decided to switch her profession to psychotherapy, and attended New York University for her bachelor's degree and Columbia University for a master's.
She filed papers in 1999 to seek re-election, but later decided to keep her initial promise.
She decided to retire from the military in 1960, well before the Women's Army Corps was finally dissolved and women were formally integrated into all the services in the 1970's without restrictions on rank.
Even though her debut was not very successful, Ms. Schell decided to study drama in Zurich.
'' Even so, by the time she left high school she had decided to become a laboratory technician.
John Leonard in The New York Times called ''Attachments'' an ''ambitious, disturbing novel by a best-selling author who might have written a trashy book, but decided instead to mess up our minds.
She decided to run for Parliament just five days before the deadline to register as a candidate for the 1987 election and won a seat in Redcar, on the North Sea coast.
She decided that she wanted to be a lawyer, but her family lacked money to send their many children to college.
She decided to attend Fisk University, a black college in Nashville, partly because she had never been to the South.
She decided on behalf of welfare recipients, low-income Medicaid patients and a prisoner who claimed to have been unconstitutionally punished by 372 days of solitary confinement, whom she awarded damages.
''
        Ms. Settle, always sympathetic to other writers and an advocate of their causes, decided that authors should have their own awards program, with the winners chosen by fellow authors.
It was then, she said, that she decided she had better start on the books she was planning to write, walked into the boss's office and resigned.
Dr. Kruskall and others at Beth Israel set up a system to label the blood, decided what surgical procedures were best served by it and created an inventory system.
''I decided not to show any fear and went to classes that day,'' she said in an interview with The Post Standard of Syracuse in 2004.
In her teens she won a scholarship to Juilliard, but it was decided that living in New York would cost the family too much money; she studied classical music at Howard University in Washington instead.
By the mid-1960's she had stopped touring and decided to restrict her performing to the Washington and Baltimore areas so she could spend more time at home raising her daughter, Rainy.
But when they learned that the girl was pregnant, they decided that she was an unsuitable symbol for their cause.
'' When Rubinstein decided that his children were old enough to take piano lessons, he hired Ms. Keene as their teacher.
She had had no college education, but decided to start at the beginning.
