After the Japanese invaded the Philippines, it was decided to abandon Manila in 1942 and move the government to the island of Corregidor.
The idea, they decided, was to defeat jamming efforts by sending synchronized radio signals on various wavelengths to missiles, which could then be directed to hit their mark.
But in 1985 she decided to change direction.
According to The New York Times of Aug. 26, 1934, the two had attended a Friday night dinner party at the Colony restaurant in New York and decided to get married immediately.
Her superiors decided that she could not be allowed to serve as a combat soldier, but rather as a nurse.
I decided that I wanted to become a lawyer and represent children.
Cancer was diagnosed and she underwent radiation and chemotherapy treatments, but she decided to compete in the Thelonious Monk competition in Washington.
'' She never could find books on nature as a child, she said, so at 11 she decided she was going to write them.
''I decided we must find out what happened to each one, and where.
''
        At first, the Holts sent money to South Korean orphanages but soon decided that the children needed families.
She decided to do so.
In 1935, while on a trip to Havana, she decided to join the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity.
While typing radio plays, she decided she could master the form.
The following year, when ''Redhead'' was on tour in Chicago, Miss Verdon and Fosse were married, and by the time the tour reached Los Angeles she had decided to retire from show business with the intention of concentrating on family life.
When Fosse decided to take it on as a musical, and John Kander and Fred Ebb signed on to write the score, Ms. Verdon at last got her chance to play Roxie, a woman jailed, tried and acquitted for shooting her lover.
Two years later the New York Supreme Court decided in her favor.
Afterward, Ms. Ledis and Mr. Flam decided to bring Brazilian musicians to New York and started NYC Entertainment.
They decided to take the Panthers to a community on the island for a dinner at a restaurant that did not accept blacks or Jews.
