In the general election she easily defeated her Democratic rival, Dr. Adrian Scolten.
" She presented what she called "massive proof that the Soviet Union and its surrogates have provided the weapons, training and sanctuary for a worldwide terror network aimed at the destabilization of Western democratic society.
The 1928 Democratic National Convention was held in Houston, and she worked on senatorial and mayoral campaigns.
Her father, Benjamin Dorman, a leading figure in the Democratic Party in Brooklyn, worked his way up through the court system to become chief clerk of the Surrogate's Court in Brooklyn, where Miss Dorman practiced as an estate planner and wills litigator for more than 30 years.
President Harry S. Truman chose Mrs. Gray to be Treasurer in 1949, a year the Democratic Party promised a New Deal for women aspiring to high office.
She had been a small-town Kansas banker and a Democratic National Committeewoman since 1936.
Mrs. Gray was a highly visible figure in Democratic Party affairs, including its national conventions.
That, her friends say, was because Ms. Glass, a fierce supporter of Democratic politicians from Robert F. Kennedy to Mr. Cuomo, was such an intense  idealist that she made a point of working only for those institutions she deemed worthy of her passions.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.

        Anne D. Campbell, an official of the Democratic National Committee in Washington, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
She was a past vice chairman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee and in 1977 became the first woman to be elected president of the National Association of State Chairmen.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
The Binghams were active in Democratic politics and would, as Mrs. Bingham said, "get together with liberal friends on election night to listen to the results in sympathetic company.
