
        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
Her slogan was ''unbought and unbossed'' -- in the primary, she had defeated two other candidates, William C. Thompson, whom she maintained was the candidate of the Brooklyn Democratic organization, and Dolly Robinson.
''
        In 1972, when she entered the presidential primaries, she did not expect to capture the Democratic nomination, which ultimately went to George S. McGovern.
Ms. Williams became a columnist in 2000, after more than a decade of writing lengthy profiles on Washington power brokers, including Vice President Al Gore and the Democratic diplomat Clark Clifford.

        Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80.
Her slogan was ''unbought and unbossed'' -- in the primary, she had defeated two other candidates, William C. Thompson, who she maintained was the candidate of the Brooklyn Democratic organization, and Dolly Robinson.
''
        In 1972, when she entered the presidential primaries, she did not expect to capture the Democratic nomination, which ultimately went to George S. McGovern.
In addition to her stepson, the former Democratic senator from Pennsylvania and now a resident of Washington, Mrs. Wofford is survived by a stepdaughter, Anne Wofford Towson of Shaker Heights, Ohio; another stepson, John G. Wofford of Cambridge, Mass.
In 1978, she ran in the Democratic primary for the House seat in Georgia's Sixth District.
She became politically active during the Vietnam era, working in the antiwar movement and in Democratic Party politics.
Her father, Milton Ager, was a successful Tin Pan Alley composer whose tunes included ''Ain't She Sweet'' and ''Happy Days Are Here Again,'' which became a Democratic Party anthem.
A Democratic State Senate candidate from the Upper West Side was ruled off the ballot because of an election-law technicality.
In citywide elections nine months later, she was re-elected to a full four-year term with the endorsement of the Democratic, Republican and Liberal Parties.
Ms. Yard was later a board member of Americans for Democratic Action.
During her husband's years at Stanford, Ms. Yard immersed herself in Democratic politics in California, supporting Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas in her Senate race against Richard M. Nixon in 1950.
She held leadership positions in the Democratic Party, the National Women's Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, among many other organizations.
In the 1960's, she campaigned for black candidates, served on the Pennsylvania Democratic Committee and earned a reputation as an excellent fund-raiser.
