After the war, her daughter said, Miss Bancroft settled in New York, wrote a few novels, lectured on Jung, became active in local Democratic politics, became friends with Woody Allen and became Luce's confidant.
In 1956, Parade magazine quoted Mrs. Dixon as forecasting that a Democratic President, elected in 1960, would die in office.

        Pamela Harriman, the United States Ambassador to France, a leading figure in the Democratic Party and for decades one of the most vivacious women on the international scene, died yesterday at the American Hospital in Paris of complications of a cerebral hemorrhage.
She devoted her later years to helping to rebuild the Democratic Party in the 1980's, raising millions of dollars.
After Hayward's death Averell Harriman reappeared, and after a brief courtship they married and became the couple that helped reinvigorate the Democratic Party.
She became an American citizen and adopted his interests in the Soviet Union and, more exuberantly, in the Democratic Party.
As Mrs. Averell Harriman, she gave fund-raising dinners for Democratic candidates in the 1970's.
To resuscitate the Democratic Party, they agreed to form their own political action committee, which quickly became known as PamPAC.

        Elizabeth Rudel Gatov, a wealthy California businesswoman who was long active in Democratic politics and served briefly as Treasurer of the United States, died on Jan. 25 at her home in Kentfield, Calif., near San Francisco.
Mrs. Gatov was Elizabeth Rudel Smith -- she had just divorced Frederick H. Smith, a San Francisco businessman when, as a Democratic national committeewoman from California, she was appointed Treasurer in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy.
She also rejoined the Democratic National Committee, where she remained until 1965.
During the 1952 Presidential campaign, Dr. Fosdick became so enamored with the Democratic nominee, Adlai Stevenson, that she became his chief foreign policy adviser and had a romantic fling with him (at the same time, she later learned, that Stevenson was having a secret affair with Alicia Patterson.
Democratic Party leaders would not endorse her in the primary campaign, saying she lacked judicial temperament and knowledge of trust and estates law.
Democratic Party leaders would not endorse her in the primary campaign, saying she lacked judicial temperament and knowledge of trust and estates law.

        Alice Sachs, a retired Commissioner of Elections for Manhattan and an abiding presence in Democratic reform politics, died on Saturday at the Hallmark Nursing Centre in North Granville, N.Y. She was 91 and had lived for many years at the Barbizon Hotel on the Upper East Side.
While Manhattan Democratic Commissioner, she held terms as president and secretary of the board.
She was a founder of the executive committee of the Lexington Democratic Club, a State Committeewoman, co-leader of the 73d Assembly District and an officer of Community Planning Board 8.
She was national vice chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and was active in the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, the League of Women Voters, B'nai B'rith and the Urban League.
Her letters are a window on days spent picnicking in Central Park, rooting ardently for the Dodgers (and later the Mets) and wading into the fray of local politics (she was the first woman to serve as president of the Lenox Hill Democratic Club).
She was a founding member of New York's Liberal Party, was a member of the Americans for Democratic Action and served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the National Urban League.
Mrs. Anderson had been active in the Democratic Party on the state and national levels when she was appointed Ambassador to Denmark  by President Truman.
She joined the Democratic Party in part to oppose Republican isolationists in her election district and worked with Hubert H. Humphrey in the successful effort to eliminate a Communist faction within the Minnesota party.
She took part in the establishment of Americans for Democratic Action, formed by the party's anti-Communist liberal wing in 1947.
She was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, a National Committeewoman, and a campaigner for the re-election of President Truman.
''She was a prime force in moving along a good Democratic Party,'' said Orville Freeman, the former Minnesota Governor.
Dr. Keyserling was a onetime president of the Women's National Democratic Club.

        Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years.
Mrs. Westwood was an enthusiastic supporter of Democratic candidates and Democratic causes.
Mrs. Westwood was an enthusiastic supporter of Democratic candidates and Democratic causes.
So the unenvious task of trying to put a brave face on the McGovern campaign fell to Mrs. Westwood, who became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee after Mr. McGovern won the Democratic nomination.
So the unenvious task of trying to put a brave face on the McGovern campaign fell to Mrs. Westwood, who became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee after Mr. McGovern won the Democratic nomination.
Mr. McGovern carried only the Democratic bastions of Massachusetts and the District of Columbia.
A native Mississippian, Mrs. Howorth spent much of her life in the political arena, including a turn as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1932.
Partly because they believed that the party's democratic ideals were being overriden by oppressive bureaucratic controls, the Weisses withdrew in the 1960's, but Mrs. Weiss never abandoned her radical vision -- and paid a price for it.
She first covered Senator Humphrey's campaign, but when he lost the West Virginia primary to Mr. Kennedy and dropped out of the primary, she covered Senator Lyndon Johnson all the way to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July of 1960, where he became Mr. Kennedy's running mate,
        Later that year, CBS gave her own weekday radio show, ''One Woman's Washington,'' in which she discussed Washington topics that she thought might be of interest to women around the country.
She later served on the Illinois Social Welfare Foundation as well as the Illinois Board of Public Welfare, where she established volunteer services for the state's mentally ill.
        Mrs. Dick was active in Democratic politics in Illinois, where she was an early supporter of Adlai Stevenson.
She also worked on his Democratic Presidential campaigns in 1952 and 1956.
She was a board member of the Puerto Rican Institute and was active in politics for more than 50 years, chiefly through the Caribe Democratic Club of Manhattan and the Democratic State Committee.
She was a board member of the Puerto Rican Institute and was active in politics for more than 50 years, chiefly through the Caribe Democratic Club of Manhattan and the Democratic State Committee.
Ms. Diaz campaigned for Robert F. Wagner in the 1953 mayoral election and for Senator John F. Kennedy's 1960 presidential campaign at Democratic state headquarters and the Committee on Nationalities and Intergroup Relations.
She was a member of the Women's Division of the Democratic State Committee and a member of the Puerto Rican Association of Women Voters.
Mrs. Meyner was born into a prominent Democratic family in New York City in 1928.
In 1972, Democratic Party leaders asked her to run for Congress from the Meyner family home in Phillipsburg, in the heavily Republican 13th Congressional District in Sussex and Morris Counties.
Following her graduation from Hunter College in 1928, she married Edward L. Kelly, a lawyer active in Democratic politics who was a justice in the city court system.
Her first job was to breathe life into the moribund women's auxiliary of Brooklyn's Madison Democratic Club, a hub of party activity.
She ended her public service career under yet another Democratic President, serving in a largely honorary role for the Clinton Administration with the United States Delegation to the United Nations.
