
        Virginia Eloise Peterson Abelson, a former bookstore owner and past Democratic Party district leader who also worked in publishing and created crossword puzzles, died on Sunday at her home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 72.
But she was a sharp and often corrosive chronicler of the death throes of the German Democratic Republic as Communism collapsed and the Berlin Wall fell in 1989: ''a kaleidoscope rolling downhill,'' as she described it.
Mrs. Rivkin was also a founder of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and in 1976 she served as the coordinator of volunteers at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
She was a delegate to the 1956 Democratic Convention and was active in the Presidential campaigns of Adlai Stevenson and John F. Kennedy.
''
        The current democratic Government in Chile issued a statement mourning Ms. Sierra's death.
After the Kennedy assassination, she returned to Washington, where she again worked for the Peace Corps and the Democratic National Committee.
She said the meetings concerned, among other things, Kennedy's need for Giancana's help in the Democratic Presidential primary in West Virginia.
Sometimes she designated everyday activities like thought, conversation or marijuana smoking as art, attracted by the idea that they were unsaleable and democratic.
''This poet was the beacon for our great language movement and liberation war, and inspiration for all democratic movements of the nation,'' Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh said at the ceremony.
'' In last year's election, the unsuccessful Republican candidate for governor, State Attorney General Dan Lungren, sought to tar his Democratic opponent, Lt. Gov.
But virtually the entire state political establishment, Democratic as well as Republican, now favors the death penalty, and the pace of executions is widely expected to increase.
The foundation, based in Manhattan, teaches citizens of former Communist countries in Central and Eastern Europe about working as journalists in newly democratic societies.
