Mrs. Poston, who was born in Minneapolis, graduated from St. Mary's College in Leavenworth, Kan., and taught school for six years before moving to Washington, where she became involved in charitable fund raising and Democratic Party activities.
She worked for the campaign of every Democratic Presidential nominee from 1964 on.

        Beatrice I. Lerner, a longtime Democratic party worker and government aide in New Jersey and a leader in Jewish, cultural and charitable causes, died on Monday at the Cedar Grove Manor Convalescent Home in Cedar Grove, N.J. She was 76 years old and was a resident of South Orange, N.J.
        She died of complications from Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
When Germany's democratic government collapsed in the early 1930's and the Nazi dictatorship began, Miss Dietrich chose exile.
City Elections Due
        Some commentators suggested that Mayor Diepgen and other leaders of the conservative Christian Democratic Union did not want to mount a major tribute to a figure who is unpopular in some rightist circles.
Democratic candidates were virtually guaranteed of winning general elections, but only whites were allowed to vote in the party's primaries.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
She encouraged others who made their cases public, including Elizabeth Glaser, the wife of a television actor, who addressed the Democratic National Convention, and Mary Fisher, a former aide to President Gerald R. Ford who will speak to the Republican convention.
Lost Narrowly to Lautenberg
        Her Congressional tenure ended in 1982, when she ran for the United States Senate and lost narrowly to Frank R. Lautenberg, a Democratic millionaire whose big-spending campaign portrayed her as a doddering eccentric.

        Carol Weil Haussamen, a New York City philanthropist, hostess and Democratic fund-raiser, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
For the last 25 years or more her home served as a fountainhead of funds for Democratic candidates from around the country.
In August 1983, she became a sponsor of the United Democratic Front, which orchestrated the protest campaign of the mid-80's on behalf of the still-outlawed African National Congress.
