Her daughter, Mrs. Whitman, was narrowly defeated by the Democratic incumbent from New Jersey, Bill Bradley, in her recent campaign for the United States Senate.

        Mary de Groat Reed, a leader in the reform wing of the Democratic Party in Manhattan in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at the Southampton Nursing Home on Long Island.
She was a founder of the New Democratic Club in the Eighth Assembly District South on the East Side, one of the first clubs in what was to become the reform movement in the party.
She left New York in 1959, but remained active in Democratic politics.

        Katie Louchheim, a former State Department official and a former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who was a prominent figure in the social life of Washington for four decades, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
A vivacious woman of enormous energy, she plunged into Democratic Party affairs and worked her way up to become vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960.
A vivacious woman of enormous energy, she plunged into Democratic Party affairs and worked her way up to become vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960.
Active in Democratic Party campaigns, she was named to the National Planning Commission by President John F. Kennedy.
To show how letters could improve international understanding, Miss Leiser would cite correspondence from a young German boy whose letters revealed his gradual understanding of democratic ideals.

        Geraldine N. Moon, vice chairwoman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee, died at her home in Camden County on Wednesday.
Moon was also a member of the Democratic National Committee.

        Mimi Schnall, a Westchester County Democratic committeewoman, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She was elected first vice chairwoman of the Westchester Democratic Committee in 1986.
She was also a former chairwoman of the Town of Greenburgh Democratic Committee for many years, a delegate to the 1980 Democratic National Convention in Manhattan and the Westchester County coordinator for Mario M. Cuomo's first campaign for governor.
She was also a former chairwoman of the Town of Greenburgh Democratic Committee for many years, a delegate to the 1980 Democratic National Convention in Manhattan and the Westchester County coordinator for Mario M. Cuomo's first campaign for governor.
After the war she became active in liberal Democratic politics in New York.
She was on the New York State Democratic Committee from 1954 to 1960 and was one of Adlai E. Stevenson's chief aides when he ran for President against Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.
She was a past president of Community School Board 3 and of the Parent-Teacher Association of Wadleigh Junior High School and was a member of the Sojourner Truth Democratic Club.

        Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, the secretary of the Democratic National Committee who called the roll and tallied the votes at 12 national conventions from 1944 to 1988, died on Saturday in a hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 75 years old.
At each Democratic national convention, from the one that nominated the Roosevelt-Truman ticket to the one that drafted Michael S. Dukakis and Lloyd Bensten, Mrs. Bush called the role of states in a slight, but crisp, Dixie-accented voice that made her a fixture of the convention floor and a legend in the party.
She was elected national committee woman of the Alabama Young Democrats in 1941 and a vice-president of the Young Democratic Clubs of America in 1943.
She was just 27 years old when she was named secretary to the Democratic National Committee in 1944.
