The Connellys moved to Staten Island in 1954, and Mrs. Connelly became active in local politics, joining the North Shore Democratic Club of Richmond County.
The effort stalled after the Assembly's Democratic leadership said they believed the State Constitution required that such a measure be requested by the city, not one of its boroughs.
      
''
        In Ms. Dubrow's early years as a lobbyist, some senators asked her to baby-sit, among them the fathers of Al Gore, the former vice president, and Christopher J. Dodd, a Democratic senator from Connecticut.
In 1948, she became New York State director for Americans for Democratic Action.
In July 1964, she announced that she and others from the tiny Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party would challenge the power of the segregationist politicians, like Mr. Stennis, who represented her state.
''
        That decision became a turning point for the civil rights movement and for the Democratic Party, which for most of its history had been profoundly influenced by all-white delegations from the South.
Mrs. Gray Adams was defeated by a ratio of 30 to 1 in the Democratic primary, in part because Mississippi had effectively disenfranchised black voters.
But the party she started and led went on to challenge the right of the all-white Mississippi delegation to represent her state at the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City.
''We were going in the face of the Mississippi Democratic Party, which included some of the most powerful members of the U.S. Congress, to demand that we be recognized to have representation at the Democratic National Convention.
''We were going in the face of the Mississippi Democratic Party, which included some of the most powerful members of the U.S. Congress, to demand that we be recognized to have representation at the Democratic National Convention.
''
        Millions of Americans watching on television saw Fannie Lou Hamer, the best known of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party's founders, tell the convention's credentials committee how she had been jailed and beaten for trying to register blacks to vote.
It rejected a compromise proposal to give the integrated Freedom Democratic Party token representation on the floor.
In 1968, Mississippi seated an integrated delegation at the Democratic convention.
''We really were the true Democratic Party,'' Mrs. Gray Adams said in the 2004 interview.

        Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin.
She went on to become one of the most effective in a long line of Texas progressives who vied for control of the state when it was largely a Democratic stronghold.
But her defeat after one term was a strong signal that generations of Democratic dominance in Texas had ended.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
In the early 1960's, she and a handful of other young Democrats founded North Dallas Democratic Women in an effort to give more power to women in the party.
''The regular Democratic Party and its organization was run by men who looked on women as little more than machine parts,'' she said later.
William P. Clements Jr., the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, decided not to run for re-election, Ms. Richards challenged a former governor, Mark White, in the Democratic primary and won.
The same year, she was named chairwoman of the Democratic National Convention, which nominated Bill Clinton for president for the first time.
''
        Correction:  September 16, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with the obituary of Ann W. Richards, the former Texas governor, misstated the year she gave the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention.
At the opening of the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, Sinatra, Davis, Mr. Lawford and Ms. MacLaine helped lead the singing of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.

        Estelle R. Ramey, an endocrinologist, physiologist and feminist who came to national prominence in 1970 after she famously rebutted a Democratic leader who pronounced women unfit for important jobs because of the ''raging hormonal influences'' to which they were supposedly subject, died Friday at her home in Bethesda, Md.
The controversy arose in April 1970, at a session of the Democratic Party's Committee on National Priorities.

        Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin.
Ms. Richards was the most recent and one of the most effective in a long-line of Lone Star State progressives who vied for control of Texas in the days when it was largely a one-party Democratic enclave, a champion of civil rights, gay rights and feminism.
Her defeat by the future president was one of the chief markers of the end of generations of Democratic dominance in Texas.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the Democratic convention in 1988, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won.
It was her speech to the Democratic convention in Atlanta, though, that made her a national figure.
She scored an upset in the 1994 Republican primary over David H. Leroy, a former state attorney general, and went on to defeat the Democratic incumbent.
''
        Though Ms. Willis liked to describe herself as an anti-authoritarian democratic socialist, she was leery of extremism of either stripe.
She was a member of the United States delegation to the United Nations, and in 1988 ran unsuccessfully as a Democratic candidate for Congress in Rhode Island.
