Dr. Ray was also burdened by disaffection in her own party going into the 1980 Democratic primary and suffered a startling defeat at the hands of State Senator Jim McDermott, who offered himself as "a Governor who listens.
Correction:  February 3, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Emily Taft Douglas, a former Democratic Representive from Illinois, misstated the middle name of her mother, who died before her.
" To make sure things got done, she used to visit the White House (during Democratic Administrations, she added wryly).
She went on to do the ads in 1952 at the Republican and Democratic national conventions.
In 1952, 1956 and 1960, Miss Furness did the Westinghouse commercials during the Republican and Democratic National Conventions and developed a strong interest in politics.
Mr. Kennedy, who had only narrowly missed winning the Democratic Vice Presidential nomination in 1956, began to worry that they might not be able to have children.
Mr. Shorenstein became a leading commercial real estate developer and a prominent contributor to Democratic Party causes.
In Berkeley she was active in civic affairs and was a committeewoman with the Democratic Party of Alameda County.
Her other political work included membership on the Democratic National Committee.
Her political power came in large part from the support of the city's poor residents, whom she organized within her Popular Democratic Party.
In 1992, at the age of 95, she was the oldest delegate to the Democratic National Convention, which was held in New York.
In 1940, she married Jenaro A. Gautier, a lawyer who was secretary general of the Popular Democratic Party at the time.
She was a delegate to three Democratic national conventions and frequently lobbied for civil rights groups in the halls of Southern state legislatures.
In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.
Two years later, she married Jouett Shouse, the chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
