Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona.
She was active in the Democratic Party, but when she was up for re-election in 1949, she carried the endorsements of all three parties, all bar  associations, the Citizens' Union and the American Federation of Labor.
She took part in local politics as a member of the Jefferson Democratic Club, a component of the Tammany Hall machine that orchestrated Democratic politics for generations.
She took part in local politics as a member of the Jefferson Democratic Club, a component of the Tammany Hall machine that orchestrated Democratic politics for generations.
She became a force in Pennsylvania's Democratic Party as a member of the Democratic National Committee and the party's National Policy Committee.
She became a force in Pennsylvania's Democratic Party as a member of the Democratic National Committee and the party's National Policy Committee.
She attended every Democratic National Convention from 1932 to 1972 and served as vice chairwoman of the Pennsylvania delegation at the 1956 convention.
She was the secretary of the State Democratic Committee from 1948 to 1971.
The agency had had seven directors in the previous decade, and it had lost much of its independence after President Richard M. Nixon folded it into an umbrella agency called Action in an effort to downgrade some programs inherited from his Democratic predecessors.
There she was executive vice president of the state's chapter of the Americans for Democratic Action.

        Constance Woodruff, who was active in labor and women's issues and was a Democratic Party stalwart, died on Saturday at St. Michael's Medical Center in Newark.
Mrs. Woodruff was a Democratic National Committeewoman for two terms.
She was co-chairwoman of the New Jersey delegation at the 1976 National Democratic Convention.
Brendan T. Byrne appointed her the first chairwoman of the State Advisory Commission on the Status of Women despite objections to her strong partisan identification as the secretary of the State Democratic Committee.
Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party.
Ms. Dugan, who won her most recent election with 70 percent of the vote as the candidate of the Democratic and Liberal parties, represented the 52d District, which includes not only Carroll Gardens, but also Bay Ridge, Cobble Hill, Red Hook, Sunset Park, Brooklyn Heights and Boerum Hill.
In 1976, she was the first black woman to deliver a keynote address at the Democratic National Convention, riveting her audience on national television as she spoke magisterially from the stage at New York's Madison Square Garden.
"
        As a model of the Democratic politician from the New South, Ms. Jordan was less an angry or confrontational liberal than an imposing master of the process  and its details.
With her husband, who was a Democratic  Senator from Pennsylvania from 1991 through 1994, she was co-author of a book, "India Today" (John Day, 1951).
Ultimately, it led to the formation of Civic Forum, a democratic movement that toppled Communist rule in 1989 and catapulted Mr. Havel, a dissident playwright, into the presidency in late 1989.
