She became a designer and executive with Jack Lenor Larsen Inc., a Manhattan-based designer and manufacturer of fabrics for interior design, and an executive at B. H. Wragge, also in Manhattan, which made women's wear.
She became a designer and executive with Jack Lenor Larsen Inc., a Manhattan-based designer and manufacturer of fabrics for interior design, and an executive at B. H. Wragge, also in Manhattan, which made women's wear.
At the time, nobody else was studying Davis, a  prolific contributor to Victorian picturesque architecture and the designer of landmarks including the Wadsworth Atheneum (with Ithiel Town) in Hartford; Lyndhurst in Tarrytown, N.Y., and the United States Customs House in Manhattan (with Town and others).

        Suzanne Gallo, a designer who created costumes for many of Merce Cunningham's major recent works, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Gallo also worked as a costume builder or designer with such choreographers as Neil Greenberg, Meredith Monk, Lucinda Childs and Trisha Brown and with companies like the White Oak Dance Project, Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and Ballet Hispanico.
She pioneered the use of grommets in place of buttons and was the first important designer to make ponchos for women, introducing lightweight capes and ponchos that, she explained, ''didn't look like a horse should wear them.
After graduation, she joined the company as its designer and in 1934 accompanied the manager to New York when he took over the Roxy Theater.
Ms. Cashin was also chosen the first designer for Patterns of The Times, American Designer Series, a monthly feature in The New York Times during the 1950's that made designer patterns available for home sewing.
Ms. Cashin was also chosen the first designer for Patterns of The Times, American Designer Series, a monthly feature in The New York Times during the 1950's that made designer patterns available for home sewing.
Ms. Cashin was also chosen the first designer for Patterns of The Times, American Designer Series, a monthly feature in The New York Times during the 1950's that made designer patterns available for home sewing.
After marrying Branson Erskine, an interior designer, she appeared in the Robbins musical ''Look Ma, I'm Dancing'' in 1947.
By working closely with the writer, cameraman and costume designer, Ms. Dillon would draft 30 or 40 sketches to determine the movie's final set.

        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following.
A gypsy costume Ms. Porter made for Begum Aga Khan to wear to a fancy dress ball given by Baron Alexis de Rede was lavish enough that her fellow Briton, the designer Hardy Amies, described it as ''pre-guillotine.
''Her real contribution was introducing ethnic clothes for that late 60's, rich hippie period,'' said the fashion designer Zandra Rhodes.
She was 87 and lived in Palm Springs, Calif.
        Miss Young, who won an Oscar as best actress for her performance in ''The Farmer's Daughter'' in 1947, later became a favorite of television viewers as the glowing star who twirled onto the stage in a designer gown each week to introduce an uplifting drama on ''The Loretta Young Show.
''I did that to mollify the show's designer, Marusha,'' Miss Young said in a 1995 interview.
Her later years were quietly shared with her third husband, Jean Louis, a designer for Columbia Pictures, whom she married in 1994.
Slim, dark-haired and usually dressed in a stylish mixture of designer and vintage clothes, Ms. Hearn resembled a bohemian Holly Golightly.
One of her earliest design jobs was as an assistant to the Modernist designer Paul Rand at Esquire and Apparel Arts magazines.
''
        Galen Williams, a landscape designer in East Hampton, N.Y, who assisted her, recalled: ''Her eye was so finely tuned that once after appraising a mock-up for a front and side fence, Mrs. Ireys requested that one section be lowered by an inch and the other by a half-inch.
As a lecturer and designer at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden for more than 50 years, Mrs. Ireys considered the garden her true home and did her most important community project for it.

        Emily Wilkens, an award-winning fashion designer who rejected the idea that young girls should be dressed as if they were their mothers in miniature, died in the Bronx on Saturday.
While vacationing in Hollywood in the early 1940's, Ms. Wilkens, then an illustrator, was erroneously introduced at a party as a children's fashion designer.
