In 1991 she was named president of the designer clothing line Anne Klein Collection; while working there, she earned a master's degree in literary criticism from New York University.
A textile designer throughout the 1960's and 70's, Mrs. Gwathmey seldom looked back on her photographic past, which was in turn largely forgotten by the photographic world.
''
        Ms. Sothern is survived by her  daughter, Tisha Sterling, an actress and designer; a sister, Sally Adams of Boise, Idaho; and a granddaughter.
In 1990 she was named a designer of distinction by the American Society of Interior Designers.
      

        Nananne Porcher, a theater lighting designer and theater design consultant, died on Sunday.
She was also the touring lighting designer and technical director for City Ballet as well as American Ballet Theater and Jerome Robbins's  Ballets: U.S.A. She is thought to have been the first American stage manager to work on programs at the Paris Opera, Rome Opera and La Scala.
''
        An Internet Legacy
        Many years later Eudora, the widely used e-mail program, was named after Miss Welty because its designer, Steven Dorner, said he had been processing so much e-mail that he felt like the Welty character who lived at the post office.
Her book ''Aline'' was a biography of Aline Bernstein, a scenic and costume designer of the 1920's and 1930's (Harper, 1972).
Her father, Viktor, was a sculptor, and her mother, Signe Hammarsten-Jansson, was a versatile designer.
'' In 1944, after a five-month courtship, she married Scull, who had dropped out of high school during the Depression and had an up-and-down career as a freelance illustrator and industrial designer.
But it was her work on more than 100 Broadway plays and musicals for which Ms. Matera was perhaps most acclaimed, particularly the original 1972 production of ''Follies,'' whose lavish costumes won their designer, Florence Klotz, a Tony Award and increased the adulation of Merrick.
At the beginning of her career, she was a story editor and costume designer.
''She was perfectly cast for a fashion editor,'' said Karl Lagerfeld, the designer.
In 1955, recognizing her limitations as a designer, Ms. Donovan went to work as a fashion reporter for The Times, where, according to Mr. O'Brien, a former colleague, she felt outgunned by more experienced writers.
The designer said Ms. Donovan had the idea that contemporary jewelry would bring the white-glove store a new customer.
She wrote in its magazine about a little-known designer named Marjan Pejoski, whose feathered-swan dress for the singer Bjork had caused a stir at the Academy Awards.
Léger introduced her to Herbert Matter, the Swiss graphic designer and photographer, whom she married in 1939.
