
        Elsa Voelcker, a retired interior designer who worked on several well-known buildings in New York City, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She eventually became a sketcher in the store's made-to-measure department, and she went to Jaeger as a designer in 1956.
In 1962, she became the designer for Jane & Jane, a company of young Londoners who, along with designers like Mary Quant, helped to shake up the staid British fashion world.
She was also in demand as a garden designer, collaborating with Frank Gehry, the architect, and Claes Oldenburg, the artist.
Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer.
After establishing herself as a designer in Berlin, she left for London with her husband in the 1930's.
She was the widow of Donald M. Oenslager, a theatrical designer, who died in 1975.
She went from being a small-town lawyer's well-read daughter to being a regular on fashion magazines' lists of well-dressed women, with her trendy designer gowns and hats from Bergdorf Goodman.
Her coming of age as a designer mirrored the development of American sportswear, which was defining itself and growing in importance as the mass-market technology that followed World War II left its mark on fashion.
At 21, after completing design studies at Pratt Institute, she replaced her older sister Anna as head designer for Ben Girshel, then an important Seventh Avenue manufacturer.

        Judy Dearing, a costume designer for scores of musicals, dances and plays, as well as a dancer and choreographer, died on Saturday at New York Hospital.

        Primrose Bordier, a French designer known for her colorful and innovative home textiles, died on Tuesday at the Cochin Hospital in Paris.
"I was always a director's designer more than an actor's designer," she said  as she reflected on her career a few years ago.
"I was always a director's designer more than an actor's designer," she said  as she reflected on her career a few years ago.
"The canvas is the script, and the designer is the painter.
"
        Fleming, whose manner was considered rough and terrifying, dismissed his designer, Karinska, and insisted that Ms. Jeakins create the costumes for "Joan  of Arc.
The producer and director John Houseman, for whom she designed on Broadway and at the Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., said he knew after five minutes of watching Huston's final  film, "The Dead," in 1988, that Ms. Jeakins was the costume designer.
She was also the first American designer to make clothes of Ultrasuede.
She studied tailoring in London and worked as a designer for several American sportswear houses including Adler and Adler, Glenhunt and Max Milstein.
)
        Mrs. Maxwell became known as a designer in the 1930's when American fashion was struggling to be born and most designers toiled anonymously.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
She came to the United States in 1952 and worked in New York City as a textile designer and freelance artist before turning to creating picture books for children.
As the designer for Lawrence of London, which she founded with her first husband, Norman Lawrence, in the 1950's, Mrs. Green helped to bring rainwear into the fashion spectrum by offering water-repellent coats that could also be worn on sunny days and as evening wraps.

        Beverly Reitz, an interior designer known for her innovative use of light, died on Sunday in Hightstown, N.J., where she had lived since 1990.

        Holly Harp, the California designer who went from a Sunset Boulevard sensation to a darling of Fifth Avenue salons, died on Monday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
