The designer Gianni Versace, for example, credited her with introducing him to America when he was largely unknown, not to mention also introducing him to Studio 54.
In 1956, she married Stephen O. Frankfurt, a graphic designer who was one of the agency's art directors; he later designed the titles for the film ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and eventually became the president of Young & Rubicam.

        Naomi Leff, an interior designer who created elegant spaces for celebrities and retailers like Ralph Lauren, Ferragamo, Gucci, Giorgio Armani and Helena Rubinstein, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        By that time, Ms. Leff had designed interiors for Neiman-Marcus and Bergdorf Goodman and had worked from 1975 to 1980 as the senior designer for Bloomingdale's.
After working briefly in Paris as a fashion designer and model, she made her stage debut in 1931 in the operetta ''Balthazar.

        Helen Woodhull, a prominent New York jewelry designer whose work echoed ancient and antique themes in silver, gold and precious stones, died on Jan. 29 at her home in the West Village in Manhattan.
Ms. Stein began her career as a toy designer, which led to her writing children's books.
In 1957, she married Richard H. Martin, a prop designer for the theater.

        Geraldine Stutz, who transformed Henri Bendel from a carriage trade retailer in decline into a chic emporium of designer brands in the 1960's, died yesterday at her home in New York.
'' She was also one of the first retailers to consider merchandising food and furniture alongside fashion, and she made way for the in-store designer boutique in the late 1960's, as she did for Ms. Rykiel.
She was born with impeccable taste, and practically brought over every European designer who ever came to America.
Mr. Battle won a Tony Award, as did the costume designer, Willa Kim.
She later worked as an interior designer.
Her father was Norman Bel Geddes, the architect and stage designer.
At various times a singer, dancer, stripper, carnival performer, film actress, clothing designer and memoirist, Ms. Friedman was married to Bruce from 1951 until their divorce in 1957.
Many of her productions were close collaborations with Helen Morrison, a photographer, filmmaker and lighting designer who meticulously documented Ms. Shearer's career.
