'')
        Ms. Wasserstein's career would be closely linked both with Playwrights Horizons, which under its artistic director, Mr. Bishop, would first produce ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' and with many of the artists she met at Yale, including the designer Heidi Ettinger and the director James Lapine, who remained lifelong friends.
''I pointed that out to the designer, but it was absolutely uninteresting to him.
As a young woman, she worked as an interior designer.
In the United States, she worked with the Federal Theater in Chicago, where she met John Pratt, an artist and designer to whom she was married from 1941 until his death in 1986.
''She was not only influential as a professional designer, she educated her husband, an industrialist and engineer, in the importance of quality in design,'' said the architect Emilio Ambasz, who was the curator of the seminal 1972 exhibition ''Italy: The New Domestic Landscape'' at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
''
        Correction:  June 29, 2006, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about the Italian designer and architect Anna Castelli Ferrieri misspelled the given name of her surviving daughter.
Her mother was a designer of clothing and typefaces, and her father was an industrial chemist with a keen interest in Goethe's theory of color.
In 1973 Ms. Raven was a founder, with the artist Judy Chicago and the graphic designer Sheila Levrant de Bretteville, of the Feminist Studio Workshop.
Mrs. Ortner, an interior designer before she became a preservationist, was so enchanted by that house, with its original mahogany woodwork and papier-mâché and linseed-oil wallpaper, that she began a campaign to save thousands of other brownstones from neglect or the wrecking ball.
She studied interior design at Pratt Institute in the 1950's and historic preservation at Columbia University in the 1970's and until recently worked as an interior designer.

        Beth Levine, an innovative American shoe designer whose boots, as Nancy Sinatra sang while wearing them, were made for walking, died on Wednesday night at her home in Manhattan.
In the 1930's, she moved to Manhattan and found work as a shoe model (her feet were size 4B), then worked her way up from a stylist to head designer for I. Miller.
Even after her retirement, she would call the designer Helmut Lang after his show to tell him what she liked and what she did not.
In an interview with CNN in 1996, Mrs. Deschamps Adams said her years of espionage had ''no glamour, no romance, no dinner at the embassy in a designer gown.
Her taste -- seasoned by a girlhood of reading comic books, the careful study of the history of cartoons and experience as a fashion designer -- helped shape the famous look of Playboy's cartoons.
The princess began casually designing evening wear for herself and her prominent friends, including Jacqueline Kennedy and the actresses Elizabeth Taylor and Audrey Hepburn, and eventually decided to work as a designer.
It was airtight and waterproof and, long before the practice was common, it carried the signature of its designer.
From 1938 until 1950, she worked for the designer Russel Wright, who brought modernism to the American home with his inexpensive, mass-produced dinnerware, furniture, appliances and textiles.
''
        While on the Gleason show, Ms. Allen also worked as a costume designer for a production of ''Hamlet'' by the Helen Hayes Equity Group.
Correction:  November 4, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with an obituary about a Broadway costume designer who won six Tony Awards misstated her surname at one point.
Ms. Comden married Steven Kyle, a designer and businessman, in 1942.
A graphic designer and typographer, her father was known for designing the font Bernhard, which is still in use.
In the early 1940s Ms. Bernhard became involved with an artist and designer, Eveline Phimister, and for the next 10 years they lived together in New York, then in Carmel, Calif.; Los Angeles; and San Francisco, which became Ms. Bernhard's permanent home in 1953.
