
        Diana Adler, a New York fashion designer for almost 40 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Adler died as the result of a heart ailment, said her daughter, Pamela Adler Golden of Goldens Bridge, N.Y.
        Ms. Adler, who joined George Carmel Inc., maker of women's coats, suits and ensembles, in the mid-1940's, rose to become the company's head designer.

        Elsie May Gross Herzog, an interior designer for more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Larchmont, N.Y.
        She died of cancer, her family said.

        Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old.
Regularly listed as one of the best-dressed women, she acquired a large collection of designer clothes and patterns, part of which is to be shown at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan starting March 16.

        Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old.
Regularly listed as one of the best-dressed women, she acquired a notable collection of antique and designer clothes and patterns.
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Mary McFadden, the fashion designer.
She was divorced from Donald Arenth, a designer who died last year.
"
        In addition to modeling, she also pursued careers as a ballet dancer, a photographer, a fashion designer and a sculptor.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      

        Han Schroeder, an architect, interior designer and educator, died on March 20 in the Boerhaave Clinic in Amsterdam.
Her family lived in Schroeder House, a landmark De Stilj house designed in 1924 by the architect Gerrit Rietveld, with whom Ms. Schroeder later worked, in collaboration with her mother, Truss Schroeder-Schraeder, an interior designer.
A native of Fort Worth, Mrs. Macfadden had a first career as an interior designer.
Before running the cultural committee, she worked as an interior designer.
In 1935 she was married to Louis Reynal, an industrial display designer.
Among her other cases were the dispute over Howard Hughes's will and the 1984 trial in which John Z. DeLorean, the sports car designer, was acquitted of cocaine charges.

        Lucretia Speziale Robertson, an interior designer, died on Monday at her home in Montclair, N.J. She was 48 years old.

        Margaretha Ley, chief designer and co-founder of Escada AG, the German women's apparel company known for colorful, highly decorated sportswear, died last Thursday in Munich after a long illness.

        Mollie Parnis, the fashion designer, whose Park Avenue living room was as well known to actors, journalists and Democrats as her Seventh Avenue showroom was to the women who bought her dresses, died yesterday at New York University Hospital.
Miss Parnis, who could neither sketch nor cut nor drape, became the designer.
"
        Turning to movies in 1948, Mrs. Robinson got her first film credit as a costume designer for "Portrait of Jennie.
Correction:  October 31, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Oct. 19 about Anna Johnstone Robinson, a theatrical designer, listed a stage credit for her in error.
Lucinda Ballard, not Mrs. Robinson, was the costume designer for "A Streetcar Named Desire.
The Marquesa, who was widely known as Mimi Herrera, died of heart failure due to complications from cancer, said her son, Reinaldo Herrera, whose wife is the fashion designer Caroline Herrera.
In New York in 1939, she became the designer for Larry Aldrich, a Seventh Avenue manufacturer known for simple, tasteful women's clothing.
