Her second marriage, to the stage manager and lighting designer Ronald Bates, also ended in divorce.
The Sprite in Designer Clothing
        Audrey Hepburn made her American stage and screen debuts in 1951, and two years later her gamin haircut, sylphlike shape and tomboyish but elegant demeanor in "Roman Holiday" made her a star and won her an Oscar.

        Patricia Schepps Vaill, a jewelry designer, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. duPont's first marriage, to Grover Loening, an aviation designer with Orville Wright, ended in divorce.

        Elizabeth Montgomery, a costume and set designer and a founding partner of the design company Motley, died on Saturday at her home in London.

        Vera, the artist and designer whose name has been emblazoned on brightly printed scarves, bed and table linens, draperies and sportswear for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in Ossining, N.Y.
She was a designer of children's furniture and murals when she met and married George Neumann.

        Hannah Troy, an influential women's fashion designer and manufacturer who invented the petite size and introduced modern Italian styles to the United States, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Miami Beach, where she lived.
While her husband was a talented designer of planes, she emerged as the hard-driving supervisor and shrewd manager of the corporate finances.

        Elisabeth Draper, an interior designer in New York for 60 years, died in her sleep at her home in Manhattan on Monday.
"
        She first attracted attention in 1932, as designer of scenery and costumes for Eva Le Gallienne's "Alice in Wonderland.

        Lucinda Ballard, the Broadway costume designer, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
" Correcting an Omission
        Miss Ballard was an energetic champion of the costume designer's importance to a play.
Writing in 1987 about Miss Ballard's role in the history of theatrical costume design, Jeanne T. Newlin, the curator of the Harvard Theater Collection of the Harvard College Library, said: "The costume designer waited far too long for full professional appreciation.
"
        Miss Ballard once described herself, with some understatement, as "a theatrical designer who was quite successful and was noticed, especially for making historical costumes look human rather than museumish.
"
        Her first theater credits were as the scenic and costume designer for a 1937 production of Shakespeare's "As You Like It" at the Ritz Theater in New York.

        Joan Sibley, a fashion designer whose work is included in the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset.
She founded Sibley Coffee Ltd. with a fellow designer, Dory Coffee, in 1966.
Ms. Sibley went on to work as associate designer for Ellen Tracy until 1980, when she left to work as a display designer and sales representative for Yale Burg, an antiques importing company in Manhattan.
Ms. Sibley went on to work as associate designer for Ellen Tracy until 1980, when she left to work as a display designer and sales representative for Yale Burg, an antiques importing company in Manhattan.

        Dolli Tingle Brackett, an artist and designer of Christmas stamps for the Postal Service, died on Dec. 11 in Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk, Conn. She was 82.
Mrs. Brackett, who studied at the Chicago Academy of Fire Arts, was also a painter who exhibited nationally, as well as a designer of books and rugs.
