In 1980, when Mr. Llewellyn told her that he was breaking off their relationship to marry Tatiania Soskin, a fashion designer, she assured the younger couple she would be happy to attend their wedding, and she remained friends with both.

        Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan last night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley.
'' She herself was an exemplar of style, and was described by her peers as ''a truly intellectual designer'' and ''a creator of timeless fashion'' in ready-to-wear clothes.
Her 50th anniversary in fashion, a milestone reached by no other designer in this country, was celebrated in 1992 at a benefit fashion show and dinner at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan.
'' The designer fixed her with an icy glance and said, ''Just what am I to do with that piece of information?
In 1961, she became the first name designer to use an African- American model.

        Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan on Wednesday night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley.
'' She herself was an exemplar of style, and was described by her peers as ''a truly intellectual designer'' and ''a creator of timeless fashion'' in ready-to-wear clothes.
Her 50th anniversary in fashion, a milestone reached by no other designer in this country, was celebrated in 1992 at a benefit fashion show and dinner at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan.
'' The designer fixed her with an icy glance and said, ''Just what am I to do with that piece of information?
In 1961, she became the first name designer to use an African- American model.
''
        At benefits she paraded in bejeweled exuberance, her designer gowns notable for a décolletage that verged on the reckless.
''She was one of the grandes dames of her era,'' the designer John Weitz said yesterday.
Most recently, Ms. Gould published a critically praised memoir, ''Mommy Dressing: A Love Story, After a Fashion'' (Anchor/Doubleday, 1998), a cleareyed recollection of life with her glamorous, remote mother, the fashion designer Jo Copeland.
She is survived by her children: the actor Miguel Ferrer; Maria, a designer; Gabriel, a painter married to Debby Boone; Monsita Teresa; Rafael, a voice-over actor, and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, a dancer.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.

        Edith Lutyens Bel Geddes, a costume designer for theater, ballet and film and a theatrical producer, died on Aug. 16 at her home in Hudson, N.Y. She was 95.
''
        Ms. Lutyens was also a producer of the 1947 Broadway presentation of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Medium'' and ''Telephone,'' working in partnership with the industrial designer Norman Bel Geddes, her husband, and the producer Blevins Davis.

        Jenny Bell Bechtel Whyte, a fashion designer whose creations included dresses made from African printed textiles and clothing made from antique fabrics from three other continents, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Singer Division, a hospital in Manhattan.
In the 1960's, as a designer of junior wear, she went to Kenya and made dresses from African fabrics.

        Marjorie Slaiman, the longtime costume designer for the Arena Stage theater company in Washington, died on Sept. 13 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 77 and lived in Washington.
Working with the Aperture designer Wendy Byrne and others, she helped usher in a more flexible, magazine-influenced design approach, in which pictures might be reproduced across two pages and combined with text.
She was never formally trained as a designer.
In the 1980's she toured the United States with Edmond Felix, a writer, dancer and costume designer, in ''African Folk Tales,'' a blend of stories, dance and mime.

        Maria Bjornson, a designer of sets and costumes for opera, theater and ballet, died at her home in London on Dec. 13.
Actually, she is a second-generation exhibit designer: her father, Richard, created industrial exhibits for trade shows, building them in his garage in Glen Rock, N.J., where the family had moved.
