
        Judith Schwartz, a designer of commercial and residential interiors in New York, died last Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.

        Elissa Ichiyasu, a graphic designer, died at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on April 13.
At her death she was a book designer for Harry N. Abrams Inc., an art-book publisher.

        Lil Picard, an artist and critic whose activities included painting, collage, film and performance as well as a stint as a designer of women's hats, died on Tuesday at her home.
In 1937 she moved to New York City and worked for a while as a hat designer, opening a millinery boutique at Bloomingdale's in 1942.

        Muriel R. Cooper, a graphic designer and professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Thursday at the New England Medical Center in Boston.
"From her earliest days as a student and master at the Bauhaus in the 1920's, Anni Albers was an explorer and form giver in textiles," said Jack Lenor Larsen, the New York designer and textile producer.

        Arden Fingerhut, a prolific designer for the theater whose lighting and stage effects highlighted dozens of Broadway productions in the last 20 years, died yesterday at the North Adams Regional Hospital in North Adams, Mass.

        Sally Milgrim, a designer of women's apparel who with her husband, Charles, owned the Milgrim fashion store on 57th Street for many years, died on Saturday at St. Francis Barry Nursing and Rehabilitative Center in Miami.
Mrs. Milgrim began as a custom designer on the Lower East Side in Manhattan in the early 1920's, moved briefly to Broadway and 72d Street and in 1927 opened the store on 57th Street near Fifth Avenue, where it became one of the area's best-known custom and specialty stores from the 1930's through the 1950's.
"
        Mrs. Paepcke was born in Baltimore and as a young woman worked as an interior designer in Chicago.
In addition to her husband, a novelist and a former editor and executive of WNET, she is survived by two sons, Daniel, a theatrical-lighting designer, of Manhattan, and Alex, an author, of Oak Park Ill., and a sister, Peggy L. Snyder of Manhattan.
      

        Camille Helene Block Lehman, a respected and innovative interior designer, died on Tuesday at her home in Atlanta.
After graduating from the Parsons School of Design at 19, she was hired by the dress and jewelry designer Hattie Carnegie.
But the assignment was eventually switched to a British designer, and the British press reported that the Queen thought the Americans' plans were too expensive.

        By all appearances, this was a great year for Alix Gres, the French fashion designer.
For the French fashion industry, where designer names are often bought and sold without consulting the founders, it is an eerie illustration of how a design house can continue on without its progenitor.
Although some have asked whether there could have been a commercial reason for her daughter's actions, it seems unlikely, given the number of houses in Paris that continue after the designer has died, from Balenciaga to Chanel and Christian Dior, where big-name designers took over the workrooms.
"
        Everyone who wrote about the exhibition discussed the designer in the present tense.

        Mildred Orrick, a designer who gave women's fashion a natural, informal look for more than three decades, died on Dec. 9 at her home in Elliston, Va., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
As a costume designer in the early 40's, she put dancers' leotards in her sketches for Harper's Bazaar as a style that was suitable for wearing off the rehearsal floor.
In 1958, she continued her work under the label of Claire McCardell, a designer and friend of Mrs. Orrick who had died the year before.
In 1963, she became a designer for Villager Clothes, a highly successful line that operated out of Philadelphia.
She started as a costume designer and worked for Natasha Rambova.
She also worked for Norman Bel Geddes, the stage and industrial designer, designing costumes for productions of "Lysistrata" and "Hamlet" in the 1920's and 1930's.
