
        Antoinette Rampinelli Sole, an interior designer, died on Saturday at a convalescent center in Holmdel, N.J. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Leonard Haber, a New York architectural and industrial designer; three sons and a daughter from her marriage to the Texas businessman Clinton Murchison: Clint Murchison 3d, Burk Murchison and Robert Murchison, all of Dallas, and Coke Anne Saunders of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      

        Eleanor Stockstrom McMillen Brown, a leading interior designer and founder of McMillen Inc. one of this country's best-known design concerns, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
'Strong-Minded Vision'
        "Mrs. Brown was a great Victorian lady with amazing taste yet she had a clear, strong-minded vision," said Mark Hampton, the New York interior designer who worked for her for five years.
Between marriages, while she was at the Parsons School, she became close to two people who taught there: the antiques expert William Odom, who first taught her to appreciate fine French furniture and was known as her silent partner, and the designer Grace Fakes whose flair for architectural detail was to account for much of Mrs. Brown's reputation.

        Ruth Morley, a costume designer whose clothes were worn by performers onstage and in films for four decades, died yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.

        Helen Lee Caldwell, a leading designer of children's clothes in Manhattan for three decades under the name Helen Lee, died on Wednesday at Fort Sanders Hospital in Knoxville, Tenn. She was 82 years old and had lived in Knoxville since 1981.
In 1953 she became the first children's designer to win the Coty American Fashion Critics Award, for her designs for Youngland Inc.
As designer and partner of Alyssa, she received a Neiman-Marcus Award in 1958 and the Ethel Traphagen Award in 1970.
In 1919 Bolm choreographed "The Birthday of the Infanta" for Miss Page, one of the first 20th-century ballets with a score by an American composer (John Alden Carpenter) and scenery by an American designer (Robert Edmond Jones).
She married the French artist and stage designer Andre Delfau in 1983.

        Tatiana du Plessix Liberman, the leading hat designer for Saks Fifth Avenue for 20 years, died yesterday at New York Hospital.
"
        In 1942, the designer married Alexander Liberman, an artist and editorial director of Conde Nast Publications.
His brilliant career as a stage director and designer and co-director of the Bayreuth Festival was cut short by his death in 1966.
Her first marriage, to Igor Cassini, the designer, ended in divorce.
(Oleg Cassini, the designer, is Igor Cassini's brother.
She also worked for Saks Fifth Avenue as an accessories designer for Sophie Gibel.

        Candy Jernigan, a painter, sculptor and set designer, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.

        Carol Rubinstein Schickel, a television producer and theatrical lighting designer, died on Saturday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles.
She was a lighting designer for several regional theaters, including the Williamstown (Mass.
" On Broadway she was the assistant lighting designer for "Jesus Christ, Superstar," "Pippin" and a 1982 revival of "Othello.

        Simone Yellen Feldman, an interior designer, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
"
        In 1941, Miss Tierney eloped with Oleg Cassini, the well-known couturier and her own wardrobe designer.
