She also was director emeritus of the Fryer Research Center, an outpatient clinic in the former Murray Hill Hospital on East 40th Street in Manhattan.
She founded the nonprofit center in 1971 to help people who could not otherwise afford such treatment, and remained its director until a few months ago.
She served as executive director of the White House Commission on the Status of Women during the Kennedy Administration.
in the late 1930's and joined its national office as associate director of research in 1942.
In 1961, she was enlisted to help prepar the President's Commission on the Status of Women and became is executive director under Eleanor Roosevelt and Esther Peterson.
She came to national attention as executive director of the San Antonio Housing Authority, where she championed amenities like balconies for every apartment.

        Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
But when her health took a turn for the worse in November, her successor, William Mason, took over as director.
A champion of the arts in Southern California, she served as public relations director for such Los Angeles organizations as the Greek Theater Association, the Hollywood Bowl, the Free Shakespeare Festival and the Los Angeles Ballet.
She worked as a magazine caption writer, an administrator at the Downtown Community School and as the director of the June Taylor School before moving on to Clark Center in 1970.
''
        She served as director of company up to her death.
      

        Catherine Scorsese, the mother of the film director Martin Scorsese, who cast her in several of his films, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Miss Daniels was a director of the Admiralty/Finance Forum, an organization she co-founded in 1986 to bring together maritime financiers, admiralty lawyers and ship owners to discuss issues affecting the shipping industry.

        Ruth Brinkmann, an actress and director who was a founder of the English Theater in Vienna, died there on Jan. 18.
Shortly thereafter, she and her husband, Franz Schafranek, a director and dramaturge, founded the English Theater in a small space in the Archduke Karl Palace.

        Janet Hayes Walker, the founder and producing director of the York Theater Company, an Off Broadway theater known for its revivals of American musicals from the recent past, died on Feb. 20 at Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Later she worked as a director and a producer, before opening the York Theater, paying for its first work with a $50 gift from the church rector.

        Beatrice Brown, the longtime music director and conductor of the Ridgefield Symphony Orchestra, died on Feb. 11 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 79,  and lived in Norwalk, Conn.
        Ms. Brown began her career as a violist and then became a student of the German conductor Hermann Scherchen.
Before coming to Ridgefield, Ms. Brown was music director and conductor of the Scranton Philharmonic (now the Northeastern Pennsylvania Philharmonic) for 10 years.
The couple moved to the Deep South in 1954, when Mr. Morris was appointed a vicar in Dillon, S.C.
        At the end of 1958, they moved to Atlanta, where Mr. Morris became the executive director of the newly formed Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, a group that supported the civil rights movement and addressed segregation within the Episcopal Church.
Ms. Cohan, who was the broadcast creative director at the agency, had ultimate responsibility for the production of its television and radio commercials, working with the creative director and creative team.
Ms. Cohan, who was the broadcast creative director at the agency, had ultimate responsibility for the production of its television and radio commercials, working with the creative director and creative team.
She rejoined the agency in 1986 as the director of broadcast production and was promoted to broadcast creative director in 1993.
She rejoined the agency in 1986 as the director of broadcast production and was promoted to broadcast creative director in 1993.
In 1974 she moved to Grey Advertising as vice president, production group head, and she joined Saatchi & Saatchi Compton nine years later as executive vice president, director of broadcast production, before returning to McCann-Erickson.
In 1981, Mrs. Hershey was named president and editorial director of a new multimedia subsidiary of The Journal's parent company, the Charter Publishing Company.

        Leanne Katz, who served as executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship since its creation more than 20 years ago, died at her New York home Sunday, after a three-year battle with cancer.
Roz Udow, the coalition's director of education and public affairs, said it worked on more than a hundred individual cases a year, most of them involving efforts to ban works because their content is considered sexual, profane -- as is becoming increasingly common -- a reference to Satan.
The newspaper study ''Changing Needs of Changing Readers,'' published in 1979, had ''an electrifying effect on the news business,'' said Lee Stinnett, executive director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which commissioned it in an effort to assess why circulation was declining.
''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers.
Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.
At the time of her death, she was education adviser to Mayor Richard J. Riordan, director of a national urban school reform organization, and a candidate in Tuesday's local election for a commission that will help rewrite the city charter.
In 1992 Ms. Woodhull became a trustee of the Freedom Forum, and in 1996 she became a senior vice president and executive director of the Media Studies Center, a unit of the Freedom Forum that focuses on media issues and journalism research.
Ms. Johnson also served for three years as director of the Storm King Art Center in Mountainville, N.Y.
      
''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show.

        Elizabeth Tweedy Streibert, associate director of an international exhibition program at the Museum of Modern Art for 19 years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
A stint at the Suffolk Health Department prompted a job offer, and she became director of reproductive care for six years.

        Mary D. Keyserling, an economist who made women and children the focus of her work in and out of government, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in McLean, Va. She was 87 and had been director of the Labor Department's Women's Bureau during the era of feminist ferment in the 1960's.
As director of the Women's Bureau until 1969, Dr. Keyserling was in the forefront of efforts to obtain and enforce Federal legislation banning sex discrimination in employment.
''She absolutely dominated the field of plant anatomy and morphology for several decades,'' said Dr. Peter Raven, director of the Missouri Botanical Garden.

        Frances Foster, a character actress, a stage director and a founding member of the Negro Ensemble Company, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 73 and had homes in Manhattan and in Far Rockaway, Queens.
The other honors she received included one of the company's Adolph Caesar awards in 1987 and two of the annual Audelco Awards, which honor achievement in black theater: a best actress award in 1978 for ''Do Lord Remember Me,'' and a best director award for 1983 for ''Hospice.
The corporate boards she was on over the years included those of the Mobil Corporation, Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, Trans World Airlines, Revlon, Inc., Harte-Hanks Communications, the Hanes Corporation and the Bendix Corporation
        During her career, she was also a director of nonprofit institutions including Oberlin College, Howard University and Tuskegee Institute.
It was a period when women were in policy-making positions at NBC, and Ms. Meserand was a protegee of Margaret Cuthbert, director of talks, and Bertha Brainard, director of programming.
It was a period when women were in policy-making positions at NBC, and Ms. Meserand was a protegee of Margaret Cuthbert, director of talks, and Bertha Brainard, director of programming.
She was the director of promotions for the 10 Hearst stations, and the ''Musical Clock Girl'' on WGBS, the station that was the forerunner of WINS in New York City.
She left Hearst in 1937 and became assistant news director of WOR, making her one of the first women in radio to assign reporters and shape the news broadcast.
Mrs. Bartlett was the daughter of William Fortune, who for many years was president of the Indianapolis Telephone Company as well as other telephone companies and a director of Eli Lilly and Company.
In February 1979 she was appointed New York State's director of the division of investments and cash management, a job that included the management of the state's $16 billion common retirement fund.
Her students included Charles Repole, the musical comedy director; Elizabeth Keen, the choreographer, and the actors Andre Braugher and Kelly McGillis.
Robert Bishop, an art dealer and collector and later the director of the American Museum of Folk Art (in Manhattan), is credited with discovering Miss O'Kelley, a story he recounted in 1989 in the introduction to the book ''Mattie Lou O'Kelley: Folk Artist.
'' In 1975, he was in Atlanta to lecture about quilts at the High Museum, and Gudmund Vigtel, the director of the museum, told him about a ''painting lady'' from Maysville, Ga., who had traveled to Atlanta by bus to show him her pictures.
'' He immediately canceled his flight back to Detroit, where he was director of publications at the Henry Ford Museum, and drove 50 miles to find the artist, tracking her down in her one-room cabin in sleepy Maysville.

        Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        Betsy Howell, as she was known, was a director of Goddard Riverside, a community center for people in need, for five decades.
She organized its fund-raising benefits until 1969.
        International House named her its first director of hospitality in 1952.
Lincoln Kirstein, the New York City Ballet's director, once called them ''legs like luminous wax.
At her death, Dr. Fleischner was director of the college's Program on the Learning and Physically Disabled as well as principal investigator in its Research Institute on Learning Disabilities.
She performed in 81 plays at Long Wharf, many of them directed by her husband, Arvin Brown, the company's longtime artistic director.
''
        Mr. Bishop said that for a single play at Playwrights Horizons, Ms. Merrill would sometimes represent the playwright, the director and all three designers.
She held positions on the legal staff in the Veterans Administration and was a director of the V.A.
Dr. Munk, who was director of child and adolescent psychiatry services at the hospital, would personally examine the children entrusted to her care, as well as their mothers, for signs of abuse, including marks on their bodies.
In 1944, she went to England and Sweden to help direct the Joint Distribution Committee's refugee programs, and then became the first female director of the organization's operations in France.
They moved to Israel in 1953, and she was director of the agency's Malben Homes for the aged and the handicapped there.
Ms. Browne was also the artistic director of the Aristaccato Tap Company, a group of inner-city Bronx youths to whom she had taught tap and jazz technique, performing skills and history at the school she founded in the borough.
Miss Blane was married to Norman Foster, an actor and director, who directed her in ''Charlie Chan at Treasure Island.
As a graduate student, she worked at Harvard University with Henry Bigelow, the founder and first director of Woods Hole.
'' After leaving the circus, she went to work at M-G-M studios in Hollywood, rising from messenger to director of special promotions.
Mrs. Jablow was director of visual merchandising for Bloomingdale's from 1974 to 1976, design director of House Beautiful magazine from 1977 to 1978 and art director of L'Officiel magazine from 1982 to 1984.
Mrs. Jablow was director of visual merchandising for Bloomingdale's from 1974 to 1976, design director of House Beautiful magazine from 1977 to 1978 and art director of L'Officiel magazine from 1982 to 1984.
Mrs. Jablow was director of visual merchandising for Bloomingdale's from 1974 to 1976, design director of House Beautiful magazine from 1977 to 1978 and art director of L'Officiel magazine from 1982 to 1984.
After her work in Scranton, she became director of community services in the Pennsylvania welfare department, working to improve mental health clinics and the training of welfare workers and ministers.

        Pilar Miro Romero, a pioneering female director of movies and television who also fostered Spain's film industry by introducing state aid for promising young filmmakers when she served in the Socialist Government of the 1980's, died at her home here on Sunday.
Her movie ''El Perro del Hortelano,'' an adaptation of a 17th-century Spanish comedy about palace romance, garnered seven prizes, including best director, at this year's Goya Awards, Spain's top film honors.
As the Culture Ministry director of cinema from 1982 to 1985, she began Government subsidies to cash-starved young filmmakers.
Ms. Miro served in his administration, first in the Culture Ministry, then as Director General of state television and radio.
By 1946, she was head of the mathematics branch of the Office of Naval Research, a position that she held until 1949, after which she was deputy director of the entire science division until 1953.
(He was also the author of the novelization of the movie ''King Kong,'' which helps explain why he named his daughter after the movie's director, Merian C.
From 1948 to 1956, she was the director of the B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundation at Hunter College.
She later joined the county executive committee and took on the chore of research director for the Democrats in the State Legislature.
She was a founding member, director and past president of the Society for Cultural Anthropology.
She prided herself on her crown of leonine hair -- Ms. Ephron once introduced ''Dawn Steel and her hair'' at an awards luncheon for women -- and her romantic relationships with such figures as the actor Richard Gere and Martin Scorsese, the director.
In 1961, President Kennedy named her an Assistant Secretary of Labor and Director of the Women's Bureau, an agency that administered the labor laws concerning women.
In 1949 Mrs. Hoffman became a director of the Bank of America, succeeding her father, A.P.
After the family moved to California, the director Robert Z. Leonard heard her singing at a party and was instrumental in having her signed by Metro Goldwyn Mayer.
In 1942 she took on the additional tasks of executive secretary of Friends of the Library and director of its fledgling Sophia Smith Collection.
Sherrill Redmon, director of the collection, called Dr. Grierson ''one of the unsung heroes who made the field of women's history possible.
Mrs. Heller was born in New York City and began her career as director of audience development for the American College Theater Festival.
She then became publicity director for the Act IV Theater in Provincetown.
Ms. Weisenfeld was chief organizer and executive director over 50 years, often working 12-hour days.
