Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became widely known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
Working as the director of the Friends Day Nursery in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn and the Hamilton-Madison House Child Care Center in Lower Manhattan, she became known as an authority on early education and child welfare.
She was a trustee of Barnard, a fellow of Berkeley College at Yale University and a director of the Legal and Education Fund for the National Organization for Women.
Born in Seoul, Ms. Joh attended American missionary schools and graduated from Ewha Women's University, where she eventually became director of the music department after earning a master's degree in music at the University of Michigan.
Ms. Dennis was summoned to Hollywood in 1951 by the director William A. Wellman, who cast her as a lead in ''Westward the Women,'' written by Frank Capra and starring Robert Taylor.
For a decade, until shortly before her death, Ms. Zion was the deputy director of the Bureau of Senior Services, Resources and Partnerships at the New York City Department for the Aging.
Eventually she sought legal advice and was directed to Jim Harrington, director of the Texas Civil Rights Project, who filed suit on Ms.
She was its executive director from 1977 to 1984 and from 1993 to 1994; at her death she was its chairwoman emeritus.
From 1965 to 1971 she was managing director of the Housing Association of Delaware Valley and, from 1967 to 1968, a consultant for the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
Her performance in the film moved its director, William Wyler, to tell The New York Times that she was the most promising young actress he had ever directed.
She was named director of the Women's Army Corps, Regular Army, which gave enlistees a chance to try for any noncombat position and provided for an initial peacetime strength of 18,000.
She became its first executive director in 1965 and oversaw its growth into a national organization, known as WICS.
She became Air WAC staff director, in charge of WAC personnel assigned to both the Eighth and Ninth Air Forces, and was on duty during the V-1 and V-2 bombardments of London.
In March 1945 she was named WAC director for the European Theater, commanding 6,000 members, the largest WAC contingent outside the United States.
She joined the university's faculty in 1972 and from 1973 to 1985 was director of undergraduate studies at N.Y.U.
''She was very well loved down here,'' said R. Rex Stephenson, artistic director of the Blue Ridge Dinner Theater in Virginia, who cast Dr. McCaslin in several shows, including a production of ''Steel Magnolias'' last year.
In 2001, she joined Rodale publications as vice president and editorial director.
The next year she was editorial director of Primedia's consumer magazine and media group, and at her death was editorial director of Consumers Union.
      
The next year she was editorial director of Primedia's consumer magazine and media group, and at her death was editorial director of Consumers Union.
      
Her first husband was the film director Horst Hächler.
''Geraldine had a vision of the kind of store she wanted to create,'' said Jean Rosenberg, who was the vice president and merchandising director at Bendel's from six months before Ms. Stutz's arrival in 1957 to their joint departure in 1986, after the store was sold to The Limited.
''She recognized that fashion was more than just about clothing; it was about lifestyle and how one lives,'' said Joan Kaner, the fashion director of Neiman Marcus, who worked under Ms. Stutz from 1967 to 1976.
There she served as deputy director of the Human Rights Institute at the University of Central America, where six Jesuit priests and two others were assassinated in 1989.
In 1999 she became director of the Due Process of Law Foundation in Washington.
She was later artistic director of Theater of the Open Eye, a New York-based company founded by the choreographer Jean Erdman and her husband, the mythologist Joseph Campbell.
When World War II separated Ms. Fitzgerald from her husband, then back in England, she stayed in Los Angeles with their son, Michael Lindsay-Hogg, later to become an acclaimed film, television and Broadway director.
In 1982, she received her only Tony nomination, as a director, for ''Mass Appeal.
Tom Vander Ark, executive director of the foundation's education program, credited Mrs. Hall's inspiration.
Dame Cicely was St. Christopher's medical director from its founding in 1967 until 1985, then served as chairwoman till 2000, when she took the title of president.
Her travels in the United States greatly encouraged the movement here, said Patricia Farrington, director of the Pax Christi Hospice program at St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers in New York.

        Elizabeth C. Beine, a retired director of New York City's Bureau of Child Welfare, who for more than a decade oversaw one of the largest child welfare programs in the world, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Beine (pronounced BYE-nee) was the director of the bureau, then part of the city's Department of Welfare, from 1962 to 1975.
After retiring as bureau director in 1975, she became an executive with the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
From 1980 to 1982, she was the women's athletic director at Stephen F. Austin.
Her second husband, Windsor Lewis, a theater director, died before her.
Mrs. Malkin apparently died in her sleep, said Eric Holzenberg, the director of the Grolier Club of New York, the bibliophilic organization, which announced the death.
For 18 years, from 1963 to 1981, she was the executive director of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society.
Dr. Justine M. Carr, a hematologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and a former director of the hematology lab there, said Dr. Kruskall began to research the viability of erythropoietin in the 1980's, helping to prove its effectiveness and determine dosages.
She arrived at Beth Israel in 1976 and remained for the rest of her career, ultimately serving as director of the division of laboratory and transfusion medicine.
For the last 14 years, Ms. Wilson worked as the director of a preschool in Alexandria.
She was previously the organization's political director.
The family moved to the United States, where Mr. Yard became the director of religious activities for Northwestern University -- until he angered superiors there with his work as a civil rights and labor organizer.
In 1987, Patricia Blau Reuss, who was the legislative director for the Women's Equity Action League at the time, told The Washington Post what it was like to lobby members of Congress with Ms. Yard as a bargaining chip:
        ''We would say, 'Look, you either deal with me or you have to answer to Molly,''' Ms. Reuss said.

        Sara Levi-Tanai, the choreographer and founding director of Inbal Dance Theater, whose pioneering mix of Yemenite Jewish traditions and contemporary dance long made it Israel's premier dance company, died on Monday in Ramat Gan, Israel.
Her death was announced by Chaim Shiran, Inbal's director general, The Jerusalem Post said.
In 1991 she was ousted as artistic director of Inbal, and the company was eventually made part of a larger organization, the Inbal Interdisciplinary Ethnic Center.
She also worked at the Environmental Protection Agency as director of civil rights and urban affairs and director of environmental justice before retiring in 1996 to sell life insurance.
She also worked at the Environmental Protection Agency as director of civil rights and urban affairs and director of environmental justice before retiring in 1996 to sell life insurance.
In her early 20's she became publicity director for the Music Corporation of America, then worked for several other companies before forming Betty Lee Hunt Associates in 1950, which represented ''House of Flowers'' and ''The Zoo Story,'' the first of four Edward Albee plays she publicized.
''She was fed up,'' said Elaine Steele, a longtime friend and executive director of the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development.

        R. Gaynor McCown, the executive director of the Teaching Commission, a bipartisan advocacy group of leaders in business, government, philanthropy and education, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She was a trustee of the Center for Employment Opportunities and a director of New York City Outward Bound.
Making only sporadic returns to New York, she continued performing in the Chicago area and inspired dedicated students, among them John Neumeier, now the director of the Hamburg Ballet.
In Hollywood, she met the British playwright and director Benn W. Levy, who was there to do a script.
Efraim Zuroff, director of the Israeli center, said he believed the death had been noted in some German papers.
Less than a year later, thanks to Jerry Wald's involvement, ''The Best of Everything'' was released as a chic but heavy-handed film by 20th Century Fox and the director Jean Negulesco.
She retired from Ballantine in 2001 as a senior vice president and editorial director.
