As the daughter of Lee Strasberg, the director of the Actors Studio, and the acting coach Paula Miller, Ms. Strasberg spent her childhood surrounded by celebrated figures of the American theater, people who were, she said, ''supremely talented, alive, sensitive, eccentric, and some were neurotic and miserable.
He and his wife had tried to talk to her about the interpretation of the role, but then left her to work on her own and with her director, Garson Kanin.
During the 1950's, she worked as an advertising director for Cambridge University Press of New York.
She was the bureau's deputy chief from 1958 to 1964 and became assistant to the director of the Public Health Service in a reorganization in 1969.
Before joining the education faculty at Harvard University in September, Dr. Hawkins established her reputation through her work as director of the Center for Children and Technology, an agency founded in 1981 by the Bank Street College of Education in New York.
Her son, Jack Kosslyn, an acting teacher and casting director, said she died at the Jewish Home for the Aging in Los Angeles, where she had lived for the last 14 years.
Ms. Cooper, associate director of the society's performing arts and public programs, also praised Indrani's role as a producer of concerts in New York by younger Indian dancers.
Its protagonist, a retired theatrical director trying to win back his first love, is not so much evil as simply self-absorbed and dangerously certain of his limited view of the world.
In 1938, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed Mrs. Max -- known as Pearl Bernstein for much of her career -- as the first administrative director of New York City's Board of Higher Education.
Ms. Boylan and her co-owner, Rowie Edelman, plan to read the prospectus on the joint venture, which Michael F. Hoynes, the association's new marketing director, says is ''like True Value Hardware,'' a way for the little guys to ''come together but keep their identity.
She was also executive director and president of the American Nurses Association, which inducted her into its Hall of Fame last year, and was a board member of the International Council of Nurses, which honored her with its highest award, the Christiane Reimann Prize, in 1997.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
Harriet West tried to ease their distress after she was promoted to major and named an aide to the WAC director, Col. Oveta Culp Hobby.
A graduate of Kansas State University, she worked during the Depression as an aide to Mary McLeod Bethune, the director of the National Youth Administration's Division of Negro Affairs and later a civilian adviser to the WAC.
''We emphasize comedy,'' she said one day in 1976 as she discussed her show, which began Off Broadway in 1962 and continued for at least two decades in various productions, tours and revivals with Ms. Corio as author, director, star and interlocutor.
She withdrew her support from Batsheva in 1974 after the company refused to hire as its director Jeannette Ordman, her protegee and the head of Bat-Dor.
She was scheduled to receive a Humanitarian Award in June from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which will now be given posthumously, said Fern Mallis, the council's executive director.
''
        When she returned to music she worked with Gillespie and with Quincy Jones, who was the music director of the television show ''Free and Easy.
Her 1958 marriage to John Kennedy Magruder, a landscape architect and a director of the Alcoholics Anonymous Men's Home in Alexandria, Va., also ended in divorce.
She had a small role, which she said had been added by the director, playing what she described as a whore.
Recipients have included the playwright A. R. Gurney, for ''The Cocktail Hour''; John Tillinger, the director; Playwrights Horizons, and Lincoln Center Theater for ''Woza Afrika!
''We found a sufficient basis in the facts, combined with our concern with Miss Sapir, to arrive at today's settlement,'' said Bob O'Brien, the managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston.

        Rosemary Valaire, a ballet teacher and a director of the Westside Ballet of Santa Monica, Calif., and a former dancer with the Royal Ballet of England, died on May 7 at her home in Los Angeles.
The cause was a brain tumor, said Jim Brunet, director of public relations at the Westside Ballet.
She served as the institute's director of training from 1960 to 1970.

        Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England.
Ms. Gruson, who lived in Tiverton, was an assistant director with Covent Garden in London and La Fenice in Venice, as well as with opera companies in New York, Hamburg, San Francisco, Seattle and Munich.
She returned to New York in 1962 as director of staff relations for the  Board of Education, where she negotiated what was reported to be the first citywide teachers' contract in the country.
Her course, ''Ingredients, Flavor Dynamics and Techniques of Evaluation,'' was one of the most popular courses, said Gregory Drescher, Greystone's director.
She then served as a ballet mistress for the Royal Danish Ballet and was its associate director from 1978 to 1988.
She then served as a ballet mistress for the Royal Danish Ballet and was its associate director from 1978 to 1988.
That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.

        Patricia Kerr Ross, former director of the State University of New York's Programs in the Arts, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany.
As director of the university-wide arts programs from 1971 to 1991, Ms. Ross was instrumental in producing statewide arts festivals, workshops and exhibitions.
Ms. Ross, who taught arts policy at Empire State College, was also director of the Thayer Fellowship, which supported outstanding SUNY arts graduates in their first year of professional activity.
Miss Foyle, as she always preferred to be called, went to work there when she was 17 and became the managing director when her father died in 1963.
''
        Asked who had been the most boring literary lunch guest, she always told the story of Sir Walter Gilbey, director of the gin-making company.
'' as a favor to the director for casting her in ''Beetlejuice'' as a chain-smoking ghoul, a role she thought was ''great,'' said John Springer, her friend and publicist.
''
        Ms. Zipprodt's costumes for ''The Blacks'' brought her to the attention of Jerome Robbins, who hired her when he made his debut as a director with ''Oh Dad, Poor Dad.

        Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8.
Mr. Cranko named Ms. Woolliams assistant director in 1969, the year the Stuttgart Ballet made its highly acclaimed debut in New York.
''
        After Cranko's death in 1973, Ms. Woolliams staged his ballets around the world and remained in Stuttgart  until 1976 when she was invited to become artistic director of the Australian Ballet.
She served as artistic director of the Vienna State Opera Ballet from 1993 to 1995.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.
Her rise there -- from saleswoman in Boston to director of publicity for Mr. Klein's flagship line -- had been fast, but her achievements were quickly overshadowed by her relationship with Mr. Kennedy, whom she married in 1996.
Paul Wilmot, the former director of publicity for Calvin Klein who hired her, said he had been immediately stuck by her intelligence and poise.
She was promoted to director of publicity of the collection, a job that entailed working with fashion editors as well as coordinating the shows for the line.

        Barbara White Fishman, an art director at advertising agencies who developed breast cancer and became a benefactor of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died Thursday at the center.
Correction:  August 30, 1999, Monday  An obituary last Monday of Barbara White Fishman, an advertising art director and a benefactor of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, misstated the date of her death and the name of an organization for which she was a board member.
In 1961, she was the deputy associate director of the Peace Corps.
''
        Robert J. Thompson, the founding director of the Center for the Study of Popular Television, at Syracuse University, said the Murrays ''literally danced an era out'' by drawing families together for quaint variety acts, before rock-and-roll began to fragment audiences.
''She was an important part of Egypt's movie history,'' said the film director Gulal Sharqawi.
As founder and director of the Isadora Duncan Heritage Society, Miss Garland was often consulted by scholars and performers.
She died from complications from breast cancer, said Meg D'Incecco, the public relations director of Self, a health and fitness magazine for women.
Miss Cullberg and her husband reconciled in 1959 and both joined the new Stockholm City Theater, she as a stage director.
''
        Born in Nykoping, Sweden, on Aug. 3, 1908, Miss Cullberg was the daughter of Ella W. Cullberg and Carl Cullberg, a bank director, and attended the University of Stockholm.
Director, and powerful members of Congress like Representative Francis E. Walter of Pennsylvania, who headed the House Un-American Activities Committee and the Subcommittee on Immigration and Naturalization.
Ms. O'Farrell was often seen in cinematic roles written by her husband, Frank Launder, the British screenwriter and director whose boisterous ''St.
After being educated at a local convent, she was working as a lawyer's secretary when she was invited  to an audition by the film director Sir Carol Reed, who knew her father.
She was also the director of the National Jewish Music Council from 1968 to 1980 and a consultant to the American Jewish Historical Society and to libraries and academic institutions.

        Maria Ley Piscator, a theater arts teacher and director and the widow of the theatrical director Erwin Piscator, died on Oct. 14 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan.

        Maria Ley Piscator, a theater arts teacher and director and the widow of the theatrical director Erwin Piscator, died on Oct. 14 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan.
Ms. Piscator also directed theatrical productions off Broadway and in Europe and was the director and founder of small theater programs in New York for the elderly, children and others.
She began working with the Elysium Theater Company of Munich in the 1980's and in 1993 became the honorary artistic director of Elysium -- Between Two Continents, a Munich-based organization devoted to cultural exchange between the United State and Europe, particularly Germany.
From 1977 to 1983, Ms. Wolff was with the city's Office for Economic Development as its director of commercial revitalization.
She recorded more than 170 albums that were released in 30 countries, and appeared in a dozen films, notably ''Les Amants du  Tage'' (''Lovers of the Tagus''), by the French director Henri Verneuil.
In 1989, three years after her husband's death, not having performed in concert for 15 years, Mrs. Durufle agreed to participate in a Durufle Festival in New York organized by her former student, Dennis Keene, the organist, conductor and artistic director of Voices of Ascension.

        Jeraldyne Blunden, the founder and artistic director of the Dayton Contemporary Dance Company, died on Monday at the Franciscan Medical Center in Dayton, Ohio.
The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contemporary Dance.
Mrs. Slatkin worked as an editor and for several years as executive director of the Iranian Institute of Art and Archaeology.
Believing that she had nowhere to go but to the top, as she told Roger Aujame, a friend and former Corbusier Foundation director who is working on a catalog of her works, Ms. Perriand sought a job at Le Corbusier's studio.
Believing that she had nowhere to go but to the top, as she told Roger Aujame, a friend and former Corbusier Foundation director who is working on a catalog of her works, Ms. Perriand sought a job at Le Corbusier's studio.

        Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital.
Kraft was the co-founder and director of the U.S.T.A.
The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director of the Battery Dance Company in New York.
Mrs. Mansell, a native of San Francisco, lived in New York before retiring to Jupiter Island, Fla. She was chairwoman of the Freedom Institute and a director of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependency.

        Lucile Petry Leone, the founding director of the United States Cadet Nurse Corps, which recruited more than 100,000 young women to study nursing and helped spare the country of the need to draft nurses in World War II, died on Nov. 25 at an assisted-living center in San Francisco.

        Eleanor Brussel, the founder and former director of the Horace Mann School for Nursery Years in Manhattan, died on Sunday at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx.
She became director of the school, and when Bank Street College decided to close it, she moved it to East 90th Street under a new name, the New York School for Nursery Years.
She retired as director in 1982.
