Le Clercq acknowledged a tumultuous ovation at the New York State Theater from her wheelchair as Peter Martins, the company's artistic director, presented her with a bouquet.
''
        At a time when few women were represented in the boardrooms of major American corporations, Mrs. McIntosh was a director of several companies, schools, foundations and civic groups.
She was the Turlock High School adult education choral director and later became involved in the Boy and Girl Scouts and local organizations and charities.
Simon Doonan, creative director at Barneys New York, credited Ms. Ball with introducing conceptual designers like Azzedine Alaia into Barneys stores outside Manhattan and helping to reaffirm the chain's image as a daring retailer.
In 1945 she was hired by Belle da Costa Greene, the first director of the Morgan, to catalog the library's collection of drawings and was soon named curator of drawings and prints.
James J. Rorimer, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1955 to 1967, observed in 1961: ''The Schaeffers are among the most serious, knowledgeable and helpful art dealers who are enabling American museums to grow for the benefit of our public.
About two years later, Mrs. Nauts went to the medical director of Dr. Coley's hospital and said she thought that her father's work deserved reappraisal.
An expert in schizophrenia, she worked at the New York City Department of Correction for 20 years with female offenders and was medical director of the Alfred Adler Mental Hygiene Clinic in Manhattan.
As director of the Norwegian National Ballet from 1966 to 1970, she introduced several ballets by George Balanchine into the repertory, produced the first complete Oslo versions of ''Swan Lake'' and ''La Sylphide'' and was knighted for her services by King Olaf V.
        She became director of the San Diego Ballet in 1971.
As director of the Norwegian National Ballet from 1966 to 1970, she introduced several ballets by George Balanchine into the repertory, produced the first complete Oslo versions of ''Swan Lake'' and ''La Sylphide'' and was knighted for her services by King Olaf V.
        She became director of the San Diego Ballet in 1971.
Steven Latham, director of the documentary, suggested it was something like the last Holocaust survivor dying.
As a scholar, ''she was one of the few Americans that got into Vietnam before the American buildup there'' in the mid-60's, said Douglas Pike, a historian and director of research at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University.
''
        When her death was announced by the Royal Ballet, Sir Anthony Dowell, the company's director, offered a tribute to Madam, as Dame Ninette was known to generations of dancers: ''Through her achievements she will remain a source of inspiration and encouragement as she has been throughout her life to so many of us as dancer, choreographer, director, teacher and mentor.
''
        When her death was announced by the Royal Ballet, Sir Anthony Dowell, the company's director, offered a tribute to Madam, as Dame Ninette was known to generations of dancers: ''Through her achievements she will remain a source of inspiration and encouragement as she has been throughout her life to so many of us as dancer, choreographer, director, teacher and mentor.
Dame Ninette, who was made a Dame of the British Empire in 1951, remained its director only until 1963.
''
        Joseph Mankiewicz, the Academy Award-winning director who cast Ms. Sothern in her best role, as the soap opera-writing wife of Kirk Douglas in ''A Letter to Three Wives'' (1949), said of her: ''Poor Annie.
Ms. Sothern's bit part let Lindsay Anderson, the director who would be making ''The Whales of August,'' know that Ms. Sothern was still alive.
Dr. Payton was director of the Peace Corps from September of 1977 until November 1978.
She also worked as an overseas country director, supervising 130 volunteers working on projects on eight islands in the eastern Caribbean.
Dr. Payton was forced to resign after disputes with Sam Brown, the director of Action, the umbrella agency that then oversaw the Peace Corps and domestic volunteer programs.
''As director, I could not, because of the peculiar administrative structure under which the Peace Corps operates, do anything about this situation.
After resigning as Peace Corps director, she again returned to Howard to become dean of counseling services from 1980 to 1995.
She participated in the activities of several museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Morgan Library, where she was a member of the director's round table and the visiting committee of the department of drawings and prints.

        Wendy A. Rives, director of the often tumultuous psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, died on March 24 at New York University Medical Center.
As director of the comprehensive psychiatric emergency program at Bellevue, she oversaw the initial evaluation of 7,000 patients a year, about half of whom were admitted for treatment.
Dr. Manuel Trujillo, Bellevue's director of psychiatry, said that many of those admitted suffered from two major psychiatric disorders and were among ''the most severely mentally ill patients in the city.
She is survived by her sons, Gary Cookson, an actor in New York, and Tony Cookson, a writer and director in Santa Monica, Calif.; two stepchildren, Peter Cookson Jr. of Irvington, N.Y., and Jane Coopland of Hawaii; a brother, Michael Straight of Chicago, a former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.

        Graziella Sciutti, an Italian soprano and opera director whose purity of sound and deft characterizations won her admiration in Mozart, Puccini and Verdi roles, died on Monday in Geneva.
In 1977 Ms. Sciutti sang in and directed a production of Poulenc's ''Voix Humaine'' at Glyndebourne, preparing her way to give up the stage and become a director.

        Ann Tanneyhill, a counselor who was the National Urban League's director of vocational services from 1947 to 1961, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass.
It was there that she met Dr. Homer A. Thompson, assistant director of the Agora excavation, whom she married that same year.
She was acting director of the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology in 1946 and went on to hold visiting professorship or lectureship at Bryn Mawr, Princeton and Oberlin and at the University of Sydney.
She was an advisory director of the Metropolitan Opera.
and was a founding director of its Research Center for Human Relations.
She met her husband, Tom Lee, in 1937 when she joined Bonwit Teller, where he was then display director.
She was the stage manager and technical director for the companies of Martha Graham and José Limón and the New York City Ballet.
She was also the touring lighting designer and technical director for City Ballet as well as American Ballet Theater and Jerome Robbins's  Ballets: U.S.A. She is thought to have been the first American stage manager to work on programs at the Paris Opera, Rome Opera and La Scala.
She was a major collaborator with Frank Corsaro, the opera director, in the mid-1970's, helping to develop  systems to meld lighting, film and projections in multimedia productions for the New York City Opera and Opera Society of Washington.
After the war, when she had begun acting in films, she married a prominent director, Georgi Daneliya.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
Dr. Bertram Cohler, director of Chicago's psychology department, said: ''While much of her work focused on the second half of life, she viewed older lives in terms of both earlier life experiences and social context, which led to her interest in emphasizing that social policy must be based in terms of need, not age.
In 1958, she became director of Chicago's graduate training program in aging.
Dr. Sanger collaborated with its director, Dr. Race, on ''Blood Groups in Man,'' which became known as ''Race and Sanger'' and something of a bible for transfusion specialists.
She succeeded him as director of the blood group unit in 1973 and retired 10 years later.

        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan.
In 1968, she became the first director of Beth Israel Medical Center's midwifery program, which was one of the first of its kind.
Serving as its director until 1983, Ms. Roy taught midwifery and instructed medical students from Yale University.
She rose to creative director.
At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market.
Then she was approached by a director of the Pasadena Playhouse, who by chance had seen her perform in a college production and offered her a scholarship.
By 1957 she had been though another divorce and remarriage, this time to the actor and director Alfred Ryder, by whom she had another daughter, Rachel.
By 1979, however, she was back in New York as artistic director of a troupe of actors in a small theater in SoHo.
Mr. Dubé, the executive director of Career Transition for Dancers, bounds into the room, jiggling coins that he found on the floor.
By 1980, Ms. Reagan was director of an organization called Sell Overseas America, which promoted American products abroad, a position she resigned two years later to pursue her Senate campaign.

        Isadora Wexler Quinlan, the executive director of the Books for Kids Foundation, a nonprofit literacy organization, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Over the years she was also director of public relations and organizational development of the Association of International Junior Leagues, senior warden of the Church of the Holy Trinity on the Upper East Side, and on the board of the Foreign Policy Association.
      
The cause was gall bladder cancer, said Tracy Van Slyke, spokeswoman for the National Training and Information Center, of which Ms. Cincotta was executive director.
One of the most influential teachers of early Graham technique, she was director of contemporary dance studies at the London school until 1991, retiring from it in 1998.
The film earned an Academy Award for best picture, and Mr. Kazan received his first Oscar as best director.
With Jed Harris as the director, the play was recast with Basil Rathbone as the father and Wendy Hiller as the daughter.
The unusual system worked because, as Mrs. Ash put it, ''each sales director thinks 'I'm helping her but someone else is helping my recruits in other cities.
She laid the foundations of the center's collections as the wife of Cornell Capa, an international photographer and its founding director emeritus.
The unusual system worked because, as Mrs. Ash put it, ''Each sales director thinks, 'I'm helping her, but someone else is helping my recruits in other cities.
Dr. Kleber, a psychiatrist who is the director of the Division on Substance Abuse at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, said his wife was the first research scientist since Freud to use controlled scientific experiments with humans to directly examine cocaine's effects.
''She was tickled pink,'' the director Joel Schumacher, a friend since the 1960's, said of her new visibility.
''She gave us fashion credibility,'' said Dennis Leggett, the creative director at Old Navy, a division of Gap.
Her bête noire was Sir Hugh Carleton Greene, the BBC's liberal director general from 1960 to 1969, whom she called ''the Devil incarnate.
At Disney he had worked as an art director on ''Bambi,'' ''Dumbo,'' ''Pinocchio,'' and ''The Rite of Spring'' episode of ''Fantasia.
''A Megan Boyd fly is a $1,000 fly,'' said Gary Tanner, director of the American Museum of Fly Fishing in Manchester, Vt.
        Rosina Megan Boyd, the youngest of three children, is believed to have been born in England on Jan. 29, 1915.
