In 45 years there, she held several positions, including director of pediatric cardiology.
She was 14 when she made her professional debut at a local radio station in Jamestown and was still a teenager when a program director at a radio station in Fargo gave her a job and her stage name.
In the 1970's she stepped into public life to protest Sweden's income tax laws, which sent self-employed artists like Mrs. Lindgren and the director Ingmar Bergman reeling under a staggering tax burden.
Nela, as she was known, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, the daughter of Emil Mlynarski, the founding conductor of the Warsaw Philharmonic and later director of the Warsaw Opera.
In 1999, when Mrs. Kempner had her 100th birthday, she was made an honorary director of The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary, a Manhattan hospital with which she had ties for five decades.
She was 50 and had lived in Tel Aviv since Mr. Naharin, her husband and an internationally known choreographer, became artistic director of Batsheva 12 years ago.
When Mr. Naharin, who was born in Israel, became Batsheva's artistic director in 1990, Ms. Kajiwara joined the company as both dancer and rehearsal director.
When Mr. Naharin, who was born in Israel, became Batsheva's artistic director in 1990, Ms. Kajiwara joined the company as both dancer and rehearsal director.
In the last days of the war, Ewald von Demandowsky, a Nazi film director with whom she was in love, led her out of Berlin.
She later married David Anthony Palastranga, an actor and director, with whom she had a daughter, Christina.
The cause was breast cancer, said Kris Moran, director of publicity for Scholastic, Ms. Hamilton's publisher.
That December, a month after her return to Britain, Lord Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay-Hogg, who had been married to a film director.
''In my opinion, this was the turning point to disaster for the royal family,'' said Harold Brooks-Baker, publishing director of Burke's Peerage, at the time of Group Captain  Townsend's death.
''She was just a great painter, period,'' said Jan Ramirez, director of the New-York Historical Society's museum.
John Hocevar, executive director of Students for a Free Tibet, said she became ill with what were thought to be stomach problems, and her heart failed.
In the 90's she also began teaching jazz history and piano at Cheyney University in Cheyney, Pa., and worked as the musical director for Bill Cosby's short-lived television quiz show, ''You Bet Your Life.
She lived at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J., after spending most of her life in the Bronx, said Donna Trinkoff, producing director of the Amas Musical Theater.
After two years in New York, she returned to Australia as a television researcher and married Mr. Connolly, a director of documentaries and profiles of rural life for public television.
The expressive side of this tradition was well documented in ''Bala,'' a 1976 film about Balasaraswati by the Indian director Satyajit Ray.
One of the first books she worked on as a publicity director at Delacorte Press was ''To Kill a  Mockingbird'' by Harper Lee, with whom she began a lifelong friendship.
She had a long artistic relationship with Mr. Brook, starring opposite John Gielgud in Mr. Brook's production of Seneca's ''Oedipus'' and traveling with the director and his ensemble to Iran with ''Orghast.
''
        It was with Mr. Brook as director that she and Gielgud triumphed in Seneca's ''Oedipus'' in London in 1968.
Miss Ferrer is survived by a sister, Dr. M. Irene Ferrer of Manhattan; and a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor, film director and producer, of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
Documents since obtained under the Freedom of Information Act show that she was singled out for harassment in the McCarthy era because Director J. Edgar Hoover of the F.B.I.
Her father was a Swedish bank director, and her mother was a Russian noblewoman.
After she moved to Mexico City, a minor film director, Fernando Palacios, saw her on the street, persuaded her to consider acting, and helped her obtain her first part, in the 1942 film ''El Peñón de las Ánimas,'' or ''The Rock of the Spirits,'' a rural melodrama modeled loosely on ''Romeo and Juliet.
''Enamorada,'' filmed in 1946, was the first of several in which she was teamed with the director Emilio Fernández and the cameraman Gabriel Figueroa, and which critics have judged her best work.
) was executive director of Concern for Dying for 11 years beginning in 1976, a period in which thorny cases like that of Karen Ann Quinlan, who spent years on life support equipment, provoked deep questioning about how people die.
Katherine Strauss Mali, president of Concern for Dying, hired her as executive director in 1976.
''Nearly single-handedly, she led the pack in the fight to keep Yiddish theater going,'' said Eleanor Reissa, the artistic director of the Folksbiene, for which Mrs. Spaisman was once in charge of productions.
So she went to the Folksbiene, which she had heard about from a Polish director.
Mrs. Spaisman, who lived in Manhattan, supported herself by working as a recreation director at the Jewish Institute for Geriatric Care, first in Manhattan and then in New Hyde Park, N.Y. On a typical day, she left for work at 7 and returned at 5 to cook dinner for her husband and son.
With her death, the three people who long steered the Folksbiene are now gone: Benjamin Schechter, managing director, died in 1994, and Morris Adler, president, died in December at 107.
The program's graduates include Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and 2001 mayoral candidate, and Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
''
        Miss White resigned in 1971 after James W. Brady, formerly publisher of Women's Wear Daily, was appointed publisher and editorial director of Harper's.

        Josephine R. Abady, a theater director who staged plays on and off Broadway and was a leader in the nonprofit theater movement, died on Saturday in her home in Manhattan.
During her career, Ms. Abady was the artistic director of the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge and the Cleveland Playhouse.
After six years as artistic director, she was fired by a board of directors that was apparently unhappy with her nontraditional choice of plays.
She held positions there, at Temple University and at Louisiana State University, where she became director of libraries.
A former director of the reading clinic at the City College of New York, she remained active into her 90's, with several of her books and manuals published or reissued within the last few years.
In 1964 she married Alec Sutherland, a Scot who was then director of broadcasting at the University of Chicago.
In addition to writing, Ms. Wojciechowska was a private detective, a translator for Radio Free Europe, a publicity director for Hawthorn Books and a professional tennis player and instructor.
She was fund-raising director from 1965 to 1980 and director of Friends of the Philharmonic, a fund-raising group, from 1958 to 1980.
She was fund-raising director from 1965 to 1980 and director of Friends of the Philharmonic, a fund-raising group, from 1958 to 1980.
She was executive director of the Coalition of Nurse Practitioners from 1996 to 1998.
Ms. Preiskel was a director of the Washington Post Company, General Electric, Textron, R. H. Macy & Company and Levi Strauss & Company, among others.
' ''
        Mrs. Wattis, whom one museum director called ''California's Brooke Astor,'' came to the arts relatively late.

        Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29.

        Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29.
In 1979, she became executive director, a position she held until 1988.
In 1990, Mrs. Greitzer became the director of placement at the Juilliard School, a position that included arranging performances for students.
Before the 1992 movie about the women's league, United Press International reported that she met with Madonna at the home of Penny Marshall, the director, to discuss the part.
In the words of the director Mike Nichols, ''She sings like Spencer Tracy acts.
''She was a very dedicated director for a great many years and instilled, particularly in her three daughters, a sense of responsibility for the stewardship of The Wall Street Journal.

        Phyllis Weisbart Litoff, co-artistic director of the Belleayre Music Festival in Highmount, N.Y., for the last nine years, died on July 7 at her home in Highmount.
Under the commanding officer, the stage director Joshua Logan, she worked on dozens of productions.
Miss Lynn became director of the new organization, a post she held until 1982.
She was executive director of the American Theater Association from 1982 to 1986.
He later served as managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
Her first husband, Frank Gardiner Wisner, a former deputy director at the Central Intelligence Agency, died in 1965.

        ANNE PASTERNAK, the executive director of Creative Time, is stepping gingerly in beaded flip-flops inside the roofless shell of a 19th-century tobacco warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront.
She is executive director of the arts group Creative Time, not its founder.
      
In addition to dancing solo roles in classical and modern works, while on tour she was an assistant to the company's director, Sergei J. Denham.
Tampa's director, Martin Fredmann, moved west in 1997 to direct the Colorado Ballet, though Ms. Parker and Ms. Covillo continued to be involved.

        Charlotte Schuchardt Read, the former director of the Institute of General Semantics, an educational center and publisher in Brooklyn, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City.
In addition to her duties as director, she was editor of and a contributor to the General Semantics Bulletin.
She was also a director and president of the Sensory Awareness Foundation of Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Read was born on Dec. 7, 1909, in Belleville, Ill. She studied biology at the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in modern dance from the University of Illinois.
      
Working with the late Milton Krents and later with others, Ms. Wyler produced the program, which was broadcast on NBC radio from 1940 to 1985, in her role as director of public relations, radio and television at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan, where she worked for more than 50 years.

        Doris Wishman, a prolific independent director of truly tasteless movies -- from nudist camp romps to the cult classic ''Bad Girls Go to Hell'' -- died on Aug. 10 in Miami.
Miss Wishman has been called the female Ed Wood, the legendary director of ''B'' movies.
Joe Bob Briggs, the drive-in movie critic, called her ''the greatest female exploitation director in history.

        Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant.
In the words of Philip Hedley, the current director of the Theater Royal, she ''loved conflict, enjoyed provoking, and could demolish people -- and then make them a meal in the green room.

        Stephanie Reinhart, an innovative arts administrator who had an international impact in promoting new trends in contemporary dance as co-director of the American Dance Festival and as co-artistic director for dance at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, died on Monday in Manhattan.
Ms. Reinhart usually worked in tandem with her husband, who became the festival's director in 1969 after a pioneering career, begun in the 1950's, in producing and managing modern dance companies as well as developing dance projects for the National Endowment for the Arts and State Department cultural exchange programs.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
He was the first director of the Hannah Perkins Center.
''In many ways, it was the couple together, Dr. and Mrs. Furman, who made the Hannah Perkins Center what it is today,'' said Barbara Streeter, the center's therapy director.
They were turned away by the gym's director, who news reports said was ''horrified'' by their transgression.
''
        The role of Stella also won her an Academy Award for best supporting actress when the director Elia Kazan adapted his Broadway production to the screen.
''Kathy was an accomplished surface warrior and leader,'' said Rear Adm. Harry Ulrich, director of surface warfare.

        Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and a director of the Hearst Corporation, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.

        Edith Tiger, the director of a civil liberties organization who fought for the rights of people ranging from the victims of McCarthyism to Haitian refugees to rebellious high school students, died on Oct. 22 in Brooklyn.
Ms. Tiger was director of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee from 1968 until it merged into the Center for Constitutional Rights in 1998.
She became director in 1969.
Another match she worked on was that of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Michael M. Kaiser, who took over as president in 2001 after serving as executive director of the Royal Opera House in London.
She was formerly associate director of the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
She was a trustee and past executive director of the Renaissance Society of America, a former trustee of the American Academy in Rome and a former president and life trustee of the Brearley School board.

        Carole Kismaric, an innovative editor and book packager who helped start the Time-Life Photography Series and for 10 years was editorial director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books, died yesterday at her home in New York.
In addition, as publications director of the P.S.
In 1974 Ms. Kismaric collaborated with John Szarkowski, then director of photography at the Museum of Modern Art, on the exhibition ''From the Picture Press.
When she died, she was associate director of the center, which has been influential in shaping other anti-child-abuse programs around the United States.

        Vinnette Carroll, the trailblazing actress, director and playwright who was the first African-American woman to direct a production on Broadway, died Tuesday at her home in Fort Lauderhill, Fla. She was 80.
As a director, she was not only the first black woman to direct on Broadway -- the musical revue ''Don't Bother Me I Can't Cope,'' in 1972 -- but she also brought her best-known show, the gospel-infused ''Your Arms Too Short to Box With God,'' to Broadway on three separate occasions.
Ms. Carroll was also the founder and artistic director of the Urban Arts Corps, a New York-based training and producing organization devoted to supporting black and Hispanic theater and actors.
'' The onetime director of the New York State Ghetto Arts Program, which brought theater and dance to poor neighborhoods, Ms. Carroll also worked in Los Angeles at the Inner City Repertory in the Watts district, presenting classical and modern works.
Her father, Samuel Chotzinoff, was a pianist, critic, general music director of NBC and founder of the NBC Opera Theater (1949-52).
She joined the network in 1983 as director of news information after serving as President Ronald Reagan's special assistant for communications.
''Maria's thorough and careful work left us in very good shape,'' said Joseph Clark, a technical director at the Met.
''
        Ms. Enseki's style ''may seem very low-key, but she is passionate about working to get visibility for her museum,'' said Martin Gomez, who came to know her in the seven years he was director of the Brooklyn Public Library.
''I have to believe that her calm personality is traceable in part to that,'' said Mr. Gomez, now director of the Friends and Foundation of the San Francisco Public Library.

        Anna Hamburger, a longtime director of International Rescue Committee operations in Europe that aided refugees from Soviet bloc nations, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Robert N. Butler, the first director of the National Institute on Aging, said that the dining room table was on the small side and that he believed it was by design, to encourage robust discussion.
Ms. van Hoek performed in many works by Meredith Monk, the composer and director.
