She is survived by her son, Arthur, of New York City, and her half-sister, Angie McCarthy, of Murfreesboro, said Col. William J. Davis, executive director of the MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk.
''
        Scott Appell, who started gardening at 9 in 1963 and is now educational director at the Horticultural Society of New York, emphasized that Miss Miner provided much more than engaging baby-sitting.
Shortly before her graduation from high school, she showed some of her sketches to the director of a Los Angeles ballet company and was hired to make costumes for the next performance.
During her early design years, she was married briefly to Robert Sterner, an art director.
Her voice was authoritative, and she squinted a bit when making an important point, said Richard K. Lieberman, director of the La Guardia and Wagner Archives.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
She worked on Broadway as well, notably as music director of the musical ''Hair,'' a position she took over in 1970.
She became engaged to Feldman, a lawyer and film agent, who is credited with being the first to sell director, actors and other talent as a single package.
Other Sokolow choreography was preserved by the director Shirley Clarke (Martha Clarke's aunt) in two 1957 films, ''Bullfight'' and ''A Moment in Love.
In 1974 she helped found the Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle, remaining for two years as its first artistic director.
Robbins, like Ms. Reed, had transferred from Ballet Theater and become associate artistic director in 1949.
For 11 years she was director of educational materials for the American Heart Association before becoming the founding editor of Scholastic's Lucky Book Club in 1961.
One of the first fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Studies in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Brainard was an artist in residence at Northeastern University and served as a director and chairwoman of the Congress on Research in Dance.

        Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment.
''The company will live on, and Erick and Lucy will live on with us,'' Louis Kavouras, a dancer, rehearsal director and company archivist, said yesterday.
''
        The role that won Miss Kedrova her Oscar as best supporting actress and her Tony for best featured actress in a musical was first offered by the film's Greek director, Michael Cacoyannis, to Simone Signoret.
''
        Her second husband, Richard Howard, a director whom she married in 1969, said that Miss Kedrova, who had no other immediate survivors, made her last stage appearance in the early 1990's at the Chichester Festival and her last film in 1993.
The name was changed in 1966 to Trahey/Wolf after she formed a partnership with Henry Wolf, the photographer and art director.
In 1947 she went to Dallas as advertising director of Neiman Marcus, rising to become sales promotion director before leaving for New York to start her own agency.
In 1947 she went to Dallas as advertising director of Neiman Marcus, rising to become sales promotion director before leaving for New York to start her own agency.
She was named Director of the Year last year by the National Association of Corporate Directors and in 1995 received the Breaking the Glass Ceiling award of the National Women's Economic Alliance Foundation.
''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
Sister Mary Geraldine was the center's project director, in charge of its afterschool and evening programs for children, in two elementary schools and a middle school in Sunset Park.
For her part, Sister Mary Paul has been the center's clinical director, overseeing clinical social workers in their work within the neighborhood.
''It is to the credit of the director and the scenarist that the drama, like life itself, does not come up with neatly contrived answers to all the problems posed,'' wrote A. H. Weiler in The New York Times when the film was introduced to American audiences in 1959.

        Carmen Dillon, the first female art director in British film, whose set design for Laurence Olivier's ''Hamlet'' brought her an Academy Award in 1948, died on April 12, The Daily Telegraph of London reported.
''It is no good trying to impose my own idea of taste on the set,'' she said of the job that required her to translate a director's two-dimensional concept into three-dimensional reality.
Among the first films for which she was sole art director was Asquith's 1943 work, ''The Demi-Paradise,'' in which Olivier played a Russian engineer observing life in England.
She was married to Clark Andrews, director of her radio show, from 1938 to 1942, when they divorced.
She was an early member of the Studio Museum's board and remained a member until her death, said Edward S. Spriggs, who became the museum's first permanent director in 1970, two years after it opened.
In response, Ms. Reed, who was the director of the Alabama Public Library Service Division, which lent books to local libraries throughout the state, ordered the book to be put on the agency's reserve shelves.
She worked in libraries in Detroit, Hawaii and Louisiana and taught library science at the University of Florida before becoming Alabama's library director in 1959.
Ms. Holtz and her husband, Alwin, who died last year, became friends with Ailey in the early 1960's when a colleague of the young choreographer approached Ms. Holtz about rehearsal space at a new branch of the Young Women's Christian Association on Eighth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, where she was director of activities.
During her long career with the Y.W.C.A., Ms. Holtz was also the executive director of branches in Brooklyn and New Orleans and was a staff member of the group's national board.
She was born in Detroit, where her parents, Robert Avery, a Pullman porter, and Burniece Crews Avery, a choir director and singer who was the host of a local radio show, encouraged her to study classical music.
''
        From 1973 to 1994, she was the casting director at the Young & Rubicam advertising agency in Manhattan.
She is survived by a younger sister, Eva Crane, who also became a noted scientist and for more than 30 years was director of the International Bee Research Association.
The difference, Dr. Widdowson surmised, could be explained only by the personality of the director at the orphanage where extra nutrition was provided.
In her angler's incarnation, Mrs. Stoliar was a board member of the Manhattan-based Theodore Gordon Flyfishers and the founding director of their Trout in the Classroom program.
Born Joan Kramer in Brooklyn, Mrs. Stoliar graduated from Carnegie-Mellon University in Pittsburgh in 1950 and worked as an art director at various publications before turning freelance.
She was principal assistant to Col. Maurice Buckmaster, director of the Special Operations Executive, who is said to have been the model for ''M.
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.
Until the late 1980's, she continued consulting for health-related foundations and agencies and was a director of the Health Services Improvement Fund of Blue Cross-Blue Shield.
''It is arguably the most important collection, because it's so early,'' said Steven Zeitlin, the director of City Lore, the New York Center for Urban Folk Culture.
She worked as a volunteer with displaced persons after the war, before becoming secretary to the director David Lean.
And at 94, she carried the torch for the Atlanta Games when it moved through Daytona Beach, Fla.
        ''Alice was the grand dame of the Olympians,'' said Dorothy Franey Langkop, honorary executive director of United States Olympians, an association of former competitors that the diver and her husband, the Olympic high-jump champion Dick Landon, helped found in the mid-1940's.
Mrs. Basham, a native New Yorker, graduated from Connecticut College and spent 19 years with NBC in Washington, beginning in 1957 as an aide to David Brinkley and advancing to director of news operations and other executive posts.
Early in her career Ms. Saurwein worked as a program director at the United Nations Association of the U.S.A. and at the Center for War/ Peace Studies.
''
        Reilly, an infielder and pitcher on the Brakettes, finally heeded her teammates' advice at the age of 26 and enrolled at California State University, Los Angeles, said Kathy Pullek, assistant director of sports information at Central Connecticut State.
From 1996 until her death, she was Central Connecticut State's associate athletic director and senior women's administrator.
But on the advice of a Paramount Pictures casting director who advised her that sustained performance, rather than a burst of personality, was her forte, Miss Wells moved to New York in 1948.
Her marriage to Donald Richardson, a television director, ended in divorce.

        Eva Gatling, an art historian and curator who for many years was the director of the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, N.Y., died on Tuesday at the Westminister-Canterbury, a continuing care community in Virginia Beach, Va., where she had lived in recent years.
Before joining the Heckscher, she was director of exhibitions at Duke University, curator at the Museum of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and assistant director of the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.
Before joining the Heckscher, she was director of exhibitions at Duke University, curator at the Museum of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and assistant director of the Des Moines Art Center in Iowa.
When Ms. Gatling retired, the Heckscher honored her with an exhibition, ''The Art of the Director: Eva Gatling's 15 Years at the Heckscher Museum.
'' In 1996, another exhibition, ''A Founding Director's Legacy,'' was a tribute to her.

        Miki Denhof, one of the first women to be the art director of a magazine, and a noted mentor of fashion photographers, died on Wednesday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 88.
The executive art director, Alexander Liberman, installed Ms. Denhof as promotion art director of Vogue.
The executive art director, Alexander Liberman, installed Ms. Denhof as promotion art director of Vogue.
''
        Later named the editorial art director for House and Garden and Glamour magazines, Ms. Denhof collaborated with Mr. Liberman, refining the typographic and photographic styles that characterized those publications.
''Miki always had a sense of the big picture,'' said Don Wise, who was art director of the Glamour promotion art department in the 1950's.
''She was the only art director I wouldn't question,'' Mr. Bailey said.
She was also art director of Conde Nast Books, responsible for such titles as ''Vanity Fair: Photographs of an Age 1914-1936'' with Diane Edkins, and ''The Successful Face'' with Amy Green.
A friend and fellow nun in Sister Isolina's order, the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity, said that Sister Isolina successfully mediated a conflict between warring Puerto Rican youth gangs in Brooklyn in the 1950's and 60's while she was the director of a Catholic charitable center there.
For eight years, Ms. Moyes was the assistant to the actor and director Peter Ustinov.

        Mary Colquhoun, a versatile, award-winning casting director, died on Sept. 10 in Manhattan.
She was also a director of the Colonial Penn Group, which they founded in 1963, until they sold it in 1984.
It grew after the director Claudia Weill suggested to Paul Mazursky that he cast her as a therapist in his 1978 film ''An Unmarried Woman.
In 1981 she moved to Bantam Books as an editorial director and became its publisher and editor in chief in 1985.
She was director of the H.I.V.
Shortly after her divorce became final in 1971 she was married for a third time, to Stanley Hough, vice president and director for production operations at 20th Century Fox.
She taught German history at Stanford University and elsewhere before becoming director of archives at the Leo Baeck Institute in New York from 1974 to 1984.
In 1956 Ms. Wolfe moved to Canada, where she married John Forrest Mackay Ross and went to work for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as an actor, writer and director.
She auditioned for Cole and was hired by the talented, ferociously  abrasive dance director.
But Ms. Lillie turned out to be otherwise engaged and Ms. Verdon agreed to star on the condition that Fosse be the director.
'' Once again, Fosse was director and choreographer.
She apparently died instantly, said Diane Wondisford, the general director of the Music-Theater Group.
''Her approach to the theater was one of the utmost purity,'' said Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater.
' ''
        As the producing director of the Music-Theater Group, she said, ''If something isn't quite right the first time around, we have time to fix it.
In 1970 she became the executive director of the Berkshire Theater Festival.
In 1946 she married George Abbott, the Broadway producer and director.
Later she became a painter of portraits, animals and flowers and lived in Europe and in Los Angeles, where she was a director of local theater productions.
She received flowers and an invitation to lunch and a tour of the museum from Philippe de Montebello, its director, on a Monday, when it is closed.
''
        Later, working with her longtime mentor, the director and producer Hal Prince, Ms. Mitchell also helped  produce ''Cabaret,'' ''Company'' and ''A Little Night Music,'' each of which won the Tony Award for best musical.

        Eleanor Naumburg Sanger, the first program director of WQXR, the classical music station that was later purchased by The New York Times Company, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
During more than 20 years as program director, Mrs. Sanger oversaw the staff that selected the symphonies and operas for each day's broadcast, published a program guide, hired announcers, and arranged for live radio performances by many great musicians, including Vladimir Horowitz and Van Cliburn.
Alongside her close friend Robbins, she was associate director of ''Peter Pan,'' starring Mary Martin.
In 1952 she helped Lawrence Langner found the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., serving first as executive director and later as associate producer.

        Dr. Susana Rotker-Martinez, director of the Rutgers Center for Hemispheric Studies, was hit by a truck and fatally injured Monday while crossing a road in Piscataway, N.J. She was 46 and lived in Highland Park.
At her death, she was also a professor in the department of Spanish and Portuguese and director of the university's graduate program in Spanish.
Besides her husband, director of the Rutgers Latin American studies program, Dr. Rotker-Martinez's survivors include their daughter, Sol Ana Martinez, 14; her parents, David and Cecilia Rotker; and a brother, George Rotker, all of Caracas.
      
She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
As the director of Nonesuch Records from 1965 through 1979, Ms. Sterne turned a small budget label into one of the most adventurous companies in the recording business.
A series of administrative jobs, including assistant to the director at Vanguard Records, led to her  hiring by Nonesuch.
Earlier this year, Robert Hurwitz, its director since 1984 and a great admirer of Ms. Sterne, issued a two-disc recording in tribute to her, containing highlights from favorite albums she had produced and live recordings of performances she gave in her early years as a piano prodigy.
      
She was a director of the Screen Actors Guild for 25 years, and was aligned with the union's conservative wing, represented by Ronald Reagan and Charlton Heston.
Mr. Kanzler, who died in 1967 and was an uncle by marriage of Henry Ford, was associated with the Ford company and was a director of the Detroit Lions football team.
She was a regular at the Stork Club in a veiled hat and white gloves, while he found work as an art director.
She acted in the first film that the Spanish director Luis Bunuel made in Mexico, ''The Great Casino,'' and appeared in some 60 other films.
Ms. Lamarque also started acting, making her debut in the 1929 silent film ''Adios, Argentina,'' which was made by the Italian director Mario Parpagnoli in a single day.
In 1982 she became director of the New York branch of Crown Point Press, a San Francisco print publisher that has published prints by Wayne Thiebaud, John Cage, Pat Steir and Tom Marioni.
She married Helmut Krone, a well-known advertising art director, in 1970.
