She was director of the program until 1981 and remained on the faculty until her death.
Mrs. Cahn was the first director of the National Legal Services Program in the O.E.O.
Loud became director of the development office of the Museum of the City of New York.
After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position.
In 1953 she left again to become executive director of the nonprofit New York Foundation but returned a year later when Mayor Robert F. Wagner promised her a free hand as commissioner.
Dr. Kolb died of breast cancer, said Max McConkey, director of The Network Inc., of Andover, Mass.
She was also associate director of the New England Center for Equity Assistance, a federally supported program to provide help to schools dealing with desegregation.
In Manhattan, where she had lived since the 1970's, Mrs. Haber was a director of the New York Infirmary and a trustee of the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church.

        Charlene Victor, the executive director of BACA, the Brooklyn Arts Council, died on Monday at her home in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
She died of respiratory failure, the council's public relations director, Chuck Reichenthal, said.
She was the former head of publication design at the Parsons School of Design and a former art director of British Vogue, Seventeen, Charm and Mademoiselle magazines.
Agha, the art director of Conde Nast.
After the war she was director of the Manhattanville Nursery School on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
In 1976 she returned to government work as director of statistical studies for the Commission on Federal Paperwork.
She began her Broadway career in the production of "Billy Budd" in 1951, when she was also costume director for the City Center Opera's 1951-52 season.
"
        Ms. Morley is survived by her daughters, Melissa Hacker, a film maker and editor, and Emily Hacker, an actress, director and teacher of English.
      
She was associate director of Friends World Institute, which was founded in East Norwich, L.I., in 1965 by the Religious Society of Friends as a four-year experimental program of world education.
She later joined the faculty of the College of New Rochelle as assistant to the director of finance and as director of financial aid.
She later joined the faculty of the College of New Rochelle as assistant to the director of finance and as director of financial aid.
With her friend Dorothy Fay Little, she founded the Greenwood Music Camp, a summer camp for children in Cummington, Mass., and served as a director there for 50 years.
Before joining the School for Strings, she was the director of instrumental music at the Chapin School and also taught at the Brearley School.
Jane Hermann, the director of American Ballet Theater, said that she had been told of Dame Margot's death by telephone by Querube Brillenbourg, the ballerina's stepdaughter.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
A native of Hernando, Miss., she had been a former director of audience services for Ed Sullivan Productions in the 1950's and 60's.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
Before joining the authority, she was executive assistant to the president of Federal Metal Maintenance in Manhattan, and from 1974 to 1978, she was the director of executive staff relations for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation.
At the time of her death she was a director of Mr. Nicholas's American Dance Repertory Theater.
In 1924 Mrs. Jenkins became the first director of the social service department of St. Phillip's Episcopal Church in Harlem.
In 1948 she became the camp's director, a post she held until she retired in 1969.

        Katherine Z. W. Whipple, former director of health education for the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, died yesterday at a continuing care home in Medford, N.J. She was 97 years old.
She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Jane, of Riverside, Conn.
        Mrs. Milliken, who opposed the use of animals in medical and scientific experiments, was a director of the Humane Society of the United States and a founder of the Manhattan-based American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
Brand, the medical director of the Sidney Hillman Health Center, who died in 1968.
In 1954 she was appointed director of the Far Eastern Association and at the same time returned to academic life with her appointment at Harvard and Radcliffe.
She was a founder of the Brooklyn Community School in the early 1940's and was executive director of the New York Service for Orthopedic Handicapped.
She later served as director of services for Cerebral Palsy of Queens.
She began her career in 1958 with the Manhattan office of Robert College of Istanbul, and its affiliate, the American College for Girls, as director of fund raising.

        Devorah Heller, the director of employee relations for the Yonkers public school system, died on Monday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
She became director of employee relations in 1987 and handled contract negotiations with school employees.
Mrs. Shatz also served as vice president and director of the Mahopac Hospital, now known as the Putnam Hospital Center in Carmel, and was active in the Red Cross.
Miss Graham died of cardiac arrest after being treated for two months for pneumonia, said Ron Protas, general director of the Martha Graham Dance Company.
It had the same spareness and economy of Miss Graham's solo and the score of her music director and mentor of that time, Louis Horst.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
In the early 1950's she became advertising director of Charles of the Ritz.
In 1964 Charles of the Ritz merged with Lanvin and she became creative director for both companies, now part of the Revlon Group.

        Lisa Taylor, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design from 1969 to 1987, died on Friday in a hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas, said David McFadden, the museum's curator of decorative arts.
The museum's current director, Dianne Pilgrim, said through a spokesman that Mrs. Taylor "had a passionate belief in the importance of design and brought that passion and excitement to the museum.
She was on the staff of the President's Fine Arts Commission in Washington from 1958 to 1962 and membership director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington from 1962 to 1966.

        Lisa Taylor, director of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of Design from 1969 to 1987, died on Friday in a hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas, said David McFadden, the museum's curator of decorative arts.
The museum's current director, Dianne Pilgrim, said through a spokesman that Mrs. Taylor "had a passionate belief in the importance of design and brought that passion and excitement to the museum.
She was on the staff of the President's Fine Arts Commission in Washington from 1958 to 1962 and membership director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington from 1962 to 1966.

        Dorothy M. Dunbar, creative director of Time-Life Home Video, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Dunbar, in 15 years at Time Inc., was also advertising director of Time-Life Video and Time-Life Multimedia.
"
        In 1942, the designer married Alexander Liberman, an artist and editorial director of Conde Nast Publications.
She is survived by a son Bret, of Manhattan, news director at WNBC-TV.
      

        Freda Resika Caspersen, an executive, philanthropist and former director of the Beneficial Corporation, died on Friday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey.
Besides helping her husband, Olaus, build the Beneficial Loan Society, now known as the Beneficial Corporation, into one of the nation's largest consumer-loan concerns, Mrs. Caspersen was the director of the Beneficial Foundation and chairwoman of the O. W. Caspersen Foundation, a major contributor to health and educational programs.
She was a director of Beneficial from 1972 to 1984 and was also president of the Westby Corporation, a real-estate firm in Florida.
Equality in Acquisitions
        Mrs. Horch became the director of the museum, which not only housed the couple's collection of Tibetan, American, and American Indian art, but mounted many early shows by artists who were later to become well-known, like Louise Nevelson.
She moved to New York City from West Berlin in 1958 and worked as an art director for the J. Walter Thompson and Campbell-Downe advertising agencies.
She was a director of the Young Women's Christian Association from 1928 to 1944.
In 1941 she became a director of the United Council of Church Women.
She was a director of the Environmental Studies Center in Stuart, and a founder and director from 1966 to 1975 of the Martin County Conservation Alliance in Stuart.
She was a director of the Environmental Studies Center in Stuart, and a founder and director from 1966 to 1975 of the Martin County Conservation Alliance in Stuart.

        Bennetta Bullock Washington, an educator and a former director of the Women's Job Corps, died Tuesday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
His brilliant career as a stage director and designer and co-director of the Bayreuth Festival was cut short by his death in 1966.

        Emily Coolidge Stone, a former director of membership at the Museum of Modern Art, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Stone, who attended Radcliffe College, was a director of the France-America Society and a member of the Museum of Modern Art International Council and the International Council of Museums.

        Ruth Hornby Page, an educator and former executive director of the New Jersey School Boards Association, died on Sunday at Jupiter (Fla.) Hospital.
" The director Peter Hall said she maintained in old age an "extraordinary immediacy and passionate naivete.
"Also, you're in the hands of a director and an editor who can cut and shape, and you have no idea how," she said.
She is survived by two children, Nicholas, a director, and Eliza, by her third husband, Jeremy Hutchinson, a lawyer.
Her previous husbands were Rupert Hart-Davis, a publisher, and Theodore Komisarjevsky, a director.
      

        Eva Le Gallienne, who as an actress, producer, director, translator, writer and teacher was for many decades one of the grand figures of the American stage, died late Monday night at her home in Weston, Conn. She was 92 years old.
A commanding presence on the stage and a strong-minded director, Miss Le Gallienne was actually a slight and, according to her friends, a shy and private person, her affections being concentrated on her dogs and other pets.
As translator, director and a star of Chekhov's "Seagull" in 1964, Miss Le Gallienne received from Adlai E. Stevenson the award of the American National Theater and Academy.
As Deputy Director of the Cultural Revolution Group, Ms. Jiang appeared at rallies beginning in 1966 and praised the Red Guards, young followers of Mao who were dragging the country into chaos.
In the Nixon Administration she was director of the research office at the White House.
In 1976, Miss Waldron became research director at the Senate Republican Policy Committee and in 1980 was named senior policy analyst for the Reagan campaign.
In 1984 she was appointed director of research for the 1984 Republican platform.
Beginning in 1974, Mrs. Schnall was director of volunteers for the Westchester Lighthouse, a local subsidiary of the New York Lighthouse for the Blind, for 17 years.
She died of brain cancer, said Tom Carter, the director of the institute.
"
        After the director Elia Kazan cast Ms. Remick as a seductive cheerleader in his 1957 film, "A Face in the Crowd," she gave highly praised performances in Martin Ritt's "Long Hot Summer" (1958), Otto Preminger's "Anatomy of a Murder" (1959) and Mr. Kazan's "Wild River" (1960).
"
        Ms. Remick's marriage to William A. Colleran, a producer and director, ended in divorce in 1969.

        Barbara J. Eichner, director of the Family Life Center of the Hackensack Medical Center in New Jersey, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Committed to helping the victims of child abuse and neglect throughout her career, she joined the center as director in 1988.
From 1977 to 1988, she was director of the Family Center of the Passaic County Mental Health Center.
With Miss Helburn, a drama critic and director, the Langners built the Theater Guild into a Broadway powerhouse that by the time of Miss Helburn's death in 1959 had produced 190 attractions in New York City, in nine other cities across the country and in London.
Miss Marshall was the associate director of "Theater Guild of the Air" for its eight-year run on radio and of "The U.S. Steel Hour" for eight years on television.
She was also a founder of the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., and a director of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, the American Theater Wing and the Actors Fund, with which she was active until five years ago.
Before joining the faculty of the CUNY Graduate School in 1981, Dr. Scribner was a research scientist at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington and, from 1978 to 1979, was associate director of the National Institute of Education.
She began her career as research director for the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America in Newark.
Named Director General
        In October 1973 she returned to Washington and was sworn in as Assistant Secretary of State in charge of the Bureau of Public Affairs, the first woman to hold so high a post in the department.
Before her appointment as Ambassador to Nepal she had been director of the Office of South Asian Affairs,
        In 1974 Miss Laise became director general of the Foreign Service, the highest nonpolitical job in the Foreign Service, a post she held until she retired in 1977.
Before her appointment as Ambassador to Nepal she had been director of the Office of South Asian Affairs,
        In 1974 Miss Laise became director general of the Foreign Service, the highest nonpolitical job in the Foreign Service, a post she held until she retired in 1977.
From 1956 to 1961 she was an adviser to American delegates to various United Nations agencies and in 1962 was made deputy director of the Office of South Asian Affairs with responsibilty for diplomatic relations with Afghanistan, Ceylon, Nepal, India and Pakistan.
Before her death, Sister Cavanagh was director of pastoral care at San Jose Hospital in San Jose, Calif.
        She served as an administrator at Manhattanville from 1953 to 1968.

        Alline Elizabeth Davis, a past director of the Gramercy Park Neighborhood Association who was active in community affairs, died on June 18 at her son's home in Vista, Calif. She was 83 years old and until recently lived in the Gramercy Park section of Manhattan.
In 1987 she founded and was director of a program, known as Help Our Neighbors Eat Year-Round, to collect cans of food at supermarkets in the Gramercy Park area for distribution to the needy elderly.

        Marguerite Feinstein, founder and director of the retiree division of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents 23,000 municipal workers in New York City, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. She was 57 years old and lived in Clinton Corners, N.Y.
        Mrs. Feinstein, who was known as Maggie, was the wife of Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237.
Before joining Local 237, she was director of legislation and political education for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees in New York State.

        Bernice Falk, director of training and staff development for the Jewish Child Care Association of New York, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Falk joined the association in 1968 and was assistant director in charge of social services at its Cottage School in Pleasantville, N.Y., until 1989, when she took over the training post at the headquarters in Manhattan.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.

        Sylvia Petit Maples, the director of community services at the National Association of Drug Abuse Problems in New York, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
The production was staged by Jose Quintero, who would be her director for many O'Neill roles.
The production was staged by Jose Quintero, who would be her director for many O'Neill roles.
In 1961, President John F. Kennedy named her director of the Mint.

        Sophie Silberberg, who retired last year as the executive director of the Fund For Free Expression, a human-rights group based in New York, died on Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.

        Betty Hudson Clark, retired executive director of the New York Building Council, died Wednesday after becoming ill in Jefferson City, Mo., where she had gone to visit her family.
Mrs. Clark, a former account executive, joined the construction-industry trade association of over 1,000 member companies in 1959 as an executive secretary and retired as executive director in 1987.

        Sophie Silberberg, who retired last year as the executive director of the Fund For Free Expression, a human-rights group based in New York, died on Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.

        Patricia Dickenson Cline, an associate director of development for Princeton University, died on Sunday at her home in Princeton Township, N.J. She was 56 years old.
She became the first executive director of Creative Theater Unlimited in 1974 and held the position until 1977.
Early in her career she was a newspaper reporter for the Lancaster New Era and later was a director of her family's company.
3 Obies in the Same Year
        In 1970, she won three Obies, as best playwright, director and actress, for "Gloria and Esperanza," which opened at Cafe La Mama.
But she was replaced a few days before the play opened, and Mr. Papp became the director.
When "Angelo's Wedding" was presented by the Circle Repertory Company in 1985, several weeks of difficult relations among the playwright, the director and several cast members culminated in an altercation at the theater during a performance.
Marshall W. Mason, the theater's artistic director, said at the time that Ms. Bovasso attacked an intern and a house manager who had tried to evict her from the theater for disturbing the cast.
She died of a heart attack, said Abby Braun, director of the Santa Fe gallery.
Mrs. Chaplin, who became known as Lady Oona after her British-born husband was knighted in 1975, was an 18-year-old Brearley graduate and fledgling actress in 1943 when she became the fourth wife of the internationally beloved actor and director, who was then 54 years old.
Still Playing Near the End
        Mrs. Greenburg was the director and driving force at the school for nearly 30 years before retiring in 1973, turning over its direction to Mary Helton, who had taught there since 1951.
She was married for a time to Patric Farrell, who in the 1920's and 30's was director of the Irish Theater at Sheridan Square and an Irish arts museum in Manhattan.
A Warner Brothers casting director in 1933 placed Miss MacMahon among the 10 smartest actresses, in a class with Miss Hepburn and Helen Hayes.
She was a fellow and former officer of the National Sculpture Society; a member of, and contest juror for, the Allied Artists of America, and director of the American Society of Contemporary Artists from 1970 to 1972, among many other professional affiliations.

        Emily M. Rosenthal, the director of the 92d Street Y nursery school from 1946 to 1966, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan.
She went on to teach at a girls' school in Krefeld and later became the director of a municipal kindergarten there.
She held various teaching posts in New York before becoming director of the nursery school at the Y.

        Dorothy Weed, a piano teacher and former director of the Diller-Quaile Music School on the Upper East Side, died on Tuesday at Doctor's Hospital.
She died after a long illness, said Marjory Duncalfe, the director of the school.

        Dorothea Matthews Dooling, founder and editorial director of Parabola, The Magazine of Myth and Tradition, died on Friday at her ranch in Jackson, Mont.
A Warner Brothers casting director in 1933 named Miss MacMahon one of the 10 smartest actresses, in a class with Miss Hepburn and Helen Hayes.
Soon after earning a master's degree in social work from the University of Pittsburgh in 1968, she became the counseling director for Planned Parenthood in Western Pennsylvania, based in Pittsburgh.
In 1973 she established Women's Health Services in Pittsburgh and served as its executive director for 11 years.
"
        But she would have been "moved," the director said, to see so many of her theatrical colleagues there to "carry on her beliefs and her passions.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
"
        In the 1970's, Ms. Zornow was the artistic director of Movies for Kids, a series of programs at Lincoln Center.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
She died of natural causes, said David Techner, funeral director of the Ira Kaufman Chapel in Southfield.
In 1971 she was named director of marketing of Harper's Bazaar, and in 1980 became retail marketing manager of Town & Country.

        Lydia Ulana Savoyka, a Ukrainian-born social worker, who served 35 years as director of immigration counseling services for the United States Catholic Conference, died on Dec. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital.
As founder and director of the Bach Circle, a New York group specializing in lesser-known works of Bach and other Baroque composers, she helped introduce 18th-century music to a wide audience.
