Her father was the actor and director Robert Montgomery.
For more than 30 years she ran her center and studio, where she trained actors in the theatrical principles and theories of the Russian director and also researched his writings.
"
        She was the widow of Leon Moore, a former Soviet diplomat who became an adviser to Allen Dulles when he was the Director of Central Intelligence.

        Ermina Stimson, an illustrator, art director and fashion editor during 36 years with Women's Wear Daily, died on Tuesday at her home in Wellfleet, Mass.
" The Adlers graciously allowed the director, Joseph Schoenhold, to play the 10 part.
A decade later, the New York Times columnist Anthony Lewis reported that William J. Casey, the Director of Central Intelligence in the Reagan Administration, had held up a copy of "The Terror Network" before a group of official intelligence experts and had "said contemptuously that he had learned more from it than from all of them.
"The board decided that our stone houses were being threatened with demolition, so funding was acquired and she did the stone house survey in 1979 and 1980," Ruth Van Wagoner, director of the county Office of Cultural and Historic Affairs, said yesterday.
There was no school for English-speaking children, so she helped start one and served as its first director.
Recalling "The Bad and the Beautiful," John Houseman, the producer, said he and Vincente Minnelli, the director, had agreed Miss Turner "was capable of brilliant individual scenes, but seemed to lack the temperament or the training to sustain a full-length performance.
Her discovery in a soda shop led to an interview with Mervyn LeRoy, the director and producer, who advised her to chose a catchy first name and began guiding her career.
She was recommended for the role by a friend who knew the film's casting director.
She was trained as a teacher and became the director of social services in the republic's army, an adviser to the Prime Minister on women's issues and a campaigner on behalf of homeless children in Bangui, the republic's capital.
Recalling "The Bad and the Beautiful," John Houseman, the producer, said he and Vincente Minnelli, the director, had agreed Miss Turner "was capable of brilliant individual scenes, but seemed to lack the temperament or the training to sustain a full-length performance.
Her discovery in a soda shop led to an interview with Mervyn LeRoy, the director and producer, who advised her to chose a catchy first name and began guiding her career.
As director of child and youth services of the New York Office of Civilian Defense, and secretary of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's Committee on the Wartime Care of Children, Miss Keliher helped make day care an accepted staple of American life.
Mrs. Sulzberger was a director of the New York City Police Foundation.
A longtime Quaker minister to prisons, Mrs. Knopp retired two years ago as director of the Safer Society Program, which operates under the auspices of the New York State Council of Churches.
Over the years she also served as director of the New York Region of the American Friends Service Committee, projects director for the National Peace Education Division in Philadelphia and counselor to many conscientious objectors.
Over the years she also served as director of the New York Region of the American Friends Service Committee, projects director for the National Peace Education Division in Philadelphia and counselor to many conscientious objectors.
Back in Houston, she renewed her political contacts and expanded the circulation of The Post, where she was an executive vice president and a director of KPRC, which came to include not only the AM station but also FM and television outlets.
She remained its director until her death.
At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
Undaunted, she went on to make her mark in the sport through administrative undertakings, and in 1986, was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
        She had been director of the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid since 1985, and was executive director of the United States Ski Association from 1961-68.
Undaunted, she went on to make her mark in the sport through administrative undertakings, and in 1986, was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
        She had been director of the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid since 1985, and was executive director of the United States Ski Association from 1961-68.
In a breakthrough for women in the ski industry, she was hired in 1971 by the Big Sky Resort near Bozeman, Mont., to be director of marketing, and later, a vice president.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
She was married to the film director William Keighley, who died in 1984.
Mrs. Landes was the director of the SUNY Youth Theater in Purchase, N.Y., until she became ill last year.
He became director of the National Gallery in 1973 and was knighted eight years later.
Shortly thereafter, the columnist Walter Winchell introduced her to the Hollywood director and choreographer Busby Berkeley, whom she married.

        Charlotte Morris, an Emmy Award-winning television producer and director for WNYW-TV, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
She was the director of public affairs for WNYW for 17 years.
But Ms. Hsu gained wider popularity after she escaped Communist China with the three youngest of munists executed her husband, Mo Tze Shin, the director of Chiang Kai-shek's secret police force, the Shanghai Bureau of Criminal Investigation.
At her death, she was the director of the Broward County, Fla., Department of Natural Resource Protection, but she had not worked since January.
"Lita Hazen was a wonderful patron of pure science, who enjoyed bright and unusual people who would say things that she wouldn't expect," said Dr. James Watson, the Nobel laureate who is director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
Mr. Hazen, a former vice president and director of Warner Brothers, wrote the contract between the studio and Edison Vitaphone that resulted in "The Jazz Singer," the first movie with sound.
In 1976, she was hired by Oz Scott, the director of Ntozake Shange's "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf"; she was given $100 to create costumes for the show's seven performers.
" In his capacity as future artistic director of the Washington Opera, Mr. Domingo has invited her to sing two other leading roles, which have not yet been announced.
The cause was cancer, according to the Education Law Center, a Newark-based public-interest organization of which she had been executive director since 1979.
The director was Don Siegel, who would become her third husband.
In 1966, she was a founder and artistic director of the Berkshire Theater Festival in Stockbridge, Mass.
Her husbands were Henry Hasso, a Swedish cinematographer; Folke Rogard, a Swedish attorney; Mr. Siegel, the director, and George Tabori, a Hungarian writer, producer and director.
Her husbands were Henry Hasso, a Swedish cinematographer; Folke Rogard, a Swedish attorney; Mr. Siegel, the director, and George Tabori, a Hungarian writer, producer and director.

        Susan Braun, the founder and director of Dance Films Association, died on Tuesday night at Lenox Hill Hospital.
It was her concern over the sparsity of filmed records of Duncan's worfk that led to the founding of the association, said Victor Lipari, its executive director.
And their children went on to musical careers as well: Leonard Slatkin, now in his final season as music director of the St. Louis Symphony and soon to become music director of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, and Frederick Zlotkin, a cellist in New York.
And their children went on to musical careers as well: Leonard Slatkin, now in his final season as music director of the St. Louis Symphony and soon to become music director of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, and Frederick Zlotkin, a cellist in New York.
She was born in Heidelberg, Germany, the daughter of Karl Wilmanns, a professor and director of Heidelberg University's psychiatry department.
At her death, Ms. Sullivan was the director of contracts and copyrights at the publishing house, overseeing its legal operations.
She became its director and established a graduate program there, leaving in 1951 to found the dance department at Juilliard, which she directed until 1985.
During a trip to New York in the early 1960's for Le Printemps, the department store, for which she was a design director, Ms. Bordier noted the use of color in sheets and towels, at the time unknown in Europe.
"
        After serving as the national organization's executive director until a lack  of money forced it to close the Washington office in 1974, Mrs. Blackston returned to California, where she worked as a legislative aid and served on state and local committees concerned with welfare.
"I was always a director's designer more than an actor's designer," she said  as she reflected on her career a few years ago.
Later she drew fashion designs for the I.  Magnin department store, an assignment that caught the eye of Richard Dey, a motion picture art director, who introduced her to Fleming.
The producer and director John Houseman, for whom she designed on Broadway and at the Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., said he knew after five minutes of watching Huston's final  film, "The Dead," in 1988, that Ms. Jeakins was the costume designer.
"
        A marriage in 1940 to Raymond Eugene Dane, a publicity director for 20th Century Fox, ended in divorce in 1946.
She joined the hospital as director of nutrition in 1945,  retired as president and chief executive officer in 1980 and continued as a volunteer until this year.
Mrs. Elliott had a 33-year career at the college, starting in 1943, and held  a variety of posts, including director of admissions and dean of students.
Mrs. McGreevy joined Estee Lauder, the cosmetics and perfume company, as a publicity director in 1966.
The next year, she teamed up with Christopher Marlowe, who became her longtime accompanist and musical director.
Until August of this year, Ms. Bregman was editorial director of Artists and Writers Guild Books, a line of picture books for children that she founded at the Western Publishing Company of Racine, Wis., in 1992.
The centeris one of the world's largest repositories of materials for studying black history and culture, its current director, Dr. Thomas C. Battle,  said yesterday.

        Mildred (Millie) Robinson, widow of the boxer Sugar Ray Robinson and executive director of the Sugar Ray Robinson Youth Foundation, has died.

        Elaine Limpert Horak, the founder and executive director of the Professional  Theater Wing, died on Dec. 20 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.

        Felicia Geffen, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, died on Dec. 21 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
She was a graduate of Hunter College and studied music before becoming an administrative assistant to the conductor and composer Walter Damrosch, whom she succeeded as director of the academy in 1941.

        Elaine Sulka, the director of the National Shakespeare Company and of the Cubiculo theater in New York City, died on Dec. 24 at her home in Manhattan.
She worked in the editorial departments of Random House and Alfred A. Knopf, then moved to London, where she became director of the literary department of MCA London.
Ms. Greene's two marriages, to the American journalist Robert Shaplen and to Sir Hugh Greene, a former director of the BBC, ended in divorce.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
She became an honorary director in 1981.
Mrs. Pincus was a director of the Citizens' Committee for Children, a board member and past president of the Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center and a founder of the Professional Committee of Elem-Youth in Distress in Israel.
She was a director of Women in Need, a nonprofit organization that seeks to keep homeless women and their children together, and a founder of its summer camp, Camp WIN.
For more than 30 years, Mrs. Manoff was the American executive director for the Institute of Contemporary Jewry of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
Psychiatric patients are often reluctant to take drugs, doctors say, because it is a tacit admission that they are ill.
        Born in Berlin, Dr. Forrest received her Ph.D. in biochemistry from the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where she studied under her father, Carl Neuberg, the director.
Mrs. Etra was on the national Board of Directors for the United Jewish Appeal and served as a director of Seton Hill College in Greensburg, Pa., and the Brookdale Center of Hunter College.
At her death, she was the chapter's director of social policy.

        Sister Ann Gillen, executive director of the Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry from 1972 to 1987, died on Jan. 14 at the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus convent in Rosemont, Pa. She was 76.
Sister Ann was also executive director of the National Coalition of American Nuns in the 1970's and served several terms on the governing board of Common Cause, the public-affairs lobbying organization.
      
At her death, she was the chapter's director of social policy.
She worked as the executive secretary of the New York League of Women Voters and on the staff of the Atomic Energy Commission, becoming assistant director of public information.

        Elizabeth Dorothy Futas, the director of the University of Rhode Island's Graduate School of Library and Information Studies, died on Feb. 6 in Philadelphia.
Dr. Jones served as director of the university's computer-based Education Research Laboratory from 1992 until last year.
Mrs. Mercati served as a member of the national council of the Metropolitan Opera, a director of the English Speaking Union and in many capacities with Recording for the Blind, including vice president of its board and director emeritus, a post she held at her death.
Mrs. Mercati served as a member of the national council of the Metropolitan Opera, a director of the English Speaking Union and in many capacities with Recording for the Blind, including vice president of its board and director emeritus, a post she held at her death.
Brereton Jones; Jon Jory, artistic director of the Actors Theater of Louisville; other Kentucky dignitaries, and her daughter Eleanor Bingham Miller.
She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II.
The actress was married five times: to Edward Culpepper, a dancer and actor known in vaudeville as Jack Pepper (1928 to 1931); the actor Lew Ayres (1934 to 1940); Jack Briggs, another actor (1943 to 1949); Jacques Bergerac, a French actor and businessman (1953 to 1957), and William Marshall, a director and producer (1961-1967).
Beginning in 1917, Mrs. Foster was for 40 years the director of the Home Service Department of the Red Cross's Brooklyn chapter, finding help in times of need for the families of men and women in the armed forces and aid for people in distress after floods, storms, train wrecks and much smaller crises.
From 1929 through 1988, she was director of the Marion Rice Studio of the Dance in Fitchburg, Mass., and she continued to teach in the area after closing her school.

        Marlene Lopez, who was a director of state psychiatric hospitals in New Jersey and New York for 15 years, died on Sunday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.

        Marlene Lopez, who was a director of state psychiatric hospitals in New Jersey and New York for 15 years, died last Sunday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
In 1992, Judith Kaye, Chief Judge of New York State, appointed Ms. Hermanson the first executive director of the Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert.
