There, in a laboratory building facing Bellevue Hospital Center, its director, Dr. David D. Ho, made crucial discoveries about the immune system's struggle with the AIDS virus.
''
        Her own Irene Diamond Fund will continue her work, said Jane Silver, its executive director.
''
        The director, Herbert Brenon, cast the young Louise as Wendy.

        Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg.
Sergeyev was removed as artistic director of the Kirov in 1970 but three years later became director of its school, the Vaganova Academy.
Sergeyev was removed as artistic director of the Kirov in 1970 but three years later became director of its school, the Vaganova Academy.
She helped develop the company's programs and was a director and vice president of Weight Watchers International until the H. J. Heinz Company acquired it in 1978.
In 1950, as the Paris Theater's managing director, she protested the banning by New York City's Department of Licenses of the film ''The Miracle'' as ''blasphemous'' while it was being shown at the Paris.
He had just returned from living in Spain, and she was working at the time as an assistant art director.
The two were married 25 years ago, at a home that they shared in Sag Harbor, N.Y.
        Mr. Tarlow struck out on his own and founded Kurtz & Tarlow, where Mrs. Tarlow worked as a partner and creative director.
She founded the emphysema unit at Bellevue in 1956 and remained its director until two years ago, when it was merged into the hospital's chest and asthma units.
She then served as the staff director of a Senate subcommittee, followed by a job as public affairs adviser to Adlai Stevenson, then ambassador to the United Nations.
Miss Barbieri married Luigi Barlozzetti, a music director, who managed her career.
She also conducted master classes at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, and sat for an interview at the Mayflower Hotel with Stefan Zucker, the director of the Bel Canto Society, a nonprofit marketer of vintage opera videos.
      
In addition to being on the board of directors of the Americas Society, she was a life trustee of the International House, New York; and a director of the International Council of the Museum of Modern Art.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
Although friends called her Brigitta throughout her life, her professional name was changed to Vera Zorina by Colonel de Basil, as the director of the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo was known.

        Muriel Topaz, the former director of the Dance Notation Bureau and the dance division of the Juilliard School, and an authority on the choreography of Antony Tudor, died on Monday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford.
She retained close ties to Juilliard, serving as the rehearsal director of the Juilliard Dance Ensemble from 1966 to 1970 and directing its dance divison from 1985 to 1992, succeeding Martha Hill, the department's founder.
Long associated with the Dance Notation Bureau in New York, Ms. Topaz was director of its Labanotation studies from 1970 to 1978 and its excutive director from 1978 to 1985.
Long associated with the Dance Notation Bureau in New York, Ms. Topaz was director of its Labanotation studies from 1970 to 1978 and its excutive director from 1978 to 1985.

        Celine G. Marcus, former executive director of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, an East Side social services organization, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director and 11 years as assistant to the director.
She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director and 11 years as assistant to the director.
She left her first advertising agency, Trahey/Cadwell, in the early 1960's to form Cadwell Davis, a boutique subsidiary of Compton Advertising, with Ms. Cadwell as president and Hal Davis as creative director.
In an interview with The New York Times in 1969, Miss Scott recalled her brief audition with Jed Harris, the original producer and director of ''Our Town.
She resigned as executive director of Odyssey House in 1983, but remained active in affiliated programs.
She did her residency at Metropolitan Hospital, where during one of her pregnancies, the director suggested she spend an hour or two a day working with addicts.
In 1955 and 1956, the director Elia Kazan saw her perform and encouraged her to try stage acting.
Thurgood Marshall, then director of the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund, called it ''the first real victory in our campaign to destroy segregation.
It was directed by George Cukor, who become one of her dearest friends (she and Tracy lived for years in the guest house on Cukor's Hollywood estate) and the director of many of her films, including ''Little Women.
One of her most enduring films without Tracy was ''The African Queen'' (1952), in which she played the straitlaced Rosie opposite Humphrey Bogart for the director John Huston.
During its early years, the magazine was a one-woman operation, with Ms. Heldman as editor in chief, layout editor, art director and advertising director.
During its early years, the magazine was a one-woman operation, with Ms. Heldman as editor in chief, layout editor, art director and advertising director.
She also served as Loyola's volleyball coach from 1984 to 1990 and as an assistant athletic director from 1993 to 1998.
In 1962, she married Pedro Knight, a trumpeter from La Sonora Matancera who became her musical director and manager.
Later, as director of the Center for Women's Careers at Wellesley College, she adopted similar techniques to offer phone counseling to alumni who wanted help with their careers.
The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her son Charles Matthau, a film director.
Even Alfred H. Barr Jr., the Modern's visionary director, who otherwise supported Ms. Miller, quietly tried to distance himself from it.
When Mr. Cahill was appointed director of the W.P.A.
Dr. Magno became the first executive director of the National Hospice Organization in 1980.
Mildred McAfee, first director of the corps, suggested that it really meant ''Women Are Very Essential Sometimes.
She became director of international relations and social relations for the National Council of Jewish Women, and, among other things, helped bring Jews out of Hitler's Germany.
In 1942, she received a call from Elizabeth Reynard, a Barnard professor who was to become assistant director of the Waves.
Professor Reynard said that Miss McAfee, who was to become Waves director, wondered if she was interested in joining.
In 2002 she transferred to the World Health Organization in Geneva, where she took charge of external relations for Gro Harlem Brundtland, then the director general.
A resident of East Orange, she had served as its recreation director.
''
        There she became a protégée of the conductor Antonio Pappano, now the music director at Covent Garden, who said he was devastated by the news of her death.
After the defeat of Germany in 1945, she was pronounced a Nazi sympathizer by the Allies and never again found work as a movie director.
A popular dancer and actress before becoming a movie director in 1932, she enthusiastically put her talent at the service of the Nazis.
But while even in Germany it became acceptable to praise Ms. Riefenstahl as the most important female movie director ever, both her role in celebrating the Third Reich and what the critic Susan Sontag described as the ''fascist aesthetics'' of her work also came under new scrutiny.
Recovering from an injury at 22, Ms. Riefenstahl was profoundly affected by seeing Fanck's movie ''Mountain of Destiny'' and promptly sought out the director.
''Her motto always was 'Don't look back,' '' said John Loring, a longtime friend and the design director and a senior vice president of Tiffany & Company.
In the 1940's, as the press director of the New York Dress Institute, Miss Lambert introduced the concept of fashion weeks, held twice a year in New York, to replace what had been uncoordinated showings by designers.
After a brief period with a Manhattan advertising agency, she became the press director of the infant Whitney Museum of American Art, and later she helped to establish the Art Dealers Association of America.
In 1986 she became the first director of the university's Institute for Research on Women and Gender, which promotes feminist scholarship.
A judge at the International Ballet Competition in Varna, Bulgaria, Ms. Mara worked with Robert Joffrey, the artistic director of the Joffrey Ballet, and the dance writer Walter Terry to create a competition on that circuit in Jackson.
She served as the artistic director for the triennial USA International Ballet Competition from 1986 to 1994.
''
        Dr. John Gottman, a therapist and author who is executive director of the Relationship Institute in Seattle, said, ''This insight is threatening to everybody,'' but added that it was ''potentially very healing.
After that, until 1996, she was the Lincoln Center's director of special projects.
She was also a director of the New York Infirmary Hospital and a member of the Committee for Deaf and Dumb Children at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She had previously worked as a fashion director at Look magazine and as an accessories stylist and senior vice president at Macy's.
At her death she was a director of Hypercom, Georgia-Pacific, the KB Home Corporation and the Altria Group, formerly Philip Morris.
She served as director of the division of corporation finance from 1986 to 1996.
She helped found and was producing director of Naked Angels, a Manhattan theater company.

        Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the National Brain Tumor Foundation, died on Nov. 30 in San Francisco, where she made her home.
Ms. Stevenson organized the office of executive director in 1985 as the group expanded its fund-raising efforts for patient care and the search for a cure.
There she worked for Representative Paul N. McCloskey as office manager and for Santa Clara County as director of governmental relations.
From 1978 to 1982, she was director of public affairs for the Cowles Media Company in Minneapolis.
Correction:  January 1, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 19 about Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the Brain Tumor Foundation, misstated the location of the public television station KQED, for which she once worked.
''
        Judith Kahn, director of the Konopka Institute, said ''The Adolescent Girl in Conflict'' broke new ground in offering girls a chance to present their own perspectives.
''
        Ms. Lange's two previous marriages, to Mr. Murray and to Alan J. Pakula, the film director, ended in divorce.
Ms. Winant was made vice president for talent and casting after having been director of casting for CBS in Hollywood since 1966.
''
        When she visited the set of the CBS drama ''Studio One'' she talked her way into a job, and stayed until 1958, when she returned to California to work on ''Playhouse 90'' as casting director and associate producer.
Later she was casting director of ''The Twilight Zone'' and an executive producer of ''Hogan's Heroes'' and ''The Wild Wild West.
She is survived by three sons, William Winant, a musician, of Oakland, Calif.; Scott Winant, a television producer and director, of Santa Monica, Calif.; and Bruce Winant, an actor, of West Milford, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
and the director of its Center for Research in Language, was known for her very public stance in the debate on nature versus nurture, that is, how much of human behavior is genetic and how much is learned from the environment.
and in 1989 became the director of the Project in Cognitive and Neural Development at the Center for Research in Language.
