For the last four years Ms. Brooks was the home director of Family Circle, where she was in charge of the magazine's decorating, remodeling, gardening and crafts coverage.
Miss Wood was the founding director of the Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois state housing official and an officer of the National Association of Housing Officials.
She died of complications of multiple sclerosis, said her husband, Theodore D. Mann, the artistic director and co-founder of Circle in the Square Theater.
Director at New School
        Dr. Bernstein focused increasingly on the growing and entwined problems of teen-age mothers, single-parent families, poor education, school dropout and unemployment.
"
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research.
She was director of light music at the 1939 World's Fair, the same year she married Faye Hubbard, a rodeo cowboy.
Most of her career was at the New York City Hospitals Department, where she was the director of cancer and radiological research, with academic affiliations at New York University.
in Duluth, Minn. Later she joined the Katherine Gibbs School in New York City, becoming director of placement.
For 35 years, Dr. Provence was director of the center's Child Development Unit.
Under the guidance of the director D. W. Griffith, Miss Gish became the pre-eminent actress in silent films, appearing in classics like "The Birth of a Nation," "Intolerance," "Broken Blossoms" and "Way Down East.
" For the next three years she worked in New York nightclubs, and in 1926, she was discovered at a dance contest by Earl Lindsay, a stage director who cast her in the Broadway revue "Bye, Bye, Bonnie.
In 1924 she opened France's first library for children, L'Heure Joyeuse (The Joyous Hour), and served as its director for five years.
For several years she was the director of the English program for the New York Association for New Americans, a nonprofit organization in Manhattan that aids in resettlement.

        Margaret M. Mills, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Naples, Fla., Hugo Weisgall, the academy's president, announced.
She was employed by the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1968, became the academy's executive director in 1973 and retired in 1989.
      
She was the executive director and later chairwoman of the Greenacre Foundation, founded by Abby Rockefeller Mauze.
She continued as a clinician and teacher at Tufts until 1970, when at age 71 she became a consultant and director of student teaching, overseeing the radiology teaching program at the medical school until 1985 and teaching an elective course.
"  A Sassy Teen-Ager
        In 1941, when she was 17, she made her Broadway debut at the Lyceum Theater in the hit comedy "Junior Miss," after having been discovered in an audition by the play's director, Moss Hart.

        Nancy Quinn, the artistic director of Young Playwrights, an award-winning program dedicated to developing the talents of young writers, died on Saturday at her home in Brooklyn.
The cause was a heart attack, said Sheri M. Goldhirsch, the managing director of Young Playwrights.
As producing director, then artistic director, she oversaw the group's annual Young Playwrights Festival.
As producing director, then artistic director, she oversaw the group's annual Young Playwrights Festival.

        Eugenie Leontovich, an actress, playwright, director and teacher who created memorable roles on Broadway in "Grand Hotel," "Twentieth Century" and "Anastasia," died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan.
Her second husband was the actor, producer and director Gregory Ratoff.
She began singing when she was 3 years old; when she was 6 she joined the choir at the Union Baptist Church and impressed the director by learning all the parts -- soprano, alto, tenor and bass -- in the hymns the choir sang.

        Raphaelle Jeanne Semmes, a senior civil servant who became executive director of the Bush Administration's Commission on Environmental Quality, died Tuesday at the Washington Home Hospice.
In the fall of 1991 she was named executive director of the new panel set up to advise President George Bush on ways to protect the environment without excessive cost.
She arrived in Palm Beach in 1933, newly wed to Stephen Sanford, an international polo star and a director of the Bigelow-Sanford Carpet Company Inc.
At her death, she was vice president and director of media relations at Bantam Books in New York.
For more than a decade as director of publicity, she was the driving force behind all of Simon & Schuster's campaigns, working with such best-selling authors as Jackie Collins and Jane Fonda.
Mrs. Rader was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Edward G. Sperry, who was for some years president of the Sperry Products Company, which manufactured railroad and subway track-testing equipment and other products in Connecticut and on Long Island, and the former Mary Elizabeth Garvin, who was a company director.
Her father, a barrister and later a judge, worked as a director of the BBC.
She was in Bermuda with her family to celebrate her 40 years of marriage to Martin Feinstein, general director of the Washington Opera.
Her association with George Washington University began after her husband, a former vice president of Sol Hurok Concerts in New York, was named executive director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

        Eunice Saunders Carroll, an employee of Sotheby's for 40 years and the director of its Special Client Services Department, died on Sunday at New York Hospital.
On the faculty since 1925, Professor McManus served as director of the Division of Nursing Education at Teachers College from 1947 until her retirement in 1961.
Ms. McLean retired in 1977 as the director of Columbia University's Division of Dental Hygiene and an assistant dean at Columbia's School of Dental and Oral Surgery.
She was promoted to director of its dental hygiene division in 1964.
That company's director, Josef Krips, heard Miss Auger's audition at the smaller Volksoper, and offered her a contract.
She served as editorial director of the Dell Magazine Group from 1981 until she retired in 1987.
Wise was a city social worker for 31 years and became the director of case management resources at the Spofford Juvenile Center in the Bronx.
She retired there last year to devote full-time to her volunteer job as the executive director of the youth committee, which she helped found 17 years ago.
For the last two years, Dr. Whitney worked in the School Chancellor's office as director of the H.I.V./AIDS Technical Assistance Project, a privately financed program that teaches AIDS prevention throughout the school system.
From 1978 to 1985 she was executive director of Siecus, the Sex Information and Education Council of the United States, in New York City.
She was director of health services for the Children's Aid Society and director of the AIDS Training Institute in the New York City Department of Health.
She was director of health services for the Children's Aid Society and director of the AIDS Training Institute in the New York City Department of Health.
In 1934, she married Rodzinski and went with him to Cleveland, where he was music director of the Cleveland Orchestra.
Mr. Rodzinski, who died in 1958, was music director of the New York Philharmonic from 1943 to 1948.
In addition to her son, who is the executive director of the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth, she is survived by a sister, Aniela Mieczyslawska of London, and a grandchild.
      
After that success, she became the executive director of the Great Falls Development Corporation and worked to preserve the mills, which were built in the early 1800's and used the water power of the 77-foot-high Great Falls.
New Career at College
        She started a new career in 1980 as the director of community affairs at William Paterson College in Wayne, N.J.
Her father, also named Ariel, was a Russian-born pianist, the director of the Portland School of Music and a founder of the Portland Opera.
During World War II she served as the Office of Civilian Defense's director of group activities in New York, New Jersey and Delaware.
As a young woman, she was hired in 1925 as the secretary to Walter Beech, the director of the Travel Air Manufacturing Company in Wichita.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
From 1988 to 1991 she was public-relations director, news editor and writer at WPOB-FM in Plainview-Old Bethpage, L.I.
She was a granddaughter of George F. Baker, a director of 43 banks and corporations.
No one in the modern American theater has done more to resist this omission and force open the eyes of the producer, the director and, best of all, the playwright than Lucinda Ballard.

        Dr. Wilma Thompson Donahue, an expert in the psychology of aging and director emeritus of the University of Michigan Institute of Gerontology, died on Tuesday at her home in Ann Arbor.
She served for 10 years as director of the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, a post she left 10 years ago.
In 1951, she became the founding director of the university's division of gerontology and took the same position at the transformed Institute of Gerontology in 1966.
In the 1950's she traveled widely as executive director of the foundation-supported Committee of Correspondence, which worked to make women into leaders in their countries' development.
In addition to apologies from President Ford and the Director of Central Intelligence, the family was awarded $750,000 by Congress.
For the last 20 years, Mrs. Gilliam was the executive director of the Myrin Institute, a foundation whose causes include international affairs, the environment and drug-abuse education through its offshoot, the American Council for Drug Research.
Through Myrin, she was a founding editor and the artistic director of the Orion Society's Orion Nature Quarterly.

        Muriel R. Carbery, a retired nursing school dean and hospital nursing director, died on Tuesday at home in Port Jefferson, L.I.
From 1952 to 1974 Miss Carbery served as the director of the nursing service at New York Hospital.
The cause appeared to be heart failure, said Barbara Minsker, the school's director of alumnae relations.
She was previously a vice president and associate media director of Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc., a Manhattan-based advertising agency.
Author of Handbooks
        She was also involved in the promotion of international human rights and was recently named deputy director of the Orville H. Schell Jr. Center for International Human Rights at Yale.
Ms. Caro reworked the piece as the cultural director at Daytop.
Ms. Kessler was named the director of the project for Ohio in 1939.
Her 1934 novella "The Accompanist," about a young woman pianist who accompanies and competes with a soprano, was made into a film this year by the French director Claude Miller.

        Barbara Taylor Schoen, an author and the founder and director of the writing program at the State University of New York at Purchase, died on Thursday at her Purchase home.
She had been director of the college's Writing Program since 1984.
Her three marriages, to John Houseman, the director, John McCormick, an agent, and Bernard E. Shedd, an economist and publisher, all ended in divorce.
In February 1971, she was chosen from a field of 20 candidates, the rest of them male, to be executive director of Sydenham Hospital in Harlem, making her the first black woman ever to head one of the city's municipal hospitals.
Eighteen months later she accepted a job in New Jersey, as executive director of Martland Hospital in Newark, a 600-bed teaching hospital operated by the state's medical school.
After heading Sydenham Hospital and Martland Hospital, she left the Northeast to serve from 1976 to 1980 as director of hospital and health services at Meharry Medical College in Nashville, a historically black school that has produced many of the nation's black doctors.
From 1980 until 1984, she was director of the West Philadelphia Community Mental Health Consortium in Philadelphia.
She was appointed assistant director of the Nurses' Aide Corps of the American Red Cross in 1942 and later helped set up a program to house and feed British soldiers released from Japanese prison camps who stopped in New York on their way home.
In 1947, Dr. Hardy created an occupational medicine clinic at the hospital and remained its director until she retired in 1971.

        Gertrude Marie Derrick Bolden DePass, the first black administrator of a New York City welfare center in Harlem and a former deputy director of the city's Bureau of Public Assistance, died on Oct. 8 in a nursing home in Brooklyn.
She was appointed director of the Harlem Welfare Center, which was at 1951 Park Avenue, in 1952, and in 1964 she was named deputy director of the Bureau of Public Assistance, a division of the Welfare Department, which later became the Human Resources Administration.
She was appointed director of the Harlem Welfare Center, which was at 1951 Park Avenue, in 1952, and in 1964 she was named deputy director of the Bureau of Public Assistance, a division of the Welfare Department, which later became the Human Resources Administration.

        Lois Kibbee, a stage actress, director and writer who became known late in life for her decadelong role as the matriarch Geraldine Whitney Saxon on the daytime television serial "The Edge of Night," died on Monday in Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
In 1951 she founded the Civic Theater of El Paso and was its resident director for eight years.
From 1987 to 1992 Mrs. Triolo was director of the Food Bank of Lower Fairfield County, which supplied food to about 50 agencies in Greenwich, Stamford, Norwalk, Darien and New Canaan.
From 1983 to 1986, she was executive director of the Greenwich Housing Coalition, a nonprofit organization that built low-cost housing.
She was elected a director of the City Opera Company in July.
Her father's younger brother was the film director and producer Cecil B. DeMille, who spelled his family name differently.
She also became acquainted with Marie Rambert, the director of the experimental Ballet Club (later known as Ballet Rambert) and Rambert's protege Antony Tudor, who developed into the most influential dramatic choreographer of 20th-century ballet.
She retired as a professor in 1971 but remained a consultant and director of its early-childhood center for five more years.

        Jacqueline Shearer, a producer and director of documentary films about black Americans, died yesterday at her home in Cambridge, Mass.

        Joan Weidemann Harris, a retired Brooklyn community worker and former board member and executive director of the Y.W.C.A.
She died of respiratory failure, said Thomas Everett, the band's director.
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
She was also a director and a benefactor of the Bezalel Academy of Arts, Design and Architecture on Mount Scopus in Jerusalem.
" The director shot the film in 21 days, and the "quickie" was a hit.
" The director shot the film in 21 days, and the "quickie" was a hit.

        Dorothy Raedler, a stage director, choreographer and impresario who specialized in the works of Gilbert and Sullivan, died last Saturday at her home in St. Croix in the United States Virgin Islands.
Dr. Briehl was director emeritus of the child analysis section at the Southern California Psychoanalytic Institute in Los Angeles.
She became the first director of the institute's section on child analysis, serving for almost 20 years.
She was the music director on many films and wrote the scores for "Champagne Waltz" (1937), "Algiers" (1938), "The Story of G.I.
Mrs. Kellogg bred, raised and showed collies and was the first woman to be a director of the American Kennel Club.
