The pool director soon told her she had to choose one sport.
Although she had always aspired to be a writer, Ms. Ripley did not work up the courage to become a novelist until she had tried a number of other jobs, including manuscript reader and publicity director.
Her editing for them was of such quality that they gave her credit as the third director of well-known films like ''Gimme Shelter'' (1970), an account of the Rolling Stones' 1969 tour of the United States.
Ms. Stone Davidoff was executive director of several nonprofit organizations, including, most recently, the Citizens Union, a government watchdog group based in New York.
'' The director was playing the role of Nina, with Ms. Hagen as her understudy.
'' The play was forgettable, but she greatly admired Clurman as a director and teacher, and it was in that play that she met Berghof, who replaced another actor in the company.
Later, she became an educator and human resources director for the Iowa Bankers Association.

        Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
She became director of refugee and immigration services for Catholic Charities in Boston before becoming head of the Women's Commission in New York.
Mrs. Fleck, as executive director of the council, was proudest of her role in creating the museum.
''She explained to us how we really feel about fashion,'' Tom Ford, the creative director of Gucci, said yesterday from Los Angeles.
Mrs. Lash, a refugee from Germany who befriended Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt, became the commission's program director in 1946 and was its executive director from 1952 to 1972.
Mrs. Lash, a refugee from Germany who befriended Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt, became the commission's program director in 1946 and was its executive director from 1952 to 1972.
She was formerly the director of publications for the fundraising campaign at Barnard College and a public relations associate at the New York Public Library.

        Lynn L. Seidler, the former executive director of the Shubert Foundation, which provides grants to support live professional theater and dance, died on Thursday while vacationing in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
Ms. Seidler became the foundation's first director in 1975, turning it into one of the largest grant-making institutions for the arts in the country.
In 1960 she was named director of the school, where she taught the advanced classes for women.
In 2001 Boris Akimov succeeded her as director of the school.
      
Professionally, she was a vice president of the Tishman East Management Corporation and a director of Bank Leumi.
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
''This is 'Dallas' and 'Dynasty' come to life,'' Bill Wells, the director one of the miniseries, for CBS, said in an interview with The Times in 1986.
Dr. Mattei, an international authority in her field, had been the group's director and staff astronomer since 1973.
Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University.
''
        In her 20's she worked for the casting director Miriam Brickman and was greatly influenced by her work with the director Lindsay Anderson, who she said in a letter to The Guardian in 1994 ''took me on an unremitting journey of truth.
''
        In her 20's she worked for the casting director Miriam Brickman and was greatly influenced by her work with the director Lindsay Anderson, who she said in a letter to The Guardian in 1994 ''took me on an unremitting journey of truth.
In an interview in 2000 with Netribution, a British film industry Web site, Ms. Selway discussed some of the difficulties of casting, including the ''inverted snobbery'' of directors who do not want to use the best actor for a part because another director has used him.
In 1981, she was promoted to vice president and director for special events at CBS News, overseeing special coverage of breaking news.
Her death was announced by the United Automobile Workers union, where she was the first woman to head a department, becoming director of its Women's Bureau in 1944.
With the passage of laws promoting labor unions, she became an organizer for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers in Philadelphia and later the education director of the Pennsylvania Joint Board of Shirt Workers.
She also became director of its community relations department, aligning the union behind many civil rights efforts, and from 1968 to 1976, the year she retired, she headed the union's consumer affairs department.
That was the start of a long association with the director José Quintero and the Circle company.
Hudson was one of the unsung, unheralded heroes of the civil rights movement,'' Vernon E. Jordan Jr., who knew her as director of the Voting Education Project of the Southern Regional Council in the 1960's, said in an interview.
Micheaux was one of the key figures of this African-American cinema as both producer and director.
She was 100 or 101, said Annie Rieken, a close friend and director of the Heritage Foundation of Monroe County, where the farm is located.
Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the actress and acting teacher Phoebe Brand Carnovsky on Monday misstated the forum in which the director Elia Kazan named her and her husband, the actor Morris Carnovsky, as Communists.
'' in 1967 after having caught the eye of its director, Stanley Kramer, in the 1965 Broadway production of James Baldwin's ''Amen Corner.

        Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto.
She was a ballet mistress of the National Ballet of Canada and director of the National Ballet School until her retirement in 1989.
'' Many leading Canadian dancers and choreographers studied with her over the years, including Frank Augustyn, Veronica Tennant, Karen Kain, Rex Harrington, John Alleyne and James Kudelka, the National Ballet's artistic director.
After meeting Celia Franca, the British-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada, she was appointed its ballet mistress in 1952 and served as its associate artistic director from 1969 to '75.
Her father, Ray Grey, acted in Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies and later worked as an assistant director.
Rick McKay, a director and her friend, said she died peacefully in her sleep.
When she felt she was about to fall, she implored the director, Merian C. Cooper, to have her lowered to the stage floor to rest a few minutes before being secured once again in the hand and sent aloft.
Last March Peter Jackson, the director, asked her over dinner if she would appear in his remake of ''King Kong.

        Lenore Benson, a former executive director of the Fashion Group International, died on Wednesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan.
From November 2001 until last June, Ms. Benson was the director of external affairs for the Laboratory Institute of Merchandising, a professional school in New York.
In 1955, she became merchandise and marketing director of Mademoiselle magazine, and later Harper's Bazaar and then Vogue, before accepting a position with the Fashion Group.
The foundation, financed entirely by Mr. and Mrs. Stone's contributions, has donated more than $200 million, said Sandra Treacy, its executive director.
''Psycho'' was a landmark in Hollywood moviemaking, both controversial and shocking, partly because of its violence and partly because the director did the unthinkable and killed off his star one-third of the way through the movie.
In a 1998 interview, Ms. Leigh remembered the director's words: ''Whatever I put you in, the audience would immediately think of 'Psycho.
She was assistant field director of the excavation from 1948 to 1960 and acting director from 1960 to 1965, and she remained closely involved with Samothrace for the rest of her career.
She was assistant field director of the excavation from 1948 to 1960 and acting director from 1960 to 1965, and she remained closely involved with Samothrace for the rest of her career.
She received her Ph.D. in 1943, and married Mr. Lehmann, the excavation's director, the next year.

        Carol H. Pitchersky, a former associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union who helped it overcome a potentially bankrupting deficit, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington.
Besides Mr. Halperin, the director of policy planning at the State Department under President Bill Clinton, Ms. Pitchersky is survived by her father, Arthur, of Rockville, Md.
''
        In the case of the Medici art, she says, the director of the Uffizi and Italian officials took a fancy to her pitch that the festival would bring together Florence's best artisans, many of them making the same beautiful products, including lace and jewelry, that are prominent in the Uffizi paintings hanging in Federal Hall.
Ms. Schwei founded the American Indian Dance Theater in 1987 with Hanay Geiogamah, its artistic director.
She was executive director for its first 15 years and remained on the board until her death.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.
Working with Kris Moran, Scholastic's director of trade-book publicity, Ms. Corman orchestrated suspense -- and desire -- in an international campaign that has continued through Books 4 and 5.
She was later public relations director for Phoenix House, the drug-rehabilitation agency, and a senior vice president at Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery, a New York public relations firm.
Dr. Ferrer is survived by a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor and director, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      
She joined the staff of Cricket magazine for children as an artist and illustrator in 1972 and became its art director.

        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced.
Mr. Dolin was its first director; Miss Markova was its ballerina until 1952, after which she devoted herself to guest performances.
Nevertheless, in her six years as director, Dame Alicia raised the dancers' technical level and made it possible for the ballet company to present programs of its own.
A highly visible public figure since the mid-1960's, Ms. Sontag wrote four novels, dozens of essays and a volume of short stories and was also an occasional filmmaker, playwright and theater director.
''
        Mr. Henry, editor of the magazine Verse and director of the creative writing program at the University of Georgia, mentioned the rare incendiary moments in her work but added that, ''Her poetry is primarily, and literally, civil, seeking to uphold the accepted foundations of civilization -- marriage and friendship, love and sympathy -- while occasionally plumbing those foundations for cracks.
She was the founding director of the Norsam Gallery in New York, which dealt chiefly with local black artists.
