She suffered a heart attack, said Duane Silverstein, executive director of the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund in San Francisco.
She was a director of the Mount Zion Health System and former president of the Mount Zion Hospital and Medical Center.
A great-grandniece and heir of Levi Strauss, the denim king, she was a corporate director of his apparel concern, Levi Strauss & Company.
Cornell Capa, the founding director emeritus of the center, remembered that whatever Mrs. Rose decided to do, "she did it with a full heart and elegance.
On the  advice of the choir director, R. Nathaniel Dett, she changed her major to music  and earned a bachelor's degree in 1933.
' "  She served as executive director of the school until 1979 and also taught there.
She was the widow of Samuel Dushkin, the concert violinist, who died in 1976 after 40 years of marriage, and a sister of James Rorimer, former director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Ms. de Hirsch maintained a private practice in New York City and was director of the Pediatric Language Disorder Clinic at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center from 1941 to 1972.
Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona.
Mrs. Weil worked in the General Counsel's office of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and with what is now the Washington law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson before joining the United Nations in 1952, rising to the post of director of the world body's General Legal Division in 1980.

        Bernice Lotwin Bernstein, a former New York regional director of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, died on Wednesday at the Group Health Hospital in Seattle.
She was appointed director of Region 2, which covered New York and New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands, in 1966.
Mrs. Bernstein retired as director in 1977 and worked as a special assistant  to Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. for more than a year longer.
From then until her death, she served as a director of the Non-Governmental Committee on Aging at the United Nations.
She was its associate director and department head until 1958.
She pursued an earlier career as an actress, director and writer for theaters and radio stations in California and New Mexico.
The Spanish film director Pedro Almodovar, for instance, used Ms.  Beltran's version of "Soy Infeliz," or "I Am Unhappy," as the opening theme of his 1988 hit, "Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown.

        Marsha Wenk, legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, which prevailed in cases involving school prayer and a law requiring community notification about the presence of paroled sex offenders, died at New York University Medical Center on March 23.
The cause was cancer, Edward Martone, the chapter's executive director, said.
Ms. Wenk joined the chapter as staff lawyer in 1992 and became legal director the next year.
She also  produced "Living on Tokyo Time," the first feature by the director Steven Okazaki.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
She was rehearsal pianist for the original production of "South Pacific" and musical director for "You're  a Good Man, Charlie Brown.
Mrs. Badillo worked for the Carey and Cuomo administrations as the deputy director of the Division for Women from 1978 until 1986, when she took over the  New York City office of the State Department of Social Services.
As the Deputy Director of the Division for Women, Mrs. Badillo helped run the state's efforts to pass an Equal Rights Amendment, organizing rallies and conferences in various cities and towns.
She reached her first milestone as a unionist in 1947 when she became the director of the recreation department at the auto workers union.
For 50 years, she was the director of the Albert Butler School of Dance, which she and her husband founded in 1936.

        Anne Spivey Woodward, a museum director and former administrator of Brandywine Battlefield Park in Pennsylvania, died on Tuesday at Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. A West Chester resident, she was 47.
That year she started her career as a director and museum curator for the Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission.
From 1989 until two years ago she served as the museum director of the Historical Society of Delaware.
When she resigned after two years to become director of communications at the University of Pennsylvania, she tossed off a tart farewell: doing creative work  for the city-owned stations was, she said, "a little like trying to cook a gourmet meal with glue on the kitchen floor.
"In the revolution of 1966, Mary was a key player," said Henry Stern, the current Commissioner of the Parks Department who was then its executive director.
In 1977, she became communications director to Mayor Kevin S. White of Boston for just under a year.

        Bettina Bancroft, a former director of Dow Jones & Company, which publishes The Wall Street Journal and Barron's magazine, died on Tuesday, at her Los Angeles home.
A great-granddaughter of Clarence W. Barron, who bought Dow Jones in 1902 from a co-founder, Charles H. Dow, she became a director in 1982 to represent the Bancroft and Barron family descendants.
She retired from the board in April, but remained a director of the Dow Jones Foundation.
Miss Hyson's second husband, the actor and director Sir Anthony Quayle, once remarked: "It was not only her beauty that possessed me.
When she arrived at Bryn Mawr in 1944, she was appointed director of its Child Study Institute, which grew to national prominence during her tenure.

        Janet A. Sloane, a fashion director who helped bring haute couture headware from Europe to upscale American stores, died on April 20 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She had been assistant to the president and director of business development  for the firm's New York/ New Jersey metropolitan district.
Before she joined the company, she was New Jersey's transportation policy coordinator and deputy director of policy in the office of Governor Florio.

        Mollie H. Beattie, who resigned as director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service on June 6 because of failing health, died on Thursday at Grace  Cottage Hospital in Townsend, Vt. She was 49 and lived in Grafton and Alexandria, Va.
In three years as director, she defended the Endangered Species Act against attacks from many Republicans in Congress and fought efforts to reduce the agency's budget, not always successfully.
"
        As director, she was responsible for the wildlife service's 7,000 employees and an annual budget for resource management of $501 million in the current fiscal year, down from $511 million the previous year.
John Rogers has been serving as acting director.
She was program director and lands manager for the Windham Foundation, a nonprofit organization that conducts seminars on critical issues facing Vermont, from 1983 to 1985; commissioner of the Vermont Department of Forests, Parks and  Recreation from 1985 to 1989, and deputy secretary of the state's Agency of Natural Resources from 1989 to 1990.
She left to become executive director of a  public policy institute, the Richard A. Snelling Center for Government in Vermont, before taking her post at the Fish and Wildlife Service.
" Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern, said Mrs. Auchincloss was "one of the great, great trustees of our museum and involved with every aspect of its life.
She also served on the board of Japan Society, and was a director  of the Municipal Arts Society and a Fellow for Life of the Morgan Library.

        Burch Mann, the founder and director of the American Folk Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Cedar City, Utah, after a long illness.
As executive director of the Board of Elections, she was in charge of its day-to-day operations, from voter registration through certification of the winners.
For many years, she also served as a director of the Institute of International Education and the Spoleto Festival of Two Worlds.

        Harriett Heywood Patton, a founder of Recording for the Blind and a managing  director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild, died on Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville.
She was managing director of the guild from 1959 to 1968.
The committee brought together top corporate executives to plan for the postwar era; Mrs. Patton was recruited as deputy director.
Eleanor R. Belmont, founder of the Opera Guild and a friend, persuaded Mrs. Patton to turn her attention in that direction and become managing director.
Mrs. Patton, who had served as a director, was familiar with the operation and earned a reputation for running a trim ship.
He was sentenced to death for war crimes there, but died in prison in 1988 before the execution could be carried out..
        "In the days before computers, she was better than computers," said Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress.
The film historian David Thomson wrote six decades later that Miss Colbert had bathed not only in asses' milk but also in "the director's boyish lasciviousness.
In 1927 the young Leland Hayward, who would become a celebrated theatrical producer, told the director Frank Capra that Miss Colbert was "a real headline maker, the finest young actress that's hit Broadway in years.
And so, Mr. Capra recalled: "We waited until the casting director sent us a chorus girl with shapely underpinnings to 'double' for Colbert's.
"
        When Oscar time rolled around, the film won the five top awards: best picture, best writer, best director, best actor and best actress.
In 1928, Miss Colbert married Norman Foster, an actor and director who was appearing with her in "The Barker.
Active in Republican politics, Mrs. Gerard was appointed representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in 1981 with a mandate from the Reagan Administration to clean up an agency that in its view was badly managed and had become increasingly politicized and anti-Western under its director general, Amadou Mahtar M'Bow of Senegal.
She was a director of the Youth Foundation, the N.Y. Genealogical and Biographical Society and the Child Health Foundation.

        Nanette Bearden, the founder and artistic director of the Nanette Bearden Contemporary Dance Theater, died on Aug. 10 at St. Vincent's Medical Center on Staten Island.
''
        As a longtime researcher for the Labor Department and later as executive director for various Federal commissions and task forces on the status of women, she came to know scores of accomplished, professional women, in and out of Government, who were concerned about sex discrimination and became important in the feminist movement.
Dr. Broverman went on to be an associate professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, becoming director of the psychology service in 1980.

        Sandra Isham Vreeland, a poet who was the director of an AIDS poetry project for young people, died yesterday at her home in Bridgehampton, L.I.
Mrs. Ruppe was appointed director of the Peace Corps by President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
When Mrs. Ruppe became director, 3 percent of the volunteer were over age 50; six years later, 11 percent were.
Mrs. Ruppe drew praise from R. Sargent Shriver, the Democrat and Kennedy in-law who was the Peace Corps' first director.
In Hollywood, she caught the eye of the director Howard Hawks, who changed her last name to Dru.
'' A director of the Screen Actors Guild from 1990 until her death, Ms. Besch served on many of the organization's committees, among them the national communications committee, the women's committee, the agents relations committee and the women's health task force.

        The actress and film director Christine Pascal, who made her movie acting debut at 21 and directed her first film at 25, has died at the age of 42, her husband's production agency said yesterday in Paris.
''She was extraordinarily sensitive, and she showed it in the films she made as a director and as an actress.

        Agnes Mongan, the first woman to be a curator and then the first to be a director at the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in Cambridge, Mass., died on Sunday at a hospital in Cambridge.
Her first job was as a research assistant under Paul Sachs, associate director of the Fogg.
She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969.
She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969.
She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969.
She became assistant director in 1951, associate director in 1964, acting director in 1968 and director in 1969.
The daughter of a blue-collar worker from Auburn, Mass., who had to hold two jobs to support his family in the Depression, Mrs. Noyce was majoring in English at Tufts University in the early 1950's and dreaming of becoming a writer when she signed on as costume director of a summer theatrical production and caught the eye of one of the cast members, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology named Robert N. Noyce.
She made her first screen appearance, at 16, under the name Annabella, in a minor role in the epic-length silent film ''Napoleon'' (1926), with Abel Gance as director and screenwriter.
She received a belated citation for her bond work from the Treasury in 1965, at which time William H. Neal, at that time the director of the United States Savings Bond Division, credited her with being the first star to offer her services to sell war bonds and the originator of the successful Government plan for payroll deductions for those who wanted part of their salaries set aside for war bond purchases.
But the director of the pathology department did not want a female resident, so Dr. Squire turned to radiology.
William H. Neal, at that time the director of the United States Savings Bond Division, credited her with being the first star to offer to help sell war bonds and as an originator of the successful Government plan for payroll deductions for those who wanted part of their salaries set aside for war bond purchases.
But once she got started, taking a job in suburban Atlanta as director of Georgia's first shelter for battered women, Ms. Carlin became so outraged by what she viewed as society's indifference to the problem that she was soon in the forefront of national efforts to curb domestic violence.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
Her earlier work included serving as director of social work education and as casework supervisor in agencies in Chicago.
Within two years, she had won a contract from Universal and was well on her way to becoming one of the most famous women in America, appearing first in Hoot Gibson westerns and the like and then in leading roles opposite Reginald Denny, especially after the director William Seitzer persuaded her to bob and bleach her long brown hair.
Dr. Boynton served as chief medical director of the American Red Cross blood donor program for metropolitan New York during both World War II and the Korean War.
She was a life trustee of Brick Presbyterian Church's hospital chaplaincy, as well as a director, trustee and past president of James Lenox House, a home for the elderly.
She was an adjunct professor of labor studies at Rutgers-Newark and spent her last 10 years in education as director of public relations and development for Essex County College.
She had been suffering from cardiopulmonary disorders, according to her son, Stephen Cuyjet Jr.
        Mrs. Cuyjet's most famous pupil was Judith Jamison, artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
At her death, she was the program director of the Y.W.C.A.
She worked as a production stage manager and assistant director for the Institute for Advanced Study of Theater Arts in New York City.
She also was a former director.
She is survived by her husband, Chester, former director of the Yale University Press; two daughters, Hilary Mills Loomis of Manhattan and Alley Mills Bean of Los Angeles; a son, Tony Mills of Oakland, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said Patricia Wilde, artistic director of the ballet company.
She was the artistic director of Danceworks, the modern dance troupe of the Maryland National Capital Parks and Planning Commission, which performed throughout the region through 1981.
The cause was cancer, her family said
        Ms. Anthony was born in New York City, where her father, Jack Murray Anthony, was a cartoonist for The New Yorker and art director at Young & Rubicam.
Perk as director of community development and, later, director of public health and welfare.
Perk as director of community development and, later, director of public health and welfare.
Mrs. Dulles, who used her maiden surname, entered Government service in 1936 as director of financial research for the Social Security Board.
Later, as special assistant to the director of the State Department's office of German affairs, Mrs. Dulles was credited with ''working miracles,'' as one biographer put it.
The cause was cancer, said Jacqueline I. Haines, director of the Gesell Institute in New Haven, which Dr. Ames helped found in 1950.
According to the director, Margaret Childress, because of Mrs. Macdonald's financial efforts, the help will continue.
''The mandate has been pretty straightforward,'' said Linda Gillies, the foundation's director.
Marjory Rice, the director of Furnish a Future, said Mrs. Astor has appeared at functions for the organization and helped raise money.
At her death Mrs. Goldsmith was the director of the Institute for Asian Studies on East 44th Street, which she founded in 1981 as a school for adult education.
From 1965 to 1969, she served as assistant director of the State Department's Office of Carribean Affairs before returning to Barbados as Ambassador, becoming the highest ranking woman in the Foreign Service.
Mrs. Wilson joined Mount Sinai in 1962 as administrative assistant to the director of nurses.
She was director of publicity and advertising at E. P. Dutton from 1970 to 1982.
She then joined Basic Books, a subsidiary of HarperCollins, as associate publisher, senior vice president and director of publicity and rights.
She had a lifelong interest in Scouting and was a past director of the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. and a trustee of the World Foundation for Girl Guides and Girl Scouts.

        Clare Lindgren Wofford, director of major gifts at American College in Bryn Mawr, Pa., died yesterday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
Over the years, she was also associated with the Katherine Gibbs School in Philadelphia, the University of Pennsylvania, where she was director of international seminars, and the Washington council of the African-American Institute.
