Mrs. Meyer had also been a managing director of Russell Reynolds Associates, a corporate search firm.
The youngest, Pheni, is an international travel writer who also struggles to write serious books and fights with the man she loves -- a bisexual theater director.
She was managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a member of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
She was 76 and, until six months ago, had been getting up at 5 A.M. to stir the soup and poor people's spirits as the hands-on founding director of St. John's Bread and Life Soup Kitchen.
The policy developed by Ms. Kneeland and Cathy McFeaters, who is now news director, is not without critics, and at least one competitor has derided the station for ''filtering its news.
Her first husband was Irving Willat, a film director.
Mrs. Osmundsen was the president of the foundation, based in Manhattan, from 1978 to 1986 and was its director of research from 1963 to 1978.
''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference.
''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference.
Woodie King, artistic director at the New Federal Theater, said, ''For our first 15 years of existence, she covered all of our productions and gave us and other theater groups a visibility that we would not have had otherwise.
She also began working with community and regional orchestras, and was director for several years of the Kenosha Civic Orchestra, the Chicago Civic Orchestra and the Elgin Symphony.
Although the directors of orchestral choirs do most of their work behind the scenes, rehearsing their choruses for performances conducted by the orchestra's music director or a guest conductor, Ms. Hillis's work with the Chicago Symphony Chorus was widely praised.
''By 1975,'' said Cynthia Pearson, the network's executive director, ''there were over 2,000 community-based women's health groups that either provided direct services and education and an alternative to traditional male-dominated medical care or were engaged in efforts to change the system.
The next year she was transferred to the darkrooms of the Office of War Information, which was headed by Roy Stryker, former director of the farm photography project.
''
        Despite her star status -- and the tension that can cause -- Miss Ulanova was highly popular, eventually becoming a teacher to the greatest dancers -- including Yekaterina Maksimova, Nina Timofeyeva and the current Bolshoi director, Vladimir Vasilyev -- who followed her.
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      
She was among the first women to reach the New York bench at any level and was a judge for 24 years after a stint as the city's Director of Finance.
In 1962, she became the city's first Director of Finance.
During her tenure as Director of Finance, she created an important indicator of the city's economic health, the New York City Excise Tax Guide, as a resource for businesses, lawyers and individual taxpayers, as well as for the city administration.
More recently Mrs. Shuman had acquired other souvenirs, photographs showing her and James Cameron, the director of the current hit movie ''Titanic,'' at the Chicago premiere last December.
Susan Arthur Whitson, director of the Edwynn Houk Gallery, which represents her work, said that the gallery had hoped that Ms. Bing would attend the March 26 opening of a retrospective of her work titled ''Ilse Bing: Vision of a Century.
Ms. Holmes retired in 1996 as director of new projects at the Greyston Foundation, the umbrella organization of the Greyston Group.

        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Correction:  April 27, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Barbara Burton Elliott, executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell' Opera, misidentified a church in Manhattan where the company has performed.
She worked with its artistic director, Sally Bliss, as an associate director and eventually served as full director for two years until the troupe was reorganized in 1985.
She worked with its artistic director, Sally Bliss, as an associate director and eventually served as full director for two years until the troupe was reorganized in 1985.
She worked with its artistic director, Sally Bliss, as an associate director and eventually served as full director for two years until the troupe was reorganized in 1985.

        Jane Reid-Petty, director, playwright and founder of New Stage Theater in Jackson, Miss., died on Thursday in Jackson at the home of her daughter, Diane Petty Maddux.
A native of Fanwood, N.J., she graduated from Overlook Hospital in 1938 and rose to director of the school of nursing services there in 1945.
In 1974 she became senior associate director of nursing at the hospital, and she held that position for a number of years.

        Kerris Ann Wolsky, the president and founding director of Harlem Textile Works, died on May 3 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens.
In 1994, the textile offshoot became a separate, independent nonprofit organization, and Ms. Wolsky served as its president and director.
Joe Podgor, the former executive director, called her ''the giant on whose shoulders we all stand.
''
        It was only in 1935, after her husband, without her knowledge, showed her work to the director of the Museum of Modern Art, Alfred H. Barr, that she began her career.
That same year, however, she became directly involved with another troupe by serving as secretary to Marie Rambert, director of the Ballet Rambert.
Working part time until she obtained a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Mudd, who eventually received her doctorate there, became the council's full-time executive director in 1936 and held the post until her retirement in 1967.
Describing Ms. Rockmore's performances, Steve Martin, the director of the theremin film, said, ''Clara is to the theremin what Andres Segovia and Jimi Hendrix combined are to the guitar.

        Joan Mareskas Kormendi, the longtime artistic director of the Children's Repertory Group, whose child actors performed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 18 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She was director of public relations for Peter Marino & Associates, a New York architectural firm, from 1989 to 1992.
Correction:  June 26, 1998, Friday  An obituary of the tapestry designer Gloria F. Ross on Tuesday misstated the position of Dr. Ann Lane Hedlund at the Gloria F. Ross Center for Tapestry Studies in Tucson, Ariz. She is the center's director, not head of its board.
      
At her death she was working with the museum's director, Gerard C. Wertkin, on ''Folk Art Travelogue,'' an exhibition tracing the history of travel and transportation in America through folk art.
At the same time, as playwright and director, her husband was himself enjoying halcyon days.
''
        She retired from full-time filmmaking in 1942 to bring up the children (eventually seven) she had with her husband, John V. Farrow, a movie writer, director and producer, and made only occasional films until 1963.
When she was 18, she had a chance meeting with Frank Borzage, the American director, who was in Dublin filming ''Song o' My Heart,'' starring the celebrated tenor John McCormack.
'' Then he said, ''Me Tarzan, you Jane,'' and the director said, ''Keep it in the script.
One of the first to come was Michael Tilson Thomas, who became the orchestra's music director three years ago.
She designed more than a dozen of the director's productions, including ''Endgame,'' ''Waiting for Godot'' ''Tourists and Refugees,'' ''The Bald Soprano'' and his collaborations with Sam Shepard: ''Tongues,'' ''Savage Love,'' ''The War in Heaven'' and ''When the World Was Green (A Chef's Fable).
Among them was Fred Tyson, who is going back to work as a casting director in Hollywood.

        Harryetta Peterka, director of instruction of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, died on Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan.
As director of instruction, Ms. Peterka supervised students enrolled in the school's two-year professional training program and served as artistic director of the Academy Company.
As director of instruction, Ms. Peterka supervised students enrolled in the school's two-year professional training program and served as artistic director of the Academy Company.
At her death, Mrs. Kraus was the director of general services at the New York City Association for the Help of Retarded Children.
As director of general services, Mrs. Kraus was involved in keeping the homes comfortable and attractive.
Ms. Perles's clients over the years included Woody Allen; Nancy Allen, the actress-wife of Brian De Palma, the movie director; the former Eve Ella Sherpick Green, the first wife of Harry B. Helmsley, the New York real estate titan; David Merrick, the producer; and Ethel Scull, who once was called the doyenne of the pop art world.

        Elaine Aiken, a Method acting teacher, former member of the Actors Studio and a founder and director of Actors Conservatory in Manhattan, died on July 12 at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Lily Lodge, the other founder and director of Actors Conservatory.
The cause was a stroke, said Diane Kounalakis, associate director of public relations for the San Francisco Ballet.
'' Her partner was Willam Christensen, Lew's brother and the company's director.
'' When Willam Christensen left California in 1951 to found Ballet West in Salt Lake City, of which he is now director emeritus, his brother  succeeded him in San Francisco.
When the Met's director offered her a curatorial position in charge of its Textile Study Room in 1949, she said yes, but added that he should know three things: she didn't know much about textiles; she cared less than most women about fashion, and she never used a needle and thread unless she had to.
She was invited to take the legendary museum course taught by Paul J. Sachs, the Fogg's associate director.

        Corinne Greenberg Levin, an advocate for children and the director of the independent Teacher Center in New Haven since its founding 27 years ago, died on July 27 at Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. A New Haven resident, she was 68.
This and several other long sentences she imposed on violent gang members over the next few weeks made Judge Stout such a hero in Philadelphia that when the executive director of the local chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union sent form letters to members of the Philadelphia bar protesting her ''swift justice,'' he received so many angry replies that he sent a second letter, beginning, ''I am sorry that our criticism of Judge Stout has upset you.
Mrs. Michelfelder retired in April as executive director of Wayside House in Delray Beach, which she co-founded in 1974.
Bernardino spoke up for women in the aftermath of World War II, understanding that life for women would never be the same, '' said Kristen Timothy, deputy director of the United Nations Division for the Advancement of Women.
Marilyn Shapiro, the executive director for external affairs at the Met, estimated that Mrs. Harrington's donations to the Met totaled more than  $30 million.
As a director of the foundation she formed with her husband, Donald D. Harrington, a Texas oil man, Mrs. Harrington also contributed large sums to dozens of diverse charities and organizations, including the Deafness Research Foundation in New York and the Harrington Arthritis Research Center in Phoenix.
'' She became a member of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1968, a director of its managing board in 1970 and advisory director in 1978.
'' She became a member of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1968, a director of its managing board in 1970 and advisory director in 1978.
''She leaned into it,'' said Alice Yaker, who recently retired as Share's executive director, referring to both the disease and the cancer support center.
Or that she had been dismissed from her next job, as publicity director of a segregated Washington hotel, after letting black Oberlin alumni attend a banquet there.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
She moved to Reader's Digest in 1968 and worked there until her retirement in 1996, the last 10 years as worldwide director of book rights.
''She was very much like her mother,'' said Walson Botelho, artistic director of the Bale Folclorico da Bahia, who is a senior figure in another Candomble temple in Salvador.
In 1953 she became medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, where she carried forward Margaret Sanger's mission for family planning.
Her objective was to attain the essential 35 hours of solo flying because Ms. Cochran, who was director of the newly organized Women's Airforce Service Pilots, had sent out a call for volunteers.
She worked as a reporter for  The Philadelphia Inquirer and as public relations director of the Philadelphia Museum College of Art, now called the Philadelphia College of Art.
To support the gallery, Mrs. Benson worked as director of community relations at Southampton Hospital for 25 years.
One stepson, Robert D. of Bethseda, Md., following the family tradition of public service, went on to become director of the Congressional Budget Office and is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
From 1977 to 1982, she served as a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, and was appointed chairwoman of the regional bank in 1982.

        Elizabeth Chapman Gilkeson, an educator associated with the Bank Street College of Education for more than four decades and the founding director of its School for Children, died on Oct. 7 at her home in lower Manhattan.

        Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Rockland County service organization for the developmentally disabled that she founded in 1969.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
The cause was cancer, said Pamela Forbes, director of media at the museums.
''She was the toughest deal maker imaginable,'' said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a real estate brokerage and management concern.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Among the center's offerings during her tenure as director of its theater and light-opera companies were plays by Shakespeare and Shaw, Sartre and Tennessee Williams, with actors like Jose Ferrer, Charles Boyer, Franchot Tone, Jessica Tandy and Hume Cronyn, Charlton Heston, Helen Hayes and Tallulah Bankhead.
Initially serving as volunteer director of public relations and as a member of its board, Miss Dalrymple remained at the middle of City Center's publicity apparatus even after she started producing and directing.
But even in those days, she thought of writing as secondary to her goal of becoming a stage director.
She was hired by Golden as an understudy, casting director, play doctor and press agent, and her skill in handling the press so impressed him that he encouraged her to work at it full time.
At the time, the play's director, Jacques Hebertot, predicted, ''You will carry this role throughout your life, a slave to the success it will bring you.
''
        Correction:  December 3, 1998, Thursday  A picture caption on Nov. 23 with an obituary of the French actress Edwige Feuillere misstated the original nationality of the actor and director Erich von Stroheim, shown with her in an unidentified film.
''
        Although she also danced the ballerina roles in the company's staging of the 19th-century classics and in works by Michel Fokine, Nijinsky and Leonide Massine, she considered Nijinska her mentor and joined the newly formed Polish Ballet when Nijinska became its director in 1937.
Five years later Jean Renoir, the  French director, made ''The River,'' recognized as one of the great color films, an adaptation of Ms. Godden's novel about English children growing up in Bengal.
After leaving Wharton, Ms. Walsh joined the General Motors Corporation in New York City, rising to director for corporate finance and capital markets.
Ms. Gulkin, a former specialist in programs for drug abusers, became Greenwich House's executive director in 1976.
She joined Greenwich House's staff as a supervisor of its programs for drug abusers in 1968 and was made director of its substance abuse clinics in 1972.
She joined the Metropolitan Ballet in London in 1947, at 15, and despite her inexperience quickly impressed the director, Cecilia Blatch.
''Well, she isn't quite what we need at the moment,'' the director is said to have commented,  ''but in a few months she'll be what everyone needs.
She served as its director for 11 years, and the center was later renamed in her honor.
''I don't know anybody who has captured the heart and soul of black people any more than she did,'' Alferdteen Harrison, who became the director of the institute when Dr. Alexander stepped down, said.
Besides her mother and her father, Dennis Thomas, a saxophonist who is the musical director of the band Kool and the Gang, she is survived by her grandfather, Cecil Saunders, and a brother, David, all of Weehawken.
      
In 1939, she served as director of the City Health Center in Astoria, Queens, and promoted the idea that New York City should keep close tabs on the health of its children through records that would follow them when they moved to new schools.
Dr. Nyswander was married for more than 20 years to George T. Palmer, former director of research for the American Child Health Association in New York.

        Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville.
From 1981 to 1983 she was the artistic director of the Centre National de Danse Contemporaine in Angers, establishing, at the same time, an institute for the training of dance teachers in Paris.
Dr. Abel taught at the University of Illinois and at Sarah Lawrence College and later became the director of research at the Manhattan Trade School for Girls.
In 1947, she joined the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health in Manhattan, where she was director of psychoanalysis.
Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, said Ms. Roberts had ''a real ability to think like a producer, feel like an artist and act like an agent.
In 1935 she went to work for the Federal Art Project of the Works Progress Administration, later becoming its assistant director.
She became the museum's assistant director in 1949 and its associate director in charge of exhibitions, membership and special events in 1953.
She became the museum's assistant director in 1949 and its associate director in charge of exhibitions, membership and special events in 1953.

        Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.
Ms. Arron came to Carnegie Hall from Cincinnati, where she was the Cincinnati Symphony's manager and the director of its May Festival.
Correction:  December 25, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday, and in some copies on Sunday, about Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, misstated the position of her husband, Ronald D. Arron, in the Metropolitan Opera  Orchestra.
Mr. Murrow became a CBS vice president and television broadcaster and then the United States Information Agency's director from 1961 to 1964.
