Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
She was the founder and director of Intimate Concerts Association of Westchester and taught violin at the New York College of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., and in public schools in New Rochelle and Pelham, N.Y.
        She is survived by a daughter, Gale Bruzzese of New Rochelle, 10 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
She also served as an officer and director of the Westchester Women's Bar Association.
She reached emeritus status in 1981 but remained as director of the interdisciplinary program in the college's Graduate School of Basic Medical Sciences until 1988.
She is survived by her son, Stephen A., the music director of the Washington Chamber Symphony, of Washington; a brother, Walter H., the former chief executive of Triangle Publications and the founder of TV Guide, of Philadelphia and near Palm Springs, Calif.; four sisters, Enid Haupt, Janet Hooker, Lita Hazen and Evelyn Hall, all of Manhattan, and six grandsons.
      
Later she taught math at the Brearley School and for many years was a director and officer of the Calhoun School.
High School English Teacher
        In the 1920's and 1930's she worked as a high school English teacher and librarian in Danville and served as technical director of a Federal Works Project Administration library program for Virginia.
In recent years she worked for the Strang Cancer Prevention Center in Manhattan as the director of the National High-Risk Registry for women with a family history of breast cancer.
Dr. Jenkins wrote 10 books and was the founding director of the Center for the Study of Social Work Practice.
Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
She was 56 years old and lived in Santa Ynez, Calif.
        She had breast cancer for three years, said her husband, Andre, the stage and film director and actor.
Mrs. Gregory directed a number of documentaries, including three dealing with the Polish director Jerzy Grotowski; the last, "Art as Vehicle," completed in 1990, examined his complex work process.
In the 1970's, she was the executive director of an organization called A Bunch of Experimental Theaters.
As its director, she shaped the program to train, monitor and evaluate such mentors, and its comprehensive approach came to be a national prototype.
In 1986, Ms. Samuel became director of the Office of School and Business Linkages to develop initiatives that involve people from the private sector and government with students, teachers and administrators.
In the 1960's she was a caseworker for the Suffolk County Social Services Department, worked for the National Council on Aging and was the community relations director for the Long Island chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality.
Earlier, she was the first director of nursing at the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center, where she developed the system now used nationally to designate nursing services for different types of cancer patients.
In addition to her active role with the Red Sox and her extensive charitable work, Mrs. Yawkey had been a director of the National Baseball Museum and Hall of Fame since 1984, when she became the first, and so far only woman elected to the board.

        Mary Childs Black, an art historian, folk art expert, former museum director and writer, died yesterday at her home in Germantown, N.Y. She was 69 years old.
The biography was published when she was director of the Museum of American Folk Art in New York City, where she had organized the first major show of Phillips's work.
Two years later she became curator at the Abby Aldrich Rockefeller Folk Art Center at Williamsburg, and was named director in 1961.
She left Williamsburg in 1964 to become the director of the Museum of American Folk Art.
In 1969 she moved to the New-York Historical Society, where she remained as the curator of sculpture, painting and decorative arts until 1982, when she was abruptly dismissed by the director, Dr. James B.
At her death, Mrs. Black was working on an exhibition of Colonial American painters to be presented at the New-York Historical Society, said Barbara Knowles Debs, the director and president.
Alexander Liberman, the editorial director of Conde Nast Publications, which publishes Vogue, said the Penns represented "an extraordinary relationship between a photographer and a model.

        Emilia Sherman Maurer, who put the Rockettes through their paces from the gala opening of Radio City Music Hall on Dec. 27, 1932, until she retired as director of the dancers more than 40 years later, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhassett, L.I.
She quickly became a principal aide to Mr. Markert and, for more than 15 years, was his associate director.
She became director upon his retirement in 1971.
From 1927 until 1933, she was director of the Home Institute of The New York Herald Tribune.
"
        In 1944, Miss Colby was hired by David O. Selznick as his studio's "feminine director.
Her husband was John Scott Mabon, a publishing executive who was the acting director of University of Michigan Press.

        Margaret T. Barker, an actress and director who was an original member of the Group Theater, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. Hausner, a 1944 graduate of Hunter College, was a founding director of the social services division at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, and chief social worker for the Westchester County Community Health Board.
Mrs. Wright was a past executive director of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and in the 1950's directed the Midwest office of the Institute for International Education.
She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
After working for a law firm and Citibank, she joined the foundation in 1969, where she progressed from research assistant to program associate, program officer, associate director and vice president.

        Susan N. Brewster, the executive director of the State Financial Control Board for the City of Yonkers for the last six years, died on Tuesday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 41 years old and lived in Ossining.
She became director of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act program in Fairfield County, Conn., then was appointed the Private Industry Council's deputy director for southern Connecticut.
She became director of the Comprehensive Employment and Training Act program in Fairfield County, Conn., then was appointed the Private Industry Council's deputy director for southern Connecticut.
She joined the Yonkers control board as deputy director.
For 22 years Mrs. Gutman headed Greenburgh's Arts and Culture Committee, first as chairwoman and then as executive director.

        Jean Tilford Palmer, a former director of the Navy Waves and longtime administrator at Barnard College, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
During World War II, Miss Palmer was a Wave captain, serving as women's reserve assistant to the Navy's director of enlisted personnel.
She rose to the position of director of the Waves in 1945.
Upon leaving the Navy, Miss Palmer joined the staff of Barnard as director of admissions in 1946.
She served as an analyst for a United States economic mission to China and later was director of education and information for the Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction, which modernized much of Taiwan.

        Theodora Wiesner, the former director of the American Dance Festival and of the dance division of Brooklyn College, died on Saturday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy Women's Reserve during the war and was director of emplacement for the Waves in San Diego.
Dr. Wiesner was also director of the dance program at Brooklyn College from 1950 to 1975, when she retired.
Her mentor, the American director Josef von Sternberg, made her an international star with "The Blue Angel," which was filmed in 1930 in both German and English.
She shed 30 pounds, and in six more von Sternberg movies the director and his star molded the legend.
A Director's Search For a Cruel Temptress
        In early 1930, von Sternberg arrived in Berlin to make "The Blue Angel," based on the Heinrich Mann novel "Professor Unrat.
" The director had been searching for an actress who could exude the electric eroticism of the movie's cruel temptress.

        Theodora K. Sklover, a former director of the Governor's Office of Motion Picture and Television Development who worked to broaden public access to film and television, died May 11 at her home in Manhattan.
She served as an analyst for a United States economic mission to China and later was director of education and information for the Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction, which modernized much of Taiwan.
She later became the director of special programs for the network in Hollywood, overseeing variety specials, award shows and dramatic specials.
Since 1986, she had been the executive director of Gov.
Won Mayoral Award 3 Times
        In 1988, Leonard W. Stern, executive director of the National Assembly, a coalition of charitable organizations, called her "the ultimate volunteer.
She died suddenly after a brief illness, said Richard Weinberg, director of the institute.
Mrs. Hamilton also promoted voter registration and fought for more aid to black schools, and she worked to end segregation across the South as the associate director of the Southern Regional Council and as a leader in the Highlander Folk School, a training institute.
She then taught at the University of Maryland, becoming assistant director of the general ecducation program and then assistant dean of graduate studies.
Moving to New York City in the 1960's, she worked as an agent for the Sanford Leigh modeling agency, then became director of the television division of the Ford modeling agency and later director of the casting department at the Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn advertising company.
Moving to New York City in the 1960's, she worked as an agent for the Sanford Leigh modeling agency, then became director of the television division of the Ford modeling agency and later director of the casting department at the Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn advertising company.
She was executive director of the American Association of Psychiatric Services for Children from 1972 to 1979, which was based in Washington but moved in 1988 to Rochester.
From 1985 to 1987, Mrs. Kramer was executive director of the Committee for Food and Shelter in Washington, an advocacy group for the homeless, and a forerunner of the National Alliance to End Homelessness.
Miss Thomas served as the first full-time executive director of the organization, from 1952 until her retirement about 25 years later.

        Helen M. Serfling, an art director for national magazines, advertising agencies and department stores, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
From 1967 to her retirement in 1971, she was associate director of the Office of Research, Statistics and Archives to the council's successor, the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. She also founded and directed the Oral History of Cooperative Lutheranism in America.
Ms. Batchelor founded the Los Angeles Film Critics Association in 1975, and was its president and executive director for three years.
" She was a founding director of West Farms Land Trust in Waterford and sat on the boards of the Hudson River Conservation Society and the Tappan Zee Historical Society.
Miss Nirenska was a major force in dance in Washington, as a teacher, as director of a company whose dancers included Liz Lerman and Sharon Wyrrick (later choreographers in their own right), and as a creator of impressively fashioned dances filled with often raw emotion.
At the time, she was single and the publicity director for Seventeen magazine.

        Sister Josephine Morgan, whose work as director of the Pius X School of Liturgical Music at Manhattanville College helped raise the standards of sacred music, died on Friday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
A decade later, she began teaching music at Manhattanville College, in Purchase, N.Y.
        During her tenure as director of the Pius X School from 1952 to 1969, she helped renew an interest in Gregorian chants and other forms of music used in the Roman Catholic liturgy.
The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said Rodger McKinney, director of the Chadwick Funeral Home in Ardmore, Pa.
        During the war years Mrs. Dunnington, a 1925 graduate of Smith College, was a policy planner for the Office of Strategic Services, precursor to the Central Intelligence Agency.
As secretary to the service's policy planning committee, she reported to Col. Edward Buxton, Deputy Director of the O.S.S.
She began to show films on health during World War II as a program director for the Office of War Information, an information officer at the Public Health Service and, finally, chief of information for the National Institute of Mental Health.
"She really was the guiding light of the league's work, which played a lead role in court reform," said Elizabeth Hubbard, executive director of the Committee for Modern Courts.
"She really was the guiding light of the league's work, which played a lead role in court reform," said Elizabeth Hubbard, executive director of the Committee for Modern Courts.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
He was the first photography editor of Life magazine and the first director of the photography division at the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan.
She was also a founder and director of the Long Island Council on Alcoholism and founder of the Hazelden Fellowship Club of New York City.
That year she became the director of the Women's Archives at Radcliffe, now known as the Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America.
Miss Sale's husband, Sam Wren, an actor and director, died in Hollywood in 1962.
In 1987 she was named director of public affairs for Con Edison's Westchester customer service unit, and in 1990 she was named assistant to the chairman of Consolidated Edison.
She died of natural causes related to old age, said Carole Pesner, the director of Kraushaar Galleries Inc.
        Miss Kraushaar was born in Manhattan on Dec. 25, 1902, into a family of art dealers, and she spent her life in the New York art world.
Mrs. Fordyce served as executive vice president of the foundation and director of the awards program until December 1990.
She was a former director of the Association of American Colleges and a former member of the Commission on Higher Education of the New England Association of Schools and Colleges.

        Sister Joseph Maria Scaglione, the director of the Grace Institute in Manhattan, died on Sept. 3 at the institute, where she lived.
As the director, Sister Scaglione helped adapt the institute's program to the changing needs of the city's minority and immigrant women.
Before working at Grace, Sister Joseph taught at St. Raymond's Academy and Spellman High School in the Bronx and was the director of St. Joseph's Academy in Greenwich Village.
Correction:  September 26, 1992, Saturday
        An obituary on Sept. 12 on Sister Joseph Maria Scaglione, director of the Grace Institute in Manhattan, misidentified her Roman Catholic order.
After holding various positions with international agencies in Switzerland and North Africa, she joined the Peace Corps when it was founded, serving as deputy director of program development and coordination and later becoming acting director of private and international organizations.
After holding various positions with international agencies in Switzerland and North Africa, she joined the Peace Corps when it was founded, serving as deputy director of program development and coordination and later becoming acting director of private and international organizations.

        Helen Findlay, a prominent figure in the arts in Chicago and the director of the Wally Findlay Galleries there, died on Monday at her home in Chicago.
William T. Cahill appointed her as New Jersey's first director of consumer affairs in 1972.

        Susan Jenkins Kinnear, a former director of the Garden Club of America, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Birmingham, Ala. She was 94 years old and lived in Birmingham.
Mrs. Kinnear was a horticultural and artistic judge and a director of the Garden Club of America from 1977 to 1979, when she received the club's Zone Horticultural Award.
She became the editorial director of the Arthritis Foundation, corporate communications director for Lane Bryant, vice president for creative services at the Cancer Society and communications director of the United States Committee for the United Nations Children's Fund.
She became the editorial director of the Arthritis Foundation, corporate communications director for Lane Bryant, vice president for creative services at the Cancer Society and communications director of the United States Committee for the United Nations Children's Fund.
She became the editorial director of the Arthritis Foundation, corporate communications director for Lane Bryant, vice president for creative services at the Cancer Society and communications director of the United States Committee for the United Nations Children's Fund.
Steve Suitts, the council's executive director, said she did so because she believed it important that whites work for school desegregation.
Mrs. Huttner was vice chairman of the board of directors from then until 1975, and continued as a director into the 1980's.
"
        Dr. James Watson, director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory and co-discoverer of the structure of DNA, the chemical that makes up genes, said Dr. McClintock was one of the three most important figures in the history of genetics, one of "the three M's," he said.
She was a former director of the Manhattan Center for the Living, a voluntary nonprofit organization for people with chronic illnesses.
She was also a founder of the Peer Group, a national association of women in management and the arts, and served as a director of the New York Mission Society, the Women's Economic Round table and Mary Baldwin College.
She was also a director of the Rand Corporation and of Conrail.
She was the economic development director of its New York chapter and was also on the national board.
As director of the Indian Village at Jones Beach State Park on Long Island from 1930 to 1950, Rosebud, as she preferred to be called, enthralled legions of visitors with information about and stories from Indian culture.
She moved with her parents to the United States in 1939 and attended Queens College and the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, where she met her husband, Robert Lee Manning, an art collector who became director of the art gallery at Finch College in Manhattan.
For the last eight years Dr. Shepherd was the director of social pediatric training at the Montefiore Medical Center.
She was its director from 1922 until she retired in 1952.
In 1955, she married Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who was director of the Brain Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles.

        Vanessa S. Lynn, a New York gallery director who wrote about contemporary American crafts, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center.
In 1985, she became the director of Gallery at Workbench, based at the chain's main store at Park Avenue and 32d Street.
She was also a founder in 1979 of the Religious Committee on the New York City Health Crisis, of which she was executive director.
She was also a founder in 1979 of the Religious Committee on the New York City Health Crisis, of which she was executive director.
She was 49 years old and had homes in St. George and in Palm Springs, Calif.
        She died of cancer, said her husband, Al Adamson, a film director.
After retiring from the March of Dimes last year, Miss Whitelaw volunteered as a regional director of the Enterprise Foundation, a national organization involved in housing the poor.
Ms. McMurray was a former Commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development and deputy general director for programming of the Community Service Society of New York.
The Lindsay administration tapped her in 1969 to develop services for young children and families as director of an Early Childhood Task Force.
In the mid-1980's, she became the executive director of Hale House and later its president.
She died of heart failure, said Irene Gilbert, the director of the Stella Adler Conservatory in Hollywood.
Members of the ensemble were leading interpreters of the Method, the technique based on the work and writings of Konstantin Stanislavsky, the legendary Moscow Art Theater actor and director, who died in 1938.
" In the past, she had often deplored the highly commercialized Broadway theater, the growing cult of the director and what she termed the "thoughtless, naturalistic" style of most American actors.
Mrs. Green was managing director of the Agnes de Mille Dance Theater from the 1960's through the early 70's, and she assisted Miss de Mille in her lecture appearances.
She was 84 and lived in Bloomfield, Conn.
        She had been in failing health for some years, said Dr. Ruth Watson Lubic, the general director of the Maternity Center Association.
Miss Strachan ( pronounced STRACK-an) was the educational director and then the director of the School of Nurse-Midwifery from 1958 to 1970, when she retired.
Miss Strachan ( pronounced STRACK-an) was the educational director and then the director of the School of Nurse-Midwifery from 1958 to 1970, when she retired.
She became director emeritus and senior scientist of the institute in 1978 and director emeritus and trustee in 1985.
She became director emeritus and senior scientist of the institute in 1978 and director emeritus and trustee in 1985.
Before joining the Hunter faculty, she taught at New York University and Columbia, where she was research director of the school's Industrial Social Welfare Center.
In 1958, she shifted careers and became director of the Center for International Economic Growth in Washington.
Ms. Haslip died of complications from AIDS, said Theresa McGovern, director of the H.I.V.
She was a director and a former president of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhood II, a past president and trustee of the Larchmont Temple Sisterhood and a past president and trustee of the Larchmont chapter of Hadassah.
She died after a long illness, said the Massachusetts General Hospital, where she had been director of both the Nursing Service and School of Nursing from 1946 to 1966.
