She attended Vassar College and decided to focus on art history after taking a course taught by Alfred H. Barr Jr., soon to become the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art.
Innovative Exhibitions
        In 1943, she was hired by Daniel Catton Rich, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, to run the museum's public-relations office while its regular director served in the military.
Innovative Exhibitions
        In 1943, she was hired by Daniel Catton Rich, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, to run the museum's public-relations office while its regular director served in the military.
In addition to Mrs. Lazarus, of New York and Washington, she is survived by another daughter, Carole Avnet Rocherolle of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Jonathan Avnet, a film director and producer of Topanga Canyon, outside Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      

        Ruth Pruyn Field, a director of the Field Foundation who was active in civic causes in New York, died on Tuesday at her home in Beaufort, S.C. Mrs. Field, who was 86, also kept a home in Southport, Conn.
A native of Manhattan, Mrs. Field was also a past director of the Citizens Committee for Children in New York City, and the United Nations Association U.S.A.
In 1954, she was hired as a lecturer at the Guggenheim by James Johnson Sweeney, the museum's first director.

        Natalie Molostwoff, a former executive director of the School of American Ballet, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Nathalie Gleboff, the current executive director of the school, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.
Eugenie Ouroussow, the school's director at the time, soon discovered that Ms. Molostwoff possessed administrative skills.
When Ms. Ouroussow died in 1976, Ms. Molostwoff succeeded her as executive director, holding that post until she retired in 1991.
"
        As the director of the creative arts program of the New York State division of human rights in the 60's, she focused attention on discrimination and the lack of roles for black actors in film and television.
Her acting abilities and regal appearance also led to other offers: the director Max Reinhardt urged her to devote herself to the theater; the studio head Louis B. Mayer asked her to become a film star.
In addition, she was a director of the Riverdale Chapter of the United Nations Association.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
Her sister, Alice Fordyce, was the executive vice president of the foundation and director of the Lasker Awards program.

        Dr. Veronica M. Driscoll, a retired executive director of the New York State Nurses Association, died on Sunday at her home in Loudonville, N.Y. She was 67.
She held positions in nursing education and administration before she joined the nurses association, which has headquarters in Guilderland, N.Y., as deputy executive director 1960.
She served as executive director from 1969 to 1979.
She started working with Dorsey's National Convention of Gospel Choirs and Choruses in the early 1930's, and she became the director of the convention's Soloist's Bureau, evaluating and training gospel singers until the late 1980's.
Her husband, Phillip Barber, was the New York director of the Federal Theater, and Ms. Frankel was one of those involved in founding the Group Theater in the 1930's.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, the director Grover Dale.
Sexy Telephone Call
        In the number, Carla (Ms. Morris), a mistress of the director Guido (Raul Julia), got through to her lover when he was on a movie set by pretending that her telephone call was from the Vatican.
Earlier in her career she worked as advertising director of Harvey World Famous Comics Inc., which had been founded by her future husband, Alfred Harvey.
In the 1960's and 1970's she was one of the few women who found regular work as a director.
Since 1980 Dr. Wallace had been the director of the African women's health project at Population Action International and was an authority on female genital mutilation.
At Columbia she became a visiting scholar at the Russian Institute -- now Harriman Institute -- and worked as its director of publications from 1977 to 1985.
Representing the Presbyterian Church, she served as director of Christian education for the Protestant Council's Manhattan division and the National Council of Churches for 28 years, beginning in 1938.
She accepted a job as a receptionist at the Phoenix Theater in Greenwich Village and rose quickly to casting director.
In 1924 Miss Leet became the second director of what was then the American University Women's Club in Paris, an 18th-century house at 4 Rue de Chevreuse in Montparnasse.
Ms. Strain had danced with the company since its founding and was a featured soloist in works that included "Steadfast Tin Soldier" and "Apollo," both by George Balanchine, and works by Daniel Duell, the director of the company, and Gordon Peirce Schmidt.
She eventually became executive director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board and then commissioner of the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs.
Mrs. Lord began her career at Harvard as a public relations officer at Radcliffe College in 1958 and became director of that school's news office two years later.
In 1973 she became director of the Harvard News Office, and was named director of information in 1981.
In 1973 she became director of the Harvard News Office, and was named director of information in 1981.
From 1972 until her retirement in 1984, she lectured in the department of film and television at Howard, and served as the director of the university's department of continuing education and of its community-service programs.
She joined the company in January 1987 after working as an art director for Random House.

        Sylvia L. Milberg, associate director of development for Pace University in New York, died on Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. Mrs. Milberg, who lived in Westport, Conn., was 66.
Before that she was director of grants at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
She previously served as director of Young Adult Psychiatry at Columbia.
Mrs. Kgositsile was the executive director of the Council on Interracial Books for Children in New York where she directed the production of documentaries and books.
According to Vernon Edenfield, director of Kenmore, "through her gifts the collections were enriched and through her vast knowledge the museum grew and thrived.

        Dr. Hanna Grunwald, a retired group psychotherapist and former director of Amnesty International U.S.A. in New York, died on May 15 at the Jewish Home for the Aged in Fairfield, Conn. She was 94 and had lived in Washington Heights until the late 1970's.
She is survived by her second husband, Douglas Seale, who is an actor and stage director.
Dr. Berezin served as an assistant commissioner and director of child and adolescent services for the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services from 1971 to 1978.
Press in 1967 as its first art director and helped produce more than 500 books.

        Patricia Miller King, director of the Radcliffe College library devoted to the history of women, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston.
In 1973 she became director of the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library at Radcliffe.
After she received her diploma in 1930, Mrs. Albers and her husband, whom she had met at the Bauhaus and married in 1925, stayed on as teachers, he in design, she as a part-time instructor in textiles and as the acting director of the weaving workshop.

        Elizabeth Birdsall Burdick, the founding director of the International Theater Institute Library in New York, died last Friday at St. Luke's Hospital.
She was a professor of theater and a former chairman of the theater department at Williams College, a trustee of the Williamstown Theater Festival and a director of the Theater Communications Group in New York.
Later, she was the director of the New York office of Rizzoli, another Italian publisher, from the 1960's through the 1970's.
Later, she was the director of the New York office of Rizzoli, another Italian publisher, from the 1960's through the 1970's.
Mrs. Kotlowitz was for a decade, until her death, the executive director of the college's thematic studies program, an undergraduate program in the liberal arts.
In the early 1980's, she became its executive director while continuing to provide academic and personal counseling to students.
She subsequently became director of fashion and advertising for Bloomingdale's in New York.
Previously, she was director of executive education at the school and, earlier, an advertising executive.

        Fiona Baan, the director of dressage and driving programs for the United States Equestrian Team, died on Sunday at her home in Chester, N.J. She was 55.
Her father was the film director Sam Wood.
Ms. Pollack was previously the magazine's advertising director.
Earlier she was advertising director of Mirabella magazine.
Mrs. Shorenstein made frequent visits abroad in search of additions to the museum's collection, accompanied by Rand Castile, the museum's director.
Dr. Gordon was a professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, where she had served as associate director of the Institute of Industrial Relations from 1954 until 1969.
Role in War on Poverty
        She drafted more than a dozen reports for the Carnegie Commission and Council on Higher Education while serving consecutively as associate director of both from 1969 to 1979.
After Pearl Harbor, she served as a director of the National Board of the American Women's Voluntary Service and as chairman of its Chinese unit in New York.
In the early 1970's, she was also executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League.
In 1949, Mr. Scott left his group to become director of the orchestra for the radio show "Your Hit Parade," and Miss Collins stayed on the road and ran the quintet.
Mrs. Buchwald, who was born in Warren, Pa., was also a fashion coordinator for Neiman-Marcus in Dallas, and later was a publicity director for Pierre Balmain in Paris.
In the late 1960's, she was the executive director of the oldest Job Corps center in the United States, in Cleveland.
She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942.
Her first show as the director of the gallery at the City College School of Architecture was devoted to New York's theaters of the 1930's.

        Mary C. McDonald, a retired assistant director of continuing education for the New York City schools, died on Monday at her home in Rockville Centre, L.I.
She took a job as a substitute teacher during the Depression, then in the mid-1930's became the Department of Parks director of recreation for Queens.

        Anne Freeman Turpin, a retired director of special learning at St. Bernard's School in Manhattan, died yesterday at her home in Richmond.
"
        But it was through her association with George C. Wolfe, the playwright and director who is now the producer of the New York Shakespeare Festival, that Ms. Vance was best known to theatergoers.

        Dr. Marion F. Langer, a former executive director of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and an expert on widowhood, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
She was the orthopsychiatric association's executive director from 1953 until she retired in 1988.
She was assistant director of the Child Study Association of America before going to the Orthopsychiatric Association.

        Donna Kay Price, a Westchester County real estate executive and former director of the Lighthouse for the Blind of New York and Westchester, died on Saturday at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 59 and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y.
        Mrs. Price died of head injuries suffered in a fall at her home, her family said.
"She was a devoted supporter of services to people with visual impairments in the Hudson Valley," said Judith Millman, the organization's regional director in White Plains.

        Sheila Campbell Williamson, the founding director of the Community Foundation of New Jersey in Morristown, died on Sunday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 64.
Mrs. Williamson became the executive director of what began as the Essex County Community Foundation in 1980.

        Dorothy Buehring Phillips, a lifelong champion of the disabled and the founder and first State Director of the New York Special Olympics, died on Wednesday at Fannie Allen Hospital in Colchester, Vt. She was 83 and lived in Albany until three months ago, when she moved to Williston, Vt.
        She suffered a long illness, said a spokesman for the Special Olympics organization.
In addition to Mrs. Dawe, of Milwaukee, she is survived by a son, Simpson Markson of New Jersey; a brother, the producer and director Edwin Sherin of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      

        Joan Wolff, the director of the Allan Stone Gallery in Manhattan for 25 years, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital.

        Mildred McAfee Horton, who helped revolutionize the role of women in the military as the first director of the WAVES, died on Friday at the St. Vincent DePaul Nursing Home in Berlin, N.H. She was 94.

        Joy Ungerleider-Mayerson, a former director of the Jewish Museum in Manhattan and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in Larchmont, N.Y. She was 74.
She was the director of the museum, on Fifth Avenue at 92d Street, from 1972 to 1980, after being a curator there from 1967 to 1969.
Oleg N. Yefremov, the director of the renowned Moscow Art Theater, wrote in his review, "It takes a couple of actors from America to remind us what Stanislavsky was talking about.
Elia Kazan, her director in "Streetcar" said: "She's absolutely sweet-natured.
" Joe Mankiewicz, the film director who was a longtime friend, said that while Lynn Fontanne always had to make an entrance, "to Jessie the way she was when she got there was what was important.
The cause of death was believed to be a heart attack, said Dan McCoy, director of McCoy Funeral Home in Sweetwater.
She had been executive director of the National Council in New York for 18 years before being elected president.

        Marcia Lawrence, who retired in January after 25 years as the director of communications for Planned Parenthood of New York City, died on Thursday at her home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.
Ms. Fedicheva died of cancer, said Martin Fredmann, her former husband and the artistic director of the Colorado Ballet in Denver.
In 1965, she helped to found the private Gateway School in Manhattan and was its director until her retirement in 1979.
"
        In a 1990 interview, she praised Ford as a masterly director who needed just a few words to inspire actors and give them the right clue or insight for a scene.
Mrs. Roebling also served as a director of numerous other corporations over the years, was active in many civic, charitable and educational organizations, and was a tireless advocate of a greater role for women in the country's economic affairs.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
Ms. Schwaninger became executive director of the Willowbrook Review Panel in 1978, three years after it was created under a Federal court order to monitor the release of residents of Willowbrook into community settings.
In 1981, she became deputy director of the Massachusetts Commission of Retardation, working to remove the retarded from institutions.
She was its chief executive director for the last six years.
She was involved in mental health work in Nebraska and was a former executive director of the state Office of Mental Retardation.
Miss Primus was made director of a new performing-arts center in Monrovia, Liberia, in 1959.
"
        Miss Primus continued to perform until 1980, after which she was the director of the Cora P. Maloney College, a black studies school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was Five-College Professor of Ethnic Studies at schools in Massachusetts in the 1980's.
She then became director of personnel and building services at the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, where she remained until joining Temple Shaaray Tefila.
In 1980 she became director of legislative research for the Southern Regional Council, based in Georgia.
"It's a great loss," Philippe de Montebello, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said yesterday.
Philippe de Montebello, director of the museum, said yesterday that "Jane Hayward was responsible for bringing medieval stained glass to the attention of the American public," and that she was completing the collection catalogue at her death.
She then studied music privately in New York where she became the director of several church choirs.
While at Chapel Hill, she was also director of health education for 15 years at North Carolina College at Durham, now North Carolina Central University.
In 1938 she became executive director of the Hartford Tuberculosis and Public Health Society.
      
She was an assistant director at the Ciba Foundation from 1966 to 1981.
Although she did not have a career as a professional director, her guidance as a vital and highly demonstrative teacher was to indispensable as actors increasingly responded to the idea of improv.
Miss Fizdale made her mark during 19 years as executive director of the Arthur Lehman Counseling Service in Manhattan.

        Joanne Rathgeb, an actress, director and educator who fought for greater awareness and increased resources to fight breast cancer, died of the disease on Nov. 19 at her home in Essex Junction, Vt. She was 64.
"
        Since 1958, she had been a producer, director, coach and actress at St. Michael's Playhouse in Vermont.
In 1980 Miss Knapp was a co-founder of the Southeastern Savoyards in Atlanta, and served as its artistic director through 1987.
She returned as an advertising campaign manager 12 years later and in 1980 was named director of campaign administration.

        Alice Miller, the director of the Brooklyn College Women's Center since 1985, died on Monday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan.
She taught in junior and senior high schools, was an editor and a freelance writer and was director of the women's center and adult education at the Brooklyn Y.W.C.A.
During World War II, when the president, Mildred McAfee Horton, went on leave to become the first director of the WAVES, Ms. Whiting shared the responsibilities of the office of the president, heading panels on curriculum and instruction and faculty publications.
Dr. Gardner was an associate research professor at the Heller Graduate School of Advanced Studies and Social Welfare at Brandeis; she was acting director of the school two years ago.
Mark Ruben, executive director for Israel Bonds of the Greater Palm Beaches, credited her with raising tens of millions of dollars for Israel.
She later told Mr. Cardin that the decision was the worst she had ever made, recalled Bernard Danillon, the communications director for Pierre Cardin.
With the director John Houseman she guided the development of the Acting Company, a theater group of drama graduates that her husband established when he was the president of the Juilliard School.
She was a staff member of the New York State Employment Service and a director of the Vocational Advisory Service.
She was a founding director of the Cerebral Palsy Association and the Urban League of Westchester County, and at the time of her death was on the boards of the MacDowell Colony and the American Composers Orchestra.
"
        Dowling was the director as well as a star of "The Glass Menagerie" (in the role based on the author).
Mrs. Glaser, the wife of Paul Michael Glaser, a director and actor who starred in the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, was one of several public figures to bring AIDS to the forefront of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
Mrs. Glaser, the wife of Paul Michael Glaser, a director and actor who starred in the "Starsky and Hutch" television series, was one of several public figures to bring AIDS to the forefront of the 1992 Presidential campaign.
She was educated at the University of Wisconsin and at Boston University and worked as a teacher and as a director at the Los Angeles Children's Museum.
She suffered a brief illness, said Mildred Roxboro, director of development of the N.A.A.C.P.
She later carried out special projects for the commissioner and served as director of community relations.
