The cause was complications of lymphoma, said André Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater.
'')
        Ms. Wasserstein's career would be closely linked both with Playwrights Horizons, which under its artistic director, Mr. Bishop, would first produce ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' and with many of the artists she met at Yale, including the designer Heidi Ettinger and the director James Lapine, who remained lifelong friends.
'')
        Ms. Wasserstein's career would be closely linked both with Playwrights Horizons, which under its artistic director, Mr. Bishop, would first produce ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' and with many of the artists she met at Yale, including the designer Heidi Ettinger and the director James Lapine, who remained lifelong friends.
Four years later, she dyed her hair brown, rubbed the polish off her fingernails, and convinced the director George Stevens that she could play the mousy factory girl who was made pregnant and then drowned by Montgomery Clift so that he could marry the rich Elizabeth Taylor in ''A Place in the Sun.
'' The director George Cukor was kind.
'' Charmed by the brash Brooklyn girl who had no idea she was auditioning for an opera, the director gave her a small comic role, which he kept enlarging.
Her death was confirmed by Pamela Green, her successor as executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History.
The same year, Ms. Maynard became a founding member of the Weeksville Society and served as president from 1972 until 1974, when she became executive director.
John T. Edge, the author and director of the Southern Foodways Alliance, said that because of her devotion to educating a nation about the nuances of Southern cooking, there was no question that the group's first lifetime achievement award, in 1999, would go to Miss Lewis.
''At one time there was an effort to deport her,'' said Henry Finder, editorial director of The New Yorker, who is Professor Appiah's companion.

        Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing.
As a choreographer, dancer and director, Ms. Dai drew upon this diverse background throughout her career.
In 1949, she was named deputy director of the Central Song and Dance Ensemble, and in 1954 she founded the Beijing Dance Academy, becoming its principal in 1955.
She was the company's deputy director, then director in 1963 and '64, until she was removed during the Cultural Revolution and reportedly did manual labor; her second husband, Ding Ning, a dancer, divorced her during the Cultural Revolution.
She was the company's deputy director, then director in 1963 and '64, until she was removed during the Cultural Revolution and reportedly did manual labor; her second husband, Ding Ning, a dancer, divorced her during the Cultural Revolution.

        Jill Fraser, owner and artistic director of the Watermill Theater in Newbury, England, whose renown and influence far exceeds its size, died on Feb. 10.

        Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
She had previously worked as the legislative attorney for the New York City Council and as program director of a project that helped match law students to needy causes.
''
        At Ballet Theater, Ms. Wright originated roles in ballets by Agnes de Mille, in Mary Skeaping's staging of ''Sleeping Beauty'' and in the company director Mikhail Baryshnikov's production of ''Don Quixote.
Her shrewd intelligence and uncompromising yet sympathetic expectations for young dancers made her a popular teacher and director of academic programs, including the Washington School of Ballet.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.

        Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland.
She was both director and conductor for most of her productions -- a double role that often imbued them with a strong vision.
As a company director, Ms. Caldwell was notoriously disorganized and loath to delegate authority.
She conducted sitting in a director's chair, usually in slippers.
But her assumption of both the director and conductor roles in her productions cost the company time and money.
Ms. Caldwell was generally thought to be more gifted as a director.
Ms. Cosman, who moved to California in the late 1990's, was for decades a resident of Tenafly, N.J.
        A longtime faculty member at the City College of New York, Ms. Cosman founded the Institute for Medieval and Renaissance Studies there in 1968 and was its director for many years.
From 1973 to 1975, Ms. Gaines was the executive director of the New York City Board of Education's Office of Educational Planning and Support.
The position was one of three senior administrative posts newly created by the board and all carried the title executive director, ranking just below the deputy schools chancellor.
''
        Her doubts increased after William Kirk, the director of the Union Settlement in East Harlem, taught her new ways of seeing neighborhoods.
Her death was announced by Mac Griswold, director of archival research at the estate, Sylvester Manor.
''
        Her students included the guitarists Bucky Pizzarelli and Gene Bertoncini; the singers Lesley Gore and Paul Simon; and the actor and director Carl Reiner.
''Less than 24 hours after I testified before a grand jury investigating those murders (and the church burning that preceded them), the Klan initiated a campaign to 'ruin' me, a WASP lady with eight great-grandparents buried in Neshoba County,'' she wrote in her book, completed with the assistance of Lynn Eden, now the associate director for research at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.
Her students included Judith Jamison, now the artistic director of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater.
''The Pfluegers collected for more than 40 years and formed an absolutely superb collection of French faience and German porcelain and faience,'' said Anne Little Poulet, director of the Frick Collection.
Ms. Maguire was later executive editor of Addison-Wesley Longman's trade group before becoming editorial director of the Free Press, an imprint of Simon & Schuster.
)
        ''She developed the mechanism for being able to capture the data that the user was seeing on the 3-by-5 catalog card into an electronic format,'' Beacher Wiggins, the director of acquisitions and bibliographic access at the Library of Congress, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
During World War I, her family moved to the capital, Vilnius, where her father, Leib Kadison, became a founder and the director of the Vilna Troupe.
She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Dr. Robert E. Roberts, a chemist and director of the Science and Technology Policy Institute in Washington; two sons, Dr. Karl Roberts, an orthopedic surgeon in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Greg Roberts, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a sister, Dorrie Derge, of Frederick, Md.
In 1976, she became the art director of Kartell and continued to experiment.
She became its director.
In 1948, she became New York State director for Americans for Democratic Action.
If she rarely spoke of her private life, few artists have brought such emotional vulnerability to their work, whether it was her sultry portrayal of Myrtle Wilson, the mistress of wealthy Tom Buchanan in John Harbison's ''Great Gatsby,'' the role of her 1999 Metropolitan Opera debut, or her shattering performances several years ago in two Bach cantatas for solo voice and orchestra, staged by the director Peter Sellars, seen in Lincoln Center's New Visions series, with the Orchestra of Emmanuel Music, Craig Smith conducting.
One of her closest colleagues, Craig Smith, the Boston-based conductor and choir director, said as much in a 2004 profile of Ms. Hunt Lieberson by Charles Michener in The New Yorker.
In 1956 she was appointed drama officer with the Jamaica Social Welfare Commission, then was its director from 1959 to 1963.

        Mary Day, one of American ballet's most distinguished teachers and the longtime artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington.
Although guest stars passed through, the Washington Ballet until Ms. Day's retirement as artistic director in 1999, was essentially a showcase for young talent.
She was artistic director from 1976 to 1999, when she was succeeded by Septime Webre, the current director.
She was artistic director from 1976 to 1999, when she was succeeded by Septime Webre, the current director.
She retired as director of the school in 2003.
In the years afterward, Ms. Day and Elvi Moore, then the Washington Ballet's general director, encouraged company members and new choreographers to create works for their dancers.
''
        Mrs. Foster taught at the Columbia School of Social Work and was director of mental health for the Children's Aid Society.
Citing a funeral home director, the broadcaster, ORF, said Miss Schwarzkopf had died in the town of Schruns in Austria's westernmost province, Vorarlberg.
The director of the company, Wilhelm Rode, had won the favor of Joseph Goebbels, the Nazi propaganda minister.
But he introduced her to a wealth of repertory, especially the songs of Hugo Wolf, and as artistic director of EMI Records, he supervised her recordings, coaching her in detail and ensuring that the engineers captured her voice at its best.
''It was only in the early 60's that the marine scientists around the world started putting the pieces of the puzzle together and understanding that these huge volcanic mountain chains were actually where seafloor spreading was taking place,'' Michael Purdy, the director of the Lamont-Doherty observatory, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Over her career, Ms. Cajori worked as a director, producer and writer.
She also collaborated with the video artist Joan Jonas and the director Lizzie Borden.
Judith V. Jordan, a psychologist and the institute's director, said the theory had since been applied in psychiatric hospitals, a women's prison and nonprofit organizations ''to build an increasing sense of trust and connection, and social justice, and to diminish violence and depression.
After retiring from performing, Ms. Hayden headed the ballet department at Skidmore College and the School of Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle, where she was briefly artistic director.
At her death, Ms. Ilchman was the director of the Jeannette K. Watson Fellowship of the Thomas J. Watson Foundation.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      

        Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn Heights.
A 1981 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degree in visual studies, she also worked as the curator of modern art at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art in California and as a gallery director for the Minneapolis Society of Fine Art.
'' At her death, Mrs. Ovshinsky was vice president and a director of the company, formally listed as Energy Conversion Devices.
''Because of her knowledge of interior design and her personal charm, she was able to convince large numbers of people that saving brownstones and saving neighborhoods were worthwhile causes,'' said Ronda Wist, executive director of the New York City Landmarks Commission.
From 1979 to 1984, she was director of facilities and collections of the New York Chamber of Commerce.
At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
Her father, who was working as a director at the Manhattan Opera House, died suddenly in 1924.
''She had a talent for extracting the best from people,'' said Bobbi Burrows, the director of photography for Life Books and an editor at the magazine for 40 years.
's longtime tournament director and a gifted promoter, to discuss creation of a women's tour.
In a sense she made the New Museum, which she ran for 22 years as director, in her own image: a somewhat chaotic, idealistic place where the nature of art was always in question, exhibitions were a form of consciousness raising and mistakes were inevitable.
She also supported herself by cataloging private collections, including those of Alfred H. Barr Jr., the first director of the Museum of Modern Art, and the independently wealthy painter William N. Copley.
)
        John Walsh, then director of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., described Ms. Tucker in especially apt terms in a 1993 article in The New York Times: ''There's always been a social conscience in Marcia that's impatient and results in a kind of alertness you can just read across her forehead like a Jenny Holzer sign.
The couple divorced in 1975, and Mrs. Chenoweth moved to Boise, becoming active in politics and serving for a time as executive director of the Idaho Republican Party and then as chief of staff to Representative Steven D. Symms.
The movie won six Academy Awards, including best picture, best director and best screenplay.
As recounted by Sam Staggs in ''All About 'All About Eve' '' (St. Martin's, 2000), the woman repaid Ms. Bergner by trying to take over both her acting career and her husband, the director Paul Czinner.
Ms. Allen had been recommended by Jack Manning, the director of the Hayes touring troupe.
Ms. Adamson was artistic director for 18 years, and her company presented a demanding repertory: works by Pinter and Pirandello alongside Restoration comedies, Chekhov dramas and Shakespeare standards.
After stepping down as artistic director in 1989, Ms. Adamson traveled widely, directing plays nationally and in Europe.
Her most fruitful and rewarding collaboration was with the director Harold Prince.
She made her debut when she was 4, and her father, the choir director at the local Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, lifted her onto the church piano.
She began as a trial lawyer in Legal Aid's Manhattan office from 1976 to 1982 and was twice director of the special litigation unit, from 1988 to 1998 and from 2002 until her death.

        Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village.
She trained initially as an endocrinologist before becoming director of medical education at Philadelphia General Hospital in the 1950s.
Dr. Levit is survived by two sons, Dr. David Levit of Amherst, a psychoanalyst, and Dr. Harry Levit of New Haven, associate director of undergraduate admissions at Yale; a sister, Sylvia Kaufman of Jerusalem; and two grandchildren.
      
She was a director of the hospital's sickle cell center and also taught at Columbia.
She had support from the director of central intelligence, William J. Casey, and Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger.
She was succeeded by Vernon A. Walters, a former deputy director of central intelligence.
) Ms. Harding was offered a Woody Allen movie but turned it down, saying she abhorred the director's morals.
