Her 1973 marriage to Marc Libarle ended in divorce in 1975.
Her second marriage, to the stage manager and lighting designer Ronald Bates, also ended in divorce.
Her 1973 marriage to Marc Libarle ended in divorce in 1975.
A third marriage, to Hunter Galloway, a radio announcer, also ended in divorce.
Mrs. McClinton's first marriage, to Richard Kahle, a San Diego lawyer, ended in divorce in 1935.
She was a board member of the Shaker Museum and the Columbia County Land Conservancy, both in Chatham, N.Y.
        Two marriages, to Thomas W. Pettus and to James M. Clark, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to John Arnold Vaill ended in divorce in 1975.
Her marriage to Ethan Gologor ended in a divorce that drew publicity for a custody accord in which the children shuttled between the mother's and father's homes on alternating days.
' "
        Soon afterward his divorce came through, they wed (Harpo Marx sent the bride a Steinway piano crate filled with gardenias) and in all the rest of her life, Miss Hayes wrote, "I never loved another man.
Her marriages to Michael Sadlier and Austin Willis ended in divorce.
Her 23-year marriage to Anton Myrer, a novelist, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Dr. James Robert Miller, ended in divorce.
The marriages ended in divorce.
A native of Canandaigua, N.Y., she married Mr. Lambert in 1936 after her first marriage, to John Mull, ended in divorce.
"  Two Marriages
        Miss Leontovich's two marriages ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Robert Taylor of Washington ended in divorce.
Mrs. duPont's first marriage, to Grover Loening, an aviation designer with Orville Wright, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Charles La Muniere ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Vladimir Mansvetov ended in divorce.
They separated in 1952 but did not divorce.
Both her marriages, to Roger Gilliatt, a neurosurgeon, and the playwright John Osborne ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Joel B. Leff ended in divorce.

        Doris Jonas Freed, a national authority on family law who headed the American Bar Association's committee on divorce law and procedures, died on July 23 at Keswick Nursing Home in Baltimore.
Wrote Monthly Column
        As head of the American Bar Association's committee on research, she was influential in drafting the 1980 reform of the New York State divorce law, which was based on the premise that marriage is an economic "partnership of co-equals.
This study appears in The Family Law Quarterly and reviews developments in family law like no-fault divorce, fair distribution of property, homemaker's contribution, rights to retirement benefits, spousal support and child-support enforcement.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1937.
Her marriage in 1932 to Thomas Suffern Tailer, a sportsman, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Stephen Elias ended in divorce.
A later marriage ended in divorce.
Both marriages ended in divorce.
Mrs. Morris's marriage to Harvey Breit, playwright and novelist, ended in divorce.
Her three marriages, to John Houseman, the director, John McCormick, an agent, and Bernard E. Shedd, an economist and publisher, all ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Edward M. Hoagland ended in divorce.
As time passed, relations between the Cromwells soured, and after protracted legal wranglings Mrs. Cromwell was granted a divorce in Reno in 1943 on grounds of cruelty.
Later, she testified that Mr. Cromwell had demanded an "endowment" of $7 million in return for the divorce.
Miss Duke obtained a Reno divorce from Rubirosa on Oct. 27, 1948, after charging him with extreme mental cruelty.
"A Crown for Elizabeth" (1970) limned the turbulent years between 1527, when Henry maneuvered for a divorce from Catherine for lack of a male heir, and 1558, when Elizabeth I ascended to the throne.
Mrs. Luke's marriage to the late David L. Luke Jr., a corporate executive, ended in divorce.
Ms. Madero said that Miss McNeil was married when she was 18 to a man who died in World War II, and that her second marriage ended in divorce after two years.
      
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
The marriages ended in divorce.
The marriages ended in divorce.
