Her marriage to Sonnie Hale, an actor, ended in divorce.
They were divorced six years later after she had met Baron  de Rothschild and he, too, had decided to obtain a divorce.
The Rothschilds were married in 1957 in a civil ceremony in New York -- "to allow the tempest we had  stirred up by a double divorce to subside a little," the Baroness once recalled.
The announcement of the Ford separation and divorce followed months of rumor  in which Mr. Ford was linked romantically to the Italian-born Maria Cristina Vettore Austin, the divorced wife of a British naval officer.
Shortly after her divorce, Mrs. Ford, who had moved to Manhattan, was with a  friend having a cup of espresso at the Regency Hotel.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
A. Snelson, a British civil servant, and to Richard Ney, an actor 10 years her junior who had played her son in "Mrs. Miniver," ended in divorce.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
Her first marriage ended in divorce.
Ms. Nichols's marriage to Robert B. Nichols, a writer, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Murray List, ended in divorce.
A previous marriage, to Michael R. Goth, ended in divorce in 1974.
Her first marriage, to the actor Robert Douglas, ended in divorce.
That same year, she married the film's producer and  screen writer, Casey Robinson; the marriage ended in divorce.
Mrs. Randolph -- whose first marriage, to the Massachusetts-born New York investment banker Robert Winthrop, ended in divorce -- married well twice and was born better.
After her divorce, Mrs. Randolph, who had fallen in love with the Virginia hunt country during her years at Foxcroft, a Virginia boarding school, settled there and renewed her acquaintance with Dr. Randolph, whom she had known as the  dashing master of the Piedmont Hunt during her boarding school days.
An earlier marriage to Roswell L. Gilpatric ended in divorce.
      
Her previous marriages, to Dr. Louis Langman and Robert Simon, ended in divorce.
Mrs. Mason was represented by the well-known divorce attorney  Marvin Mitchelson, and one of the terms of her settlement was $1 million in community property.
"
        Among her books were "Marriage Is the First Step Toward Divorce" and "The Female Pleasure Hunt," which advised women on every subject from love to putting on makeup to buying a house.
Ms. Hemingway's two marriages, first to Mr. Wetson, then to Bernardo Faucher, a French-born film maker, ended in divorce.
Her second marriage, to the actor John Ireland, whom she met on the set of ''Red River,'' ended in divorce.
Although bitter over the circumstances of the breakup of her marriage, Mrs. Noyce, whose husband died in 1990, managed to console herself somewhat in the divorce.
How much she received from the divorce could not be determined yesterday, and a spokesman for Intel, which has a market capitalization of $86 billion, could not say how much stock she owned at the time of her death.
Later that year, when her plans to divorce the French actor Jean Murat drew wide attention, she was quoted in The New York Mirror as saying: ''It is not always good to be a film star in America.
She returned to France for good after a divorce in 1948 from Power, who went on to marry the actress Linda Christian.
'' But in a country where divorce is still uncommon, any kind of parting in the imperial family is unthinkable.
Miss Lamour's first marriage, to Herbie Kay, ended in divorce.
Miss Lamour's first marriage, to Herbie Kay, ended in divorce.
Chiriaeff was married twice; both marriages ended in divorce.
Her marriage, to Paul L. Munson, ended in divorce.

        Frances Lear, a mercurial figure in the media world who spent some $25 million she received in a divorce settlement to start a magazine named after herself, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
'' Her divorce settlement from Mr. Lear, an amount variously estimated to be between $100 million and $112 million, was one of the largest ever recorded.
Ms. Lear, in her own words, ''always aspired to something out of the ordinary,'' and she moved to New York after her divorce in 1985.
''
        At a time when movie acting was not regarded as entirely respectable, Miss La Plante, who came to Hollywood with her schoolteacher mother after her parents' divorce, got her first job on a lark, winning a role as an extra at the age of 15.
Her marriages to Bob Reiter of Boca Raton, Fla., and Philip L. Wanderman of White Plains, both ended in divorce.
After an early marriage to Irving Adler, a Chicago lawyer, ended in divorce, she went to California to recover and met Chaplin there.
Their divorce came in 1935.
Ms. Anthony's marriage ended in divorce in 1982.
''
        Dr. Ames's marriage to Smith Ames, a medical doctor, in the 1930's ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Charles Morales ended in divorce.
      
Her marriage to Hussein Fawzi ended in divorce.
A marriage to Alan Hartman ended in divorce.
Scandal in Cambridge Led to Magic of Africa
        They would marry as soon as his divorce came through.
In the early 1950's, after her marriage to the novelist and physicist Mitchell Wilson, which was to end in divorce, the couple lived on Martha's Vineyard for several years.
In the mid-1940's, after a divorce, she moved to Dubois, Wyo., bought a stallion from an Indian reservation and began raising horses.
Mrs. Davenport wrote in her autobiography that her parents, whose marriage ended in divorce, "were part of the tidal wave of emigration from the Russian Pale and Eastern Europe which in a generation swept a million people, fleeing persecutions, pogroms and conscriptions, onto the shores of Manhattan Island.
Mrs. Davenport's first marriage, to Frank D. Clarke, ended in divorce, as did her 1929 marriage to Russell Wheeler Davenport, a novelist who became a prominent editor at Time Inc.
        She is survived by a daughter, Cornelia Davenport Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Leigh-Hunt's marriage to John Tracy Baxter ended in divorce.
An early marriage ended in divorce and in 1934 she married Rabbi Eisenstein, the assistant rabbi at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the Manhattan synagogue that her father headed.
