Her marriage to Jeffrey L. Postal ended in divorce.
      
After a second divorce, she moved to New York, where she became a sought-after expert on geisha traditions.
''
        Two more marriages, to William Moss in 1958 and to Arthur Cameron in 1961, ended in divorce.
Ms. Winde's marriage to Raymond Stough, a fellow actor, ended in divorce.
After a divorce from her husband, a business executive, she lived in London and changed her legal name to Justine Rendal.
Ms. Tully's 1947 marriage to C. Robert Tully, also of Armonk, ended in divorce in 1991.
After her divorce from Jarrett in 1939, Holm married Rose, who had obtained a divorce from the comedian Fannie Brice.
After her divorce from Jarrett in 1939, Holm married Rose, who had obtained a divorce from the comedian Fannie Brice.
Their marriage ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Barnard Sachs Straus ended in divorce.
After a divorce, she moved to New York City, and supported herself and her young son by working as a textile designer.
Ms. Shemer's first marriage, to Gideon Shemer, ended in divorce.
Her two marriages, to William Blair Meyer and George (later Lord) Weidenfeld of London, ended in divorce.
Her marriages to Richard McMurray, William Friedberg and James McGlone ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Joseph K. Coleman ended in divorce in 1977, and he died in 1991.
He died in 1993, while divorce proceedings were in progress.
Her marriage to Bill Arp, a television producer, ended in divorce.
Her 1958 marriage to Guy Schoeller, a publisher, ended in divorce in 1960.
Her 1962 marriage to Robert James Westhoff, an American ceramicist and sculptor, ended in divorce in 1963.
Ms. Slivka's marriage to the sculptor David Slivka ended in divorce.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she married Mr. Marton in 1943.
By 1949, a second marriage had ended in divorce, and Ms. Leigh was making five movies a year.
After a marriage that ended in divorce, she married Mr. Halperin in 1991.
Ms. Dintenfass's first marriage and a brief second one ended in divorce.
Ms. Gee's second marriage, to Kevin Sullivan, ended in divorce.
Ms. Gee's second marriage, to Kevin Sullivan, ended in divorce.
After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960.
Her marriage to Harvey Weiss of Westport, Conn., an artist who illustrated some of her early work, ended in divorce.
Short, dated entries written in graceful, lucid prose describe her processes and her spiritual ups and downs in the studio, her effort to balance being an artist and being a wife and mother and her struggles to make ends meet after her divorce from James Truitt, a Washington journalist.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Shahn went to work as a newspaper journalist.
Her previous marriage, to Nat Karson, ended in divorce.
      
