Her marriage to the violist Paul Doktor ended in divorce.
They appeared together in many plays in London until their marriage collapsed in a highly public divorce.
She is survived by her daughters, Jilian Childers Hewitt, from her first marriage, to Bob Childers, and Lisa Hewitt Cassara, from her marriage to Mr. Hewitt, which ended in divorce in 1974.
There were at least four public separations, including one legal divorce that they agreed to reverse.
The final divorce was on Nov. 27, 1940.
After the divorce she remained part of the Hollywood scene and dated Errol Flynn and Ray Milland, among others.
Her marriage to Robert Pastene, an actor, ended in divorce.
After her divorce from Mr. Herwig, she married the bandleader Artie Shaw and then Arnold Krakower, the lawyer who handled her divorce from Mr. Shaw.
After her divorce from Mr. Herwig, she married the bandleader Artie Shaw and then Arnold Krakower, the lawyer who handled her divorce from Mr. Shaw.
Her first marriage, to Carlton Alsop, a radio and film producer, ended in divorce in 1946.
''
        Her marriage to Alex Hale, of Carmel, Calif., ended in divorce in 1976.
They led separate lives long before their divorce in 1934, but they remained friendly.
In 1955 she married Harvey L. Karp; the marriage ended in divorce in 1987.
Her marriage to Robert Aikens ended in divorce.
A brief marriage, when she was 18, ended in divorce, and she left no immediate survivors.
After the second divorce, they parted company for good.
Her second marriage to Charles Madge, a poet and sociologist, also ended in divorce; he died in 1996.
Her marriage to Henry Dickson McKenna ended in divorce; there were no children.
      
The Ammons were in the final stages of a divorce at the time of Mr. Ammon's death but were still married.
Ms. Laybourne's first marriage, to Philip Simpson, ended in divorce.
Ms. Arango's first marriage ended in divorce.
''
        Her two marriages, to Mr. Shuttleworth and to Robert Klein, a businessman, ended in divorce.
After their divorce in 1945, she moved to Los Angeles to pursue an acting career, and became a member of the Circle Repertory Theater.
''
        Miss Lambert's first marriage, to Willis Conner, an architect, in the 1920's, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Marcus Mello ended in divorce in 1985.
Dr. Johns's first marriage, to Craig Johns, ended in divorce in the early 80's.
That marriage ended in divorce, as had her previous marriages to N. Richard Nash and Robert Thom.
el1 Mrs. Bidwell's first marriage, to Stephen E. O'Neil, ended in divorce.
''
        Ms. Lange's two previous marriages, to Mr. Murray and to Alan J. Pakula, the film director, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to H. M. Wynant, who chose to change the spelling of his name, ended in divorce.
