(Her first marriage, to Conrad O. Chisholm, ended in divorce in 1977.
(Her first marriage, to Conrad O. Chisholm, ended in divorce in 1977.
In 1979 she added ''On Divorce'' and ''The Adopted One'' to the series, and in 1983 ''About Phobias'' and ''Making Babies.
The marriage ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce.
Ms. Schell's two marriages ended in divorce.
As for Ms. Messick, she was married twice, to Everett George and Oscar Strom, and both marriages ended in divorce.
Ms. Stutz's mid-1960's marriage to David Gibbs, an art dealer and painter, ended in divorce, her stepdaughter, Ms. Turner, said.
Ms. Beyers's first marriage, to Gerald Davis, ended in divorce.
Mrs. Noyes's first marriage, to Amory Bradford, ended in divorce in 1963; he died in 1998.
Mrs. Hall's first marriage, to Kenneth Friede, ended in divorce.

        Betty Talmadge, a former first lady of Georgia and a prominent Washington hostess who had a second career as a businesswoman, restaurateur and cookbook author after her divorce from Senator Herman E. Talmadge, died on Saturday in Atlanta.
Mrs. Talmadge was married to Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat and the scion of a powerful Georgia political family, from 1941 until their divorce in 1977.
At the end of 1976, Mrs. Talmadge learned from a television news report that her husband had filed for divorce.
Ms. O'Neil's first marriage, to John Westergaard, ended in divorce.
Her marriages to Ray McDonald, a dancer, and Charles K. Peck Jr., a screenwriter, ended in divorce.
Rogers Talks With Families About Divorce.
Ms. Benedict's first marriage ended in divorce.
''
        Ms. Alexander's two marriages ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Seymour Washington, ended in divorce.
Ms. Bel Geddes's first marriage, to Carl Schreuer, an engineer, ended in divorce.
At 19 she dropped out of the City College of New York to marry Robert Rossner, a teacher and writer whose name she kept after their divorce in 1972.
These included ''Any Minute I Can Split,'' finished just before her first divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce, and she took a secretarial job with R.R.
Ms. Kerr's first marriage ended in divorce.
At various times a singer, dancer, stripper, carnival performer, film actress, clothing designer and memoirist, Ms. Friedman was married to Bruce from 1951 until their divorce in 1957.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she wed Bruce, breaking off a relationship with a woman she loved to be with him.
The inn is now run by Rick Anderson, Ms. Leslie-Melville's son from her first marriage, to Lloyd Anderson, which ended in divorce.
He ran a nonhunting safari business; their marriage ended in divorce.
An earlier marriage to Norman Bensinger of Chicago, whom she had met while horseback riding, ended in divorce.
Mrs. Nolte's first marriage, to Durwood Law, ended in divorce.
Ms. Nevler's marriage to James H. Silberman ended in divorce.
