Her marriage to John Newbro ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Gordon Hammer ended in divorce.
      
Her first marriage, to Martin Straus, an advertising executive, ended in divorce.
Her second marriage, to the composer and producer Sam Coslow, ended in divorce in 1948.
Her first marriage, to E. Joseph Luskey, ended in divorce in 1983.
When she filed for divorce from Mr. Hyson in 1935, it was reported that Miss Dickson was expected to marry a British peer.
A marriage to the bandleader Ted Steele ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Guy Besse ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Frederick Kaufman ended in divorce.
Her first marriage ended in divorce.
      
Miss Andrews's marriage to Lou Levy, who managed the sister act, ended in divorce in 1951.
Mrs. Goodman, whose early marriage to William Snyder ended in divorce, began writing "Sun Signs" in New York after an announcing job that had been promised her second husband, Sam Goodman, fell through.
Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again.
Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again.
But you can't divorce him if he treats you bad.
He can divorce you, of course -- cut you off -- any time he wants.
"
        A marriage in 1940 to Raymond Eugene Dane, a publicity director for 20th Century Fox, ended in divorce in 1946.
The marriages ended in divorce.
      
Her marriage to Eric Bregman ended in divorce in 1974.
After a divorce from Pierre Matisse in 1949, she married Duchamp in 1954.
A marriage to Sy Kravitz, a former NBC executive, ended in divorce, said a spokesman for Virgin Records, their son's recording company.
Ms. Kelly's three marriages ended in divorce.
Ms. Greene's two marriages, to the American journalist Robert Shaplen and to Sir Hugh Greene, a former director of the BBC, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Mr. Espy ended in divorce.
Her 1943 marriage to Pierre Bryer, a Belgian violinist, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Ronald Gordon ended in divorce.
All five marriages ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Peter Delaney ended in divorce in the late 1970's.
Her marriage to Peter Delaney ended in divorce in the late 1970's.
