Her first marriage, to John McGuire, a Government geologist, ended in divorce.
''
        A novelist might have foreseen that a daring, restless woman would find Smith College such a bore that she would escape after a year into what turned out to be a stultifying marriage to a teen-age chum and then divorce and seek refuge in another loveless marriage, this time to a Swiss businessman.
Hayward had three children from his marriage to the actress Margaret Sullavan, who committed suicide in 1960, 11 years after their divorce.
In 1969, her second marriage, to Milton R. Stern, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Mr. Kroll, a producer-director and a resident of Tarrytown, ended in divorce in 1974.
Her marriage to Richard LoPresti ended in divorce.
After the marriage ended in divorce, she returned to recording, putting out ''Smile'' (1976), her first album in four years.
Her photographs are in the Museum of Modern Art, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif.
        Mrs. Norman's marriage ended in divorce in 1951.
''
        Ms. Botwin said the book was based on the personal pain she experienced after her first marriage ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Henry Kravis, the leveraged-buyout specialist, ended in divorce.
An early marriage, to David McDowell, ended in divorce.
Her 1946 marriage to John Rogers ended in divorce in 1961.
After her divorce from Mr. Delaney, she married the sculptor David Hare in 1962, and the Hare household became a favorite haunt of still other artists.
Ms. Hare's marriage ended in divorce in 1986.
They were married in 1963 only months after the Duke divorced his third wife, Margaret, in one of Scotland's most celebrated divorce cases.
She said she later decided to stop because she found it distasteful to write about her experiences during the Duke's divorce case.
A later marriage to Daniel Huger ended in divorce in 1969.
Her three marriages ended in divorce.
Both marriages ended in divorce, and Miss Danilova said in ''Choura,'' her autobiography, which was published in 1986: ''I sacrificed marriage, children and country to be a ballerina, and there was never any misunderstanding on my part: I knew the price.
Though the marriage ended officially with their divorce a year ago Aug. 28, the rivalry for public attention and approval continued until her death.
In the divorce she had to give up the honorific Her Royal Highness, the title that separates the royal family's inner circle from other nobles and aristocrats, but was able to keep the title Princess of Wales.
Her marriage in 1943 to Bert Clarke ended in divorce.
She voiced strong opposition to contraception, abortion and divorce.
In 1995, before a referendum in Ireland was narrowly passed to end a constitutional ban on divorce and remarriage, opponents of the law were exasperated when a hand-written letter from Mother Teresa urging a ''no'' vote was made public.
''
        Ms. Clausen's three marriages ended in divorce.
That union ended in divorce in 1983.
Her marriage to Rabbi Arthur J. Lelyveld of Cleveland ended in divorce in 1964.
Dr. Weiner's first two marriages ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Geoffrey Keller ended in divorce.
A brief first marriage ended in divorce.
In recent years, after Jean-Claude's bitter divorce from Michele, Mrs. Duvalier was again said to be with her son in France, amid widespread reports they were living in a state of virtual poverty.
