Her second marriage, to Dr. Stefan Issarescu, ended in divorce and then, with her children grown up, she became a nun of the Orthodox Church in the convent of the Protection of the Holy Virgin in Bussy-en-Othe in east-central France before going on to found the convent in Pennsylvania.
Miss Stuart's first marriage ended in divorce, as did her second marriage, to James Warwick, a playwright.
"
        Miss Markham's marriage to Dr. Kingdon ended in divorce.
Her marriage to James V. Brown, a Charleston lawyer, ended in divorce.
"
        Miss Markham's marriage to Dr. Kingdon ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Nicholas Fraser, a journalist, ended in divorce.
Both her marriages ended in divorce.
Miss Delakova lived in Israel from 1953 to 1958 after her divorce from Mr. Berk.
Her marriage to Helmut Lehmann-Haupt ended in divorce in 1947.
Her marriage to Count Emanuele di Castelbarco in 1931 ended in divorce.
"
        Her first three marriages ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce, and in 1948 she married Harry B. Hollins.
Both marriages ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Igor Cassini, the designer, ended in divorce.
Apparently because of indignation at the divorce of the second wife and a sense of impropriety that Ms. Jiang was just 24 years old while Mao was 45, party officials reportedly insisted that Mao could marry Ms. Jiang only if she never exercised any political power.
"
        Ms. Remick's marriage to William A. Colleran, a producer and director, ended in divorce in 1969.
"
        Her first marriage, to Arthur B. Rubinstein, a composer, ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1947.
Soon after the divorce, Marietta married Ronald Tree, a former Conservative member of the British Parliament.
In that position, she authored legislation that raised the amount of financial support that children must receive after their parents divorce to the highest level in the nation.
Mrs. Chaplin's parents had had a bitter divorce when she was 2, and she saw her father only infrequently as she grew up.
She was married in the 1930's to Robert Abbott, a college teacher, but the marriage ended in divorce.
Mrs. Whitman married Clarence Willard Moore in 1933, but the marriage ended in divorce.
That marriage also ended in divorce, in 1961.
After a divorce, she married Robert L. Anderson, a lawyer, from who she was also divorced.
Her first marriage to John Moore McKeehan Woodburn, a writer and editor, ended in divorce.
Miss Tierney's marriage to Mr. Cassini ended in divorce.
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
