Founded Cape Town Troupe
        Miss Bryceland's first marriage, to Daniel Bryceland, ended in divorce.
After attending Australian schools, she made her 1915 stage debut in "A Royal Divorce" at the Theater Royal in Sydney.
"
        Dame Judith's 1937 marriage to Benjamin Harrison Lehman, a professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, ended in divorce in 1939.
Her 1946 marriage to Luther Greene, a theatrical producer, ended in divorce in 1950.
Her first marriage, to William Chenitz, ended in divorce.
"
        An early marriage to Russell Clark ended in divorce.
"
        An early marriage to Russell Clark ended in divorce.
Her first marriage apparently ended in a divorce within a short time, and from the early 1930's until the 1940's, Jean R. Hiller, as she was known, worked as a model at Jay Thorpe, a fashionable women's store on West 57th Street in Manhattan.
During her judicial career, she wrote and lectured often on the Constitution, adoption, pornography, alimony and divorce and the rights of children.
Her marriage to Seymour N. Kaplan ended in divorce.
She continued both careers after her divorce and subsequent marriage to Penn.
Both marriages ended in divorce.
Her prior marriages ended in divorce.
Her first marriage ended in divorce in 1954.
The marriage later ended in divorce in 1947.
Her two marriages, to Carroll Dunne and Hugh Russ, ended in divorce.
Her marriage in 1923 to Charles Oliver O'Donnell ended in divorce, as did her marriage in 1931 to Vadim Makaroff and her marriage in 1936 to Barclay K. Douglas.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
Her marriages to William McKenzie and Lionel Abel, a playwright and author, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Count John Ledesma, an actor and military pilot, ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Jack Negrin ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Jack Negrin ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to actor William Challee, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to William Challee, the actor, ended in divorce.
"
        Miss Booth was married to Ed Gardner, the Archie of "Duffy's Tavern," from 1929 until their divorce in 1942.
Her marriage to Hardwick Nevin, a playwright, ended in divorce.
A return to Paris in 1955, three years after her divorce from Mr. Rosset, led to a gradual withdrawal from New York and an ever-increasing identification with life in France.
Miss Kirsten's first marriage, to Edward MacKayes Oates, ended in divorce in 1949.
Her marriage to Edwin Rollins ended in divorce.
Her marriages to Chester Bryan and Frank Blasingame ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Lloyd W. Eubanks ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Lloyd W. Eubanks ended in divorce.
Her marriages to Crane Haussamen and Monroe Hemmerdinger ended in divorce.
A first marriage, to Dr. Richard Jones of Chicago, ended in divorce in 1947; subsequently Ms. Jones came to New York City to make a career as an actress and dancer, and won her first role on Broadway in 1952 in the musical "Buttrio Square," starring Billy Gilbert.
"
        Miss Holm's marriage to Reinhold Martin Kuntze, a painter and sculptor, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage ended in divorce.
" After a brief stint as a script reader, an early marriage that ended in divorce and the birth of her daughter, Patricia, she volunteered to raise money for the Loyalist side in the Spanish Civil War.
Her previous marriages, to Horace Elea scheff and Harold Clurman, ended in divorce.
"
        Her first marriage, to Robert D. Ames, an actor, ended in divorce.
