A marriage at 14 to a safecracker ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce.
Professor Holland's three marriages ended in divorce.
Ms. Hoban's first marriage, to Edward E. Gallob, a photographer, ended in divorce.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
Guest's first marriage, to John Dudley, a painter and writer who was a close friend of Henry Miller's, ended in divorce.
Miss Marly's marriage ended in divorce.
But guilt and anxiety over her divorce, she said, drove her further into alcoholism and indulgence.
A few months after her divorce, she returned to the role that had made her a star, appearing as Serafina opposite Harry Guardino in a revival of ''The Rose Tattoo'' at the City Center.
The marriage, her only one, ended in divorce in 1956.
Ms. Schwartz's marriages, to Bill Jensen and Art Schade, both artists, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to the sociologist Nathan Glazer, ended in divorce.
Ms. Becker's marriage to Harold Becker ended in divorce in 1965.
With Robert Silvers, her co-editor at The New York Review, she had an office partnership that endured even longer than her marriage, which ended in divorce in 1980.
Her companion of many years after her divorce was the columnist Murray Kempton, who died in 1997.
After an understandably upsetting divorce for Mr. Lieberson, he and Ms. Hunt Lieberson were married in 1999.
Mrs. Truscott's first two marriages ended in divorce.
''He finally got tired, and then he got a lawyer and sued for divorce.
Although the marriage was rocky at times -- Miss Allyson once filed for divorce -- it lasted until Mr. Powell's death from cancer in 1963 at age 58.
A previous marriage, to Mr. Powell's hairdresser, Glenn Maxwell, in 1963, the year Mr. Powell died, ended in divorce.
Ms. Walker's marriage, to Lawrence R. Bailey Sr., a lawyer, ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Tony Gray, produced three children, Georgie; Tony Jr., who died in 1997; and Cecil, and ended in divorce in 1964.
Lydia, Duchess of Bedford (who kept her title after the divorce, with the customary addition of her first name to avoid confusion with her husband's new wife) is survived by two sons, Sir Gavin Lyle, third baronet, of Murthly, Perth, Scotland, and Lord Francis Russell of London; a daughter, Lorna Alexander of St. Andrews, Fife, Scotland; a stepson, Lord Rudolf Russell, also of London; and nephews and nieces who include Aga Khan IV, the 49th imam of the Shiite Imami Ismaili Muslims, who lives in Paris.
      
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Johnson married the writer and critic Gerald Sykes, from whom she was later divorced.
The marriage ended in divorce.
In 1966, after 11 years of marriage, Mrs. Lawford became the first Kennedy to file for a divorce.
It was a highly publicized break, one that required Mrs. Lawford to establish residency in Idaho in order to circumvent New York's divorce laws of the time.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1947.
In 1966, after 11 years of marriage, Mrs. Lawford became the first Kennedy to file for a divorce.
It was a highly publicized break, one that required Mrs. Lawford to establish residency in Idaho to circumvent New York's divorce laws of the time.
In 1976, Ms. Richards defeated a three-term incumbent to become a commissioner in Travis County, which includes Austin, and held that job for four years, though she later said her political commitment put a strain on her marriage, which ended in divorce.
Ms. Cabot married Laurence Jordan, a poet, when she was 19; the marriage ended in divorce in 1931.

        Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29.
Her marriage in 1953 to a German baron, Karl von Vietinghoff-Scheel, ended in divorce.
)
        In 1955 Ms. Brown married Earl Swanson, a saxophonist, and had a second son, Earl; the marriage ended in divorce.
Ms. Campbell's first marriage, to Tiko Campbell, ended in divorce.
Ms. Marsh's first marriage, to Albert P. Scott, ended in divorce.
''
        Born in 1930 in Tokyo, she was married to the actor Noboru Nakaya from 1954 until their divorce in 1978.
Miss Tilton's marriages to Dave Thomas and Leonard Vannerson ended in divorce.
All four marriages ended in annulment or divorce.
