After their divorce in 1962, Miss Bryant, who never tried to win acting jobs in New York or Hollywood, settled in Park Ridge, where she directed amateur theatrical productions and frequently gave lectures on what it was like to grow up on a showboat.
      
An early marriage, in 1926, ended in divorce in 1928.
Judge Lowe's marriages to Edward Hatfield Lowe and Ivan A. Michael ended in divorce.
The soprano's first marriage, to the Italian impresario Walter Mocchi, who headed the Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires for a time, ended in divorce.
''Lila was devastated when Luce confronted her with his intention to divorce her,'' Dr. Herzstein said.
Five years later, after her husband had lost his money and, she said, become unfaithful and quarrelsome, she sought to have the marriage declared illegal, explaining that she would rather have an annulment than a divorce because as a prospective single mother she preferred to have an illegitimate Tolstoy than a legitimate Bakovsky.
Miss Tolstoy, whose son had been kidnapped by his father then rekidnapped by her, had to settle for a divorce, but her son, her only immediate survivor, who now lives in Washington, is known as Serge Tolstoy.
'' Their marriage began in 1925, produced a daughter, Ellen, and was ended in divorce by Mrs. Pearson after three years.
Her 1934 marriage to an Englishman, Dudley de Lavigne, ended in divorce.
Her 1958 marriage to John Kennedy Magruder, a landscape architect and a director of the Alcoholics Anonymous Men's Home in Alexandria, Va., also ended in divorce.
Friends persuaded her to accept -- ''You can always get a divorce,'' they said.
Miss Brox's marriage to William Perlberg, who was her agent before becoming a film producer, ended in divorce in the 1960's.
''
        Ms. Valaire's marriage to Stephen Weiss ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Mr. Ingram ended in divorce in 1939, and Ms. Everett returned to Harlem.
Miss Sidney's three marriages all ended in divorce.
Her 1957 marriage to Mr. Raskin ended in divorce, as did her 1984 marriage to Anatole Shub.
Her marriage to Russel Allen, a resident of Nashville, ended in divorce.
Ms. White's marriage to Dr. Jack Fishman ended in divorce.
Her first marriage ended in divorce.
Her marriage to an actor, William Campbell, which ended in divorce after six years, helped her make contacts within the entertainment industry.
After her divorce, she dated Frank Sinatra, and through him she met Kennedy in 1960 in Las Vegas, Nev., said her lawyer, James Lesar of Washington.
Ms. Bradley's marriage to Robert Alden Bradley ended in divorce in 1964.
The marriage ended in divorce.
A second marriage, to Budd Burton Moss, also ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1972.
      
Ms. Curley's marriage to Pat Harrison ended in divorce.
She worked in a laundry and as a nurse's aid to support her eight children before and after the divorce.
Of her decision to divorce, she wrote, ''I made up my mind to live my life so that I need not be ashamed to look at myself in a mirror.
A brief marriage in the late 1950's to an architect, Adrian Lozano, ended in divorce.
(An earlier, brief marriage in 1926 ended in divorce.
(An earlier, brief marriage in 1926 ended in divorce.
''
        Mrs. Hofmann's first marriage, to Fred R. Fehlhaber, ended in divorce.
Ms. Leone's marriage to Nicholas Leone ended in divorce in 1967.
Mr. Togliatti was married, and divorce was then illegal in Italy.
''
        Ms. Iotti, who campaigned to legalize divorce and abortion in Italy, resigned from Parliament last month, citing ill health.
Her first marriage, to Dr. Carl Reich, who is now dead, ended in divorce.
