The marriage ended in divorce.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
Each marriage ended in separation after less than a year and finally in divorce.
Miss Simon was also married to Robert Simon, a publisher, until their divorce in 1960.
That marriage ended in divorce in 1944.
A first marriage had ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to James Fitzsimmins, ended in divorce.
In the 1940's, Ms. Hoke, whose first marriage, to John Hoke, had ended in divorce, married Franklin Watts, founder the New York publishing company that bears his name.
Mrs. Miller's marriage to Roswell Miller ended in divorce.
Hollywood quickly took notice, and Miss Goddard earned leading comedy roles as an adventuress in ''The Young in Heart,'' as a battling wife seeking a Reno divorce in ''The Women,'' and as Bob Hope's pert romantic foil in ''The Cat and the Canary'' and ''The Ghost Breakers.
Her other marriges ended in divorce.
Miss Vaughan's marriage to Mr. Treadwell ended in divorce, as did her marriages to Clyde Atkins, a professional football player; Marshall Fisher, a Las Vegas restaurateur, and Waymon Reed, a trumpet player.
Her first marriage, to Jack Broderick, ended in divorce, and she married Howard Gee and moved with him to the Panama Canal Zone in 1945.
Murder Plot Charged
        Mrs. Richards's first marriage, to William Ryan, a farmer and a newspaper editor, ended in divorce.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
Her marriage to Arthur Hart, a mining engineer, ended in divorce.
Ms. Stein was a founder of the Westchester chapter of the National Organization for Women in the early 1970's and started its divorce committee, which lobbied for legislation leading to the equitable distribution laws of 1980.
Her marriage to George Garfield of Princeton, N.J., ended in divorce.
She was also a co-author of ''Uncoupling: The Art of Coming Apart'' (1972), a book about divorce.
Blow, an artist, and to Christopher Clarkson, a representative of British companies - ended in divorce.
''
        Miss Seyrig's marriage to the artist Jack Youngerman ended in divorce.
The central issue in the case was whether Mrs. Gabel, who was the judge handling preliminary motions in Mr. Capasso's divorce case in 1983, had received a bribe from Ms. Myerson, then New York City's Cultural Affairs Commissioner, in the form of a job for Sukhreet Gabel as a special assistant to Ms. Myerson.
Her marriage to Judge Gilbert Bettman of Cincinnati ended in divorce.
