The judge granted the divorce, but suggested that if she ever contemplated a future marriage, she should spend more than a month getting to know her man.
After her divorce from Mr. Markey, Miss Lamarr went to a Hollywood dinner party at the home of Janet Gaynor and there met George Antheil, the composer.
Miss Lamarr's other marriages -- to Teddy Stauffer, a former band leader who ran a nightclub in Acapulco, Mexico; Howard Lee, a Texas oilman; and Lewis W. Boles, a West Coast lawyer -- all ended in divorce.
Her second marriage, to Herbert Wolf, also ended in divorce.
''
        Apart from unsigned editorials, Ms. Cantwell wrote personal observations for The Times and elsewhere about the pride and pain brought by three decades of transformation in the lives of women, particularly in the spheres of work, marriage and divorce, and parenthood.
''
        On divorce, she gave voice to many readers' feelings in a ''Hers'' column in The Times in 1980, describing the day she and her former husband watched their older daughter's high school graduation: ''There on stage is someone who is half he, half she; their blood, their genes.
Her marriage to Alexander Francis Steinberg ended in divorce in 1972.
'' The studio chief Louis B. Mayer, passionately attracted to her, proposed marriage and promised to divorce his wife.
The couple had a famously tempestuous relationship, which resulted in a divorce in 1948.
Her marriage to Paul Brainard ended in divorce.
The marriage produced a son, Charles, but ended in divorce in 1947.
Her first marriage ended in divorce.
After their divorce, she married D. Samuel Gottesman in 1944.
After her divorce that year from Representative Gilman, she married Manuel G. Guerreiro, a former judge on the Family Court of New York City, who died in 1994.
''
        Ms. Christian's marriage to David Henderson, a poet and a biographer of Jimi Hendrix, ended in divorce.
In 1967, after her divorce from Mr. Belfrage, she married Mr. Schwartz, a banker who had helped her with financial matters.
Her marriage to Donald Richardson, a television director, ended in divorce.
Ms. Hearn's first marriage ended in divorce.
Her marriage to John Moyes ended in divorce in the 1960's.
''
        Miss Fletcher's marriage to Mr. Herrmann, with whom she had two daughters, ended in divorce in 1948.
She left Mr. Geldof, setting off a bitter, tabloid-fueled divorce and an equally bitter fight for custody of their three daughters.
She was a granddaughter of the American heiress Consuelo Vanderbilt, whose marriage to the ninth Duke of Marlborough ended in divorce.
Her marriages to Edwin F. Russell in 1943, Guy Burgos in 1966 and Theodorous Roubanis in 1967 all ended in divorce.
Because of the long nature of their relationship, there were frequent rumors that the couple had secretly wed.
        For a few months, in 1954, Ms. Peters was married to Stanley W. Cramer 3rd, a Texas oil executive, but it ended in divorce and, like all of her marriages, without children.
Shortly after her divorce became final in 1971 she was married for a third time, to Stanley Hough, vice president and director for production operations at 20th Century Fox.
According to reports at the time of her divorce from Hughes, Ms. Peters had agreed as part of the settlement not to discuss their private life together and not to return to movies, at least as long as the billionaire was alive.
''After the divorce, my life was on a downhill slide,'' she told a writer for Town & Country in 1986.
Ms. Reinach's first three marriages ended in divorce.
''After the divorce, my life was on a downhill slide,'' she told a writer for Town & Country in 1986.
Dr. Milton's marriage to Daniel Milton ended in divorce.
The couple had a son, Jimmy, and after the divorce Ms. Verdon left him in the care of her parents and resumed her career.
Her three marriages ended in divorce.
A 1973 marriage to Jean Pierre Marcie-Riviere, a French banker, ended in divorce in 1989.
Still, because divorce was illegal at the time in Argentina, it took Ms. Lamarque 12 years to become legally separated from him.
