F. Donahue and to Henry Bloomstein, a writer, ended in divorce.
The marriage produced two daughters before ending in divorce.
''
        Mrs. Lindbergh discussed with friends the possibility of a divorce, Mr. Berg reported, but she realized that she did not want one.
''
        Her first marriage, to Edmund Converse, founder of Bonanza Airlines, ended in divorce.
That marriage also ended in divorce.
Ms. Dougherty's first marriage, to the writer John Hersey, ended in divorce.
After a first marriage ended in divorce, she married the actor Martin Gabel, who died in 1986.
An earlier marriage, to Benjamin Rolfe, ended in divorce.
Dr. Hofmann's marriage to Dr. Frederick G. Hofmann ended in divorce.
After a first marriage ended in divorce, she married Mr. Gabel, who died in 1986.
She resolved not to give her husband a divorce unless he gave up enough controlling stock in the Post to give her majority interest.
The marriage ended in divorce, as did a subsequent one to Norman Sachs Jr.
        She entered the New York art world as a painter, with her first solo show at the Laurel Gallery on East 57th Street in 1947.
Lawrence Gelb remained active in the company, retiring as chairman before his death in 1980; Mrs. Gelb's involvement with Clairol ceased after the divorce.
Ms. Gracie's first marriage, to the actor Rod Steiger, ended in divorce.
By 1957 she had been though another divorce and remarriage, this time to the actor and director Alfred Ryder, by whom she had another daughter, Rachel.
Although Ms. Reagan volunteered her services in 1966 when her father  ran for governor of California, his consultants rejected her offer on the ground that her participation would again bring Mr. Reagan's divorce to the attention of the public.
A 1964 marriage to David Sills, a Marine lieutenant, ended in divorce in 1968.
Her first marriage, to Nathaniel O. Calloway, ended in divorce.
Ms. Babbin's marriage in the late 1940's to Alan Shayne, a former president of Warner Brothers Television, ended in divorce.
On his return, he asked for a divorce and although Mrs. Ash acknowledged that the marriage had been unhappy, the request left her, as she put it, at ''the lowest point of my life.
On his return, he asked for a divorce and although Mrs. Ash acknowledged that the marriage had been unhappy, the request left her, as she put it, at ''the lowest point of my life.
