After their divorce in 1961, she became increasingly involved in education and philanthropic endeavors.
After some months, she went to Nevada and filed for a divorce.
Five months later, Mrs. Hearst again traveled to Las Vegas and was granted a divorce.
Her first marriage, in 1933 to Bertrand de Jouvenel, a French pacifist who was the son-in-law of the novelist Colette, ended in divorce.
Ms. Gellhorn's third marriage, to T. S. Matthews, an editor at Time magazine, also ended in divorce.
Dr. Howell's second marriage, to Dr. A. Ervin Howell of Fairmont, Minn., ended in divorce.
The marriage ended in divorce eight years later.
The resulting divorce was as bitter as any, but Mrs. Kampen came through it with a sure-fire sense of the absurd.
The book came out just as Lucille Ball, whose divorce from Desi Arnaz had undercut the premise of her famous ''I Love Lucy'' television series, was casting around for a new format as a working mother.
The marriage ended in divorce in 1956.
Her 1947 marriage to Edwin Locke, a writer, ended in divorce.
Her older sister, Mary (Minnie) Cushing, was married to Vincent Astor, the wealthy real estate owner, and after a divorce, to James Whitney Fosburgh, an artist.
Barbara (Babe) Cushing, the youngest, was married to Stanley Mortimer Jr., a grandson of one of the founders of Standard Oil, and after a divorce, to William S. Paley, the legendary founder and chairman of the Columbia Broadcasting System.
Mr. Roosevelt filed for divorce on grounds of desertion, and his wife filed a cross-complaint on grounds of desertion and cruelty.
In March 1940, Mrs. Roosevelt obtained a divorce decree.
After an early marriage and divorce, she married Edward J. Rakowicz, a recording engineer, had a son, Edward W., now 7, and became as devoted a mother as she had been a dedicated singer.
She was married in the 1930's to Theos C. Bernard, an anthropologist, who died in 1948, 10 years after their divorce.
      
A day later, Mr. Jones and Ms. Wynette flew to Mexico for a quick divorce, only to find out on their return that Tennessee did not recognize Mexican divorces.
Mr. Chapel sued Mr. Jones for alienation of affection and Ms. Wynette for divorce.
But Mr. Jones's lawyers discovered that Mr. Chapel and Ms. Wynette had married illegally, because she had married too soon after her previous divorce.
Among them were songs like ''We're Gonna Hold On,'' which appeared amid reports of their marital troubles and rumors of impending divorce.
Back in Miami after the war, she obtained a divorce and was reunited with her father at The Herald, becoming assistant editor, writing editorials and editing a literary column called ''The Galley.
It was a streak of independence that would resurface a few years later when she contracted a teen-age marriage of convenience simply to escape her family, then obtained a divorce as soon as the couple reached Paris.
Mrs. Briley's two marriages ended in divorce.
Mr. Vallee's wife sued for divorce, naming Ms. Faye as his love interest off screen as well.
''
        An early marriage to Tony Martin, a singer, ended in divorce after three years when Ms. Faye had become a star and Mr. Martin had not succeeded in the movies.
Mr. Vallee's wife sued for divorce, naming Ms. Faye as his love interest off screen as well.
''
        An early marriage to Tony Martin, a singer, ended in divorce after three years when Ms. Faye had become a star and Mr. Martin had not succeeded in the movies.
Her marriage to Jean Louis Auclair ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Dr. William Cahan, a resident of Manhattan, ended in divorce in 1974.
Dr. Boulton married John Wallace in 1962; the marriage ended in divorce.
Her first marriage, to Arthur Ross, ended in divorce in 1970.

        Julia Perles, a longtime Manhattan lawyer who played an important part in bringing about a significant change in New York State's divorce legislation, died early Wednesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84 and had lived in Sarasota for about four years.
Under the law as it was passed in 1980, both spouses, in the event of a divorce, are enabled to share equitably in the assets that either or both of them have accumulated during the marriage, even if title to the property -- a house for instance, or a business -- is in the name of only one spouse.
After the couple were divorced in 1956, Miss Southgate, whose later marriage to the artist Mike Goldberg also ended in divorce, became a fixture in the Long Island art scene, forming close friendships with Willem de Kooning, Larry Rivers and other acclaimed painters even as she continued her own work, contributing to The Evergreen Review, translating a series of books from French and eventually finding her late-life niche with The East Hampton Star.
Friends said her first marriage, in the 1930's, to Jack Jenney, a trombonist, ended in divorce, as did her later marriage to William Spier, a radio producer.
      
Miss Manners's 10-year marriage to Walter Ramsey ended in divorce.
Her marriage to Steven Feierman of Philadelphia ended in divorce.
      
A marriage to James Redding ended in divorce.
Ms. Long's 1932 marriage to Merwin Mallory Gray in Paris ended in divorce six years later.
She is survived by two children, Pascale and Nicolas, both of Montreal, from her first marriage to Jacques Galipeau, which ended in divorce.
      
''
        Miss Jenkins's 1943 marriage to George Routledge, a commando who had been a childhood classmate, and who renewed their acquaintance when he saw her name in a review, ended in divorce in 1959.
      
Not until nearly seven decades after the divorce was she able to bury the emotional hatchet that had estranged her from her mother.
After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
Her 1939 marriage to Sir Anthony Havelock-Allan, a baronet who had produced several movies she was in, ended in divorce in 1952.
Ms. Rolle's marriage ended in divorce and she had no children, her publicist said.
Ms. Beriosova's marriage to Mohammed Masud Khan ended in divorce in 1974.
''
        Miss Hervey's marriage to the actor Allan Jones ended in divorce in 1957.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she wed William M. Donnelly, a businessman, in 1950.
