In ''Prokofiev,'' a biography published by Funk & Wagnalls, the author Victor Seroff said the separation and divorce was forced upon the composer by the Stalinist government.
''
        Ms. Wetmore's marriage to William Wetmore ended in divorce.
After her husband died in 1970, she co-founded the Alliance for Displaced Homemakers, later the Displaced Homemakers Network, for women who had spent their careers as homemakers and had lost their husbands, and thus their incomes, through divorce or death.
Mrs. Gilman's marriage to Richard Gilman, a drama critic, ended in divorce.
'' Their collaboration ended with their divorce in 1960.
Two years after their divorce, Miss Ball revived ''Lucy,'' playing a widow in ''The Lucy Show'' for 156 episodes until 1968, then did ''Here's Lucy'' for 144 episodes from 1968 to 1974.
'' At that time, she was getting a divorce from Mr. Milanov.
After her divorce in 1976, she organized and ran support groups for older divorced women.
She was married to John Vernon Bouvier 3d from 1928 until their divorce in 1940, and to Hugh D. Auchincloss Sr. from 1942 until his death in 1976.
Miss Williams's marriage to Shannon Yarborough ended in divorce.
''
        Her fifth marriage, in April 1984 to Mark Spaeth, an Austin, Tex., city councilman and developer, ended in divorce.
      
Her marriage to Francis L. Kellogg of Manhattan ended in divorce in 1971.
'Men, Money & Magic'
        Mrs. Schiff resumed her maiden name after her third divorce but decided that ''Mrs.
Her marriage to Mr. DeGaetani ended in divorce in 1966.
Miss Luce was paired with Fred Astaire in ''The Gay Divorce,'' which they played both on Broadway and in London.
In later years Miss Davis said many times that she saw the divorce as her father's abandonment of his family, and that it left her barren of love for him and preternaturally devoted to her doting mother.
'' The marriage ended in divorce.
For some years after her last divorce Miss Davis lived in Weston, Conn., but in the late 1970's she moved into an apartment in West Hollywood.
She would divorce him three years later.
Their tempestuous marriage produced one son, Reuel, and ended in divorce in 1946.
Her marriage to Donald L. Wallace, a lawyer, ended in divorce in the late 1970's.
They avoided publicity in their private lives and seemed happy, but they separated in 1983 and began divorce proceedings last year.
Both marriages ended in divorce.
The couple had been acquainted for many years and were married in early 1956, after the death of Mrs. Hammer's first husband, Dr. Elmer Tolman, of Lake Forest, Ill., and Dr. Hammer's divorce from his second wife.
