She trained in dance at Bennington College and in Colorado before earning master's and doctor's degrees at Columbia.
Ms. Gellhorn's father was a doctor in St. Louis with progressive notions and her mother, whom she adored, was a suffragist and social reformer who sometimes took her daughter  with her to rallies and protests.
After attending Smith College, she studied acting at the Berkshire Playhouse in Stockbridge, Mass., and began performing on radio shows, including ''Gangbusters,'' ''Crime Doctor'' and the ''Philip Morris Playhouse.
A ''man doctor, woman nurse'' mentality reigned, she said, and with it the attitude that it was imprudent to waste expensive medical school training on a woman if she was unlikely to practice the profession because of marriage and  motherhood.
Even female patients often feared that a female doctor was inherently inferior, Dr. Howell said.
at the University of Minnesota in 1962; she earned a doctor of laws degree at Harvard University in 1991.
Dr. Howell trained in pediatrics, psychotherapy, bioethics and geriatrics at various institutions as she pursued her career as a practicing doctor and educator, starting as an instructor in child development at Minnesota in 1962.
Their responses reminded her of her own painful journey to become a doctor, she said, and she decided to use them as the basis for what became her book for Feminist Press.
Throughout her long career, Dr. Zeller was the recipient of numerous academic awards, including an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the Graduate School of City University in 1985 and the President's Medal from Brooklyn College on the institution's 50th anniversary in 1980.
Mrs. Maxwell, the author of the 1961 book ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice,'' had spent the last decades of her life in largely vain efforts to interest drug companies in her discoveries.
Growing up in a wealthy Christian Science family in San Francisco, Mrs. Maxwell had harbored a grudge against the religion ever since she broke her arm when she was 9 and was denied medical treatment until she went to a doctor on her own.
Hoping to salvage something from her work, she wrote ''Witch Doctor's Apprentice.
On Sunday nights, for example, Mr. McIntire was the ''Crime Doctor'' on CBS, and Miss Nolan the woman he psychoanalyzed.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
Her father, Victor Hugo Stickney, a doctor who made calls on horseback, was one of the first 10 members elected to the National Cowboy Hall of Fame.
Michel de Notredame, the astrologer's real name, was also a traveling doctor from Provence, doing what was regarded as heroic work during plagues in Aix-en-Provence and Lyons.
The memory of how she learned she could not was still painful decades later: the white doctor telling her briskly, ''There are already enough black people in the world.

        Elizabeth Karlin, a Wisconsin doctor, advocate of women's rights and head of a clinic in Madison that was a target of abortion foes, died on July 27 at her home in nearby Arena.
At the time of the German invasion, Mrs. Rosenberg, a native of Gorlice who had studied law at the University of Cracow, was the 27-year-old wife of a doctor who had escaped the Nazis by accepting a medical assignment with the retreating Soviet Army, leaving her behind with an infant son, Zygmund, and her adored younger brother, Romek.
Antoinette Aiello House -- she used the name Toni all her life -- was born on Jan. 5, 1943, in Washington, where her father was a doctor.
Her husband, Eric Butler, a family doctor, died in 1967.
Dr. Calderone was far more than a female doctor championing a cause.
Mrs. Judd, then a 26-year-old secretary at a Phoenix medical clinic and the wife of a doctor, arrived at Union Station in Los Angeles on Oct. 18, 1931, on a train from Phoenix, accompanied by two trunks and several valises.
A native of Havana, where her father was a prominent doctor, she attended a convent school in Key West, Fla., then moved to New York with her mother during a period of political instability in Cuba in the 1920's.
''
        As Maria Flores, Ms. Main wrote two other books based on events in Latin American dictatorships: the novel ''The Call From Calle Moreno,'' about a doctor called in to treat a victim of Juan Peron's police, and ''The Benefactor,'' a story inspired by the disappearance of the Columbia University professor Jesus de Galindez, who was widely assumed to have been kidnapped by agents of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator.
Back home, when her son came to visit, the neighborhood was all excited and she admitted to being proud: ''They say, 'My son the doctor.
She was hired by Golden as an understudy, casting director, play doctor and press agent, and her skill in handling the press so impressed him that he encouraged her to work at it full time.
