After her release she studied Chinese literature and worked as a roving writer, editor and teacher.
Her first attempt at fiction went unpublished after an editor at St. Martin's Press suggested it was beyond repair and she should write another.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that introduced her to the world of poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
She was also active in the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs, as its one-time president and as editor of its newsletter until her death.
After Ms. Cantwell graduated from Connecticut College in 1953, she landed a job in New York as a copywriter at Mademoiselle magazine, where she worked during the next 23 years, including 9 as managing editor and features editor.
After Ms. Cantwell graduated from Connecticut College in 1953, she landed a job in New York as a copywriter at Mademoiselle magazine, where she worked during the next 23 years, including 9 as managing editor and features editor.

        Jane Nickerson Steinberg, a former food editor of The New York Times, died Sunday at a hospital in White Sulphur Springs, Mont.
As Jane Nickerson, she was food editor of The Times from 1942 to 1957, when she moved to Lakeland, Fla. She was food editor of The Ledger in Lakeland from 1973 to 1988, her son said.
As Jane Nickerson, she was food editor of The Times from 1942 to 1957, when she moved to Lakeland, Fla. She was food editor of The Ledger in Lakeland from 1973 to 1988, her son said.

        Katharine Washburn, an essayist, editor, anthologist and translator whose legacy includes a cornucopia of verse from the dawn of civilization to the present, died Wednesday at her home in Brooklyn.
Ms. Washburn was editor, with John S. Major, of ''World Poetry: An Anthology of Verse From Antiquity to Our Time'' (W. W. Norton, 1998), an updated and expanded version of Mark Van Doren's 1928 ''Anthology of World Poetry.
For 11 years she was director of educational materials for the American Heart Association before becoming the founding editor of Scholastic's Lucky Book Club in 1961.
Frances MacRae Gray was born in Raleigh, N.C., where her father was editor of The Raleigh Times.

        Dorothy Hart, the editor of two highly praised books of song lyrics by her brother-in-law, Lorenz Hart, of Rodgers and Hart fame, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Ontario, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif.
        Mrs. Hart was the widow of Lorenz Hart's brother, Theodore, a comedian.
The author E. L. Konigsburg has described Ms. Karl as her ''forever editor.
In 1956 she moved to New York to be editor of children's books at Abingdon Press, the publishing house of the Methodist Church, and remained there until she was recruited by Alfred Knopf Jr. to start the children's department at Atheneum.
The story goes that when an Atheneum executive called her the ''juvenile editor,'' she addressed him as  ''senile editor,'' adding sharply that ''good children's books are never juvenile.
The story goes that when an Atheneum executive called her the ''juvenile editor,'' she addressed him as  ''senile editor,'' adding sharply that ''good children's books are never juvenile.
She went on to be a writer on the staff of the Metropolitan Museum, an associate editor of Art News and managing editor of a sister publication, the quarterly Portfolio.
She went on to be a writer on the staff of the Metropolitan Museum, an associate editor of Art News and managing editor of a sister publication, the quarterly Portfolio.
Irons was a 30-year-old editor of the women's page of The Daily Mail in London when she met Sackville-West in 1931.
Her friend Esther Hautzig, a Manhattan book editor and writer who grew up in Vilna, said of her, ''No computer on earth can store the information she had in her brain because she lived through it.
He played Steve Wilson, editor of the mythical Illustrated Press, and she was Lorelei Kilbourne, his ace reporter and foil.
Her father, Edmund Valpy Knox, was the editor of Punch.
With her husband, she was editor of ''The World Review,'' a small literary journal.
''
        Her editor at HarperCollins in London, Stuart Proffitt, compared her recent books to Beethoven in his ''late period,'' he said, '''where everything is getting pared down but the content is more concentrated.
The author and editor of several books and 100 articles and reviews, Ms. Christian was best known for her landmark study ''Black Women Novelists: The Development of a Tradition.

        Emily Maxwell, the wife of the author and New Yorker editor William Maxwell, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following.

        Sally Kovalchick, editor in chief of Workman Publishing Company, who supervised the publication of some notable best-selling books, died on Saturday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 61.
Ms. Kovalchick spent 26 years at Workman, was a senior editor and then became editor in chief several years ago.
Ms. Kovalchick spent 26 years at Workman, was a senior editor and then became editor in chief several years ago.
Drenka Willen, a senior editor at Harcourt Brace, said Frau Ritzerfeld was influential in her field because ''for one thing, Suhrkamp publishes high-quality books, so she sold the rights to books of great consequence.
''
        Lindsay Waters, the Harvard University Press's executive editor for the humanities, said of Frau Ritzerfeld's passing, ''This is the end of an era, as anyone who ever attended the Frankfurt Book Fair will be more than happy to testify.
Ms. Willen said Frau Ritzerfeld was on excellent terms with all of Suhrkamp's major writers, including Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist, and Uwe Johnson, the German author and editor.
From 1958 to 1962, she was an assistant editor for British Vogue and wrote the ''Shophound'' column for the magazine.
He became an editor for The Winnipeg Free Press, and from 1953 to 1956 was society editor of The Nevada Daily Mail in Missouri.
He became an editor for The Winnipeg Free Press, and from 1953 to 1956 was society editor of The Nevada Daily Mail in Missouri.
Later she rose to become managing editor there and then took executive positions at Dell Publishing Company, where she was its editor in chief.
Later she rose to become managing editor there and then took executive positions at Dell Publishing Company, where she was its editor in chief.
In 1981 she moved to Bantam Books as an editorial director and became its publisher and editor in chief in 1985.
Alberto Vitale, her longtime boss as the chief executive at Bantam Doubleday Dell and later Random House, often described Ms. Grey as a ''tremendously good editor.

        Elizabeth Gordon, the influential editor of House Beautiful magazine for more than 20 years, a missionary of taste to the American homemaker and an indefatigable supporter of Frank Lloyd Wright, died on Sept. 3 in Adamstown, Md., where she lived.
When she took over as editor of House Beautiful in 1939, Ms. Gordon was determined to educate the American public about appropriate design and new American architecture.
''She was an amazingly influential editor, crusading for the softer side of contemporary design,'' said Louis Oliver Gropp, the recently retired editor in chief of House Beautiful.
''She was an amazingly influential editor, crusading for the softer side of contemporary design,'' said Louis Oliver Gropp, the recently retired editor in chief of House Beautiful.
For the rest of the 1950's, the master architect and the determined editor worked closely together.
She called her office ''an extension of Taliesin,'' and allowed Wright to install an apprentice architect from Taliesin as the magazine's architecture editor.
Travers's editor, Peter Llewelyn Davis (in the tight British literary world he was one of the Lost Boys befriended by J. M. Barrie, and Mr. and Mrs. Banks, the parents in ''Mary Poppins,'' bore more than a passing resemblance to the Darlings of ''Peter Pan''), worried about Miss Shepard's inexperience, but their collaboration had begun.
Her husband, who had been a widower, was the editor of Punch, the humor magazine.

        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday.
In 1966, she married Larry Fanning, who had worked as editor of The Chicago Sun-Times.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and persisted in keeping up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
In 1983, Ms. Fanning moved to Boston to become editor of The Christian Science Monitor.

        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later was editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday.
In 1966, she married Larry Fanning, who had been editor of The Chicago Sun-Times.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and kept up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
In 1983, Ms. Fanning moved to Boston to become editor of The Christian Science Monitor.
Neither Ms. Ford, or her sister Helen Tworkov, a founding editor of Tricycle magazine, remember the name their aunt was given at birth.
''She wrote about the city and City Hall as if it were a passing parade, with a great sense of irony and wit,'' said David Remnick, the editor of the New Yorker.
''She was sort of the institutional memory of the place,'' said John Bennet, an editor at the magazine.

        Rosalind Baker Wilson, an editor and writer who published a memoir of her father, Edmund Wilson, one of America's foremost men of letters, died on Oct. 30 in Syracuse.
She also published short stories and served as an editor at The New Yorker and Houghton Mifflin, the publisher.
Correction:  November 11, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of the writer and editor Rosalind Baker Wilson on Thursday misstated her relationship to two survivors.

        Jane Troxell Stark, a dealer in exotic fabrics and jewelry who was a fashion editor for magazines including Glamour, died last Saturday outside Mexico City.
Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Marvel Jackson moved to New York in 1926 and worked as secretary for W. E. B. DuBois, editor of The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
