Miss Voelcker, a native of Manhattan, was an editor of Common Sense, a magazine founded in the 1930's by American leftists, before turning to decorating.

        Vivian Cadden, a New York writer and magazine editor, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
A former senior editor of Redbook and McCall's magazines, she became the founding editor of Working Mother in 1978.
A former senior editor of Redbook and McCall's magazines, she became the founding editor of Working Mother in 1978.
She retired as its editor in 1990 but continued to write for the magazine.
Dr. Andre-Schwartz did much of her research in collaboration with her husband, Dr. Robert S. Schwartz, now deputy editor of The New England Journal of Medicine.

        Ermina Stimson, an illustrator, art director and fashion editor during 36 years with Women's Wear Daily, died on Tuesday at her home in Wellfleet, Mass.
Ms. Stimson, who began her career at Women's Wear Daily as an illustrator in 1930, was appointed fashion editor in 1960, a job she held for six years before retiring.
Mrs. Sterling recalled that when she applied for the Reporter job, Max Ascoli, the magazine's Italian-born publisher and editor, said, "If anybody's going to write about Italy around here, it's me.
" So because of her union experience, she became the labor editor.
The cause of death was breast cancer, said Susan Sherman, a close friend and editor of her letters.
After retiring in 1992, Ms. Hafey served as vice president for the agency's foundation and as the editor of its alumni magazine.
The Hobbys eventually acquired ownership of The Post and she worked as a book reviewer, copy editor and editorial writer.
Mrs. Titus is survived by two children of her first marriage, Louis E. Slesin of Manhattan, and Suzanne Slesin Steinberg of Manhattan, an assistant editor in the Home section of The New York Times; and three grandchildren.
      
Even her editor in Taiwan had to communicate with her by fax, sometimes waiting days for a reply because she used a machine at a neighborhood grocery store.
An editor at the Novy Mir literary magazine at the time, she became romantically involved with Pasternak, whose work was considered anti-Soviet by Stalin, and continued the affair with him until his death.
Ms. Welch also worked as an editor at Pageant and Look magazines and was editor in chief of Homemaker's Digest.
Ms. Welch also worked as an editor at Pageant and Look magazines and was editor in chief of Homemaker's Digest.
"
        As chief executive officer, she played roles including, as Agence France-Presse put it, "editor, public relations person" and "discoverer of young authors.
She began her career at the old Long Island Press, working as women's news editor before shifting to public relations.
Thirty years later the book  is yet to be published, but Victoria Wilson, an editor at Knopf, said yesterday  the "astonishing" work needs just a little more pruning.
In 1966, she married Charles Henri Gombault, the editor in chief of the newspaper France-Soir.
In an era when leading magazines had voracious appetites for short fiction, she served almost as an adjunct editor at The Saturday Evening Post, making weekly trips to its headquarters in Philadelphia.
There she became associate editor and fell in love with her boss, Sewell Haggard, the  magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
There she became associate editor and fell in love with her boss, Sewell Haggard, the  magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
In an era when leading magazines had voracious appetites for short fiction, she was almost an adjunct editor for The Saturday Evening Post, making weekly trips to its headquarters in Philadelphia.
There she became associate editor and fell in love with her supervisor, Sewell Haggard, the magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
There she became associate editor and fell in love with her supervisor, Sewell Haggard, the magazine's editor, who died five months after their marriage in 1937.
Previously, Ms. Bregman was president of Bask Press, a book packager and literary agency she founded in 1983, and a former senior editor at Warner Juvenile Books and at Bantam Doubleday Dell.
Their findings were published in 1971 as "Old Age: The Last Segregation," for which Ms. Townsend was editor and principal author.
From 1958 to 1966, she was a contributing editor of The New Republic.
Craig Claiborne, the food editor of The New York Times, called it "one of the neatest and best Chinese restaurants in all New York" in 1967.
Before her marriage to the writer Willard R. Espy in 1940, Mrs. Espy was a publicity agent and an editor of Woman's Day, in addition to writing for several magazines.
The cause was cancer, said Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, a friend and the executor of Mrs. Tynan's estate.
Mrs. Tynan was also the co-editor of "Profiles" (1990), selected essays by her husband, and the editor of "Kenneth Tynan: Letters," which came out in England last fall (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) and will be published in the United States by Random House in the spring.
She was a past editor of the Bulletin of the Torrey Botanical Club, a botanical journal.
She began her career in publishing at Doubleday, working her way up from editorial assistant to editor, and later became an editor at Straight Arrow Books, Charles Scribner's Sons and Simon & Schuster.
She began her career in publishing at Doubleday, working her way up from editorial assistant to editor, and later became an editor at Straight Arrow Books, Charles Scribner's Sons and Simon & Schuster.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
For 26 years, until 1968, she was the editor of the book review section.
She was the editor of "The Aspirin Age, 1919-41," a best-selling collection of articles -- by John Lardner, Howard Fast and others -- about life in the United States between the World Wars.
As editor of the center's quarterly newsletter, The Out-Stretched Arm, Ms. Hermanson published articles on breast cancer, support groups and health-care workshops.
She was also editor of the Sloan-Kettering Annual Report.
