
        Felice Stampfle, curator of drawings and prints at the Morgan Library for nearly 40 years and editor of the scholarly journal Master Drawings, died on Sunday at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 88.
In 1963 Miss Stampfle founded the quarterly journal Master Drawings to promote the study and connoisseurship of drawings and remained its editor until 1983.
      
'' 'You look a perfect fright,' she'd snap, and they'd weep in the loos all lunchtime,'' Vicki Woods, her last editor at Harpers & Queen, told The Sunday Telegraph.
'' With peace, the column was retitled ''Jennifer's Diary,'' because an editor said her refined looks suited the name Jennifer.

        Phyllis S. Levy, a prominent Good Housekeeping book editor who in her early publishing career helped discover Ken Kesey, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Later she become a senior editor at McCall's, moving to Good Housekeeping in 1992.
And after the poet John Ciardi reviewed ''The Unicorn and Other Poems'' (Random House) in The Saturday Review and called her poetry ''inept, jingling, slovenly, illiterate,'' the magazine was soon rocked by what its editor, Norman Cousins, called ''the biggest storm of reader protest in our 33-year history'' -- most of it from Mrs. Lindbergh's female admirers.

        Denny Griswold, founder and former editor of the newsletter Public Relations News, died on Feb. 7 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 92 and in recent years had lived at the Wilton Meadows Health Care Center in Wilton, Conn.
She joined the editorial staff at Business Week, where her first husband, Glenn Griswold, was the editor and publisher.
Jonathan Mirsky, former East Asian editor of The Times of London, credited Mrs. MacFarquhar with unusually good training before she began reporting in China, remarkable diligence and excellent contacts.
For six months, she was secretary to the editor, Roderick MacFarquhar.
When Mr. MacFarquhar accepted an offer to be chairman of the Harvard government department, Mrs. MacFarquhar wrote for The Economist from Cambridge until joining U.S. News in 1986 as foreign editor.
She later becoming a contributing editor.
'
        ''Reston turned to Wallace Carroll, the bureau's news editor, who had befriended Maggie at The Winston-Salem Journal in North Carolina and had brought her to The Times.
She was managing editor of the Elon College newspaper while a student and was also a correspondent for the local paper, The Burlington Times-News.
She also helped form the Canadian Classical Association and was a contributing editor of its journal Phoenix.
A native New Yorker, Evelyn Green Haynes grew up in Brooklyn Heights, attended Smith College and was an editor at Vogue, where she worked from the 1930's to the mid-1950's.
She was an editor at Vogue Magazine and then managing editor at Harper's Bazaar.
She was an editor at Vogue Magazine and then managing editor at Harper's Bazaar.
In 1960, she became a vice president of Lord & Taylor, in charge of advertising, promotion, display and public relations, and in 1965 she was named editor of House Beautiful, where she remained until 1971.
In 1946, she moved to Manhattan to work as a secretary, copy editor and proofreader for McGraw-Hill and other publishers.
David Wheeler, the editor of Hortus, a garden quarterly in England, who has built, with the artist Simon Dorell, a garden on the edge of Wales, was also nurtured by Ms. Verey, who opened up her library, garden and larder to him.
Mrs. Graham would have been the first to say the single greatest decision of her professional career was not in publishing the Pentagon Papers nor in exposing the Watergate scandal but in hiring Benjamin C. Bradlee to be her editor.
Later, with yearnings of her own to get into journalism, she took a job at The San Francisco News before going to The Post to work on the editorial page and handle letters to the editor.
Two years after taking over The Post, she hired Mr. Bradlee, Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, to be deputy managing editor and then quickly moved him up to executive editor.
Two years after taking over The Post, she hired Mr. Bradlee, Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, to be deputy managing editor and then quickly moved him up to executive editor.
''
        Meeting the Elite
        In time, as Mrs. Graham became more comfortable with her ability to exercise power, she took trips to confer with foreign leaders, usually accompanied by one of the reporters and her friend Meg Greenfield, who was editor of the editorial page of The Post and a columnist for Newsweek.
The editor and critic James Olney said of ''A Curtain of Green'': ''The volume's tonal variety is astonishing: from the somber 'Death of a Traveling Salesman' to the hallucinatory 'Flowers for Marjorie,' from the wonderment at the variety of human faces of 'Clytie' to the foreboding near-violence of the title piece, from the jazzy 'Powerhouse' to the satiric 'Petrified Man,' from the wildly comic 'Why I Live at the P.O.
Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review.
At her death, she was managing editor of Medical Encounter, the quarterly newsletter of the American Academy on Physician and Patient.
She was arguing about a movie with a friend when the editor of City Lights magazine asked them each to review Chaplin's ''Limelight.
In 1968, in response to an offer from  William Shawn, the editor of The New Yorker, who was willing to let her write whatever she wanted and at length, Ms. Kael began to review movies for the magazine.
Her photographs appeared in many magazines, including Glamour and Vogue, whose editor, Diana Vreeland, had known the sisters as girls and nicknamed them Mauretania and Berengaria, after the Cunard ocean liners.
At the beginning of her career, she was a story editor and costume designer.
''
        In addition to her work at The Times, from 1962 to 1977, Ms. Shanahan was an assistant managing editor at The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Washington Star, and she was a reporter for The United Press, the Research Institute of America and The Journal of Commerce.
She was an editor of the forthcoming Norton Anthology of Children's Literature and contributed entries on children's literature to the Encylopedia Americana and the Cambridge Companion to Children's Literature.
After her retirement, Ms. Limmer continued to work as a freelance editor.

        Carrie Donovan, a fashion editor who could easily have rested on her laurels and leopard skins but came out of semiretirement to find a new and even more enthusiastic audience as ''the lady from Old Navy,'' died yesterday in Manhattan.
She lacked a similar command of automobiles and typewriters, and as a reporter for The New York Times, then as an editor for Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and The New York Times Magazine, she wrote all her copy by hand.
''She was perfectly cast for a fashion editor,'' said Karl Lagerfeld, the designer.
Unable to perform similar magic at Bloomingdale's, where she worked briefly as a public relations executive, Ms. Donovan returned to The Times in 1977 as style editor of the magazine.
At their first meeting, Edward Klein, then editor of the magazine, recalled that Ms. Donovan produced some colored markers and began sketching out her plans, all in a brisk monologue of ''mmm's'' and exclamation points.
Armed with tidbits of fashion gossip and ''always fully fragranced,'' as a former protégée, Linda Wells, the editor of Allure, said, Ms. Donovan could turn a routine meeting into a performance.
Correction:  November 14, 2001, Wednesday  A picture credit was omitted yesterday for a portrait with the obituary of Carrie Donovan, fashion editor and later spokeswoman for the Old Navy stores.
)
        ''She had this amazing way of making the familiar look unfamiliar,'' said Elizabeth Weed, the other founding editor.
In 1979, she instigated Britain's first blasphemy trial in 52 years, which resulted in a suspended nine-month jail sentence for the editor of Gay News.
She worked her way up to sound-effects editor, music editor and script clerk, and dreamed of being an independent filmmaker.
She worked her way up to sound-effects editor, music editor and script clerk, and dreamed of being an independent filmmaker.
''
        Ms. Johnston worked as a columnist, reporter and editor for The Times, covering neighborhoods, education and the courts, among other subjects.
In 1939 she married Richard W. Johnston, who was also a war correspondent and who eventually became the executive editor of Sports Illustrated.
In 1953 she wrote ''Elizabeth Enters: The Story of a Queen'' (Scribners), a biography for which Mr. Johnston served as the picture editor.
