She got her first full-time newspaper job at The Greenwich Time in Connecticut, by running an ad in Editor and Publisher that began, ''Blue-eyed blonde with a nose for news and a way with words, fresh out of college.
She was a public relations consultant to pharmaceutical and other manufacturing companies, and was a staff writer and editor at Parents' Magazine.
Ms. Gellhorn's third marriage, to T. S. Matthews, an editor at Time magazine, also ended in divorce.
Bill Buford, the fiction editor at The New Yorker who was previously the editor of Granta, an English literary magazine, wrote about Ms. Gellhorn and her work: ''Reading Martha Gellhorn for the first time is a staggering experience.
Bill Buford, the fiction editor at The New Yorker who was previously the editor of Granta, an English literary magazine, wrote about Ms. Gellhorn and her work: ''Reading Martha Gellhorn for the first time is a staggering experience.

        Chessy Rayner, a decorator, fashion icon, editor and author of ''New York: Trends and Traditions,'' a recently published book about significant Manhattan interiors, died on Thursday night at Sloan-Kettering Medical Center in New York.
But rather than idling indefinitely in the social spotlight, Mrs. Rayner  went to work for Ladies Home Journal, moved to Glamour, and then became a fashion editor at Vogue from 1956 to 1964.
Marian McEvoy, the editor of Elle Decor magazine, said that what distinguished their projects was ''pragmatic glamour.
In the pages of Elle Decor, where she was the special projects editor from 1992 until her death, Mrs. Rayner was forever exhorting readers to delight more in $2 water glasses than in $2 million chandeliers.
By the time she got to the University of Wisconsin, Mrs. Kampen, who was born in Brooklyn and later lived in Great Neck, N.Y., was funny enough to become editor of the campus humor magazine.
After a brief period as travel editor of the Saturday Review, she entered graduate school at Columbia, where she studied under Joseph Schacht, who was widely regarded as a pioneer in the modern study of Islamic legal traditions.
'' Dr. Wakin was also editor of the Journal of the American Oriental Society and chairwoman of the Columbia Seminar on Arabic Studies.
Her son, Andrew Barnes, is the editor and chief executive of The St. Petersburg Times.
Her husband, Joe Barnes, a New York Herald Tribune correspondent in the 1930's and editor of The New York Star in the 1940's, died in 1970.
Editor's Note:  July 8, 1998, Wednesday  An obituary on March 18 about Anne Sayre, an author, described a book she wrote in 1975 about the role of Rosalind Franklin, a British biologist, in the discovery of the structure of DNA 45 years ago.

        Augusta Braxston Baker, a spellbinding storyteller, editor and former custodian of the children's section at the New York Public Library, died on Feb. 23 at Baptist Medical Center in Columbia, S.C. A Columbia resident since 1980, she was 86 and formerly lived in St. Albans, Queens.
A native of St. Charles, Ill., where her father, Oscar Johnson, was a newspaper editor, she moved to nearby Elgin, working for a while at the Elgin Watch Company before becoming a telephone operator until she retired in 1962.
After a brief period as travel editor of the Saturday Review, she entered graduate school at Columbia, where she studied under Joseph Schacht, who was widely regarded as a pioneer in the modern study of Islamic legal traditions.
''
        Dr. Wakin was also the editor of the Journal of the American Oriental Society and chairman of the prestigious Columbia Seminar on Arabic Studies.
She went from Hunter College, where she was student body president, to Columbia University Law School, where she was an editor of The Law Review, to a practice representing union workers.
She graduated from the University of Alabama and was the theater critic and arts editor for The States Times in Jackson before starting her theater.

        Diana Epstein, a onetime New York book editor whose prosaic need to replace some plastic (ugh!
She employed a novel approach that ''pushed to the limits the explorations of the unconscious, with the goal of devising a clinical method for liberating people from the intergenerational 'phantoms' that haunt their memories and the buried 'crypts' that limit their freedom,'' said Dr. Rand, her English-language editor.
Her father was a judge who became the first editor of the paper that eventually became The Miami Herald; her mother was a concert violinist.
Back in Miami after the war, she obtained a divorce and was reunited with her father at The Herald, becoming assistant editor, writing editorials and editing a literary column called ''The Galley.
Miss Manchester came to the United States to work as associate editor and principal critic for Dance News, a monthly magazine, and, with its founder, Anatole Chujoy, co-edited  The Dance Encyclopedia, published in 1967.

        Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City.

        Nancy Hoepli-Phalon, the editor in chief of the Manhattan-based Foreign Policy Association, died last Thursday at her home in Greenwich Village.
As chief editor, Ms. Hoepli-Phalon was responsible for the concepts, contents and production of its publications on foreign-policy issues, including the annual ''Great Decisions'' and ''A Cartoon History of U.S. Foreign Policy: 1945-Present.
She joined the Foreign Policy Association in 1961 as a staff writer and became editor in chief in 1981.
Ms. Hoepli-Phalon is survived by her husband, Richard A. Phalon Sr., a contributing editor of Forbes magazine; a sister, Eleonore A. Hoepli Didriksen of Wellesley, Mass.

        Jean Herzberg Lipman, an arts patron, collector, author of 26 art books and longtime editor of Art in America magazine, died on Saturday at her home in Carefree, Ariz. She was 88.
She became editor in 1930, overseeing the magazine's development into a highly influential art publication.
She left Art in America in 1970 and in 1971 became editor of publications at the Whitney, where she also was a co-curator of several major exhibitions.
Ms. Pfeffer grew up in Brooklyn and attended Harvard, where she was an editor at The Crimson.
''People were beating each other up in the store aisles, trying to get one,'' recalled Christopher Byrne, editor of Playthings Market Watch, a toy-industry newsletter.
She shared an apartment with Zora Neale Hurston, the writer and folklorist, and when guests came to the loft of Wallace Thurman, the novelist and editor, she was always there, sitting on the floor.
'' Her subsequent magazine, New Challenge -- which reflected the belief of its associate editor, Richard Wright, that art is a weapon -- survived only briefly in 1937.
)
        Starting in 1992, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, then a book editor for Doubleday, had visited the cottage once a week in the summers to work on the long-stalled novel with Miss  West.
''I provide a full range of women's medical care and counseling to women who largely have no other access to health care,'' she wrote in a letter to the editor of The New York Times in 1995, ''yet I am forced to wear a bulletproof vest, to outwit my harassers and to hire security to protect my clinic and staff.
Dr. Edey was long active in, and on the boards of, the Scherman Foundation, which works in various fields; the Edey Foundation, set up by her husband, Maitland A. Edey, an editor at Time Inc. and an author, which supports conservation activities on Martha's Vineyard, and the Martha's Vineyard Community Foundation.
As a reporter and editor for The Washington Star for 15 years, Ms. House had won visibility and success covering the District of Columbia Police Department and local courts, one of the few women at the time to work that beat.
She was deputy picture editor of The Star when the newspaper ceased publication in 1981.
Dr. Calderone also contributed to many professional publications and served as editor of texts on abortion and family planning.

        Deidre S. Murphy, assistant managing editor for news at The Star-Ledger of Newark, died on Thursday at St. Mary Hospital in Hoboken.
Ms. Murphy was hospitalized after suffering a stroke on Wednesday night as she walked near her home in Hoboken, said Scott Ladd, metropolitan editor of The Star-Ledger.
Ms. Murphy, known as Dee, went to New York in 1988 to be an assistant city editor and was later deputy metro editor at New York Newsday, where she helped supervise the paper's coverage of a subway crash that killed five people, caused by a motorman who was drunk.
Ms. Murphy, known as Dee, went to New York in 1988 to be an assistant city editor and was later deputy metro editor at New York Newsday, where she helped supervise the paper's coverage of a subway crash that killed five people, caused by a motorman who was drunk.
She left briefly to be metropolitan editor at The Daily News in 1997, then returned to The Star-Ledger.
Her first newspaper job was as a reporter for her hometown paper, The State Journal-Register, and she later worked as a reporter and city editor at The Democrat and Chronicle in Rochester.
Her first effort, a collaboration with Marc Connelly, was ''Hope for the Best,'' a comedy by William McCleery, who had been Sunday editor of the newspaper PM.
After all, after marrying James Donovan, a leather importer, and starting a family, Mrs. Donovan, a 1939 graduate of Rosemont College near Philadelphia, had willingly given up her job as an assistant Vogue beauty editor in New York and moved to Westport, Conn.
After she did a composite of Disney characters for McCall's magazine, Doris Dunewald, an editor at Grosset & Dunlap, asked her to illustrate a new edition of Robert Louis Stevenson's ''A Child's Garden of Verses,'' which was published in 1953.
Besides being responsible for many additions to the permanent collection, Mrs. Baker founded and was the first editor of ''News Notes,'' the museum's monthly bulletin.
