
        Barbara E. Brooks, an editor at three major women's magazines, died yesterday at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan.
She started her magazine career as an associate decorating editor at Mademoiselle.
In 1980 she went to Family Circle, where she started as its decorating editor.
From 1988 to 1991 she was a West Coast editor for Simon & Schuster.
One participant was Mr. Trudeau, then a law professor and editor; another was Rene Levesque, a radio commentator who would later became a secessionist and Premier of Quebec, and a major adversary of Mr. Trudeau.
She was the editor of "The Hound & Horn Letters" (University of Georgia Press, 1982).
The book was a collection of letters between the editor of the Hound & Horn, a literary magazine published between 1927 and 1934, and the magazine's writers.
She worked as radio copywriter for the J. Walter Thompson advertising agency and as the arts and crafts editor at American Home magazine, both in Manhattan.

        Dorothy Van Doren, author, editor and widow of the poet and critic Mark Van Doren, died on Sunday at the Sharon Hospital in Sharon, Conn., where she lived.
She was for many years an editor on The Nation, and during World War II ran the English desk at the Office of War Information, which later became Voice of America.
She was the editor of the National Women's Health Network Series for Pantheon Books and president of Healthright, a nonprofit organization.
She was in charge of the children's reading room at the New York Public Library in the mid-1930's and was the children's book editor of Commonweal.
She was an editor of the N.Y.U.
Moving to Vermont in 1942, she became publisher and editor of The Burlington Daily News.
During her tenure it won an award from Editor and Publisher magazine for exposing squalid conditions at a reform school for boys and at the state mental hospital in Waterbury.
Reviewing Atheneum's American edition in February 1987 in The New York Times Book Review, Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of the Book Review, wrote, "If you like your tea and fiction delicately seasoned and served exquisitely, this novel may be a perfect midwinter cup.
After working as a reporter and women's editor in the 1920's, she began reviewing crime fiction for The Albuquerque Tribune, The Los Angeles News, The Los Angeles Mirror and The New York Herald Tribune.
She returned to London to join the magazine's staff, eventually becoming its features editor.
George Horace Lorimer, the editor, wanted a young female character to take the place of another cartoon that was moving from The Post to King Features Syndicate.

        Genevieve Millet Landau, former editor in chief of Parents magazine and an expert in child development, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Landau joined the staff of Parents in 1957, becoming editor in chief in 1970.

        Margaret Van Doren Bevans, author, editor and illustrator of children's books, died on Wednesday at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, Conn. She was 75 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn.
She was editor of a best-selling book for adults, "Vogue's Book of Etiquette," (Simon & Schuster, 1948), compiled by the late Millicent H. Fenwick.
Born in New York City, she was the daughter of the historian and critic Carl Van Doren and of Irita Van Doren, for many years literary editor of The New York Herald Tribune.
A Journal Editor
        From 1951 until the mid-1980's, she edited the English and Spanish editions of Hemispherica, a journal published by the Inter-American Association.
Miss Haber said that her report was based on a letter given to her by an editor, whom she did not name, and that she had not been aware of any F.B.I.
From 1988 to 1991 she was public-relations director, news editor and writer at WPOB-FM in Plainview-Old Bethpage, L.I.
Through Myrin, she was a founding editor and the artistic director of the Orion Society's Orion Nature Quarterly.

        Linda M. Martelli, a copy editor at The New York Times for the last 11 years, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She joined The New York Times in 1982, and worked as a makeup editor and as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk and the national editions.
She joined The New York Times in 1982, and worked as a makeup editor and as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk and the national editions.
At her death, she was a copy editor for the Connecticut Weekly section.

        Betty Klarnet, who retired last year as managing editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She joined Woman's Day as an associate editor in 1950.
She later filled leading editorial positions at Look, Family Circle, Family Health and American Home magazines and became managing editor of Harper's Bazaar in 1977.
Correction:  September 30, 1993, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Betty Klarnet, the retired managing editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine who died on Sept. 26, misstated the residence of her daughter, Katy Klarnet.
In 1950 Miss Berberova immigrated to the United States, working at a variety of jobs until she became the editor of the journal Mosty.
From 1951 to 1968, Mrs. Morris was the literary editor of Harper's Bazaar.
She was the editor of "An Uncommon Reader" (Avon Books, 1965), a selection of 35 outstanding short stories she had steered toward publication in Harper's Bazaar.
Until her retirement in 1985, Mrs. Meeker had been an editor and staff associate for 15 years in the stewardship department of the National Council of Churches, in New York City.

        Marion Magid Hoagland, managing editor of Commentary magazine, died on Sept. 3 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Mrs. Hoagland was a member of the Commentary staff for 30 years, becoming managing editor in 1968.
In 1986, she became editor of Staff News, which is distributed to Unicef's employees around the world.
She was the author or editor of a number of books, including "The United States and the Far Eastern Crisis, 1933-1938" (Harvard University Press, 1965), for which Columbia awarded her its Bancroft Prize in American History.
She spent 14 years as a reporter and editor of The New York Herald Tribune in Paris and in New York, covering travel, society, the arts and other subjects.
