
        Casey Miller, a writer and editor who was a pioneering advocate of nonsexist language, died on Sunday at her home in East Haddam, Conn. She was 77.
She was on the staff of Colonial Williamsburg from 1947 to 1954, when she became the curriculum editor of the publishing house of the Episcopal Church, Seabury Press.
Ten years later, she became a freelance editor, working at her home in Greenwich and after 1967 in East Haddam, where she formed her editorial partnership with Ms.
She worked as a writer and editor at Mademoiselle, Charm and Harper's Bazaar magazines before joining The Times in 1963.
'' Desperate for an on-scene voice from Europe, Harold Ross, the magazine's editor, recalling that Miss Panter-Downes had submitted a piece the year before about English families taking in Jewish refugee children, asked her to fill the gap, and she obliged.
She joined The Times in 1961 as an assistant to Craig Claiborne, the food editor and restaurant reviewer.
In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.
Ms. Prescott was born in Detroit and attended Barnard College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, where she was the first woman to serve as editor of The Columbia Daily Spectator, the student newspaper.
After her death, a former editor of The Observer, Donald Trelford, wrote in The Guardian that she was ''the first female political correspondent of a major British newspaper'' and ''had one of the most distinguished careers any woman has had in British journalism.
She married Clifford Makins, former sports editor of The Observer, in 1977.
In 1933, she became secretary to  the author and editor Max Eastman, who got her an entry-level job at Simon & Schuster in Manhattan.
In 1942, she married Charles Wertenbaker, Time's foreign editor.

        Lenore Hershey, a former editor of McCall's magazine and The Ladies' Home Journal, died Thursday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
She was executive editor when she left in 1968 to become managing editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.
She was executive editor when she left in 1968 to become managing editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.
She was appointed editor in 1973, three years after feminists had staged a daylong sit-in demanding that a woman be named editor.
She was appointed editor in 1973, three years after feminists had staged a daylong sit-in demanding that a woman be named editor.
The following year, she married Joseph Clark, who later became the foreign editor of The Daily Worker.
She translated French art books and worked as an editor at Crown Publishing from 1937 until her retirement in 1989.
''this is not pepys' diary, this is some busybody editor's miserable collection of EXCERPTS from pepys' diary may he rot.

        Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.

        Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.

        Nancy J. Woodhull, the first managing editor for news at USA Today and a champion of women and diversity in the newsroom and in news coverage, died yesterday at her home in Pittsford, N.Y., near Rochester.
''
        Ms. Woodhull, who was born in Perth Amboy, N.J., attended Trenton State Teachers College before beginning her newspaper career as an editor with The News Tribune in Woodbridge, N.J., in 1964.
Later, she was a reporter for The Detroit Free Press and then was managing editor of the Gannett papers in Rochester, The Times-Union and The Democrat and Chronicle.
After serving as managing editor for news when USA Today was started by Gannett in 1982, she became the newspaper's senior editor and then was the president of Gannett New Media and the Gannett News Service.
After serving as managing editor for news when USA Today was started by Gannett in 1982, she became the newspaper's senior editor and then was the president of Gannett New Media and the Gannett News Service.
She resigned in 1990 and became executive vice president and editor in chief of the Southern Progress Corporation, an arm of Time Warner, with responsibility for overseeing the editorial direction of the magazines Southern Living, Progressive Farmer, Southern Accents, Travel South and Cooking Light.
The couple settled in Harlem, and Mrs. Petry held a variety of jobs, including writing advertising copy for The Amsterdam News and working as a reporter and editor of the women's pages of The People's Voice, a weekly started by Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
When The Crisis, a magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, paid her $20 for one of her stories, ''On Saturday, the Sirens at Noon,'' it came to the attention of an editor at Houghton-Mifflin and led to both a $2,500 literary award and a contract for what became ''The Street.

        Sophia Wittenberg Mumford, the wife and sometime editor of the critic and historian Lewis Mumford,  died on April 22 at her home in Amenia, N.Y. She was 97.
After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mumford gave up a budding career as an editor of the literary periodical The Dial to help further her husband's literary and academic aspirations.
While running a household and raising two children, she served as a sounding board and occasional editor and adviser to a man who took neither advice nor editing easily.
As Lewis Mumford grew more reclusive in old age, her tasks as an editor grew.
''
        Sophia Wittenberg, went to work after high school as a secretary and then became an editor at The Dial, where she met Lewis Mumford.
Mrs. Heins was a former editor of The Horn Book Magazine, a leading review journal of children's literature published in Boston.
Mrs. Heins's husband, Paul, an English professor, author and translator of the Brothers Grimm, was editor of Horn Book from 1967 to 1974.
She succeeded her husband as editor in 1974 and retired from the post 10 years later.
''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates.

        Anita Finkel, a dance writer and editor, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
An expert on ice dancing and champion figure skating, she wrote about those fields and about dance for Ballet News, where she was also an editor, and for Dance International, Stage Bill, Geo and Connoisseur.
Ms. Finkel also reviewed books for The Baltimore Sun and was an editor fo the Colliers Encyclopedia.
As a writer and editor, Ms. Finkel was known for her meticulous research and unequivocal opinions.

        Martha Duffy, a former senior editor in charge of coverage of the performing arts for Time magazine, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Duffy, one of the first women to become a senior editor at the magazine, held that post from 1974 to 1989.
She joined Time in 1960 and was a researcher and then a reporter,  contributing editor and associate editor before her promotion in 1974.
She joined Time in 1960 and was a researcher and then a reporter,  contributing editor and associate editor before her promotion in 1974.
Mrs. Duffy was promoted to senior editor while Henry Grunwald was Time's chief editor.
Mrs. Duffy was promoted to senior editor while Henry Grunwald was Time's chief editor.
''
        Robert Weil, a senior editor at St. Martin's Press, recalled that Ms. Daves became familiar with Dr. King in the early 1950's before he achieved national prominence while leading the 1955 boycott of the segregated transit system in Montgomery, Ala.
        Mr. Weil said Ms. Daves told a friend that there was an extremely articulate, charismatic and visionary minister from the South she had to meet.
In 1942, she went to work as an editor for Harper & Brothers, where she started the Harper's Art Library, which issued books about Durer and Flemish and French master drawings.
She also was a founding editor and book review editor of the Far Eastern Quarterly, later renamed the Journal for Asian Studies.
She also was a founding editor and book review editor of the Far Eastern Quarterly, later renamed the Journal for Asian Studies.
As an editor at Ridge Press, Ms. Keene helped develop children's books for other companies.
She was also the editor of the juvenile books program for Macmillan and worked with such authors as Maurice Sendak and Hilary Knight.
''She was just really a ball of fire with whatever she set her mind to, whatever she wanted to get done,'' said James Bellows, a former editor of The New York Herald-Tribune and The Washington Star who was associate editor of The Los Angeles Times in the late 1960's and early 70's.
''She was just really a ball of fire with whatever she set her mind to, whatever she wanted to get done,'' said James Bellows, a former editor of The New York Herald-Tribune and The Washington Star who was associate editor of The Los Angeles Times in the late 1960's and early 70's.

        Ruth Adler, who kept the staff of The New York Times informed about its own milestones and behind-the-scenes adventures and shaped the legends and lore of The Times for other journalists and students for 33 years as editor of the newspaper's in-house journal Times Talk, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
From 1947, when she became the first editor of Times Talk, to 1980, when she retired after 46 years with The Times, Ms. Adler chronicled these tales, and countless more routine doings, for the newspaper's 5,000 employees in a house organ that was one of the best and most widely read periodicals on the practice of journalism.
Reflecting its editor's fascination with the news and with the newspaper's daily production, her journal offered Tom Wicker's account of covering the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas; A. M. Rosenthal on his expulsion from Poland for reports that won a Pulitzer Prize; Claude Sitton on civil rights clashes in the South, and Robert Lipsyte on how to report a boxing match with a screaming fan standing on your typewriter.
At The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, she was a columnist and editor.
With her sister, Nona Balakian, a literary critic and an editor at The New York Times Book Review, she was part of a literary circle that included the playwright William Saroyan and the diarist Anais Nin.
After running for mayor of Los Angeles in 1945 and again in 1949, Mrs. Weiss and her husband came to New York, where he served as editor and she as a staff writer for the party's newspaper, The Militant.
She was the founding editor of Deep-Sea Research, a journal she directed from 1953 to 1974.
She was also editor of the book ''Oceanography,'' a compendium of marine science published in 1961 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She also served as an editor of translations for the Journal of Soviet Studies during the 1960's.
Early in her career she was also an associate editor of House and Garden magazine, and for several years she headed the department of interior design at Stephens College in Missouri.
In 1985 she joined the Post as as political editor and directed the newspaper's coverage of Congress, the White House and national politics for the next four years.

        Hanna M. Bercovitch, the founding editor of the Library of America, died on Monday at her son's home in Madison, Wis. She was 63.
She was its first staff editor and later became editor in chief, a position she held until retiring this year.
She was its first staff editor and later became editor in chief, a position she held until retiring this year.
As an editor at the Library of America, Ms. Berkovitch often undid what earlier editors had done.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      
It was just that she decided to follow in the footsteps of her father, Delos Lovelace, a Minnesota-born journalist who was once city editor of the old New York Sun.
)
        Settling in Greenwich Village as her parents had done a generation earlier, Mrs. Kirchner held a series of jobs in journalism, contributing to a book on civil rights for Newsfront Publishers, working as a freelance book editor, and ending her career as a senior writer for the magazine Medical Economics.

        Helen Nichols Church, a pioneering nutritionist who began her career telling Howard Johnson what to serve at his very first restaurant and ended it as the last word on the nutritional content of more than 8,000 popular foods, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lakewood, N.J. She was 95 and had been the editor of Bowes and Church's Food Values of Portions Commonly Used.
Mrs. Church was deeply involved with the project from the beginning, eventually becoming co-editor and succeeding her husband as editor after his death in 1976.

        Catharine Carver, who won trans-Atlantic esteem as the editor of a galaxy of mid-20th century authors, including Hannah Arendt, John Berryman, Saul Bellow and Flannery O'Connor, died on Tuesday at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London.
She began her editing career in 1945 with Reynal & Hitchcock, became the first reader at Partisan Review and was hired in 1950 by Robert Giroux as an editor at Harcourt, Brace and Company.
They had three sons: Joseph, executive editor of The New York Times; David, of Manhattan and Ithaca, N.Y., and Michael, of Lexington, Mass.
''
        She taught at colleges and universities, and served as poetry editor of The Nation and Mother Jones.

        Veronica Geng, an accomplished parodist who spun out biting pieces for The New Yorker based on chance remarks by hapless politicians and the banalities of wedding announcements, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said a friend, Barbara Epstein, editor of The New York Review of Books.
''
        Ms. Geng was also an unofficial editor of Mr. Roth's novels.
In the mid-1970's her short parody of the film critic Pauline Kael, published in The New York Review of Books, caught the eye of Roger Angell, a fiction editor at The New Yorker.
Mr. Roth credits Ms. Geng with persuading William Shawn, then The New Yorker's editor, to publish his 1979 novella, ''The Ghost Writer,'' in two parts.
Charles McGrath, a friend and colleague at The New Yorker who is now editor of The New York Times Book Review, said: ''Her thing was high, intellectual comedy.
''
        In 1992, after Tina Brown took over as editor of The New Yorker, Ms. Geng and Ms. Brown had a falling out.
Correction:  January 1, 1998, Thursday  An obituary of the parodist and editor Veronica Geng on Friday omitted a survivor.
