A professor of education at SUNY for 16 years, she was the author or editor of 13 books, including such standard texts as "New Approaches to Comparative Education," (University of Chicago Press, 1986) and "Comparative Education" (Macmillan Press, 1982).
"
        Ms. Morley is survived by her daughters, Melissa Hacker, a film maker and editor, and Emily Hacker, an actress, director and teacher of English.
      

        Barbara Dodge Borland, a writer and editor, died on Monday at Sharon (Conn.) Hospital.

        Colleen M. Sullivan, a former executive editor of Manhattan, inc. who also held editing positions at several newspapers, including The New York Times, was found dead Thursday in a motel room in West Hollywood, Calif. She was 40 years old.
From 1978 to 1981 she was an assistant editor in the financial news department of The Times.
She was editor in chief of Medica, a national magazine for women practicing medicine, from 1982 to 1984, and was executive editor of Manhattan, inc. in 1985.
She was editor in chief of Medica, a national magazine for women practicing medicine, from 1982 to 1984, and was executive editor of Manhattan, inc. in 1985.

        Sylvia Wilson, a copy editor at The New York Times, died yesterday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.
During her 38 years with the financial services firm, Mrs. Poggi had been assistant director and manager of the public relations and advertising departments and served as editor of the corporation's magazine, Dun's Bulletin.

        Janet Hobhouse, a writer and editor who earned acclaim and adherents for three stylish novels on marriage and alternative styles of living, died on Friday night at her home in Manhattan.
She was a contributing editor to Art News and wrote often for Vogue magazine.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
She was notified of the Young Poet's Prize in a telegram from the editor of Poetry, the humorist Peter DeVries, whom she married later that year.

        Maria Eisner Lehfeldt, a photo editor and agent who was a founder of the Magnum photo agency, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.

        Frances Weitzenhoffer, an art historian, editor and specialist in Impressionist painting, died on Sunday in Lenox Hill Hospital.
From 1954 to 1968 she was literary editor of the Reporter magazine.
Her husband, a former editor of Architectural Forum, died in 1979.

        Nona Balakian, a literary critic, essayist and a former editor on the staff of The New York Times Sunday Book Review, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Rich was born in Huntington, Mass., and grew up in Bridgewater, where her father was the editor of a weekly newspaper.
After living in the Soviet Union in the mid-60's, she became an editor and researcher at the Dumbarton Oaks Research Center in Washington.
In 1984 Mrs. Masey moved to Manhattan, where she was a copy editor for the Macmillan Publishing Company, now Maxwell/ Macmillan, and later for Praeger Publishers.
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      

        Barbara A. Bannon, a retired executive editor of Publishers Weekly, died last Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital from injuries in a fall the day before.
Dr. Lundberg, a 1925 graduate of Vassar College, was an editor at several magazines, including Cosmopolitan, and an assistant to the president of an educational consulting firm before earning a Ph.D. in 1957 from the New School for Social Research.
Miss Leiser began her career as assistant editor and advertising manager of The Wisconsin Journal of Education.

        Letitia Grierson, an educator and freelance editor, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
After her retirement in 1965, she became a free-lance editor and reviewed books for newspapers.
"Also, you're in the hands of a director and an editor who can cut and shape, and you have no idea how," she said.

        Austine McDonnell Hearst, a former reporter who was married to the editor in chief of the Hearst newspapers, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Correction:  June 25, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Austine McDonnell Hearst, a former reporter whose husband is the editor in chief of the Hearst newspapers, misstated the occupation of her first husband, Igor Cassini.
In a matter of months she was a regular writer on Wall Street for the paper, and in 1936 she was appointed financial editor.

        Eleanor Regis Sullivan, the editor in chief of Ellery Queen's Mystery Magazine since 1982, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
She was the managing editor of the monthly mystery magazine from 1970 to 1982 while also serving as editor in chief of Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine from 1975 to 1981.
She was the managing editor of the monthly mystery magazine from 1970 to 1982 while also serving as editor in chief of Alfred Hitchcock's Mystery Magazine from 1975 to 1981.

        Elaine P. Halperin, a translator and editor, died on Sunday at her home in La Jolla, Calif. She was 81 years old.
Ms. Church, who wrote under the name Mary Meade, was food editor, cooking editor and a columnist for The Tribune for 38 years before retiring from the newspaper in 1974.
Ms. Church, who wrote under the name Mary Meade, was food editor, cooking editor and a columnist for The Tribune for 38 years before retiring from the newspaper in 1974.
She was also the editor of "Women and the Law" (Clark-Boardman, 1984), which was cited by the Association of American Publishers as the best law book of that year.
Mrs. Schapiro, a native of Manhattan, was a 1947 graduate of Wellesley College and received a law degree from Columbia Law School, where she was notes editor of the Law Review.

        Carol Wilson Trueblood, assistant to the editor of The Washington Monthly, which she helped to found, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital.
She died of pneumonia, said Charles Peters, editor in chief of the magazine, which specializes in investigation and analysis of political and governmental affairs.
In 1938, she married Schulyer B. Jackson, the critic and former poetry editor of Time magazine, and settled in Florida.
Mrs. Prelinger was an associate editor of Yale's Papers of Benjamin Franklin project, which she joined in 1970.
Mrs. Ellsworth's daughter, a Barnard College graduate and former editor for the Encyclopedia Americana in New York, is now Patricia Wilson, a resident of Holland, Mich. Mrs. Ellsworth's first husband, Mr. Farrell, lives in Manhattan.

        Yvonne Luter, the American editor of the German illustrated weekly Der Stern from 1951 to 1987, died on Aug. 28 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She became the magazine's first American editor under its founding editor in chief, Henri Nannen, and helped Stern to gain international recognition.
She became the magazine's first American editor under its founding editor in chief, Henri Nannen, and helped Stern to gain international recognition.
She joined the periodical in 1942 as assistant editor and new wife of its editor and founder, Whitney Ewing Burnett.
She joined the periodical in 1942 as assistant editor and new wife of its editor and founder, Whitney Ewing Burnett.
Her father, the late William Marcus MacMahon, was the editor of Munsey's Magazine.
In 1927 she married Saxe Commins, who became editor in chief at Random House.
Mrs. Commins's books included a biography of her husband, "What Is an Editor?
She earned a bachelor's degree from Hunter College in 1952, and after working as an editor of The Glen Oaks News and This Month magazine, began writing books.
Mrs. Dooling's brother, T. S. Matthews, who died in January, was the editor of Time magazine from 1949 to 1953, a post he took over from Henry R. Luce, the magazine's creator.
"
        After the war, Miss Ginzburg returned to Einaudi as an editor and continued to write.
She had a continuing magazine career, working variously as beauty editor of Town and Country and a contributor to McCall's, Ladies' Home Journal, Cosmopolitan and, at the time of her death, Avenue.
Her father, the late William Marcus MacMahon, was the editor of Munsey's Magazine.
Her first marriage to John Moore McKeehan Woodburn, a writer and editor, ended in divorce.

        Eleanor Pollock Hughes, former top editor of three national magazines and a public relations executive for several Federal agencies, died Friday at Sibley Hospital in Washington.
Known professionally as Eleanor Pollock, she was a magazine editor in New York City for nearly three decades, starting in the 1930's.
She was the editor in chief of Cue and Family Life, the managing editor of Charm and an assistant to Fleur Cowles in the women's division of Look and Quick magazines at Cowles Publications.
She was the editor in chief of Cue and Family Life, the managing editor of Charm and an assistant to Fleur Cowles in the women's division of Look and Quick magazines at Cowles Publications.
Switching to daily newspapers, she became the editor of the women's section at the Philadelphia Bulletin from the late 1950's to 1965.
She became editor of company publications.

        Mary McDonough Phillips, an editor who helped train a generation of fashion journalists, died last Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long illness.
She then moved to Harper's Bazaar, becoming executive editor in 1952.
