She later became a contributing editor for Working Woman and a columnist for Lear's magazine.
'' She slowly worked her way up to editor, then joined Drew Associates, where Robert Drew was pioneering ''direct cinema,'' as cinéma vérité was also called.
She developed an epidural needle that bears her name and became the founding editor of Obstetric Anesthesia Digest, the original publication in the field.
After Ron Brown's death in 1955, Ms. Aiken supported herself working as a features editor for British Argosy magazine and as a copywriter for J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency.

        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, whom Ms. Spindler regarded as a competitor when she became style editor of The Times Magazine, in 1998, said: ''She took criticism in a new direction.
''
        Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, whom Ms. Spindler regarded as a competitor when she became style editor of The Times Magazine, in 1998, said: ''She took criticism in a new direction.
Ms. Spindler was subsequently made associate features editor of W Europe in Paris, a city she would come to know as well as New York.
In the fall of 1998, after recovering from that cancer, she took the job of style editor of The Times Magazine, bringing a cultural vibrancy to the pages that had not existed before.

        Gail Hall Zarr, a former managing editor of the Zagat Surveys series of  restaurant, hotel and travel guides, died last Saturday at her home in  Manhattan.
Mrs. Zarr began working at Zagat in 1994, rising to managing editor from senior editor.
Mrs. Zarr began working at Zagat in 1994, rising to managing editor from senior editor.
She joined Forbes in July 1984, was its Hollywood correspondent from 1987 to 1990, and became a senior editor in 1990.
She is survived by her mother, Grace, of Manhattan; her husband, Paul Fishleder, an editor at The New York Times; and her daughter, Lily.
      
She worked as an editor for Harper & Brothers and Alfred A. Knopf, and in 1946 married Brooks Beck, one of the first lawyers to represent authors in their negotiations with publishers.
In the preface she was cited for her ''highly competent and critical service'' but not singled out as the book's editor.
Then she noticed a little editor's note at the very end, saying James had taken the title from his short story of the same name.
Correction:  April 1, 2004, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Emily Morison Beck, editor of three editions of Bartlett's Familiar Quotations, misspelled the surname of the poet who wrote ''Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard.
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
A woman who increasingly acquired the manner of an aging countess, as her friend Phil Gailey, editor of editorials at The St. Petersburg Times in Florida put it, she was legendary on the campaign trail for enlisting male reporters as her porters.
In his memoir ''A Good Life,'' Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, wrote: ''In the 60's I had been allowed to carry her bags and typewriter during the presidential campaign.
A graduate of Boston's elite Girls' Latin School and Emmanuel College, Ms. McGrory got her start as secretary to the book editor of The Boston Herald Traveler.
She got her big break in 1954, when her editor, Newbold Noyes, sent her to Capitol Hill to cover the Army-McCarthy hearings.
Her death resulted from complications of breast cancer, said her husband, Joseph Lelyveld, former executive editor of The New York Times.

        Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
She became an associate editor there before moving to Charles Scribner's Sons, then followed Mrs. Hirschman to the children's book department at Macmillan.
When Mrs. Hirschman founded Greenwillow Books in 1974, Mrs. Shub became senior editor, a position she held until her retirement in 1996.
In the 1960's, when she was an established editor, she suggested to Singer that he consider writing for children.
In a published interview she said that as both an editor and a writer she had respect for writers' instincts, and that ''if I make suggestions on how something in a manuscript might be changed, I always let the writers fix it their own way.
From 1968 to 1972, she was on the air as food and travel editor of WCBS radio, a job that led to her 1971 ''Restaurant Guide to New York City and Vicinity,'' which she continued to revise into the 1980's.
Her first book, as editor, was ''The Complete Round-the-World Cookbook,'' featuring recipes gathered by Pan American Airways (Doubleday, 1954, revised 1973).
The women demanded a chance to put out a ''liberated'' issue and the replacement of the editor and publisher, John Mack Carter.
Ms. Coleman, a freelance writer, was one of the editors of the Redstockings Manifesto and an editor of ''Feelings: A Journal of Women's Liberation.
Will Shortz, The New York Times crossword puzzle editor, said Mrs. Hansen ''caused a sensation'' with her first puzzle in the paper in December 1964.
Margaret Farrar, a former editor of The New York Times puzzles, at first questioned the originality of the poems because they were so good.
Mrs. Hansen assuaged the editor's doubt by sending her clippings of little poems she had had printed in Good Housekeeping and other magazines.

        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan.
A longtime resident of New York City, Ms. Moore was an editor at Scholastic when she suggested in 1957 that the company make its books more accessible by offering low-cost paperbacks through the mail; there were few paperback books for children at the time.
She became the first editor of Scholastic's Arrow Book Club, a series of inexpensive editions for pupils in the fourth through sixth grades, and the Lucky Book Club, a similar program for younger readers.
She was not its first editor; that was the writer and poet Beatrice Schenck de Regniers.
(Ms. Moore was, however, the first editor of the company's Arrow Book Club, for pupils in Grades 4 to 6.
After Mr. Grey died, his wife became a film editor at Universal.

        Geraldine Peroni, an Academy Award-nominated film editor known for her work with Robert Altman, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan, said her sister, Pamela O'Grady.
Ms. Peroni was Mr. Altman's favorite editor and worked on eight of his films beginning with ''Vincent & Theo'' in 1990 and continuing through ''The Company'' last year.
''
        She was the first assistant editor, under Thelma Schoonmaker, on Martin Scorsese's ''Last Temptation of Christ'' (1988) and received her first credit as editor on ''Iron & Silk'' (1990).
''
        She was the first assistant editor, under Thelma Schoonmaker, on Martin Scorsese's ''Last Temptation of Christ'' (1988) and received her first credit as editor on ''Iron & Silk'' (1990).
She spent an entire day recording additional screams, variously shrill and plaintive, that an editor later inserted in the soundtrack -- too often, she later emphasized.
She first went to work in 1943 in Los Angeles as a translator and editor for the United States Civil Service.
From 1960 to 1970 she was a foreign editor at Grove Press in New York, for which she translated writings by, among others, Juan Bosch, Marguerite Duras, Eugene Ionesco, and Jean-François Revel.

        Rose Slivka, a writer, critic and editor and a major figure in the advancement of crafts as a serious artistic discipline in the United States, died on Thursday in Southampton, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Springs, N.Y.
As the editor in chief and a writer for the magazine Craft Horizons from 1959 to 1979, Ms. Slivka helped define the philosophy of crafts and the terms in which they were discussed at a time when the field was experiencing fast-growing popularity and professionalism.
She received a degree in English from Hunter College in 1941, after which she worked as a writer and editor for a number of magazines and newspapers before starting with Craft Horizons.
The collection sold more than 28,000 copies, which her editor, Daniel Menaker, yesterday called an ''alpine'' figure for a volume of poetry.
Some years later, without her knowledge, he sent a copy to Alice Quinn, the New Yorker's poetry editor.
She was managing editor of The American Journal of Islamic Social Sciences in the early 1990's.
Dr. Ferrer was a former editor in chief of Current Cardiology and The Journal of the American Medical Women's Association.
An editor of children's books for Random House, she preferred Dr. Seuss and Little Bear and asserted in a book review in The New York Times that children ''can hear the rhythm of beautifully turned phrases and follow the suspense of a good story line.
''The theme that runs through Susan's writing is this lifelong struggle to arrive at the proper balance between the moral and the aesthetic,'' Leon Wieseltier, literary editor of The New Republic and an old friend of Ms. Sontag's, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Mr. Rieff lives in Manhattan and was for many years his mother's editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
'' She worked as an editor at Commentary and juggled teaching jobs at City College, Sarah Lawrence and Columbia.
Because Ms. Lloyd's conversation was as expressive as her dancing, and because she and her husband were inseparable, Richard Buckle, editor of Ballet magazine in London, suggested in 1951 that the couple write dance criticism as a team.
''
        Mr. Henry, editor of the magazine Verse and director of the creative writing program at the University of Georgia, mentioned the rare incendiary moments in her work but added that, ''Her poetry is primarily, and literally, civil, seeking to uphold the accepted foundations of civilization -- marriage and friendship, love and sympathy -- while occasionally plumbing those foundations for cracks.
