Mrs. Moorman was also the editor of "The Journals of Dorothy Wordsworth" -- the poet's eloquent sister -- which first appeared in 1971 and is still in print in the United States from Oxford University Press.
She was a friend and confidante of Harold Ross, the first editor of The New Yorker magazine, and she knew Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley, Christopher Morley and other members of what came to be known as the Algonquin Round Table.
Before writing the book about Mr. Murrow, Miss Sperber was an editor of children's books for Putnam and McGraw-Hill.

        Aurelia Schober Plath, an educator and the editor of the correspondence of her daughter, the poet Sylvia Plath, died on Friday at the North Hill Health Center in Needham, Mass.

        Mary Moon Hemingway, an author of food-processor cookbooks and a former editor of Vogue, House & Garden and Bride's magazines, died yesterday at her home in Kittery Point, Me.

        Helen Wolff, an American editor and publisher whose taste and talents led to the acquisition and publication of major works of literature, died yesterday at her home in Hanover, N.H. She was 88.
Ms. Herrington pursued her cause in letters to the editor, advertisements, Op-Ed articles, lectures and public testimony.
After that she worked briefly for McCall's magazine as a contributing editor and wrote a column for consumers.
She was a graduate of Pace University Law School, where she was editor in chief of the Environmental Law Review.
A poet, translator and critic, Ms. Raiziss was an editor of Chelsea, a semi-annual avant-garde literary magazine featuring poems and prose by promising new writers.
She became an editor of the magazine in 1960, two years after its founding.
Mrs. Onassis, who had enjoyed robust good health nearly all her life, began being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in early January and had been undergoing chemotherapy and other treatments in recent months while continuing her work as a book editor and her social, family and other personal routines.
The late Charlotte Curtis, who became society editor of The New York Times and who was a student at Vassar with Miss Bouvier, once wrote that Miss Bouvier was not particularly thrilled with being in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., and referred to her college as "that damned Vassar," even though the invitations continued to flow in from young men at Harvard, Yale, Princeton and other leading universities.
"I think she cast a particular spell over the White House that has not been equaled," said Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, who was a friend of the Kennedys.
Mrs. Onassis's began her career in publishing in 1975, when her friend Thomas Guinzburg, then the president of Viking Press, offered her a job as a consulting editor.
In 1978, Mrs. Onassis then took a new job as an associate editor at Doubleday under another old friend, John Sargent, and was installed at first in a small office with no windows.
At Doubleday, where she was eventually promoted to senior editor, Mrs. Onassis was known as a gracious and unassuming colleague who had to pitch her stories at editorial meetings, just as everyone else did.
"Working with her was extraordinary," said Jonathan Cott, a contributing editor at Rolling Stone who has published several books on Egypt with Mrs. Onassis, the most recent being "Isis and Osiris: Rediscovering the Goddess Myth.
"
        It seemed daunting to work with an editor who was also a public figure, but Mr. Cott said he was soon put at his ease.
"She was intelligent and passionate about the material; she was an ideal reader and an ideal editor.
"One of the things I like about publishing is that you don't promote the editor -- you promote the book and the author," she said.

        Helen Bruce Baldwin, the widow of Hanson W. Baldwin, former military-affairs editor of The New York Times, died on Saturday at her home in Roxbury, Conn. She was 87.

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
In addition to her husband, a novelist and a former editor and executive of WNET, she is survived by two sons, Daniel, a theatrical-lighting designer, of Manhattan, and Alex, an author, of Oak Park Ill., and a sister, Peggy L. Snyder of Manhattan.
      
She was instrumental in having the subject of voluntarism added to the school's curriculum and was an editor of The Journal of Volunteer Administration.
She was on the staff of The London Mercury, a literary magazine, from 1929 to 1939 and was an editor at the BBC from 1941 to 1945.
She also was a drama editor and columnist for The People's Voice, a New York weekly newspaper published by Adam Clayton Powell Jr., her sister's husband at the time.
As an editor for Partisan Review, she was associated with the Beat writers.
She was the daughter of Douglas Southall Freeman, the editor of The Richmond News Leader and a biographer of George Washington and Robert E. Lee.
She was the author of "Life in the Ward" (1962) and was involved as a contributor to or editor of "Sociological Studies of Health and Sickness" (1960), "Studies in the Hospital" (1963) and "The Family, Its Structure and Functions" (revised in 1974).
At 17, she returned to New York with her family and worked for Clare Boothe Luce as a junior editor at Vanity Fair magazine.
"No matter how ingenious her design solutions, she never forgot that real people were going to eat, sleep and live in the rooms she created," said Dorothy Kalins, editor of Garden Design magazine.
She was the author, co-author or editor of several volumes, including "Masked Schizophrenia: Diagnosis and a Unified Method of Treatment" (1980), "Differential Diagnosis in Clinical Psychiatry" (1972) and "The Complete Psychiatrist: The Achievements of Paul H. Hoch, M.D.
As the design editor Elaine Greene wrote later in The New York Times, "when shown in the January 1967 issue of House & Garden, the house dazzled decorators the way Christian Dior's 1947 New Look did the fashion world.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Anne Close, her editor at Alfred A. Knopf.
Through the 1960's and most of the 70's, she was a freelance writer, editor and researcher.
From 1977 to 1982 she was an editor at E. P. Dutton.
" The work caught the eye of Howard Moss, the poetry editor of The New Yorker, who began publishing Ms. Clampitt regularly.

        Joan Kahn, a book editor whose imprint was a hallmark of suspense stories for many years, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She taught in junior and senior high schools, was an editor and a freelance writer and was director of the women's center and adult education at the Brooklyn Y.W.C.A.
She was the editor of "The Poems of John Audelay," published in 1931.
At her death, Miss Hickey held the title of public affairs editor of Ladies' Home Journal, a position she had held since 1946.
