Ms. Giroud was not a militant feminist in the manner of, say, Simone de Beauvoir but, as both a pioneering journalist and editor and as a cabinet minister, she served as a role model for two generations of French women seeking a more prominent role in French society.
After the war, she began her journalistic career in the monthly magazine Elle, rising quickly to the position of news editor.
Then, in 1953, with Jean-Jacques Servan-Shreiber, she founded L'Express, France's first American-style news weekly, and served as its news editor and later as editor.
Then, in 1953, with Jean-Jacques Servan-Shreiber, she founded L'Express, France's first American-style news weekly, and served as its news editor and later as editor.
She did some modeling and freelance reading for Warner Brothers in New York before getting a job in Hollywood as an assistant editor in the studio's story division.
After a brief stint working for the producer Sam Goldwyn, she again worked with Mr. Wallis at Paramount Pictures as a story editor and was head of the talent division until 1970.

        Sarah Pettit, a founding editor and former editor in chief of Out magazine, one of the first gay and lesbian publications with mainstream status, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.

        Sarah Pettit, a founding editor and former editor in chief of Out magazine, one of the first gay and lesbian publications with mainstream status, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan.
She moved to New York, and in 1989 became an editor of OutWeek, an alternative paper eager to bring a gay subculture to the surface.
She became editor in chief in 1997 as Out magazine became one of the country's most influential gay and lesbian magazines.
At her death, she was the senior editor of the Arts and Entertainment section at Newsweek magazine.
It won a 1998 Pulitzer Prize for editorials about schools and other local issues, written by its editor and co-publisher, Mrs. Stein's son Bernard L. Stein.
At the paper, she advanced from society editor to women's editor to co-publisher.
At the paper, she advanced from society editor to women's editor to co-publisher.
In 1947 Ms. Brian married George Tomasini, a Hollywood film editor; he died in 1964.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Sylvia K. Burack, a retired editor and publisher of a magazine that offered advice to budding writers, died on Feb. 14 in Boston.
After Mr. Burack's death in 1978, his wife took over as editor and publisher.
She was the longtime editor of the journal Research Developments and Perspectives in Hypnosis.
She also worked as a professional photographer and editor, and she appeared in lead roles in movies with Cary Grant and Gary Cooper.

        Sara Ann Freed, an award-winning editor of crime fiction, died on Wednesday.
She was editor in chief of Mysterious Press and senior editor at Warner Books, which are both imprints of the AOL Time Warner Book Group.
She was editor in chief of Mysterious Press and senior editor at Warner Books, which are both imprints of the AOL Time Warner Book Group.
For many years, Ms. Fowler worked as an editor for book and magazine publishers.
She worked for a time in New York as a freelance writer and an editor at House & Garden magazine.
Ms. Heldman, the founder, publisher and editor of World Tennis magazine, began playing tennis at age 25.
During its early years, the magazine was a one-woman operation, with Ms. Heldman as editor in chief, layout editor, art director and advertising director.
During its early years, the magazine was a one-woman operation, with Ms. Heldman as editor in chief, layout editor, art director and advertising director.
''Whenever I think of her, I still shake with awe,'' said Jyotirmoy Datta, the senior arts editor for News-India Times, an English-language weekly published in New York.
Beginning in the wartime 1940's, she worked as a writer, photographer and editor on the staff of The New York Times Magazine.
Her books currently in print include ''Distances'' (Press Alley, 1991); ''In the Crevice of Time: New and Collected Poems'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); ''Instant of Knowing: Lectures, Criticism and Occasional Prose,'' Elizabeth Spires, editor (University of Michigan Press, 2000); ''On the Island: New and Selected Stories'' (Ontario Review Press, 1989); and ''What Goes Without Saying: Collected Stories of Josephine Jacobsen'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).
She grew up in Cleveland and in New York, where her mother worked at the Museum of Modern Art and as an editor at Lincoln Kirstein's magazine Dance Index.
She was ''the Alice Waters of the tea movement,'' said a friend, Ruth Reichl, editor in chief of Gourmet magazine and former restaurant critic of The New York Times, in a reference to the founder of Chez Panisse.
''I went to the Traphagen School of Design, took dance classes and courses in journalism and then I went to work for my husband as women's editor.
''When Priscilla began designing dresses,'' Mille Martini Bratten, editor of Bride's Magazine said, ''she applied lace to them and made them decorative.
''Louise had so much power and because she and Carmel Snow, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, were close, Louise was able to get whom she wanted, and she asked for Mary Jane a lot,'' said Mr. Solero, who estimates that Mrs. Russell modeled for about 30 percent of Dahl-Wolfe's photos.
