
        Janice Farrar Thaddeus, a scholar, poet, editor and former Harvard lecturer in English, died on Dec. 23 in Cambridge, Mass.
Her father, John Chipman Farrar, was editor of The Bookman in the 1920's and a founder in 1946 with Roger Straus Jr. of the publishing house Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Her mother, Margaret Petherbridge Farrar, was the first crossword puzzle editor of The New York Times.
Alice Truax, her most recent editor, said that at her peak Ms. Bliven wrote four reviews a week and probably contributed more than 2,000 reviews to the magazine.

        Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Munro Leaf -- a friend who was the creator of ''The Story of Ferdinand,'' the classic children's book about the bull who preferred smelling flowers to fighting other bulls -- recommended her to Crowell, where she started as a general editor.
''
        After the war, she used the language expertise she had honed at the University of Berlin to translate for occupying Americans, and then to work as Austrian editor of an American government-controlled magazine.
She began to write articles to accompany the photographs of Ernst Haas, and was invited to Paris by Robert Capa with Mr. Haas to serve as an editor of the just-founded Magnum agency.
Ms. Phillips worked at Ladies' Home Journal and McCall's and then became a story editor in the New York offices of Paramount Pictures.

        Jane Montant, a former editor in chief of Gourmet magazine who prized passionate writing, died on Jan. 1 in her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She was editor in chief from 1980 to 1991, when she retired.
She began at Gourmet in 1953, answering mail from readers, and rose to be the magazine's executive editor from the early 1960's to 1980.
'' When she introduced herself to an editor or a photographer, she said: ''I'm Jean Patchett.
Her editor had urged on her the more conventional  ''Black American Folktales.
Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      
Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      
She graduated in 1937, having served as the first woman to be managing editor of the Stanford Daily newspaper.
She worked as an editor and researcher in Chicago, including two years as executive secretary of the board of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the mid-1960's.
In addition to her books, which have been translated into nine languages, and her television and radio shows, she wrote a regular column for Newsday for years and was a contributing editor of Parents magazine.
Reflecting on her work in her 1999 autobiography, ''Can't Help Singing,'' written with Brian Kellow, a critic and the features editor of Opera News, Ms. Farrell wrote: ''In some ways I'm not sure I was suited to the career I had -- nothing in my background had really prepared me for how to handle it.
She also became an assistant editor in chief.
She was named editor in chief in 1968, then a rare distinction for a woman in journalism, particularly in West Germany.

        Terry Ferrer, a former education editor at Newsweek magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Feb. 12 in Charlottesville, Va., where she lived in retirement.
In 1945, Miss Ferrer was named Newsweek's religion editor.
She kept that position while also serving as education editor beginning in 1947.
In 1957, The Herald Tribune appointed her education editor.
As an editor at the weekly magazine and then at the daily paper she wrote and lectured widely on religion and education.
''She herself became a kind of seminal figure,'' said Phil Catalto, a senior editor of Yoga Journal.

        Nancy White, the white-gloved editor of Harper's Bazaar during the 1960's, when it captured the spirit of the decade with evocative photographs of models in bikinis, boots and big watches, not to mention spacesuits, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Her next job, which lasted 16 years, was with Good Housekeeping magazine, where she started as an assistant in the fashion department and left as fashion editor.
She joined Harper's as an assistant editor in 1957 and was appointed editor at the beginning of 1958.
She joined Harper's as an assistant editor in 1957 and was appointed editor at the beginning of 1958.
She was chosen by the previous editor, Carmel Snow, who happened to be her aunt.
''In all candor, I don't think Nancy White was as significant as Vreeland,'' said Mr. Brady, the author and columnist, who succeeded Miss White as editor of Harper's.
Mr. Wirt died in 1947, and three years later she married George Benson, editor of The Toledo Times, who died in 1959.
She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal.
She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal.
She was co-author of a textbook, ''Learning the Library'' (Bowker, 1982), and the founding editor of the journal Research Strategies.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
As the editor and reviewer of The Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books, essentially a one-woman operation, she concisely assessed about 30,000 titles, more than 100 a month, from 1958 to 1985.
''No other individual's views had such an impact on children's books then or now,'' said Roger Sutton, the editor of The Horn Book magazine and one of her many protégés.
''
        She was the author or editor of 28 books, essays and novels for children and the libretto for the 1995 opera by John Adams ''I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky.
When Mrs. Lederer brought the letters back to The Sun-Times, as she later recalled, the contest editor was horrified to see so many prominent figures in her answers.
The editor looked at her.
When Mrs. Lederer brought the letters back to The Sun-Times, as she later recalled, the contest editor was horrified to see so many prominent figures in her answers.
The editor looked at her.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
Ms. Knapp graduated with honors from Brown University and worked as a reporter for The Boston Business Journal before joining at The Phoenix, where she was a features writer and later the lifestyle editor.
In addition to her duties as director, she was editor of and a contributor to the General Semantics Bulletin.
Then she got a call from an editor who told her she was to be paid a salary.
'' the editor asked.
Mr. Howard, her editor, told her she could no longer write about Picasso.
She promptly announced her resignation, and then used Mr. Howard's phone to call the editor of The Herald Tribune, who promptly offered her the job as art critic.
Then she got a call from an editor who told her she was to be paid a salary.
'' the editor asked.
Mr. Howard, her editor, told her she could no longer write about Picasso.
She promptly announced her resignation, and then used Mr. Howard's phone to call the editor of The Herald Tribune, who promptly offered her the job as art critic.
But after her marriage to her first husband, Harry Bull, the editor of Town & Country magazine, and the birth of their son, Sandy, she began to take the harp more seriously.
The cause was an aneurysm, said Kevin Williams, her editor at Oasis Newsfeatures, which distributed her column to 105 newspapers, with more than two million readers.

        Tatyana M. Velikanova, a Soviet human rights activist who was a leading editor of the most important samizdat journal of human rights abuses and spent nearly nine years in prison camp and exile, died of cancer on Sept. 19.
She was the editor of ''African American Theater: 'Out of Bondage' (1876), and 'Peculiar Sam: or The Underground Railroad' (1879)'' (Garland, 1994).
Besides her husband of 41 years, a Newsweek contributing editor, Ms. Dudar's survivors include her sister, Nancy Gallanty, of the Bronx.
      

        Carole Kismaric, an innovative editor and book packager who helped start the Time-Life Photography Series and for 10 years was editorial director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books, died yesterday at her home in New York.
As an associate editor, she helped develop the Time-Life Photography Series and edited five of its titles.
When she joined Aperture in 1976, it was still associated with the aesthetic of its founding editor, the photographer Minor White.

        Madeline Greenleaf Jaynes, a researcher, librarian and editor, died yesterday at her home in Brooklyn.
For the last five years, she worked for Time magazine as assistant editor on the international edition.

        Anne Fremantle, a British-born author, art critic, essayist and editor whose conversion to Roman Catholicism drew her to themes of faith and the saints, died on Thursday in London.
She worked in the communications department of Fordham University, was an editor at the United Nations, a writer-editor at Commonweal and a book reviewer for a number of publications, including The New York Times, Vogue, Town & Country and Harper's Bazaar.
