She reviewed books for Cosmopolitan magazine, was an editor at Crown and other publishing houses and wrote for magazines in the United States and Britain.
Her affinity for color could be traced to an interest in art she developed while in high school, where she was art editor of the school paper, and continued with studies at the Art Students League.
In 1948 she went into partnership with Martha Stout, a former magazine editor, in a ready-to-wear company called Timbertop.
Her other books in print include ''Sexuality, Body Movement and the Rhythms of Development'' (Aronson, 1995); with Dr. Ira Brenner, ''The Last Witness: The Child Survivor of the Holocaust'' (American Psychiatric Press, 1996), and, as editor with Dr. Eva Fogelman, ''Children During the Nazi Reign: Psychological Perspective on the Interview Process'' (Greenwood, 1994).
She was an editor of professional journals and at Cambridge University Press, dealing with its ''Learning by Doing'' series.

        Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan and Ship Bottom, N.J.
        Ms. Hanle was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Ship Bottom, where her father, Richard A. Zachariae, was a real estate agent.
Dell Publishing took note of her flair for dispensing useful advice and hired her as editor in chief of its special-projects division.
'' According to Tanya W. Steel, a senior editor for the magazine, her byline appeared more often than that of any other writer.
She was Bon Appetit's New York editor until 1990, when she was named an editor at large.
She was Bon Appetit's New York editor until 1990, when she was named an editor at large.
In 1990, Ms. Hanle was honored by the James Beard Foundation at its first annual Editor's Dinner.
She received a bachelor's degree in 1952  from Hunter College, a law degree with honors in 1954 from Brooklyn Law School, where she was president of her class and the first black editor in chief of the law review, and a master's degree in 1955 from Columbia Law School.
Ms. Boylan was a customer back then, buying books -- mainly 20th century American fiction -- to read on the train to Manhattan, where she worked as an editor.
Though overshadowed in history by the editor's famous second wife, the author Clare Boothe Luce, Mrs. Tyng played an important role in the life of Mr. Luce, who sought her advice even after they were divorced, said Robert E. Herzstein, a professor of history at the University of South Carolina and the author of ''Henry R. Luce'' (Scribner, 1994).
She also wrote of her consuming romance with Max Schroeder, a surrealist poet, editor and antifascist whom she married and followed from his wartime exile in New York back to Soviet-controlled East Germany in 1947.
' He told me he was cultural editor of The Daily Worker but had just been drafted into the Army and must find a replacement by the weekend.
' ''
        She asked herself how she had the nerve to pass herself off as cultural editor.
She was the eldest of the nine children of Zia Hong-lai, a Christian educator and editor, and Sochen Sze.

        Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, who transformed it from a tired magazine into a viable voice in fashion while she battled ovarian cancer and raised awareness of the disease, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
She was 51 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.
        Ms. Tilberis was highly respected for her ability as an editor, her warmth and her good humor in the face of debilitating treatments to halt the spread of the cancer that ultimately took her life.
When Hearst Magazines, which publishes the 132-year-old Harper's Bazaar, hired Ms. Tilberis away from her job as editor in chief of British Vogue, it created a sensation in fashion magazine circles.
She became the third reigning British editor of an important New York magazine, following Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, and Tina Brown, who was then the editor in chief of Vanity Fair and later became the editor of The New Yorker and is now developing Talk magazine.
She became the third reigning British editor of an important New York magazine, following Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, and Tina Brown, who was then the editor in chief of Vanity Fair and later became the editor of The New Yorker and is now developing Talk magazine.
She became the third reigning British editor of an important New York magazine, following Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, and Tina Brown, who was then the editor in chief of Vanity Fair and later became the editor of The New Yorker and is now developing Talk magazine.
She became the third reigning British editor of an important New York magazine, following Anna Wintour, editor in chief of Vogue, and Tina Brown, who was then the editor in chief of Vanity Fair and later became the editor of The New Yorker and is now developing Talk magazine.
In 1994, Ms. Tilberis was named editor of the year by Advertising Age and received an award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which was presented to her by Diana, the Princess of Wales.
The two women became friends in London, where the Princess of Wales often dropped by the offices of British Vogue and also appeared on its cover twice while Ms. Tilberis was editor.
Following her graduation in 1970, Ms. Tilberis went to British Vogue as a fashion assistant and worked her way to the top, becoming editor in chief in 1987.

        Darlene Geis, an author and editor, died on March 25 in a fire at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Geis joined Harry N. Abrams, the art book publishers, in 1969 and eventually became senior editor for special projects.
''
        Miss Lutyens was the editor of a related book-length collection of letters, ''Young Mrs. Ruskin in Venice,'' which was described in The Times Book Review by another critic, Joan Evans, as ''admirably and discreetly edited.

        Beverly Lewis, a vice president and senior editor at Bantam Books,  died on Monday in Manhattan.
She worked as an editor at Pocket Books, Dell Publishing and Harcourt Brace before joining Bantam Books in 1986 as a consulting editor.
She worked as an editor at Pocket Books, Dell Publishing and Harcourt Brace before joining Bantam Books in 1986 as a consulting editor.
She was promoted to senior editor in 1991.

        Ruth Gilbert, a retired editor at New York magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Gilbert was best known as the editor of her own page in New York magazine listing what she felt was stylish in the city at the moment.
She spent 24 years at New York magazine, retiring in 1992, and was an editor on the magazine when it was an insert in The Herald Tribune.
She had been treated for heart problems earlier in the week and seemed to have died in her sleep, said her editor, Victoria Wilson.
''She was just so deft and had such a wonderful touch,'' said Ms. Wilson, her editor for 25 years at Knopf, where she published all of her short-story collections and all but one of her novels.
''No one wrote better about the tangled relations of men and women or about the enduring romance of friendship,'' said Fran Kiernan, a former New Yorker editor, who edited Ms. Adams's New Yorker stories for 10 years, beginning with ''Beautiful Girl'' in 1977.
When it ended, they moved to Frankfurt, Germany, where Mr. Katzander wrote for Stars and Stripes and Mrs. Katzander was a copy editor.
Before her marriage in 1930, she  designed children's toys for Macy's and was a contributing editor for Parents magazine.
After college, she married Robert Lee and in her early 20's was the poetry editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.

        Meg Greenfield, the editor of The Washington Post's editorial page, who brought a combination of sharp-eyed analysis and wry wit to bear on a generation of the nation's policy makers and politicians, died yesterday morning at her home in Washington.
In 1978, when she was The Post's deputy editorial page editor, she was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for commentary.
In her role as the newspaper's editorial-page editor for the last 20 years and as a columnist for Newsweek magazine for 25 years, Miss Greenfield pored over the details of policy with the passion of a political scientist and wrote of the complex architecture of democracy with reverence.
''She was both brilliant and funny, a writer and an editor of amazing ability.
''
        Miss Greenfield was promoted to staff writer at the magazine in 1961 and in 1965 became its Washington editor.
When The Reporter shut down in 1968, Miss Greenfield became the first person hired by Philip Geyelin, the newly appointed editorial page editor of The Washington Post.
One of Mr. Geyelin's early goals was to turn The Post away from the hawkish stance on the Vietnam War favored by its departing editorial page editor, J. Russell Wiggins.

        Shirley Potash Clurman, a retired magazine editor and television producer, died yesterday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan.
She did public relations work for Time Inc. and, until the early 1960's, for the Rockefeller family, then worked as an editor at People magazine.
The cultural historian and lecturer Delilah Jackson said that Billy Rowe, an editor of The Pittsburgh Courier and writer for The Amsterdam News in New York, called Ms. Everett ''the most beautiful woman in Harlem.

        Ruth Whitney, the editor who steered Glamour magazine for 31 years and influenced several generations of women during three important decades in American feminism, died yesterday at her home in Irvington, N.Y. She was 71.
Mrs. Whitney was the editor in chief of Glamour, a magazine owned by Conde Nast Publications that now has a circulation of 2.1 million readers, from 1967 until last September.
In an interview a week before she retired last September, Mrs. Whitney explained her goal as editor in chief of Glamour: ''I always felt that I had a mission.
'' She found a job in women's magazines and, at 28, became editor in chief of a now-defunct magazine called Better Living, then of Seventeen.
While she was editor, she kept a low profile.
She never ran an editor's note at the front of the magazine and refused parties for her 20th, 25th and 30th anniversaries as editor in chief.
She never ran an editor's note at the front of the magazine and refused parties for her 20th, 25th and 30th anniversaries as editor in chief.
Gloria Steinem, a former contributing editor to Glamour, said that decisions like those defined the magazine under Mrs. Whitney.
''
        Richard B. Stolley, the first managing editor of People and now the senior editorial adviser at Time Inc., said that Mrs. Whitney's rare longevity in the magazine industry could be attributed to her forward thinking.
Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine.
The daughter of a Zurich newspaper editor, Miss Schoop was essentially self-taught, although she did take some ballet and modern-dance lessons after she had already established herself as a performer.
She was 94, and her main residence was in Purchase, N.Y.
        After working as an editor of the old Stage magazine, Mrs. Cullman began investing with her husband, Howard S. Cullman, who was chairman of what was then called the Port of New York Authority and was prominent in the tobacco industry, serving on the board of Philip Morris  Inc.
Marguerite Sanders, as she then was, was born and reared in Manhattan, attended Columbia University, worked as a writer and editor for the McNaught Newspaper Syndicate and contributed articles to The New York Times Magazine, The New Yorker and other publications.
Back in the United States, she assisted her husband, the first editor of Foreign Policy and author of ''The Foreign Affairs Fudge Factory.
Ms. Wight's health slowly declined after her husband died in 1995 at age 78, said Thomas McCormack, the former editor in chief of St. Martin's Press, which published the first five Herriot books.
In 1975, she filed a suit for $1.7 million against the first editor of Ms., Gloria Steinem, and Pat Carbine, the publisher, contending that they had fraudulently misrepresented the value of the magazine's stock.
She later became a radio and television editor.
''It was a country-girl-come-to-the-city kind of column,'' said Bill Kovach, a former editor of The Journal-Constitution, who is curator of the Nieman Foundation for Journalism at Harvard University.
''For generations and generations of Georgians, she embodied the South, the simple, folksy, homespun South,'' said Cynthia Tucker, the editorial page editor of The Constitution.
Lyudmila Telen, a deputy editor at the newspaper Moscow News and a member of the club, said her impressions of Mrs. Gorbachev changed as she got to know her better.
After her return in 1933, Miss Garland helped found the New Duncan Dancers and was dance editor of New Theater magazine.
Ms. de Lima burst upon the New York literary scene in 1950 with ''Captain's Beach,'' the first published novel to come out of the editor Hiram Haydn's prestigious workshop at the New School for Social Research.

        Anneli Cahn Lax, a professor and editor who was a leader in the publishing of mathematical literature, died on Friday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
She may be best known, however,  for her contributions to the understanding of mathematics by both students and lay people, especially as the editor of the Mathematical Association of America's New Mathematical Library Series.
The editor who acquired it, Claire Zion, called the writing ''very plain, very clear,'' and said that it would be altered only insignificantly for publication.
''She took games to the people,'' said Mr. Byrne, who is now editor of Toy Report, an industry publication.
She went to India on an assignment to photograph Ravi Shankar in 1956 and fell in love with Frank Moraes, then editor of The Indian Express.
As an editor she was associated with The New York State Journal of Medicine and The Journal of Community Health.
Mrs. Slatkin worked as an editor and for several years as executive director of the Iranian Institute of Art and Archaeology.
''It's like collecting stamps or baseball cards,'' said Paul J. Baicich, editor of Birding, the magazine of the American Birding Association.

        Faith Sale, a publishing executive and the editor of dozens of novels and short-story collections by such authors as Donald Barthelme, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, Kaye Gibbons and Amy Tan, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Known as a devoted writers' advocate and a hands-on editor of a decidedly literary bent, Ms. Sale had a career in publishing that spanned four decades, beginning at J.
She spent the last 20 years at G. P. Putnam's Sons, where she was vice president and senior executive editor and is said to have introduced a more literary sensibility.
She worked in a law office before becoming an assistant editor at John Bernard Myers's literary journal View and an assistant to Frances Steloff at the Gotham Book Mart, jobs that gained her entry into the world of New York poets, artists and intellectuals involved in dance in the 1940's.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
''She allowed people to be intuitive about their knitting, rather than just being blind followers of the written word,'' said Nancy J. Thomas, editor of Knitter's Magazine.
