Mrs. Astor worked in theatrical costume and set design and was a contributing editor to Vogue magazine.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
"
        British-born and educated, she came to the United States when she was 24, taught English at a private school and later became editor of Headline Books for the Foreign Policy Association.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.
Savoir-Faire Was Helpful
        Ms. Jablonski became the Journal's oil editor and "the most influentual oil journalist of her time," as Daniel Yergin wrote in his history of the oil business, "The Prize" (Simon & Schuster, 1990).
McGraw-Hill hired her in 1954 as senior editor of its new Petroleum Week, but the magazine folded in 1961.
From 1944 to 1948 she was the associate editor of Far Eastern Survey, a journal.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.
Ms. Kelley and the novelist James Clavell specified in their publishing contracts that Mrs. Bernkopf be their editor.
"She was really an author's editor -- strict but loving," said Lawrence Hughes, the former president of William Morrow & Company, one of the publishers for whom she worked.
She also worked as a freelance editor.
From 1978 to 1984 she was the editor of The Ziegler Magazine for the Blind, which selects articles from other publications for reprinting in Braille and recording on audio tape.

        Holly Stevens, an editor who devoted much of her career to writing about and editing the work of her father, the poet Wallace Stevens, died on Wednesday at her home in Guilford, Conn. She was 67 years old.

        Margaret R. Weiss, an author and photography editor, died on Monday at her home in New York City.
A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Barnard College, Miss Weiss worked as the associate editor of the American Mercury magazine before becoming photography editor of the Saturday Review of Literature in 1960.
A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Barnard College, Miss Weiss worked as the associate editor of the American Mercury magazine before becoming photography editor of the Saturday Review of Literature in 1960.

        Naome Lewis, a longtime magazine editor, died on March 18 at her home in Manhattan.
In the mid-1940's she joined McFadden Publishing in Manhattan as an articles editor at True Detective.
Several years later she became an associate fiction editor at Collier's.
In 1958 she joined Good Houskeeping, where she was the fiction editor from 1960 until her retirement in 1989.
In 1946, she graduated from Vassar College, where she was the editor of the literary magazine.
She frequently wrote on the subject for Musical America, eventually becoming an associate editor, and was a contributing editor to Opera News.
She frequently wrote on the subject for Musical America, eventually becoming an associate editor, and was a contributing editor to Opera News.
She was a winner of many national, international and world bridge titles and an organizer of matches, the editor of a bridge column and the author of eight books on the game.
She was the bridge editor of The Guardian in Britain from 1955 until her death.

        Thelma Saks Bradford Ingersoll, an artist and the widow of the editor and publisher Ralph A. Ingersoll, died on Saturday at her home in West Cornwall, Conn. She was 81 years old and died of kidney failure, a family spokesman said.
In 1964 she married Mr. Ingersoll, an author and the former managing editor of The New Yorker and publisher of Time and a founder of Fortune and Life magazines, the newspaper PM and the Ingersoll newspaper chain.
She was also founder and first president of the Association of Women Psychiatrists and editor of its publication, News for Women in Psychiatry.

        Lydia Joel, the former editor in chief of Dance Magazine and head of the dance department at the School of Performing Arts, died on Sunday at New York Hospital She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan.
Appointed editor in chief of Dance Magazine in 1952, she began to emphasize serious criticism, essays, photographic features and foreign reports.
She married Mr. Miller, the entertainment editor of Seventeen magazine, in 1953.
She also lectured, wrote book reviews, was the host of a children's television show for a year, evaluated manuscripts for publishers and was the juvenile editor of Publisher's Weekly.
She added a master's degree in theology from the University of Notre Dame in 1962 and worked for four years as staff editor of The New Catholic Encyclopedia while also lecturing at Catholic University.

        Sherry Goldman Abel, a retired managing editor of Commentary magazine, died on May 28 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
She joined Commentary about 1950 as an editorial assistant and eventually rose to managing editor.
At various times in a long career, Mrs. Davenport worked for Sikorsky Aviation as its advertising and publicity manager, for Flying magazine as an associate editor and for Fairchild Aviation and the United Aircraft and Transport Corporation in administrative posts.
As their business prospered, Miss Parnis hired other designers, but she remained the fashion editor.
Dr. Dalven was the editor of "The Sephardic Scholar," a journal; a board member of the American Friends of the Jewish Museum of Greece and a past president of the American Society of Sephardic Studies and of the Sisterhood of Janina, a Romaniote group.
Led League of Women Voters
        Serving as the president of the State League of Women Voters and head of its courts committee, Mrs. Ames waged her campaign in speeches, reports, news releases, lobbying, coalitions, testimony at hearings and letters to the editor.
Led League of Women Voters
        Serving as the president of the State League of Women Voters and head of its courts committee, Mrs. Ames waged her campaign in speeches, reports, news releases, lobbying, coalitions, testimony at hearings and letters to the editor.
He was the first photography editor of Life magazine and the first director of the photography division at the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan.
Dr. Dalven was the editor of "The Sephardic Scholar," a journal; a board member of the American Friends of the Jewish Museum of Greece and a past president of the American Society of Sephardic Studies and of the Sisterhood of Janina, a Romaniote group.
She is survived by a daughter, Virginia Wren Moore of Lake Forest, Ill., and a son, Christopher S. Wren of Manhattan, who is editor of new projects for The New York Times.
      

        Helen Del Monte, the fiction editor of McCall's magazine from 1969 to 1990, died Aug. 21 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She worked there until her retirement in 1990, advancing from secretary to editorial assistant to editor to fiction editor.
She worked there until her retirement in 1990, advancing from secretary to editorial assistant to editor to fiction editor.
She was widely considered an editor of great sensitivity and insight, said Roberta Silman, one of the many writers whose work appeared in McCall's during Mrs. Del Monte's tenure.
"
        Mrs. Fenwick, whose colorful personality inspired cartoon characters, had a varied career, including stints as a fashion model, an author and editor and decades of public service in local, state and Federal elected and appointed posts.
She modeled briefly for Harper's Bazaar, then worked as a writer and editor at Vogue magazine and compiled "Vogue's Book of Etiquette" (Simon & Schuster, 1948), which sold a million copies.

        Gladys Merrifield, a poet and editor, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She was a staff writer and editor at Family Circle magazine from 1952 until the early 70's.

        Mildred Morton Gilbert, a former executive editor of Vogue magazine, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She joined the merchandising staff of Vogue in 1940 and became executive editor in 1947, a position she held for 19 years.
In 1966 Miss Gilbert was appointed international executive editor.
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of the Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of The Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.

        Diana Hirsh, an editor and author, died on Nov. 14 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York in Manhattan.
Miss Hirsh was an editor at Newsweek from 1938 to 1946, and at the Kiplinger organization's Changing Times from 1946 to 1949.
In 1950 Miss Hirsh became the chief articles editor at Collier's magazine.
At the time of her death, she was associate editor of American Ceramics magazine.

        Jacqueline K. Eubanks, a college librarian, an editor and a proponent of multicultural education, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
She was the originator and senior editor of "Alternatives in Print," an international catalog of books, pamphlets, periodicals and audio-visual material not easily found in mainstream references works.

        Jacqueline K. Eubanks, a college librarian, an editor and a proponent of multicultural education, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
She was the originator and senior editor of "Alternatives in Print," an international catalog of books, pamphlets, periodicals and audio-visual material not easily found in mainstream references works.
She began her career as a reporter and society editor of The Long Island Star-Journal, a daily newspaper in Long Island City, Queens, that is defunct.
Her husband, James P. Roach, who died in 1978, was the sports editor of The New York Times from 1958 to 1973.
In addition to Mrs. Smith, an author and freelance writer who lives in Petersburgh, N.Y., Mrs. Roach is survived by her daughter Margaret, the gardening editor of Newsday, who lives in Manhattan and Copake Falls, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Hoxie helped to found the Presidential Studies Quarterly and served as its editor.
A specialist in American Presidential bibliographies, Professor Fitzgerald was the series editor of three continuing multivolume bibliographies: Bibliographies of the American Presidents, Bibliographies of the United States, and Bibliographies of American Notables.
She had been editor of American History: A Bibliographic Review from 1985 to 1991, and history editor of the Bulletin of Bibliography from 1981 to 1990.
She had been editor of American History: A Bibliographic Review from 1985 to 1991, and history editor of the Bulletin of Bibliography from 1981 to 1990.
She is survived by two sons, Reinaldo Herrera of Manhattan and Caracas, who is an editor of Vanity Fair magazine, and Luis Felipe Herrera-Guevara of Caracas, and nine grandchildren.
      

        Harriett Swenney Crowley, a retired editor who was also an administrator of American aid to third world countries, died Dec. 16 in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 79.
From 1943 to 1946, she was an editor at The New York Times.

        Ruth Lynch Saunders, a psychoanalyst and a former magazine editor, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She was an editor for The Saturday Review of Literature from 1960 to 1965, and McCall's from 1965 to 1967.
