''
        She eventually married William M. Freeman, an editor who had fixed an error in a story she filed from Texas.

        Marjorie Williams, a Washington Post columnist and contributing editor for Vanity Fair who was known for sharp observations on the political elite, died yesterday at her home in Washington.
Ms. Williams attended Harvard for two years, but dropped out and went to work in publishing, where she worked for several years before getting a job as an editor at The Post.

        Georgia Macris, an editor of influential energy industry publications for three decades, died on Jan. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
When McGraw-Hill began publishing Petroleum Week magazine in 1955, she was named an assistant editor and then, a year later, foreign news editor.
When McGraw-Hill began publishing Petroleum Week magazine in 1955, she was named an assistant editor and then, a year later, foreign news editor.
In 1961, she was named foreign news editor of Platts Oilgram News, a newsletter published by McGraw-Hill.
Ms. Macris served as managing editor from 1970 and as editor from 1972, retiring in 1983.
Ms. Macris served as managing editor from 1970 and as editor from 1972, retiring in 1983.
The author or editor of more than 30 books, Ms. Gourse devoted most of her writing to profiles of jazz virtuosos, starting in 1984 with ''Louis' Children: American Jazz Singers,'' a collection of biographical sketches.

        Sarah Jewler, the managing editor of New York magazine, died on Wednesday in Manhattan.
She was hired as managing editor in 1994 by its editor at the time, Kurt Andersen, and continued to serve in that role under Caroline Miller and, more recently, Adam Moss.
She was hired as managing editor in 1994 by its editor at the time, Kurt Andersen, and continued to serve in that role under Caroline Miller and, more recently, Adam Moss.
As managing editor, Ms. Jewler coordinated the practical parts of putting together a weekly, including negotiating writers' payments and contracts, devising annual budgets and ensuring the steady flow of articles.
''When I met her, she exuded former hipster -- she had lived in communes and been a rock drummer,'' said Mr. Kaplan, who is now the editor of The New York Observer.
In addition to Mr. Kennedy, who is editor in chief of the King Features Syndicate, Ms. Jewler is survived by a brother, Leonard Jewler of Washington, and her mother, Esther Jewler of Silver Spring, Md.
      
She was the mother of Chessy Rayner, a decorator and fashion writer and editor who died in 1998.
Her death was reported by her son Michael Janeway, a writer and editor who is a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.
''Architects tend to scorn interior decorators,'' said Paige Rense, the editor in chief of Architectural Digest, which published many articles about Ms. Leff's work and picked her as one of 30 or so Deans of Design in a recent issue.
In addition to her son, Insoo, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Gwin Joh Chin, a magazine production editor at The New York Times, and a granddaughter, Andria Meredith, both of Manhattan, and a grandson, Eric, of Greensboro, N.C.
      
After working as a magazine writer and editor in New York City, she did clinical work at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis, founded by Theodore Reik, receiving certification as a psychoanalyst in 1962.
David Remnick, the magazine's editor, once said: ''I think if there is an indispensable person here, it's Eleanor Gould.
''
        Invoking Harold Ross, the magazine's founding editor, Mr.
She was not a story editor, copy editor or proofreader.
She was not a story editor, copy editor or proofreader.
''A miracle to watch,'' said Edith Iglauer, an editor who once worked with her.
Miss Gould never used a computer and deadline pressure could sometimes render her handwritten work moot, especially during Tina Brown's chaotic six years as editor.
Because she had been deaf since 1990, all questions had to be written; because of her status as a legendary editor, spelling counted.

        Shirley Fleming, a writer, editor and critic in the world of classical music for almost 50 years, died on Thursday in Augusta, Ga. She was 75.
She was an editor for publications like Musical America, High Fidelity and Hi-Fi Music at Home, and most recently for American Record Guide.
Donald A. Wollheim, editor of the paperback house Ace Books, saw her potential in an adult market, acquired the rights to ''Starman's Son,'' published it under the title ''Daybreak -- 2250 A.D.,'' eliminating all references to the story and its author as being for young readers, and found himself with a steady seller.
''
        That article led an editor to approach the women about doing a memoir of their lives; they had already written several books together about their profession and their experiences hunting down this or that volume.
Alice Thomas Ellis was the pseudonym of Anna Margaret Haycraft, who under her real name was an editor at Gerald Duckworth, the London publishing house run by her husband, Colin Haycraft.
She eventually joined him as a fiction editor at Duckworth, where her list of writers included the novelist Beryl Bainbridge.

        Elizabeth Crow, a magazine editor, writer and executive who revitalized Parents magazine, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
As editor in chief of Parents magazine from 1978 to 1988, Ms. Crow developed and carried out an overhaul in both appearance and content.
She changed the magazine's approach, said her friend Betsy Carter, a writer and magazine editor.
''
        In 1988, after Ms. Crow accepted the job of editor in chief of Self magazine, the publisher of Parents lured her back as chief executive officer of its American division, Gruner & Jahr USA, a unit of Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany.
from Mills College in 1968, she worked at The New Yorker briefly, attended Brown University to work toward a master's, then left to become an editor at New York magazine, where she stayed for 10 years before going to Parents.
In 1974, she married Patrick Crow, whom she met when he was an editor at The New Yorker.
In 1993, Ms. Crow left Gruner & Jahr to become editor in chief of Mademoiselle.
A decade later, in 1953, she was hired by the editor William Shawn as a Talk of the Town reporter.
On another occasion, she finds herself in an airplane she cannot fly, so she parachutes to safety, somehow landing in front of her editor's window.
And, in perhaps the greatest breach of authenticity, she talks back to her managing editor.
She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
Grace Mirabella, the former editor of Mirabella magazine, recalled an introduction to Ms. Stutz in the early 1950's, when Ms. Mirabella was working at Vogue.
A writer, editor and a founder of Men Against Pornography who also identifies himself as gay, Mr. Stoltenberg is her only immediate survivor.
She was named radio and television editor in 1975 and became the television critic in 1981 and a weekly columnist in 1993.
Ms. Gardella was married to Anthony Marino, a reporter and editor at The News who died several years ago.
From 1981 to 1995 she was the founding editor of the magazine Ballet, originally called Soviet Ballet.
      

        Elizabeth McFarland Hoffman, who as poetry editor of Ladies' Home Journal sandwiched the work of W.H.
Elizabeth McFarland was born on May 3, 1922, in Harrisburg, Pa. As a teenager, she won a national poetry contest sponsored by Scholastic magazine; she later became Scholastic's poetry editor.

        Clare Lynch O'Brien, an author, editor and consultant to children's television, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. O'Brien was a senior children's editor at Random House and a longtime colleague of Fred Rogers, the children's television host.
Ms. Alexander was later an entertainment editor at Flair magazine.
From 1969 to 1971, she was the editor of McCall's magazine, the first woman in nearly half a century to hold the job.
In the 1960's, she was a special editor of Harper's Bazaar magazine; in the early 70's, she was a design consultant for Tiffany & Company; and in the 1980's, she was a correspondent for French Vogue.

        Mary Ann Malkin, a noted rare-book collector and editor who for nearly two decades helped run AB Bookman's Weekly, the well-thumbed bible of the rare- and secondhand-book business that inflamed and then often sated the acquisitive passions of book collectors around the world, died on Aug. 1 at her home in Manhattan.
Malkin, who with the typographic exactitude of a cataloguer always spelled his nickname with a period, was AB's owner, editor and publisher.
Mrs. Malkin was the administrative assistant, copy editor, proofreader, book critic and maker of coffee, which, for Mr. Malkin, had to be several parts cognac.
In 1948, Bowker started publishing Antiquarian Bookman, which had begun as a column in Publishers Weekly, as a stand-alone magazine, with Mr. Malkin as editor.
''She believed that the key to understanding these people was in their words,'' said Starling Lawrence, her editor at W.W. Norton.
''
        In New York after the war, she worked as a magazine editor, but briefly.
Just days before her death, Ms. Settle discussed her memorial service with Mr. Lawrence, her editor.

        Nora Kerr, a longtime editor at The New York Times and a former editor of its Sunday Travel section, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.

        Nora Kerr, a longtime editor at The New York Times and a former editor of its Sunday Travel section, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Kerr joined The Times in 1976 as a copy editor; she was later editor of the paper's Westchester Weekly section and an assistant metropolitan editor.
Ms. Kerr joined The Times in 1976 as a copy editor; she was later editor of the paper's Westchester Weekly section and an assistant metropolitan editor.
Ms. Kerr joined The Times in 1976 as a copy editor; she was later editor of the paper's Westchester Weekly section and an assistant metropolitan editor.
She was editor of the Travel section from 1986 to 1989, and was afterward an editor in The Times Magazine and the Arts & Leisure and Culture sections.
She was editor of the Travel section from 1986 to 1989, and was afterward an editor in The Times Magazine and the Arts & Leisure and Culture sections.
She attended William Paterson College and Rutgers University and from 1967 to 1976 was a reporter and editor at The Bergen Record.
Dr. Kruskall was an associate editor of Transfusion.
A year later, she became its editor, and for 15 years she directed the magazine from a pink swiveled throne in a large office dominated by pink curtains and pink flowers.
Peter Bailey, editor of ''Vital Issues: The Journal of African-American Speeches,'' which Mrs. Tucker founded, confirmed her death.
Her death appears to have gone unrecorded by American newspapers and magazines, although it is noted on the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia and in a footnote in a 2005 memoir, ''Omaha Blues,'' by Joseph Lelyveld, a former executive editor of The Times, who recounts his experience as the young reporter who knocked on the door of the Ryan home more than 40 years ago.
Essentially commissioned by the movie producer Jerry Wald, Ms. Jaffe was a 25-year-old former associate editor in publishing when she sat down to write a book that Mr. Wald could turn into a blockbuster feature like ''Kitty Foyle: The Natural History of a Woman,'' a 1940 film that won Ginger Rogers an Academy Award for playing a plucky working girl who finds love, heartache, an unwanted pregnancy and, finally, romantic redemption.
''
        Critics howled, but America was entranced, which is precisely what its editor, Robert Gottlieb, was sure would happen.
Joan Crawford made a special appearance as Amanda Farrow, an ill-tempered book editor who, the film makes pointedly clear, has sacrificed personal happiness for professional glory.
After graduating from the Dalton School at 15 and Radcliffe College four years later, she became a file clerk at Fawcett, eventually becoming an associate editor before leaving to write ''The Best of Everything.

        Leona Nevler, a prominent book editor who 50 years ago helped secure the publication of a first novel set in an imaginary town called Peyton Place, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
At her death, Ms. Nevler was a senior editor at Berkley Books, an imprint of the Penguin Group.

        Selma Jeanne Cohen, a historian, editor and teacher who devoted her career to proclaiming dance an art worthy of the same scholarly respect traditionally awarded to painting, music and literature, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich Village.
Ms. Cohen became its sole editor in 1966.
