Miss Howes, who was also a short-story writer, essayist, translator and editor, was the author of eight books of poetry and was a finalist for the poetry award in two earlier years.
Her "Collected Poems 1945-1990" (University of Arkansas Press, 1995) was praised in December by Robert Richman, the poetry editor of The New Criterion, in a review in The New York Times Book Review.
Besides performing charitable duties on a revolving list of social committees, Danzig worked for NBC television as a sports editor from 1956 to '57, and in 1965 became an advertising consultant for World Tennis magazine.

        Razia Bhatti, a Pakistani editor who championed social causes and campaigned  against Government corruption, died on Tuesday at her home in Karachi.
She was 52 and the founding editor of Newsline, Pakistan's most influential political monthly.
It was founded in 1989 after Mrs. Bhatti resigned as editor of The Herald, a  magazine affiliated with Pakistan's largest newspaper group, rather than soften  its attacks on what Mrs. Bhatti saw as untenable policies and corruption.
"
        She persuaded Ron Ginger, the editor of The Kettering-Oakwood Times, a suburban weekly, to pay her $3 a column, and she was on her way.
She soon began contributing poems to The Irish Statesman, a literary weekly whose editor, George William Russell, was the poet A. E. Through A. E., who became a mentor and lifelong friend, and through W. B. Yeats, to whom he introduced her, Miss Travers began to pursue the deep interest in Celtic folklore and Eastern mysticism that is palpable in all her subsequent work.
From 1976 on she was a consulting editor of the New York-based journal Parabola, which is devoted to the scholarly exploration of myth and tradition.
Ms. O'Donnell was born in Berkeley, Calif. After earning a degree in film making from San Francisco State University, she worked as an editor in Vienna on the television mini-series "Holocaust" and on German feature films.

        Barbara McLean, an Oscar-winning Hollywood film editor whose influence at 20th Century-Fox extended far beyond the cutting room, died on March 28 at a convalescent home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 92 and had lived in Newport Beach since her retirement in 1969 after 20 years as head of the studio's editing division.
One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place:
        For decades it was in the chair next to Darryl F. Zanuck, the Fox studio chief, who relied so much on the judgment of the woman he called Bobby that he rarely made a major decision on anything from costumes to casting without consulting her first.
In the division of Hollywood labor, women might work as actresses, seamstresses, secretaries or even film lab technicians, where their nimble fingers were even deemed to give them an advantage in the delicate task of cutting and splicing film to a male editor's specifications.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.

        Barbara McLean, an Oscar-winning Hollywood film editor whose influence at 20th Century-Fox extended far beyond the cutting room, died on March 28 at a convalescent home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 92 and had lived in Newport Beach since her retirement in 1969 after 20 years as head of the studio's editing division.
One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place.
In the division of Hollywood labor, women might work as actresses, seamstresses, secretaries or even film laboratory technicians, where their nimble fingers were even deemed to give them an advantage in the delicate task of cutting and splicing film to a male editor's specifications.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.

        Mary Perot Nichols, the strong-willed former head of the television and radio stations operated by New York City, and a former columnist and city editor of The Village Voice, died yesterday in the hospice of the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.
She kept nudging Dan Wolf, a founding editor of The Village Voice, to write about the park.
As The Voice's city editor, she encouraged young writers and seemed to thrive on feuds with politicians and colleagues.
"
        Shortly after The Voice's founders sold it in the mid-1970's, a new editor dismissed Ms. Nichols.
Her brother, Walter Sullivan, a former science editor of The Times, died in March.
      
Ms. Blackburn, a writer who subsumed her own career to serve as Ms. Price's live-in editor, is her only survivor.
      
After graduating from the University of Michigan, where she was a reporter and editor on the campus newspaper, she came to Manhattan at the age of 21 as an editorial trainee at Time-Life.
From 1944 to 1958, Mrs. Auchincloss worked in New York City as an editor on magazines and newspapers, including Look, The World-Telegram, The Herald Tribune, Glamour, Harper's Bazaar and McCall's.

        Ruth Adams Paepcke, former editor in chief of America Illustrated, the Russian-language magazine about American life that the United States Information Agency sent to the Soviet Union during the cold war, died on Tuesday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington.
Mrs. Paepcke, who was widely known by her maiden name, Ruth Adams, was the head editor of the magazine in the early 1960's.

        Margaret Cousins, a writer and editor of books and magazines, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in San Antonio, Tex.
After working as an editor at The Southern Pharmaceutical Journal, in Dallas, a trade magazine published by her father, she moved in 1937 to New York City.
She was an editor at Pictorial Review, for which she wrote short stories and a column called ''Baghdad on the Subway.
'' After the review folded, she wrote copy for the promotions department of Hearst magazines before serving as managing editor of Good Housekeeping and McCall's.
In 1961, Miss Cousins became a senior editor at Doubleday, where the books she handled included the best-selling novel ''Hurry Sundown.
'' After a brief stint as a special editor at Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1970, she returned to magazines as the fiction and book editor for The Ladies' Home Journal.
'' After a brief stint as a special editor at Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1970, she returned to magazines as the fiction and book editor for The Ladies' Home Journal.
As a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College, Mrs. Livingston submitted a collection of poems to Margaret K. McElderry, then the children's book editor of Harcourt Brace.
''She was the poison plant center'' in South Florida, said Lawrence Kaplan, an emeritus professor of botany at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and editor of the journal of the Society of Economic Botany, which Mrs. Morton helped found.

        Vera Brodsky Lawrence, a pianist, editor and historian of American music whose research helped bring the works of Scott Joplin and Louis Moreau Gottschalk to the attention of contemporary performers, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Mary Bass Newlin, an author and former executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal, died at her home in Amagansett, L.I., on Aug. 26.
She was named executive editor and retained that post until 1963.

        Arlene Wanderman, an editor and public relations executive who was the American spokeswoman for the International Olive Oil Council, died on Monday at Beth Israel North Hospital.
Her career in food started at the Macfadden Group as women's service editor for such magazines as True Story, True Confessions and Photoplay.
She then became the food and equipment editor of Ladies' Home Journal before embarking on a career in advertising and public relations.
The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plainfield, N.J., for which Mrs. Woodruff wrote political commentary until her illness was diagnosed in the spring.
She was born in Newark, and was city editor of the Herald-News of Newark, a black-oriented weekly.
She suggested in her memoir that Lionel Trilling often used her as an editor and tutor on style.
''
        Wielding Her Pen With Candor
        Diana Trilling's career as a critic began in 1941, at the age of 36, when she overheard a telephone conversation between her husband and Margaret Marshall, the literary editor of The Nation, who had called to ask if he could recommend someone to write the magazine's literary notes column.
From 1972 until two years ago, she was an editor of Judaism: A Quarterly Journal of Jewish Life and Thought, published by the American Jewish Congress.

        Hildegarde Fillmore Smith, a former fashion and beauty editor at the women's magazine McCall's, died on Monday in her garret apartment at the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park South.

        Joan Paterson Kerr, a picture editor and author, died yesterday at her home in New Haven.
Mrs. Kerr was a founding picture editor of American Heritage magazine.
She also was a picture editor at Newsweek Books and for the Book-of-the-Month Club series ''The American Past.
In his years as a founding editor of Partisan Review in the 1930's, as the founder of Politics in the 1940's and later as a social critic for The New Yorker, Mr. Macdonald acknowledged that his wife had prodded him ever leftward.
And it was her administrative skills as managing editor that helped keep Politics going  after the couple established it in their apartment in 1943.
In 1943, she joined The Wall Street Journal, the first woman to be a copy editor there.
Later, she was medicine-science editor.
Mrs. Davenport's first marriage, to Frank D. Clarke, ended in divorce, as did her 1929 marriage to Russell Wheeler Davenport, a novelist who became a prominent editor at Time Inc.
        She is survived by a daughter, Cornelia Davenport Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
For some years she worked as an editor for a children's book publisher in  Moscow.
A doorman summoned Elizabeth Hardwick, the writer and editor, whom Lowell had left to marry Lady Caroline; she happened to live in the same apartment house.

        Ann Barry, who pursued a freelance writing career while working as an editor  at The New York Times and at The New Yorker, died of cancer on Saturday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
While designing and editing the Sunday Arts and Leisure Guide, editing art and dance reviews and designing the daily cultural pages, she began contributing articles to The Times, a career she continued and expanded after she returned to The New Yorker in 1990 as managing editor of the Goings On About Town section.
