In 1956, Mrs. Todd was elected vice chairman of the Republican National Committee.
Mrs. Craig, who was a recipient of the Carl Sandburg Literary Arts Award in 1985, was elected president of the Mystery Writers of America last year.
In 1965 she was elected president of the Municipal Arts Society and remained a member of its board of directors until her death.
She was elected district leader in 1955 and 1957.
In 1966, at the age of 75, she was elected to the Borough Council of New Hope and served until 1969.
As the first woman elected to the Miami City Commission, Mrs. Wainwright successfully sponsored an anti-billboard ordinance.
The daughter of a prominent Baptist minister, she was the wife of Walter Washington, the first elected Mayor of the District of Columbia.
In 1955, when she was a teacher at Flushing High School in Queens, she was elected president of the High School Teachers Association, where she sought to improve working condition for city high school teachers.
She was elected first vice chairwoman of the Westchester Democratic Committee in 1986.

        Ruth F. Corcoran, who became the first woman to be elected to a Suffolk County town board when she won a seat as a councilwoman in Huntington, L.I., in 1961, died on Friday at the Hilaire Farms Nursing Home in Huntington.
After John F. Kennedy was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Tree to the United Nations job, where she served when Mr. Stevenson was the top United States representative there.
She continued as administrative assistant to Mr. McCarran until he died in 1954, then served under his interim successor and under Senator Alan Bible, a Democrat elected as Mr. McCarran's permanent replacement.
"
        Prof. Sture Allen, one of the 18 members of the academy elected for life and also its permanent secretary, said that he had tried to call Miss Gordimer in Johannesburg on Wednesday night to give her the good news, but nobody at her home knew how to reach her.
"
        In 1983, Miss Ginzburg was elected to the Italian Parliament as a representative of a left-wing party unaffiliated with the Communists.
Justice Kooper was appointed to the Family Court by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973, elected to the State Supreme Court two years later and was named by Gov.
Justice Kooper was appointed to the Family Court by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973, elected to the State Supreme Court two years later and was named by Gov.
The American Advertising Federation named her woman of the year in 1951 and in 1989 elected her to its hall of fame.
She was elected national committee woman of the Alabama Young Democrats in 1941 and a vice-president of the Young Democratic Clubs of America in 1943.
For the last six years, she was an elected member of the Board of Education.
