She was elected president of the cultural, philanthropic and social organization in 1971 while her husband was the Deputy Permanent United States Representative, from 1969 to 1973.

        Kathryn Haeseler Stone, a former Virginia legislator who challenged school segregation and a reapportionment plan that penalized urban voters, died last Friday at her home in Alexandria, Va. She was 88 and had been a longtime resident of Arlington, Va.
        Elected to the Virginia Legislature five months before the United States Supreme Court's decision in Brown v. the Board of Education in 1954, she became an early promoter of school desegregation.
Mr. Smith, who was prominent in local Republican circles, ran for office and in 1937 was elected Representative from Maine's Second Congressional District.
After his death, she was chosen to fill his unexpired term in a special election and was elected in her own right later that year.
She was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in 1973.

        Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis.
Miss Church took over the campaign and was elected in his stead to represent Memphis and surrounding Shelby County.
She was elected president of the organization's Pacific-Southwest Region in 1987 and president of the association in 1993.
"
        "Governor" was William P. Hobby, an easy-going newspaperman who was the top elected official in Texas from 1917 to 1921; his most notable action as Governor was to call out the state militia to crush a dock strike.
The Macdonalds settled in Malden, Mass., where Mr. Macdonald was elected to Congress in 1954.
She obtained her degree in 1936, and four years later was one of the first seven women elected to the Brooklyn Bar Association.
She returned home shortly after the junta fell in 1974, reopened her newspapers and was elected to Parliament as a member of the conservative New Democracy party.
In 1966, Sister Evelyn was elected to a five-year term as superior of the Sisters of Charity of New York, putting her in charge of 1,200 nuns in 87 schools, colleges, hospitals and child-care centers throughout the archdiocese.
Sister Evelyn was also the first woman to be elected president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a position she filled for a year.

        Mildred Barry Hughes, who in 1965 was the first woman elected a state senator in New Jersey, died on Jan. 11 at the Cranford (N.J.) Health and Extended Care Center.
The cause was a heart attack, said a son, Peter L. Hughes 3d of Annandale, N.J.
        First elected to the New Jersey Assembly in 1957, she represented Union Township for four terms before running for the Senate in 1965.
In that victory, she also was the first Democrat from Union County to be elected to the State Senate in 75 years.
Her son Robert was appointed Attorney General, and Edward was elected to fill John's unexpired Senate term.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
And Mark Shriver, the son of Eunice, was elected in 1994 to the Maryland House of Delegates.
Her son Robert was appointed Attorney General, and Edward was elected to fill John's unexpired Senate term.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
Kathleen Kennedy Townsend, Robert's oldest child, was elected Lieutenant Governor of Maryland in 1994; Patrick Kennedy, one of Edward's sons, was elected to the United States House of Representatives in 1994 after serving as a Rhode Island state legislator.
And Mark Shriver, the son of Eunice, was elected in 1994 to the Maryland House of Delegates.
She was a past vice chairman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee and in 1977 became the first woman to be elected president of the National Association of State Chairmen.
She was elected head of the New York Newspaper Guild's Times unit in 1980, the first woman in the post.
Ms. Cook, who was elected in 1980 to head the guild's Times unit, was not the first woman to do so.
