In 1956, Parade magazine quoted Mrs. Dixon as forecasting that a Democratic President, elected in 1960, would die in office.
In 1975 Dr. Wu became the first woman to be elected president of the American Physical Society, the chief organization of physicists in the United States.
Dr. Wu was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and was elected to the Royal Society of Edinburgh as an honorary fellow.
Dr. Wu was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and was elected to the Royal Society of Edinburgh as an honorary fellow.
As one of two elected judges of the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, which Fiorello La Guardia described  as ''the most expensive undertaking establishment in the world,'' Surrogate Lambert heard disputes pertaining to wills and estates, and formalized adoptions.
From 1977, when she was elected, to 1990, when she retired at the mandatory age of 70, Surrogate Lambert, feared for her quick temper and ability to keep lawyers working in her court till the early morning hours, drew fire.
In 1974, the New York State Trial Lawyers elected her president.
As one of two elected judges of the Surrogate's Court in Manhattan, which Fiorello La Guardia described as ''the most expensive undertaking establishment in the world,'' Surrogate Lambert heard disputes pertaining to wills and estates, and formalized adoptions.
From 1977, when she was elected, to 1990, when she retired at the mandatory age of 70, Surrogate Lambert, feared for her quick temper and ability to keep lawyers working in her court till the early morning hours, drew fire.
In 1974, the New York State Trial Lawyers elected her president.
She began in 1951 as a member of the national board and in 1988 was elected to the Board of Trustees.
Dr. Esau (pronounced EE-saw) was also the sixth woman elected to the National Academy of Sciences, in 1957, the academy said.
1 in 1936, and was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1962.
In January 1977, the Republican National Committee elected Bill Brock, a conservative former Senator from Tennessee, to succeed Mrs. Smith.
After Mr. Reagan was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Smith to the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
Her mother, Nellie Nugent Somerville, was the first woman to be elected to the Mississippi Legislature, and Lucy also served there for four years in the 1930's.
In 1982, she was a media adviser to Felipe Gonzalez when he was elected for the first time as Prime Minister, starting nearly 14 years of Socialist Party rule.
She was the first woman elected president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the largest alliance of scientists in the world.
Dr. Rees enjoyed a crowning moment in 1969, when the 120,000-member American Association for the Advancement of Science elected her president.
She was a delegate to the Connecticut Constitutional Convention in 1965 and was elected to the General Assembly the following year for the first of four terms.

        Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69.
She lost that election to Joseph J. Maraziti, a Republican, but defeated him in 1974, the same year that Representative Millicent Fenwick, a Republican, was elected.
Mrs. Chubb was elected to the board in 1955 and was a trustee at her death.
