Studied Fish on Sea Floor
        Born in New York City, she graduated in 1924 from Connecticut College for Women, where she was twice chosen class president, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected a member of the All-America girls' hockey team.

       Camilla Ravera, a founder of the Communist Party in Italy and a champion of women's rights who became the first woman elected to the Italian Senate, died Thursday at her Rome apartment, her family reported.
Camilla Ravera, a founder of the Communist Party in Italy and a champion of women's rights who became the first woman elected to the Italian Senate, died Thursday at her Rome apartment, her family reported.
She was reinstated during the 1950's and was elected to the Senate in 1982.
Sister Mary Celeste, who held a Ph.D. from St. John's University, was community supervisor of schools in the Brooklyn Diocese in 1962 when the trustees elected her president of what then was Molloy Catholic College for Women.
Her first elected position was as a member of the Prince Georges County Board of Commissioners in 1962.
She was a fellow of the American Academy of Poets and was elected a member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters in 1951.
Mrs. Ram, who was an elected member of the National Executive Council of the Episcopal Church from 1976 to 1982, was a leader among Mexican-Americans in Los Angeles and was one of the founders of the United Neighborhood Organizations, which became a major force in the city.

       Leonor K. Sullivan, a 12-term Democratic member of the House of Representatives, the only woman ever elected to Congress from Missouri, died today of heart failure.
Leonor K. Sullivan, a 12-term Democratic member of the House of Representatives, the only woman ever elected to Congress from Missouri, died today of heart failure.
A year later, Mrs. Sullivan was elected to her husband's seat in the House.
A former coal miner, he was a elected to Parliament in 1929 and remained a Member of Parliament for 31 years, serving as Minister of Health from 1945 to 1951.
After Jennie Lee was elected to Parliament from Staffordshire in 1945, and Mr. Bevan was re-elected to Parliament in the same elections, they became known as ''Britain's first man-and-wife parliamentary team.
After practicing law in Mineola, L.I., for 20 years, she was elected a judge of the Nassau County District Court, where she served from 1953 to 1970, when she retired.
