In 1986 she was elected a charter member of the Settlement Hall of Fame.
She and her husband, James, also opened a headquarters for the Association of Colored Women's Clubs, an organization that later elected her national president and president emeritus.
Mrs. Mack was a delegate to six national Republican conventions and the first woman elected to the State Republican Committee from the Third Assembly District.

       Florence McDonald, an outspoken radical who was elected to two public offices in Berkeley, Calif., in the 1970's, died of cancer Thursday at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Calif. She was 73 years old and lived in Berkeley.
Florence McDonald, an outspoken radical who was elected to two public offices in Berkeley, Calif., in the 1970's, died of cancer Thursday at Kaiser Hospital in Oakland, Calif. She was 73 years old and lived in Berkeley.
In 1975 she was elected City Auditor and served four years; in 1979 she was elected to the City Council.
In 1975 she was elected City Auditor and served four years; in 1979 she was elected to the City Council.
She was a former member of the board of the Children's Books Council and was elected to the Academy of Women Achievers of the Y.M.C.A.
She was first elected to the Metropolitan Opera's board in 1969.
In 1955, she was elected a director of the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, the first woman to hold the position.
Justice Danzig was first elected to a 14-year term in 1979.
She was elected to the Outstanding Women Artists of America and has won several awards, including the American Watercolor Society Medal, the Philadelphia Watercolor Prize and the American Artists Professional League Medal.
A Founder of Party
        She was a member of the first provincial committee of the fledgling Spanish Communist Party in her home province in 1920 and was elected a delegate to the first national Communist congress, which led to the formal founding of the party in 1921.
In 1930, elected to the Central Committee of the party, she backed the national leadership in its fight against Trotskyists in Catalonia - a quarrel that was to come into the open again during the civil war.
She was elected to the Spanish Parliament as a deputy for Asturias in 1934.
Ten years later, she was elected trustee of the Title Guarantee and Trust Company, the first female director of a prominent banking concern.
She ran a convenience store in Hartford's North End, a predominantly Puerto Rican neighborhood, and was elected to the Hartford Board of Education in 1973.
Mrs. Sanchez, who was known for her work on behalf of Hispanic causes, was elected to the state House of Representatives in 1988.
