She became a New Rochelle trustee in 1950, retired from the board in 1978 and was elected to emeritus status at the college in 1980.
In 1962, she was elected a fellow of the Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.
She served 20 years on the Durham City Council after being elected in nonpartisan balloting.
In addition to her active role with the Red Sox and her extensive charitable work, Mrs. Yawkey had been a director of the National Baseball Museum and Hall of Fame since 1984, when she became the first, and so far only woman elected to the board.
She was elected chairwoman of the Faculty Senate for the entire City University from 1986 to 1990, and in that post sat as an ex-officio member on the university's Board of Trustees.
"
        She was the first black woman elected to the Georgia Legislature, where she served in the General Assembly from 1966 to 1984.
Honored at Wimbledon
        Mrs. Godfree was a regular visitor to Wimbledon and in 1989 became the first woman to be elected a vice president of the All England Club, where the tournament is played.

        Irene Silva de Santolalla, a Peruvian educator and author who in 1956 became the first woman in the country to be elected senator, died on Thursday at her home in Lima, the capital.
Elected to the Senate in 1956, she served for six years and won praise as the author of a law on family education enacted in Peru in 1957.
Born and raised on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Flast graduated from Hunter College, and was elected to the Hunter Hall of Fame in 1975.
"
        Mrs. Fenwick, whose colorful personality inspired cartoon characters, had a varied career, including stints as a fashion model, an author and editor and decades of public service in local, state and Federal elected and appointed posts.
The Congressional primary rival she beat was Thomas H. Kean, later elected Governor.
She started the league's popular reference booklet "They Represent You and Your Community," listing elected officials with their addresses and telephone numbers and district maps.
She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.
She was the first woman elected vice chairman.
