In 1973 she became the first American woman elected to France's 250-member Academie des Sciences d'Outre-Mer.

       India Edwards, former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who worked to advance the role of women in politics, died Sunday at Fircrest Convalescent Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. She was 94 years old and lived in Greenbrea, Calif.
        India Edwards, former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who worked to advance the role of women in politics, died Sunday at Fircrest Convalescent Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. She was 94 years old and lived in Greenbrea, Calif.
        Mrs. Edwards was unanimously elected to the national committee in 1950.
She was elected to Community School Board 2 in Manhattan and was on the State Republican Committee.
In 1967 she was elected to the board of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a group established by Congress to preserve historic houses.
She became its president in 1934 and held the office until 1950, when she was elected chairman.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
A Democrat, she was elected to the House of Delegates in 1958 and to the Maryland Senate in 1962.
Mrs. Hance, a Republican, was elected in November 1975 and served four two-year terms before retiring in 1983.
She was also the first woman to be elected president of the United Nations Correspondents Association.
Last year Dr. Rosen was elected a member of the National Academy of Sciences.
Mrs. Bitker, a native New Yorker, graduated in 1921 from Barnard, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
Mrs. Shattuck, a graduate of Smith College, was elected three times to the Board of Selectmen, serving from 1983 to 1989.
Justice Heller was elected to the State Supreme Court in the 2nd Judicial Department, which covers Brooklyn and Staten Island, in 1982.
Mrs. Gordon began her legislative career in 1946 as an Assemblywoman, one of the youngest ever to be elected to the New York State Assembly.
After serving as a member of the Princeton Borough Council, she was elected in 1976 to the Mercer County Board of Freeholders.
''
        'Subject to the Fates'
        After her defeat in the Senate primary, she was elected mayor of Princeton in 1983.
At home, she was elected a lawmaker two times and served as Governor of the western state of Maharashtra.
