Mrs. Rose, who was active in many civic and cultural affairs, was elected to  the International Center of Photography's board of trustees in 1981 and became the board's president in 1989.
The author of two instructional tennis books, "Winning Tennis and How to Play It" (1946) and "Tennis for Anyone" (1966), Danzig was elected to the sport's Hall of Fame in 1963.
But she continued to teach, write, edit and experiment for several more years and was elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences  in 1992 in recognition of her contributions.
She was also one of the first women elected to the board of the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

        Susie Marshall Sharp, the first woman to be popularly elected to the post of  chief justice of a state supreme court in the United States, died on Friday at her home.
"
        Miss Sharp was elected Chief Justice in November 1974, replacing William H. Bobbitt, her longtime colleague on the bench.
She was the first woman to be elected president of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the first female member and president of the New York Psychiatric Society.
She was also the first woman to be elected an international vice president of the union, in 1970.
She was elected to the policy-setting board at the union convention in 1966.
She and her husband had five children, including Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, also a Republican Congressman from north central New Jersey, who was elected in  1994.
The General Assembly elected her Treasurer in 1987.
In 1968, Ms. Clark was elected president of the United States Scenic Artists, Local 829, the first woman to hold that job.

        Justice Birdie Amsterdam, who achieved several judicial firsts, including being the first woman elected to the New York State Supreme Court, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was the first woman elected to the Municipal Court in New York County in 1940.
The State Supreme Court was more than 250 years old before a woman was elected to it, Judge Kaye wrote, and even today women do not enjoy the status of equals in the legal profession.
Correction:  July 11, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday of Justice Birdie Amsterdam, the first woman elected to New York State Supreme Court, misstated the given name of a surviving sister.

        Judge Genevieve Blatt, the first woman to be elected to statewide office in Pennsylvania and to serve on the state's appellate court, died on Thursday at a  retirement home in Hampden Township, Pa. She was 83 and a former resident of Harrisburg.
In 1954 she  was elected Secretary of Internal Affairs, a statewide office.
Within months of her arrival, she began investigating conditions in her children's public school, joined and was elected president of the neighborhood branch of the United Parents Association and led a campaign for smaller schools under greater neighborhood control.
In 1974, she became the first female composer to be elected to the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1984.
She was twice elected to lead the national umbrella Association of Commissions on Women, of which she eventually became president emeritus.
There had been women in Congress continuously for more than 30 years, and Mrs. Knutson, although the first from Minnesota, was one of seven elected in 1954.

        Eileen C. Dugan, a Brooklyn Democrat who was elected to her ninth term in the New York State Assembly only on Tuesday, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
In 1985, five years after she was first elected to the Assembly, Ms. Dugan became the first female member of the powerful Ways and Means Committee, which writes the budget.
She was elected guild unit chairwoman at The Post in 1976, while Dorothy Schiff was publisher.
Ms. Jordan, the first black elected to Congress from Texas after Reconstruction, retired from the House in 1979 after three terms to teach political ethics at the university's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, never losing her potent talent for public speaking even from the confines of a wheelchair.
In 1966, she was elected as the first black state Senator in Texas, and went on to be the first woman and first black elected to Congress from Texas.
In 1966, she was elected as the first black state Senator in Texas, and went on to be the first woman and first black elected to Congress from Texas.
But she succeeded when state legislative  districts were finally redrawn and she became the first black of either sex to be elected to the Texas Senate since 1883.
