She established the dance department at Dartington Hall, an experimentalist center in Dartington, England, and joined Kurt Jooss's company in 1934, when it took up residence at the school after fleeing Nazi Germany.
Miss Soelberg established the Dance Center, a training institution, in London and worked with Rudolf von Laban to develop his dance notation system, Labanotation.
Co-Founded Lasker Awards
        Mrs. Lasker and her husband Albert Davis Lasker, a pioneer advertising executive who died in 1952, established the Lasker Foundation in 1942.
" From 1970 to 1984, she was the host of several television talk programs, in which her vitality and relaxed rapport with celebrities from all walks of life established her as a forerunner of stars like Oprah Winfrey.
Her 1942 recording of "Blues in the Night" sold a million copies and established her as a sultry blues-tinged balladeer in the tradition of Ethel Waters and Mildred Bailey.
While in Washington, she established her own consulting firm, the Heitman Group, which lobbied for international marketing interests, among others.
In the mid-1940's, she established the first visiting nurse service in Arizona, one of the first in the nation.
Columbia University established an Edith Porada professorship of ancient Near Eastern art history and archeology in 1983 with a $1 million gift from an anonymous donor.
Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961.
"Never on Sunday," the story of a nurturing trollop who refused to work more than six nights a week, established Miss Mercouri as an international star.
She established a Judith Schwartz scholarship fund at the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School and served as a representative of the Women's International Zionist Organization to the United Nations.
She headed Better Home Furnishing Company from 1965 to 1981, when she established J.R.S.
A scholarship fund has been established in Ms. Pollack's name at Cornell University.
      
With her family, Mrs. Shorenstein established the Joan Shorenstein Barone Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University.

        Eve Gentry, a modern dancer who helped found the Dance Notation Bureau in New York City and later established the Institute for the Pilates Method of Physical Conditioning in Santa Fe, N.M., died on June 17 at her home in Santa Fe.
In 1968 she moved to New Mexico, where she established a dance school and, in 1991, an institute devoted to the Pilates method.
Pugwash was established in 1957, in Pugwash, Nova Scotia, to study problems linked to the development of weapons of mass destruction.
Miss Potts also served as the executive secretary of a commission established by Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia to foster economic and technological cooperation between the two nations.
Established in 1827, Greenwich Academy changed from a co-educational school to a day school for girls in 1914.
She was also active in the arts, and established a foundation to help young performers.
She established the Wilma Rudolph Foundation, working with youngsters and sending tutors to schools with books on American heros.
In 1942, Dr. Morgan established the nation's first graduate training program for teachers in public health at Chapel Hill.
Correction:  December 8, 1994, Thursday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Nov. 19 about Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a former lawyer, misstated her role in a 1967 Supreme Court case that established that juveniles have essentially the same Constitutional safeguards in criminal proceedings as adults.
A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health.
In 1992, she started a cancer registry in Vermont, and Congress passed the Cancer Registries Act, which established a national standard for the collection of cancer data.
There, under the auspices of the Department of the Interior, Mrs. Shouse established the Wolf Trap Foundation to manage the park, arrange programming and raise money, a unique partnership among the public and private sectors for managing an arts center.
With the director John Houseman she guided the development of the Acting Company, a theater group of drama graduates that her husband established when he was the president of the Juilliard School.
When "The Glass Menagerie" opened on Broadway in 1945, it immediately established Tennessee Williams's reputation and represented an important return to the theater for Laurette Taylor, who played Amanda Wingfield, a fictional representation of the playwright's mother.
