Correction:  March 15, 2002, Friday  An obituary on March 6 about Theresa Castro, who with her husband established the company that makes Castro Convertible sofas, omitted some survivors.
The films established the team's international reputation, with each one winning a major prize at the Cinéma du Réel festival, which honors documentaries.
Her teacher was Galamian; two years later she became his assistant, both at Juilliard and at the summer camp he had established in 1944, Meadowmount.
For example, she established her own program on a farm to train women in agriculture, preparing and preserving food products and making handicrafts.
She established the project to support investigations of abuses carried out during the 17-year dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet.
In response, in 1961, Dr. Pantoja established Aspira, a nonprofit organization encouraging educational attainment, self-esteem, cultural awareness and leadership development.
In 1970, she established the Universidad Boricua and the Puerto Rican Research and Resource Center in Washington, becoming its chancellor in 1973, the same year that she earned a Ph.D. from Union Graduate School in Ohio.
Mrs. Wattis and her husband established a foundation for cultural and scientific causes in 1958.
She established noontime concert series around New York for the students, but although the performances were largely intended to give them experience before audiences, Mrs. Greitzer insisted that they be paid.
'' It told the story of the women's baseball league established in 1943 as a substitute for the men's professional game if major leaguers were drafted.
Soon the couple had an extensive collection of Pop art, and by 1967 they were well established on the scene.
She was a founding member of a group called the American Abstract Artists, established in 1936 to promote the emerging genre, which included artists like Josef Albers, Ad Reinhardt, Ilya Bolotowsky, Willem de Kooning, Jackson Pollock and David Smith.
Ms. Baylis joined the faculty of the Joffrey School (first called the American Ballet Center) in 1969, and soon established herself as one of its leading teachers.
It was not until 1918, however, that a formal policy of admitting women was established.
She established a national touring program for the Dayton Contemporary Dance Theater's revivals of rarely performed classics by black choreographers.
After the National Endowment for the Arts was established in 1965, Ms. Reinhart became part of the first generation of professionally trained arts administrators.
She also established her own charitable foundation, the Boudjakdji Foundation, which focused on education and the arts.
''
        One of her most surprising roles was that of Blanche DuBois in ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' the adaptation of Tennessee Williams's play that the modern dancer Valerie Bettis choreographed in 1952 for the Slavenska-Franklin Ballet, a touring group established by Ms. Slavenska and Frederic Franklin, a colleague from the Ballet Russe.

        Annelisa M. Kilbourn, a British veterinarian and wildlife expert, who established that gorillas can die of the deadly Ebola virus, was killed Saturday when the light plane she was flying in crashed in the Lope Nature Preserve in the Central African nation of Gabon.
Earlier this year, Dr. Kilbourn established for the first time that Ebola is a serious threat to wild gorillas as well as to humans when she found dead specimens in the jungle and found that the disease had killed them, the society said.
In the wake of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, the German-Soviet treaty of 1939, the couple established a clandestine ''safe house'' outside Prague to hide anti-Fascist activists from Spain, Italy and Czechoslovakia.
''
        Ms. Van Devanter established the Women's Project at the Vietnam Veterans of America, overseeing studies that underscored her view that though Vietnam veterans in general were ''a forgotten minority,'' the women who had served as nurses were ''the most forgotten.
In 2000 she established a center for meditation, healing and the arts in Cañones.
