She attended Wayne State University, where she established a film society before moving to New York and finding work as a librarian at CBS for its documentary series ''The 20th Century.
Josephine Schwarz soon established herself as a dance crusader who believed in the importance of both classical ballet and modern dance.
Though only two years older than Ella, Buddy had become an established musician in New York and was leading groups at the Savoy Ballroom and elsewhere.
Estée Lauder Companies was not formally established until 1946 but its roots go back to the 1920's with facial creams concocted over a gas stove in a modest kitchen by Mrs. Lauder's uncle, John Schotz.
They established the Philip and Muriel Berman Center for Jewish Studies at Lehigh University, and the Center for Biblical Archaeology at Hebrew University.
She established an endowment fund for American art at the Smith museum, where a sampling of her collection, called ''Realism Today,'' was exhibited in 1988.
In the 1960's, when she was an established editor, she suggested to Singer that he consider writing for children.

        Paula Danziger, who established herself as a writer of popular fiction for young readers with her first book, ''The Cat Ate My Gymsuit,'' died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan.
She soon established herself as a charismatic performer with the Horton Dance Group, starring in highly dramatic works by Mr. Horton like ''Salome'' (1937) and ''The Beloved'' (1948), in which she portrayed a wife accused of adultery by her puritanical husband.
She and her step-mother, a Baltimore artist named Ruth Bernstein, established a memorial art fund in his memory at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
In 1988 they established the Meyerhoff Scholar Program at the University of Maryland Baltimore campus, which has become a leading science-education initiative for African-Americans.
''It established me as a person who could pull rabbits out of hats for Italian companies,'' says Ms. Rudge, elegantly dressed in a taupe-colored pantsuit, her shoulders covered in a striped Kenzo shawl.
Interested in art from childhood, Ms. Goldsmith and a small group of other women established ArtTable Inc. in 1980 to help women who were professionally involved in the arts to meet and network.
By the time she left, in 1979, she had established herself as a model for many others looking for a career in children's book publishing.
Music publishers remained a vital force in the Broadway economy at that time, providing financial support to both established and struggling composers.
Before the position was formally established by Congress in 1985, it had a forerunner in the library's poetry consultant.
The lectures were collected into a book in 1992, ''Writings,'' which established her as a moral thinker as well as an artist.
