His daughter's six-volume catalog of his collection of 30,000 specimens, which she completed in 20 years beginning in 1953, firmly established her as the flea authority other experts consulted.
A program of financial grants was also established in her name to help talented teenagers become medical technicians.
On tour, Miss Krassovska established herself as a specialist in balletic Romanticism.
She then joined the newly established race relations office of the national Y.W.C.A.
At 17 Ms. Lux met Mr. Burstein, more than 20 years her senior and an established star.
What Mrs. Hall was doing was different in that she established a residential college expressly for high school aged students, putting it somewhere between a prep school and a college, with resultant tensions.
In 1996 the city established the Administration for Children's Services as a separate agency.
Mrs. Wein was a vice president of the company from shortly after it was established in the early 1960's to the late 1990's, and remained involved in its operations until her death.
For several years beginning in 1963, the festival was run by the nonprofit Newport Folk Foundation, which Mr. and Mrs. Wein established with the folk singer Pete Seeger and his wife, Toshi.
Mrs. Wein was a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, a charitable organization, and established the Joyce and George Wein Professorship Fund in African-American Studies at Boston University and the Alexander Family Endowed Scholarship Fund at Simmons.
In 1982, when Dr. Kruskall headed Beth Israel Hospital's blood bank and hematology laboratory in Boston, she established a program for patients to donate and store their own blood, in large part stemming from concerns about hepatitis infections.
To increase the visibility of black children in children's books, Ms. Parker and two friends, Donna Rand and Sheila Foster, established a company to help promote such books and later wrote a series of four guides, ''Black Books Galore!
In 1998 she established Kids Cultural Books, a nonprofit organization that holds book festivals around the country to bring multicultural books and their authors together with children.
In 1954, Ms. Pessino and several colleagues established the Peter Van Gerbig Natural Science Center at the museum.
Dr. Zuroff said Mrs. Ryan's extradition and conviction were among the few successful legal actions against Nazis in the United States before the Justice Department Office of Special Investigations was established in 1979.
In her later years, Ms. Jaffe established herself as a patron of the arts.
In 1995, she established the Rona Jaffe Foundation, which provides grants to emerging female writers.
Ms. Arango first caused a public stir in 1939 when she exhibited in Antioquia with established male artists.
After it ceased publication in 1976, the Dance Perspectives Foundation, which she had established, continued to award an annual prize for the best dance book of the year.
