In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe.
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
Sokol, the Czech word for falcon, symbolizing freedom, was established in 1863 to combine athletics suggestive of an army in training with national democractic resistance.
"  Taught in New Jersey
        In the United States, Mrs. Provaznik, who became an American citizen in 1954, taught physical education at Panzer College in New Jersey, and was active in Sokols established in New York and elsewhere.
His steps are impossible," but the dancer and the choreographer established an astonishing rapport.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Binghamton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schumann was the principal donor to the Florence and John Schumann Foundation, which she established with her husband, John J. Schumann Jr., a former president and chairman of the General Motors.
She began to present programs of her own work during the 1930's, and in 1943 established a company in Seattle.
In the mid-1980's Ms. Drury assisted Dr. Bernard Bihari in research at the Kings County Addictive Disease Hospital in Downstate Medical Center that established the feasibility of using low dosages of a drug, naltrexone, to stabilize the immune systems of AIDS victims.
In the 1950's she began helping drives for the newly established Red Cross blood bank.
Mao kept that bargain for decades, even after the Communist victory of 1949 established him as the leader of the People's Republic of China.
Mrs. Balter, who was born in Amsterdam and moved to the United States with her family just before World War II, was also on the board of the Garrison Art Center, where she established a Scholarship and Mentor Program in which artists worked with promising local pupils.
In 1988, she established the John and Patricia Beatty Award through the California Library Association to encourage the writing of children's books about the culture and heritage of California.
She also established annual piano competitions and music scholarships for teen-agers.
It is an offshoot of an 1982 volunteer drive that was established to alleviate shortages created by the war in Lebanon.
During her tenure she established the first Hunter Theater and Concert Bureau and the first credit courses in dramatics, including the master's program in speech and dramatics.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.
Born in New York City and originally named Laura Reichenthal, Miss Riding established herself as an important avant-garde poet in the early 1920's, when she attracted the attention of the Fugitives, a group of American Southern writers centered at Vanderbilt University.
In the mid-1950's, Ms. Bovasso established the experimental Tempo Playhouse on St. Marks Place in Manhattan and introduced works of the Theater of the Absurd, including those of the playwrights Jean Genet, Eugene Ionesco and Michel de Ghelderode, to the professional theater in the United States.

        Elaine Horwitch, who established the Elaine Horwitch Galleries for contemporary art in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Santa Fe, N.M., died on Saturday at her home in Santa Fe.
She established her gallery there in 1973, and opened the one in Santa Fe three years later.
In 1962, she returned to Paris to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the successor to the Organization for European Economic Cooperation, originally established to administer Marshall Plan aid to Europe.
The Garins closed the restaurant in 1973 and established a new one, Le Lingousto, at Sollies-Toucas.
Nobel's will established a sizable fund -- from his earnings as a chemical engineer and inventor of, among other things, dynamite -- for the winners: "those who, during the preceding year, shall have conferred the greatest benefit on mankind.
He established the first five categories in his will; economics was added in 1968, with an endowment from the Bank of Sweden.
      
In 1973 she established Women's Health Services in Pittsburgh and served as its executive director for 11 years.
She established her own design firm in the late 1950's and became a member of the American Society of Interior Designers in 1975.
Even in "Laura," which more than any other movie established her as a major star, Miss Tierney was faulted by some critics.
She established the photography program at the New School for Social Research, and published several other books.
