
        Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
In a career in which, in 1921, she became the first woman to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and later established the departments of history and social studies there, Dr. Barbosa became such an authority on Puerto Rican political history, from the movement for autonomy from Spain in the late 19th century to the drive for statehood in the 20th, that she was named the commonwealth's official historian in 1993.
Dr. Wu did not share the prize, but the playwright Clare Boothe Luce said at the time, ''When Dr. Wu knocked out that principle of parity, she established the principle of parity between men and women.
After the war, divorced and the mother of a son, Winston Spencer Churchill, she moved to Paris where, with her customary energy and resourcefulness, and with the cachet and connections of the Churchill name, she established a glittering place for herself in international high society.
By the time she moved into a town house on Gramercy Park South in 1940, Mrs. Gibson had established herself as something of a purposeful free spirit.
The Freedom Forum, a nonprofit organization established by the Gannett Company in Arlington, Va., addresses issues involving the First Amendment, free press and free speech.
Dr. Sager established the institute's division of cancer genetics and recruited able young scientists for its staff.
The garden of her home on Morton Street in Greenwich Village and of her family home -- established 50 years ago by her mother, Leslie Ten Eyck Michaels, at Manursing Island in Rye, N.Y. -- were among the first to be shown to the public under the auspices of the Garden Conservancy, a national organization that works to preserve exceptional gardens.
The couple established the Rosalind and Joseph Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center in Commack, N.Y., a highly rated 300-bed nursing home, in 1988.
By 1964, when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her to head the Women's Bureau, Dr. Keyserling had established herself as a leading economist and as a champion of economic opportunities for women.
In the early 1950's she established the Joan Daves Agency and used her European connections to attract the Continent's foremost writers.
Her research established that immigrant women without access to adequate health care suffer higher rates of cervical cancer.
''I'll gather my geese,'' she said, a retort that established her independence and provided the title for an autobiography.
In recent years, Mrs. Stillwell had lived in a mobile home on the edge of the ranch where her daughter established a park for recreational vehicles with a replica of the cabin room she lived in as a bride in the 1920's.
In January 1993, the Herman Lopata Chair in Hepatitis Research was established there.
In 1992, Mrs. Lopata established the Herman Lopata Chair in Liver Disease Research at Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
Ms. Keeton also established the Kathy Keeton Cancer Research Foundation to encourage research in alternative and complementary cancer therapies.
''
        In 1950 she established the Order of the Missionaries of Charity, becoming its Superior General.
The Shrine of the Book was later established at the Israel Museum to display the scrolls.
She and her husband, William Durney, established the Durney Vineyard, a major California producer of wine.
She later served on the Illinois Social Welfare Foundation as well as the Illinois Board of Public Welfare, where she established volunteer services for the state's mentally ill.
        Mrs. Dick was active in Democratic politics in Illinois, where she was an early supporter of Adlai Stevenson.
President John F. Kennedy established the honor on July 4, 1963; after his assassination, the medals were presented by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
Overshadowed somewhat by Representative Fenwick, Mrs. Meyner, who established a solidly liberal voting record, was sometimes referred to as New Jersey's ''other Congresswoman.
In 1990, Governor Meyner died and Mrs. Meyner retired to Captiva Island, Fla. She and her family established the Robert B. Meyner and Helen S. Meyner Center for the Study of State and Local Government at her husband's alma mater, Lafayette College in Easton, Pa.
      
Since then, largely because of Dr. Miller's efforts, Peale and the artistic dynasty he established have enjoyed something of a renaissance, one that was underscored in 1986 when a painting by Rembrandt Peale sold for $4 million.
For many years, she headed the Ottinger Foundation, which her husband, Lawrence, established in 1945.
''
        In the tradition established by William Carlos Williams, she wrote with a concrete immediacy of language.
The Victoria Foundation was established by her father-in-law, Hendon Chubb, who named it in honor of his English-born mother.
