She established the Radcliffe Institute specifically to give scholarships to women cut off from careers by marriage.
In 1962, Dr. Hawkins established an autonomous dance department, equal in status to the departments of art, music and theater arts, at the College of Fine Arts at the university.
For a few years after she and other members of the order established themselves in Brooklyn, at the request of the Vincentian priests who run St. John's parish, there seemed little need for a soup kitchen.
Then came the Reagan Administration cutbacks of 1981, and as the need for food began to soar, Sister Bernadette, who had already established a thrift shop and an adult education program, started the soup kitchen, initially serving 15 or so meals a day.
By the time her cancer was diagnosed in 1983, Ms. Sunn had established the credentials that would qualify her to become one of the first five women inducted into the International Surfing Museum's Walk of Fame in Huntington Beach, Calif.
        A native of Makaha, a small town on Oahu's leeward coast, about 25 miles northwest of Honolulu, Ms. Sunn grew up just three blocks from one of the world's most storied surfing beaches, a reef-ringed stretch of water where big waves abound and the surf is almost always up.
In a tribute to her and another faculty member, the school, known by its initials, I.L.R., established its first endowed chair in 1994 and named it the Jean McKelvey-Alice Grant Professorship of Labor Management Relations.
Four years before she took emeritus status, Teachers College established Project Milestone for a ''re-look, revitalization and a recommitment to the central themes'' of Dr. Miel's thinking.
She established herself as a choral conductor, however, because there were virtually no orchestral conducting opportunities for women when she began her career in the 1950's.
The conductor Fritz Reiner invited her to start a chorus for the Chicago Symphony in 1957, and within a decade she had established one of the finest professional choirs in the country.
Among other things, it established that the Franklin photograph had been far more important than had been acknowledged in leading Dr. Watson and Dr. Crick to their discovery of the DNA structure.
The studies have established the basis for others that have found that a change in life style, like quitting smoking and controlling high blood pressure through proper diet and exercise, can improve longevity.
Columbia established a yearly storytelling festival in her honor in 1987,  called ''A(ugusta) Baker's Dozen,'' and the Association of Library Services to Children of the American Library Association in 1993 cited her for a Distinguished Services Award, its highest tribute to a member.
Mrs. Whitney established the Greentree Foundation in 1983 to assist local community groups, and she was its president.
The view had persisted even though a 16th century Spanish priest had done important though long-ignored work suggesting that the glyphs constituted an actual language and though a spate of recent work, derided by established scholars, had even worked out the syntax of the language, in which individual glyphs represented syllables of complex words.
Ms. Elliott had a knack for persuading established stars to support her cause.

        Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died yesterday in her sleep at her home in Nashville.
1 hits in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me To Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together and unending love.

        Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died on Monday in her sleep at her home in Nashville.
''Stand By Your Man'' established Ms. Wynette in the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
1 hits she had in 1968 -- ''Stand By Your Man,'' ''Take Me to Your World'' and ''D-I-V-O-R-C-E'' -- established both her public image and her style, concentrating on weepers about holding a marriage together or declaring her unending love.
There were also no established training programs for marriage counselors, which might help explain why her fellow organizers asked Mrs. Mudd to run the Philadelphia program even though she did not have an academic degree.
As a student at Vassar when the United States entered World War I, she was so determined to do her part for the cause that she helped form a Vassar unit of the women's Land Army, established to have women work the fields in place of mobilized farmers.
Until her book, billed as ''a conversation with William Baldwin,'' a  South Carolina novelist, was published by Algonquin Books last year, Mrs. Whaley's fame had been largely local, but well established.
After she established a life and career away from her family, the proposals kept coming, but Miss Mathiot continued to reject them, she said, though for reasons of her own.

        Catherine Kennedy, who after a  long struggle established one of the nation's first nursing centers for AIDS patients, died on Tuesday at her home in New Haven.
It disseminated traditional songs, established a widely imitated small-group sound and built a set of templates that country, bluegrass and folk musicians would draw upon -- the mountain hymn, the love ballad, the cowboy tune and so on.
By the time she arrived at Foote, Cone & Belding in time to take over the new Clairol account in 1955, Miss Polykoff, who had written her first advertising copy as a teen-age secretary at Harper's Bazaar, had long since established herself as a star in retail advertising, first for a series of department and variety stores, including Bamberger's and Kresge in Newark, then for New York agencies with retail accounts.
They established their own company, called Alberts Design, and continued working on dolls and other toys.
She first established herself as an illustrator in the 1960's, providing the drawings for the ''Frances'' series written by her husband, Russell Hoban, a prolific author of children's books.
'' Claude McKay, already established as a poet and novelist, scolded her for not writing more.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
They established their foundation in 1961.
Known by the abbreviation ''FloJo'' -- even her name was fast -- she set the world record for 100 meters at 10.49 seconds at the 1988 Olympic trials in Indianapolis, then established the mark of 21.34 seconds in winning the 200 meters at the 1988 Summer Games in Seoul, South Korea, where Griffith Joyner also won gold in the 100 meters and the 4x100-meter relay.
''I think she established herself in sport like Babe Ruth,'' said Terry Crawford, who coached the American women's track and field team at the 1988 Summer Games.
Among other things, she established the journal Children's Literature, helped to create the children's literature division of the Modern Language Association and served as a founding director of the Children's Literature Association in 1972.
(Later, when Connecticut seemed to shun the annual Peace Games Festival she established to teach children conflict resolution through games that rewarded cooperation over competition, she moved it to Harvard.
She began working for the company at 16 when her father had already established it as one of the most prestigious names in shoes.
Through Siecus she established Parent Learning Centers to teach adults about their own sexuality as well as their children's.
Creating a 'Temple' For Performing Arts
        City Center, for which Miss Dalrymple worked so long and hard, was established on West 55th Street in 1943 by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia and City Council President Newbold Morris, who wanted it to be a ''temple for the performing arts,'' offering productions for a top price of $2.
