She and her husband, Richard, also established the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1990 to reward grass-roots environmentalists around the world.
After Mrs. Manz and three friends established their support group at her kitchen table in Milwaukee, the organization's name took its final form as the result of a newspaper article.
Since 1948, when the third-grade Sunday school class at the Emmanuel Congregational Church in Watertown established a special Christmas tree to collect clothing for poor children, Mrs. Bunce had spent every otherwise spare moment knitting away.
In the early 60's, at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital, she established a pilot program in the rehabilitation through movement of patients with Parkinson's disease.
The gift also benefited the Loeb Drama Center, home to the American Repertory Theater, established in 1957 with help from the Loebs.
In 1953, the survey of surviving Indian tongues became official, and the graduate department of linguistics was established on the Berkeley campus.
The agency said that under her direction 140 habitat conservation plans were  established and 300 more were being developed.
She swiftly established a reputation not only as a skillful lawyer but also as an eloquent friend of the downtrodden, a champion of women's rights and a diligent party worker.
In the mid-1970's, she formed a partnership with her husband, Jerrold Kushnick, an entertainment lawyer, and established herself as a manager.
President Jimmy Carter named Judge Nies to the United States Customs and Patent Appeals Court in 1980, and President Ronald Reagan reassigned her to the Federal Circuit when that jurisdiction was established in October 1982.
Known as Izzy, he was an immigrant from Austria selling butter and eggs in a little store established in 1904 at 911 DeKalb Avenue.
Mrs. Farkas settled in Florida and resumed her many philanthropic and humanitarian activities and research into male and female roles through the Role Foundation, which she established in 1967.
The Kahlenbergs, who established Film Authors, a New York film production company after they immigrated to the United States in 1946, lived in Manhattan.
And finally, concerned about the wear and tear of constant travel on her own increasingly valuable figures, she established a permanent home for more than 100 of her best pieces at Carousel World, a museum and working carousel she helped establish at Peddler's Village in Lahaska, Pa., outside New Hope.
So much so, in fact, that within a decade after her formal retirement in 1964 she had turned out a torrent of books -- among them ''The Sex Game,'' ''The Female World,'' ''The Future of Marriage'' and ''The Future of Motherhood'' -- that established her as a premier scholar of the women's movement.
She subsequently initiated the first Federal appropriations for cystic fibrosis research, introduced the first bill calling for the income tax checkoff to finance Presidential election campaigns and originated the idea and the legislation that established the Federal student loan program.
The Ullmanns established the college's Research Center for Health Sciences and a chair in molecular genetics.
The Lichtenstadter Hospital for the Chronically Ill in Israel was established in memory of her parents, Jakob and Flora Lichtenstadter.
By the time she began her radio career in 1927, Miss Kitchell had already established her credentials as a broadcast pioneer.
In 1917, six years before regular broadcasts were begun, she sang for an experimental station established at the base of the Statue of Liberty.
The loyalists got a lot of attention at the beginning, and those who had been Communists continued to receive support, but by the 1950's, with Franco's fascist dictatorship well established, the others had become what Mrs. Macdonald called ''the legion of the forgotten,'' languishing in poverty, unable and unwilling to return to their homeland.
And it was her administrative skills as managing editor that helped keep Politics going  after the couple established it in their apartment in 1943.
She established the institute's art gallery and helped in its work for nearly three decades.
At the time, the discovery established that human ancestors had begun walking upright much earlier than previously thought, long before the evolution of larger brains.
With the discovery of a species called Australopithecus afarensis, based on the famous Lucy skeleton, the most likely identity of these prehistoric strollers was established.
At the age of 20, Mary Nicol, a sometime illustrator of stone tools and occasional participant in archeological digs, met Louis Leakey, 10 years her senior, married and an established figure in African archeology with a position at Cambridge University.
She also established the Mrs. Robert M. Benjamin Educational Fund to  provide summer fellowships in gerontological social work.
She contributed to Syracuse University for decades, and in 1968 she established the Herbert and Ruth Meyer Endowment Scholarship Fund.
Today the bat mitzvah ceremony, usually carried out when girls are 12, is an  established practice within the Conservative, Reform and Reconstructionist branches of Judaism, and parallel celebrations are common in some quarters of Orthodox Judaism as well.
