The couple also established the Caroline and Joseph S. Gruss Center in Jerusalem, which serves as Yeshiva University's campus in Jerusalem.
She was 47 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        Ms. LaRoche established Earth House in 1971 to treat schizophrenics.
In 1925 she established a practice in Jersey City, where her husband, Dr. Keith L. Madison, who died in 1980, had a general practice.
Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman is a memorial established by Mrs. Martin and her husband, Clarence D. (Dan) Martin Jr., in honor of his father, Clarence Martin, who was Governor of Washington from 1933 to 1941.
She also established literary-historical walking tours under the auspices of the academy in Greenwich Village, Central Park, Harlem, SoHo and elsewhere.
In 1957, she and some friends established the Rochester Folk Art Guild in that city.
The philanthropy, established by her father after World War I, specialized in aiding education.
Mrs. Johns, a native of Ohio, came to New York just before World War II and established what became S. Irene Johns Inc., which she operated until its merger into Kirby Block Inc. about 10 years ago.

       Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.
Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.
She and her husband, who was a senior partner of Salomon Brothers, the investment banking firm, established the college's Benjamin J. and Anna Levy Institute for Biophysics, and the Current Periodicals Room at the college library.

       Matilda W. Salpeter, a retired New York City elementary school teacher and principal who established the child-care All-Day Neighborhood School Program, died Tuesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx.
Matilda W. Salpeter, a retired New York City elementary school teacher and principal who established the child-care All-Day Neighborhood School Program, died Tuesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx.
Later, Mrs. Mersereau was the city's central school district director of the Federal Title VII fund program established under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which prohibits job discrimination on the basis of sex, race or religion.
She joined the staff of the Museum of Modern Art, then newly established, as a director of publications, overseeing the museum's magazines and brochures.
In 1939 the family fled Poland just before the German invasion and established a fur salon in New York City soon after.
The association was established in 1951 as part of the economic development strategy for the Caribbean.
Tokyo Correspondent
        She also worked as the Tokyo correspondent for the Asian Wall Street Journal when it was established in the 1970's and later worked as a freelance journalist for many American, British, Australian and Hong Kong publications.
In the early 1930's, Mrs. Hammerstein founded an interior design business, Dorothy Hammerstein Inc., and quickly established herself as one of the most sought-after decorators on both coasts.
When Lord Louis Mountbatten established the United World Colleges - an international network of two-year colleges - after World War II, he asked Mrs. Rothschild to help organize the project and to serve on the American committee.
When Lord Louis Mountbatten established the United World Colleges - an international network of two-year colleges - after World War II, he asked Mrs. Rothschild to help organize the project and to serve on the American committee.
In 1950, she moved to New York City, where she worked for the United Nations and established Iberica.
In 1950, she moved to New York City, where she worked for the United Nations and established Iberica.
