In 1938 Mrs. Low established Trade Winds, a store for articles produced at home by German refugees who were making a new start in the United States.
She worked for the National Organization for Women as coordinator for displaced homemaker organizations, many of which were established in the 1970's.
She was a founder of the Middlesex County Mental Health Association and also established the Kiddie Keep Well Camp in Edison, N.J. She received distinguished service awards in 1938 and 1946 from Presidents Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman.
'' She was greatly interested in Oriental teachings, mystical experiences and philosophers not connected with established Western churches.
With the $1 million proceeds, the foundation has established a scholarship at the Hebrew University in Jerusalem in the name of Miss Steloff's parents.
In 1978, she established a foundation in the name of her husband and herself, which awards grants in medical research and related fields.
Only after a firm foundation of credibility has been established is the element of absdurdity introduced.
She was an international trustee of the World Wildlife Fund and a board member of the Medical College of Pennsylvania, where a chair was established in her name.
A consultant to the World Health Organization, she established nursing schools in third-world countries.
In 1985 she returned to Japan, where she had established another Saito.
She Founded Her Own
        Miss Brico continued to seek a conducting post with one of the established orchestras in the United States, and when she did not succeed, she founded an ensemble of her own, the Women's Symphony Orchestra, which flourished from 1935 until 1939, when it became the Brico Symphony Orchestra.
The couple established a chair in her name at the university.
In 1963 the fund bought the first equipment to maintain wildlife habitats in Kenya and in 1967 established the first anti-poaching units in East Africa.
She and Jasper Deeter, the actor who founded the company, established the Hedgerow Theater School.
But the costumes established Valentina's reputation as a designer for the stage and brought her commissions to design for other plays, including ''Idiot's Delight'' and ''The Philadelphia Story.
'' She eagerly sought out other music of the avant-garde, and established a special relationship with many composers.
Later, she established a fund to encourage performing artists and composers and endowed an intern program at the Goodspeed Opera House, which aids young people starting theatrical careers.
She established the Fine Arts Department in Yeshiva's Stern College, where she taught from 1956 to 1968, when she retired.
She joined a diabetes practice headed by Elliott P. Joslin, and in 1924 became the youngest member of the team that established the Joslin center.
Theater Inc. was established to present revivals, experimental works and productions from abroad, and its shows included ''The Old Vic,'' starring Laurence Olivier and Ralph Richardson, and ''The Playboy of the Western World,'' starring Burgess Meredith.
She established nine scholarship funds for students in communities served by her directories, with awards made on the basis of community service and academic achievement.
