A tiny woman with a robust sense of humor, she established a reputation as a tough but loyal and influential teacher.
Mrs. Sarcka and her husband, Wayne, established Spring Lake Ranch at Cuttingsville, Vt., in 1932 for people with mental and emotional problems and ran it for 30 years.
She was the first to show the black-striped paintings that established Frank Stella's reputation, and she also exhibited works by Claes Oldenburg, Larry Poons and Bruce Nauman before the artists were widely known.
A string of hits she made with the bandleader Tito Puente in the mid-1960's established her as one of the most popular performers in Latin music.
In the Depression, she worked on mural projects for the art agencies established by the Works Progress Administration, and in 1941 she collaborated with her husband on a mural for the United States Forestry Sevice in Laconia, N.H.
But it was in Yiddish theater, where audiences often measured their enjoyment by the volume of tears on both sides of the footlights, that Miss Picon established an international reputation by playing for laughs.
By proving that a woman could still look feminine in such clothes, she established "the Dietrich silhouette," emphasizing trimness and inconspicuous hips and bust.
After the death in 1979 of her only son, Robert Livingston, who for a time had been the publisher of More magazine, she established the Livingston Awards for newspaper, magazine and television journalists under 35 years old.
When Mr. Rudin died in 1975, his will established the Samuel and May Rudin Foundation, of which Mrs. Rudin was the chairwoman at her death.
She moved to Washington in 1951 and established a career there as a teacher at local ballet and modern-dance schools and at her own studio, and as a highly regarded choreographer with a company of her own.
From the early 1950's, when she established Lillian Libman Associates, Miss Libman represented Jan Peerce, George London, Roberta Peters, Peter Schickele, Rudolf Nureyev and many other artists.
Her brother Walstein C. Findlay Jr. established the Chicago branch in 1932, and she was involved in the business there since the early 1940's.
In the 1930's, Dr. McClintock established her reputation by becoming one of the scientists to develop an understanding of chromosomes as the basis of heredity, work that was honored by her National Medal of Science.
With her husband, Dr. R. Gordon Hoxie, she contributed to the growth of C. W. Post College on Long Island and established the Center for the Study of the Presidency.
The school was established in 1931 by the Maternity Center Association, whose headquarters are on East 92d Street in Manhattan.
In 1964 Dr. Toolan moved to Bennington to direct the newly established Putnam Memorial Institute for Medical Research.
