''
        In fact, when the center closed, its trained therapists were able to move on to other such clinics established since she founded hers.
      
In 1953, she established the Cancer Research Institute, which now has an annual budget of $14 million and provides support for scientists around the world.
In 1946 Ms. Kushida became the first secretary general of a newly established feminist and peace organization called the Women's Democratic Club.
More recently she was active as a supporter of the Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she and her husband established a scholarship fund in memory of their son Robert H. Kaufman.
Mr. Merrill was the first aviator to fly a trans-Atlantic round trip and established such a record of safety on the La Guardia-to-Miami route for Eastern Airlines that be became known as New York's favorite pilot.
After the company settled into the Royal Opera House, Miss de Valois  established a second company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, at Sadler's Wells.
After Mr. Matisse's death and the closing of the gallery in 1989, she and his three children by his first marriage established the Pierre Matisse Foundation.
In 1999 Mrs. Matisse established the Pierre and Maria-Gaetana Matisse Foundation, which is preparing a catalogue raisonne of the painter Yves Tanguy.
She was a member of the dean's advisory board at the Harvard Law School, where she established, with her second husband, Jack N. Berkman, the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, a research center on legal issues in the online era.
The panel was established by the State Legislature and Governor Wilson to uproot corrupt and abusive judges during a national movement for accountability from the bench.
In 1988 the Helen Oakley Dance and Stanley Dance Archive was established at Yale University, encompassing correspondence, writings, interviews, records, photographs and films; it will become available to researchers later this year.
She grew up traveling the world with her family as Yehudi Menuhin, who was five and a half years her senior, established his early career.
'' As an established actress with a kindly face and large, handsome eyes, she was so helpful to fledgling performers that she acquired the nickname Mama.
      
Mrs. Milstein established a fellowship for medical research at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
In little more than a decade she had established herself as one of Broadway's most brilliant actresses although, oddly, she never won a Tony Award.
With a jowly face, quizzical eyes and an almost perpetually furrowed brow, Ms. Freeman soon established herself as a nimble character actress, turning her talent for deadpan into a lengthy career.
Four years ago she established the Austrian Frederick Kiesler Prize for a distinguished figure in architecture or the related arts.
Their patronage established the Sculls, at first considered upstarts in the art world, as big-time players.
They established a base in East Hampton, N.Y., then the art world's summer summit.
Even if herpes is definitively established as a factor in heart disease, experts say, it would not mean that cholesterol levels play no role or that people should stop paying attention to their diets.
Miss McGuire remained strongly interested in the stage long after she established herself as a movie actress.
She then taught physical education and coached drill teams at Santa Monica College, whose president, Richard Moore, said, ''With her batons, hats and costumes, she established college pride, no matter what the prowess of the athletic crew.
That performance won Ms. Foster another Obie in addition to a Theater World Award, and officially established her as a formidable classical actress.
''
        In 1968, Ms. Babbin established her own production company, Clovis.
She began her acting career in 1944 in repertory theater in the north of England and traveled all over the country until the success of ''Sailor Beware'' established her reputation.
With her son, Mrs. Wexner in 1973 established the Wexner Foundation, which supports youth development programs, fellowships and Jewish agencies and temples.
The models she established  became a basis for studying potential medications to treat drug abuse.
The Jerusalem Post said on Monday that the Schneiders established and largely financed the constructing of the medical center in Israel.
