At her death, she was president of the Irene Diamond Fund, which she established in 1994 to support, in particular, the performing arts and the fight against AIDS.
She established the Society for Personology in 1982 to advance this research orientation.

        Anne Logan Davis Wichern, a lung specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and professor emeritus at New York University who established one of the country's first emphysema clinics, died March 9.
'' She sang her first Azucena the next night and repeated Fidalma the night after that, a feat that quickly established her reputation in Europe as a masterly interpreter of the Italian repertory at its most demanding.
She established the Wiley Press, a trade paperback line, and Wiley Professional Software.
After her husband died in 1967, she took over the company, regularly updated its manufacturing processes and established a thriving market for her strings around the world.
''
        Her subsequent recordings for the Colpix, Philips and RCA Victor labels established her as a potent attraction on the cabaret, concert and festival circuits.
Widely credited with raising this art school's national and international profile, she more than tripled its endowment, oversaw the renovation and expansion of its landmark building, added several new trustees, re-established its visiting artists' program and also established an exchange program with Oxford University.
It was the group's victory in the Storm King case that established the principle that citizens could intervene in court cases affecting the environment even if those individuals were not in danger of sustaining damages to their properties.
Language derived from that precedent was incorporated into the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act, which established the Environmental Protection Agency and mandated environmental impact studies for such construction projects.
By then her reputation was firmly established well beyond Britain.

        Dr. Josefina B. Magno, an oncologist who established some of the first hospice programs in the United States and helped bring the hospice concept into the medical mainstream, died on July 27 in Manila.
After recovering, Dr. Magno went to England, where the world's first research and teaching hospice was established in 1967.
The next year, she established the Hospice of Northern Virginia.
In 1984, she established the International Hospice Institute to train doctors in the United States and developing countries.
In 1971, Ms. Selver established the Sensory Awareness Foundation in Muir Beach.
In 1981 and 1982, she was also the first woman to be the City's sheriff, a position established 500 years before that of lord mayor.
Established by a royal charter in the 12th century, it is now famous as England's financial center.
The bank, a creation of the feminist movement, was established in April 1975.
World Learning established a scholarship in her honor shortly before her death.
Chiang Kai-shek, a severe-looking military aide to Sun who established a school for officers in southern China, may have been as attracted to the Soongs' financial and political connections as he was to their youngest daughter.
In 1990, the Wendy Marx Foundation for Organ Donor Awareness was established by the Marx siblings and the Olympic sprinter Carl Lewis, with whom Mr. Marx was cooperating on a book.
Her last major project, the Directors' Council, was established this year in Phoenix and New York.
She quickly established herself in New York's vibrant cabaret scene, where she headlined at clubs like the Blue Angel with the comedians Elaine May and Mike Nichols.
She quickly established herself in New York's vibrant cabaret scene, where she headlined at clubs like the Blue Angel with the comedians Elaine May and Mike Nichols.
Ms. Berk performed with some modern dance companies, living as a free spirit in what was known as an open marriage, and in the 1950's began the work that established her reputation from London to New York and California.
Sam Sebastiani established the Viansa Winery and Italian Marketplace south of Sonoma.
After the war, the wing established not only the Tonys Awards but also the Professional Training School, a theater school for returning soldiers, which existed from 1946 to 1965.
