Not only was she the first woman to preside over a forum that is still overwhelmingly male, but she was viewed by the Conservative opposition as lacking established ties to the House and knowledge of its often baroque procedures.
The next year, King Peter was formally deposed when Tito established a Communist Government in Yugoslavia.
She later became spokeswoman for the National Stroke Association, which established the Ruby Keeler Fellowship Memorial.
An Active Role In Public Life
        Once Miss Hayes was established as a great star, she threw herself into many areas of public life.
While she was a professor at Hunter College in New York, she established one of the nation's first on-campus college placement offices.
Starting out as a young actress at Warner Brothers, she played a series of film roles that established her as one of Hollywood's leading actresses.
She was a founder of SoHo 20, a Broome Street gallery, established in 1973, that was one of the first women's art cooperatives in Manhattan.
In 1936, Mrs. Draper established her business under her own name.
She also established a link between overexposure to sunlight and reduction of beta carotene in plasma.
Before she established the business Ms. Kessler served for a year as an analyst for the Foreign Economic Administration, a Federal agency, conducting studies of postwar industrialization in Ethiopia and China.
History Project
        While still a doctoral student in economic history in what is now Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, Ms. Kessler was asked to direct a pilot history project for the Works Progress Administration, the New Deal program established in 1935 to provide employment through public works projects; eventually, the history project grew into the W.P.A.
In 1990, Mrs. Carpenter's family established the Mary Grace Carpenter Award for Excellence in Elementary Teaching in the New Canaan school system.
Throughout the 50's and 60's, the Eckarts established themselves as among the most versatile and productive theatrical designers in the business, often working on costumes and lighting as well as sets.
She established a recording studio in a two-room office on West 44th Street in 1951 and became president of Recording for the Blind in 1952.
Ms. Sibley started her career in a small design studio she established on East 58th Street in Manhattan.
She also established the Duke Gardens Foundation at Somerville in 1958.
The court was established in 1978 to rule on Government applications for surveillance and wiretaps in foreign intelligence cases.
Created 'People And Not Automata'
        Writing of "Oklahoma!," Mr. Martin commented in The Times: "Miss de Mille has turned her back entirely on the established procedure of making 'routines.
"
        Having become an established figure in the musical theater, she proceeded to choreograph such shows as "Carousel" (1945); "Allegro" (1947), which she directed as well as choreographed; "Brigadoon" (1947); "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" (1949); "Paint Your Wagon" (1951); "The Girl in Pink Tights" (1954); "Goldilocks" (1958); "Juno" (1959); "Kwamina" (1961), and "110 in the Shade" (1963).
In 1973 she established the Heritage Dance Theater, a folk-oriented company that toured widely until 1975.
With her husband, Lee, an insurance executive, Mrs. Coffey was a major contributor to the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center and its Brenner Pavilion and to Mount Sinai Medical Center, where the couple established the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Outpatient Geriatrics Clinic and the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Non-Invasive Cardiology Area.
In 1939 she established the Stony Point Art Gallery in Stony Point, N.Y., where she specialized in decoys and folk sculpture.
Six years later, she and her husband moved to Los Angeles, where she established the training program for child analysis in the Southern California Psychoanalytic Society and Institute and worked as training and supervising analyst.
