In 1979, she established the Innovative Design Fund awards, a nonprofit organization based in New York that gave up to $10,000 to designers with original ideas in home furnishings, textiles and fashion so they could transform their sketches into marketable products.
It surprised no one in the dance community that in 1966 she  was one of seven choreographers who were awarded the initial dance grants made by the recently established National Council on the Arts.
With a credit union loan she established the Park Plaza Gallery in Park Slope in 1979.
In her later years, she established the Medway Environmental Trust for educational purposes and to ensure that Medway would forever be managed as a nature preserve.
She established the Medway Plan to provide medical help to countries devastated by the war.
By offering travelers a consistent, dependable and safe night's rest, the Marriott chain quickly surpassed more established competitors.

        Jean E. Karl, who established the publishing imprint Atheneum Books for Young Readers in 1961 and led it until she retired in 1985, died on Thursday at a hospice in Lancaster, Pa. She was 72.
In her writings for such publications as The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times and Cosmopolitan magazine, Ms. Kaufman established her gift for homing in on the hilarity -- and sometimes pathos -- in everyday life.
''
        While she was the administrative judge, she also headed the New York Judicial Committee on Women in the Courts, which was established after a two-year study had found that ''gender bias against women litigants, attorneys and court employees is a pervasive problem.
She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Mrs. Thomas had held the fund-raising position since the death in 1991 of her husband, who established the hospital four decades ago.
She arrived in the United States in 1949, married Col. Sterling Loop Larrabee and settled in Chestertown, where she established a long association with Washington College.
)
        By 1920, all the yeomanettes were released from duty, and women would not be permitted to serve in the Navy again until the Waves were established in World War II.
In addition to forming new Amnesty chapters, Mrs. Sagan established the Aurora Foundation, which documents civil rights abuses in countries with authoritarian governments.
Her brother, Luis, was a governor of Puerto Rico, and established the ruling New Progressive Party.
Over the years, Ms. Peters established herself in a remote, hilltop mansion in Bel Air while her husband, growing ever more reclusive and secretive, adjourned to the penthouses above a Las Vegas casino where he passed most of the last decades of his life.
She quickly established herself as the undisputed leader of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party -- founded by her husband -- and a formidable politician in her own right.
In 1967 she turned her sights to Off Off Broadway and established the Loft Theater.
By 1965, she had established 30 homes, where those bearing the scars of the war lived in comfort and without restriction, in England, Germany, Greece, Poland and Yugoslavia.
At the close of World War II, Ms. Hunter established the Professional Training Program of the American Theater Wing, under which 1,700 students studied under the G.I.
''Annie Allen'' won Poetry magazine's Eunice Tietjens Memorial Prize in 1949 and the following year, it was awarded the Pulitzer Prize; Ms. Brooks became the first black writer to receive the prize since it was established in 1917.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994 -- ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
The exhibitions established an American audience for many Brazilian artists.
''
        There is a work by Platina, who established the Vatican Library.
''Annie Allen'' won Poetry magazine's Eunice Tietjens Memorial Prize in 1949 and the following year was awarded the Pulitzer Prize; Ms. Brooks became the first black writer to receive the prize since it was established in 1917.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994, ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
