On her retirement in 1970, La Meri established Ethnic Dance Arts Inc. in Hyannis, Mass., where she presented an annual ethnic dance festival and awards.
Mrs. Loening donated the money to buy the original plants for the Biblical Garden, which was established in 1973, containing varieties of plant life mentioned in the Bible.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
She drew, studied for a while with Hofmann (who in the meantime had established himself in New York), she kept up her studies in theater and dance, and for a time she worked as an assistant to Diego Rivera while he was preparing his murals for Rockefeller Center.
Instead, she became the first field nurse in the first Maternity Center, established by the Women's City Club in 1917 to reduce maternal and infant mortality in designated parts of the city.
In 1954, the Government-sponsored Parhon Institute of Geriatrics was established in Bucharest, and Dr. Aslan soon became its dominant figure.
Together, they established a new laboratory to study tuberculosis.
She and her husband established the Palmer School of Library and Information Science at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University.
From 1936 until 1965, she taught at Dalton, where she established a community-service program that became a widely copied model.
In 1951, she joined the advertising firm of Young & Rubicam, and in 1969 she established her own company, Fran Healy Associates.
Bury's family established the angler's haven, attracting fly-fishermen eager to fish at Junction Pool, where the Beaver Kill and Willowemoc rivers join.
Eric D. Hirsch Jr., Kenan Professor of English at the University of Virginia, said her second volume, ''The Collected Poems of Elma Stuckey,'' established her ''in the canon of American poetry.
Dr. Wall was a technical editor for several publishing companies and established the first post-graduate school for specialists in hair-coloring in the 1920's.
Mrs. Foreman, the former Ruth Gould of Rochester, established and was the director of many Florida theaters, beginning with the Lemonade Theater in Miami Beach in 1949.
The recently established Margaret Mee Amazon Trust provides scholarships to help Brazilian botanists study in Britain.
