She was known for her master classes, especially at the Aspen Festival in Colorado, and in 1980 she established her own summer piano festival in northern Norway.
Together, they also established master's and doctoral programs in nursing at the University of Pittsburgh.
She established the first cancer hospice there and extended the foundation's work to China.
During the 1930's, two volumes of poetry, "Encounter in April" and "Inner Landscape," and a novel, "The Single Hound," established themes that were to occupy her for a lifetime: the many forms of love and the uniqueness of the individual.
Once neuroendocrinology became established, Dr. Scharrer received many honorary degrees and other honors in the United States and in Europe.

        Helen Singer Kaplan, a pioneer in the field of sex therapy and founder of the country's first clinic for sexual disorders established at a medical school, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
From 1960 until she established her program at the Payne Whitney Clinic, she was an associate professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College and an associate attending psychiatrist at Metropolitan, Flower and B.S.
She established new programs, including one to train the psychiatric and obstetrics-gynecology staff in human sexuality.
Mrs. Wood established the school's first remedial reading program and discovered that as the girls read better, their grades improved in every subject and they became better adjusted.
"
        In 1959, with her husband, Doug, Mrs. Wood established the first of her institutes, in Washington.
After performing in summer stock, she established a school for teen-age performers that was absorbed by the State University of New York at Purchase, where she taught a generation of young actors and playwrights, including Matt Dillon.
Miss Chang, who was forced by the Japanese invasion to abandon her college education in Hong Kong, enjoyed a measure of popular success after returning to Shanghai, but her works were dismissed as mere romances until her 1943 novella, "The Golden Cangue" (named for a form of restraint resembling the stocks used in colonial America), established her literary reputation.
According to the Nearings' wishes, an education and retreat center is to be established on Forest Farm after their deaths.

        Carmen Sylva Mathews, an actress, environmentalist and philanthropist who established a summer camp for disadvantaged children, died on Thursday at her farm in Redding, Conn. She was 84 years old.
Also in 1983, she established a summer camp for disadvantaged city children, known as the New Pond Farm Education Center.
The Lita Annenberg Hazen Trust, created in 1952, also established significant scholarships and professorships at Mount Sinai, including the Moses L. and Sadie C. Annenberg Professorship in Molecular Biology, the Annenberg Scholarships in Cardiology and the Lita Annenberg Hazen Professorship in Immunochemistry.
Mrs. Hazen and her husband also established the Gwynne Hazen Cherry Memorial Laboratory in Oncology and Hematology, in memory of their other daughter, at the Marion Davies Hospital, a unit of the University of California, Los Angeles, Medical Center.
When the society stopped functioning in 1956, Ms. Braun established Dance Films Association as a forum for makers of dance films, with a bi-monthly  newsletter and a competitive festival each winter.
In 1974 she established the Archives of Modern Music in the Library of Congress, and in 1983 she assembled "The Life and Death of a Small Magazine," a  monograph published by the Institute for Studies in American Music.
In her zeal to encourage and promote modern dance, Ms. Hill combined performances by leading creative figures with the dance divisions she established at college summer schools.
She became its director and established a graduate program there, leaving in 1951 to found the dance department at Juilliard, which she directed until 1985.
Guys and Dolls," the Frank Loesser and Abe Burrows musical based on stories by Damon Runyon, was the sensation of the 1950 Broadway season, and Ms. Blaine was irresistible as the blond chanteuse at the Hot Box club who was hopelessly engaged to Nathan Detroit (Sam Levene), the operator of the "oldest established  permanent floating crap game in New York.
For 32 years, Mrs. Taylor served as the unsalaried principal of the Concord Baptist Elementary School, which she established in 1960 with her husband, the Rev.
During her final season, 1978-79, the annual Wade Trophy was established to honor the outstanding college player.
As the leader of the Interreligious Task Force, which was established in 1972 to press the Soviet Union to let Jews emigrate without restrictions, Sister Ann picketed Soviet embassies throughout the world and petitioned leaders in Washington and at the United Nations in New York.
She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Rye, N.Y., and a life trustee and national board member of the Aspen Music Festival and School in Aspen, Colo.
        Born Catherine Denkmann Hauberg, she was a granddaughter and grandniece of the two brothers who established the company that became the Weyerhauser lumber empire.
in the late 1950's, she established the Forum Gallery, specializing in American figurative art.
Until her death, Mrs. Unterberg was active in a nursing scholarship program at Monmouth College in Long Branch, N.J. She was former president of the School of Nursing at Monmouth Medical Center, where she established the Center for Nursing Excellence, an educational program.
She also established the Thornton Wilder endowed writing prize in 1987 for talented high school students around New Haven.
Along with her husband, Erwin, she established the Countess Madeleine Galleries Ltd. in Manhattan.
A spokeswoman for the Medical Examiner's office said the cause of death had not yet been established.
