The New York Section established the Jewish Guild for the Blind; the guild is not associated with the Lighthouse.
      
After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Mott established her own charitable organization, the Ruth Mott Fund, which for the last 20 years contributed more than $1 million a year to hundreds of local and national organizations concerned with the arts, the environment, health and international affairs.
Before joining the education faculty at Harvard University in September, Dr. Hawkins established her reputation through her work as director of the Center for Children and Technology, an agency founded in 1981 by the Bank Street College of Education in New York.
Hearings were held, and by the end of 1911, the city of New York had established a Bureau of Fire Investigation, headed by the future Senator, Robert F. Wagner, who was later the father of the Wagner Labor Act.
She later established a small ensemble but was best known for solos like her signature 1959 ''Anonymous,'' in which movements were whispered rather than shouted, as Don McDonagh put it in his ''Complete Guide to Modern Dance.
Her first single for the label, ''I Only Want to Be With You,'' established her new direction.
She also established the Batsheva Foundation for the Advancement of Science in Israel, an endowed fund of the Israel Academy for Science and Humanities.
''Then, one day, I decided I was old enough and established enough.
Among the legacies of Miss Lortel's cutting-edge career, which spanned more than 70 years, is the theater that bears her name in Greenwich Village; the still thriving White Barn Theater that she started in Westport in 1947; the Lucille Lortel Room at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center, and the funds and fellowships she established to aid the arts.
She had a permanent stage built, brought in new and innovative troupes like the Dublin Players Company, the Oxford University Players and Mr. Holder and his Trinidad Dance Troupe, established an apprentice school, introduced seminars in Shakespeare, Ibsen and Chekhov, and offered playwrights, actors, designers, composers and directors a chance to spread their wings.
Working with them were more established actors seeking challenges  -- Mildred Dunnock, Mr. Mostel, Kim Hunter, James Coco and Peggy Wood.
In 1986, the Lucille Lortel Awards were established by the League of Off Broadway Theaters and Producers to honor outstanding achievements in the Off Broadway theater.
She established the Lucille Lortel Fund for New Drama at Yale University to support the production of new plays at the Yale Repertory Theater (the fund's premiere production was August Wilson's ''Fences'').
As one of the firm's senior editors, she developed works by established novelists, including Jonathan Kellerman, Dean Koontz and Michael Palmer, and occasional celebrity authors like Patty Duke, Ali McGraw, Twyla Tharp and Gen. Norman H. Schwarzkopf.
She soon established herself as a skillful, widely admired short-story writer and her second novel, ''Families and Survivors,'' the odyssey of a woman who moves from the South to San Francisco and from relationship to relationship, was published by Knopf in 1975.
Reviewers either loved it or hated it, but it established her as a serious literary presence.
The daughter of a Zurich newspaper editor, Miss Schoop was essentially self-taught, although she did take some ballet and modern-dance lessons after she had already established herself as a performer.
She was president of Brandon Petroleum Properties, an oil and gas exploration company, and of the Chisholm Foundation, an educational foundation established by her father in 1960.
A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
But Ms. Sorel, who had no immediate survivors, was established as a teacher by then.
In 1954 Ms. Richards, Tudor and Cage, along with Paul Williams, an architect, and Karen Karnes, a potter, who had both also been at Black Mountain, established a commune called the Land near Stony Point, N.Y. Ms. Richards lived there for a decade, working in a studio with Ms. Karnes; they developed a form of flame-proof clay that enabled them to make ceramic cookware.
Her longest teaching affiliation, from 1986 until her death, was with the University of Creation Spirituality, established in Oakland, Calif., by Matthew Fox, a Dominican priest.
On a visit to Washington in 1990, she established more friendly relations with Barbara Bush, from whom she got a recipe for blueberry pie.
In 1967 the Swedish Government established the current Cullberg Ballet.
The work provided evidence for the once radical but now established theory that nerves secrete hormones in small but extremely influential quantities.
Her ''bar under the roof,'' an installation featuring a built-in chrome-walled bar counter and card table with pool-pocket drink holders, caused a sensation at the 1927 Salon d'Automne and established her as an avant-garde talent to watch.
Her ''bar under the roof,'' an installation featuring a built-in chrome-walled bar counter and card table with pool-pocket drink holders, caused a sensation at the 1927 Salon d'Automne and established her as an avant-garde talent to watch.
Together they established a school in Calcutta, Dancers' Guild, that focused on what they called navanritya, a contemporary form of Indian dance with its own technique and training system.
She graduated from the Conservatoire with first prize in piano when she was 16 and soon established herself with performances of the piano works of Faure, Ravel and Milhaud, which she studied with the composers' guidance.
Together, the Resnicks established the Jack and Pearl Resnick Gerontology Center and the Jack and Pearl Resnick Fellowship in Geriatrics at Albert Einstein.
''In that capacity,'' said Zina Mirsky, assistant dean for administration at the School of Nursing of the University of California at San Francisco, ''she established the role of nursing in the federal government -- a presence that still exists.
