In 1967 she was elected to the board of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a group established by Congress to preserve historic houses.
A piano teacher, she arrived in New York in 1924 and established the Jack Horner Music School.
At her death she was a trustee of the stock trust established by her father that exercised effective control of the enterprise.
She was Mr. Yardley's assistant in the American Black Chamber operation that he established in 1919 in New York City.
She was appointed executive secretary of the newly formed National Committee on the Aging, which was established to provide information and consultation services on the field of aging, with headquarters in New York City.
She and her husband established Franklin Watts Ltd. in London in the 1960's, and Ms. Hoke worked there into the 1970's before returning to the United States.
Dr. Browne, a native of Vienna, came to the United States in 1940 and established as a specialist in economic theory.
She also established or expanded files on Conrad Aiken, H. G. Wells, Muriel Rukeyser, Evelyn Waugh, Samuel Beckett, William Faulkner, May Sarton, Washington Irving, Walt Whitman and Oliver Wendell Holmes.
A memorial service will be held on May 5 in the Celeste Bartos Forum of the library, and a book fund in her name will be established for the Berg Collection.
      
Thomas F. X. Hoar of Winooski, Vt., established the Sister Thea Bowman Black Catholic Educational Foundation to provide financial support for black students at all educational levels.
The company traveled to England and, in 1922, to New York City, where Mrs. Pons and her husband established a studio for the design and execution of stage costumes in 1923.
From 1934 to 1973 she was a trustee of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the grant-making foundation established by her father in 1911.

       Charlotte Boschan, an economist who established the first electronic data bank in the field when she was associated with the National Bureau of Economic Research a quarter-century ago, died of complications of surgery on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She was 70 years old and lived in New City, N
        Charlotte Boschan, an economist who established the first electronic data bank in the field when she was associated with the National Bureau of Economic Research a quarter-century ago, died of complications of surgery on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
The following year, her version of ''It's Magic,'' a song from the movie ''Romance on the High Seas,'' established her as a full-fledged pop star.
Since Mrs. Hyde was found to have cancer five years ago, she worked ardently to call attention to the disease, raising nearly $2 million for Georgetown University Medical Center, which established the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research last year.
In 1935, in the depths of the Depression, she and her husband, Al Tisch, established two boys' camps, Laurel and Lincoln, in the Poconos.
In 1948, her book ''Nursing for the Future'' recommended that professional schools of nursing be established at universities and that clinical nursing specialties be developed.
Her performance in 1927 in ''The Fanatics'' by Miles Malleson established her as one of the most promising theatrical newcomers of her generation.
The National Federation of Parents for Drug-Free Youth recently established the Peggy Mann Scholarship Award for Outstanding Youth Involved in Substance-Use Prevention.
The Margaret Mark Educational Evaluation Program at Teachers College of Columbia University was established in her honor.
Her store, established a few months after her arrival in New York, originally sold china and silver but evolved later into a retail jewelry business.
After his death in 1961 she established the Henry L. Moses Research Institute at the hospital.
In addition to gifts to Montefiore, she established the Lucy G. Moses Cardiothoracic Center, an advanced research and training institution, at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, She also contributed to health programs in Burma, Israel and South Korea.
After her husband's death, she became president of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, which the couple established in 1942 to support education, music and the arts.
Mrs. Hirsch and her husband established the Henry and Myrtle Hirsch Foundation, which provides grants in education and health care, mostly for young people and immigrants, primarily in the United States and Israel.
In 1962 the Freemans moved to Damariscotta, where they had established a second home in the 1920's.
In 1975, she established the Eleanor Steber Foundation to help young singers.
Role for Vincent Price
        The film, released in 1946, was adapted by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and was his first directorial effort; it established him as a major force in movies and set a villainous style for Mr. Price that he was to repeat many times.
In a tribute to her work, Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1986 established the Ann Cole Phillips Room, a classroom, where students can study the artist's experience from her paintings on the walls around them.
