The first was to have a national holiday established in Dr. King's honor, and the second was to build the center in Atlanta to honor his memory, continue his work and provide a research facility for scholars of his work and the civil rights era.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
In her remarkable life's journey, she both established ballet in China and introduced the country's little-known ethnic traditions abroad.
One of her most successful collaborations was with Edward Hall, Sir Peter Hall's son, who established the Propeller Theater, an all-male Shakespearean troupe at the Watermill Theater.
The recently established British ballet groups that Ms. Shearer joined in the 1940's were identified with hard work and struggle, devoid of the surface glamour of the émigré companies that succeeded Diaghilev's Ballets Russes.
Before leading Advocates for Children, Ms. Chaifetz established the legal department at the Door, a youth development agency in Manhattan, where she worked from 1992 to 1998.
She succeeded her husband as chairman of the foundation and established the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Resource Center, an information clearinghouse.
''She navigated the difficulties in their lives, so she decided she wanted to do something to help people living with paralysis and established the Quality of Life grants program,'' said Maggie Goldberg, spokeswoman for the foundation.
They eventually found their way to Menton, on the French Riviera, where Russian émigrés established an intellectual and artistic community that Vladimir Nabokov described in early novels.
Once established on Broadway and in films and television, she was rarely idle.
The family moved to Como, Italy, and when she was 15 Ms. Valli enrolled at the Rome filmmaking school established by Mussolini.
''
        The battles she ignited are still being fought, and the criticism was perhaps inevitable, given that such an ambitious work was produced by somebody who had not finished college, much less become an established professional in the field.
Ms. Jacobs next book, ''The Economy of Cities'' (Random House, 1969), challenged the ideas that cities were established on a rural economic base; rather, she suggested, rural economies have been built directly through city economies.
Born in Kiev, Ukraine, Ms. Nahumck came to the United States as a child and grew up in Philadelphia, where she established the Children's Dance Theater in 1944.
In Manhattan, Mrs. Pflueger was a founder of the Winter Antiques Show, established in 1954 to aid the East Side House Settlement, on whose board she served from 1947 to 1991.
In 1998, the committee established the Carolyn Shaw Bell Award for the person who has most advanced women in the profession.
She then worked at the Office of Price Administration, which was established during World War II to prevent inflation and was led by John Kenneth Galbraith, who later helped Dr. Bell create the committee of female economists.
At Seton Hall, where she joined the faculty in 1968, she established workshops on Judaism for church leaders and teachers and led student groups on 54 tours of Israel.
In recognition of her interfaith work, the Rose Thering Endowment for Jewish-Christian Studies was established at Seton Hall in 1992; it has given scholarships to 350 teachers for graduate studies on the Holocaust and other subjects.
She also studied dance in Chicago with Ludmilla Speranzeva and Mark Turbyfill, a choreographer and poet, with whom she established the short-lived Ballet Nègre in 1930.
Over the years Miss Dunham spent much time in Haiti and in 1961 established a medical clinic there.
She staged fashion shows and fund-raisers for more than 200 branches of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a college sorority established by black women.
Yet the company established a strong presence in Washington, anything but a dance town until the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts was built and could present international-level troupes.
From 1976 until her retirement in 1999, she was the senior partner in Walker & Bailey, one of the city's few black law firms, which she established with her son.
In 1990 she established the Art Kaleidoscope Foundation, which was co-producer, with the independent filmmaker Christian Blackwood, of her first widely known film, the award-winning 1992 documentary ''Joan Mitchell: Portrait of an Abstract Painter.
Beginning in 2000, she was critic in residence at the Rinehart School of Sculpture at the Maryland Institute College of Art in Baltimore, which has established an art history scholarship in her name.
''
        In the last 25 years, Ms. Hayden also established herself as an influential teacher.
A year later, Mrs. Boegner -- who by then lived in a somewhat more modest white clapboard home adjacent to the estate -- established and became chairwoman of the nonprofit Old Westbury Gardens.
Its strong sales encouraged the company to emphasize hard candies over chocolates, which faced stiff competition from established candy makers.
established the Patty Berg Award in 1978 for outstanding contributions to golf.
In the 1970's, the pair moved to Rome, where they established a famously disordered household filled with the stray cats and dogs that they could not resist taking in.

        Sally Lilienthal, who established one of the largest American foundations dedicated to preventing the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died at a hospital in San Francisco on Oct. 24.
After advanced training at the Mayo Clinic, she established her practice in St. Paul.
