Ms. Stone Davidoff was executive director of several nonprofit organizations, including, most recently, the Citizens Union, a government watchdog group based in New York.
After a divorce from her husband, a business executive, she lived in London and changed her legal name to Justine Rendal.
She later married Tom Whalen, a retired oil executive, and settled in the Miami area.

        Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
Mrs. Fleck, as executive director of the council, was proudest of her role in creating the museum.
She died at the St. Francis Nursing Home after a series of strokes, said Deanie Parker, the president and chief executive of Soulsville, the nonprofit corporation that runs the Stax Museum of American Soul Music and the Stax Music Academy.
Mrs. Lash, a refugee from Germany who befriended Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt, became the commission's program director in 1946 and was its executive director from 1952 to 1972.

        Lynn L. Seidler, the former executive director of the Shubert Foundation, which provides grants to support live professional theater and dance, died on Thursday while vacationing in the Turks and Caicos Islands.
She was executive vice president of the microfilm company.
The next February, baseball's executive council suspended Mrs. Schott for the 1993 season and fined her $25,000 for ''the most base and demeaning type of racial and ethnic stereotyping.
''
        A month after that suspension was imposed, baseball's executive council banned Schottzie 02 -- another of her St. Bernards -- from the Riverfront Stadium field, citing ''numerous complaints by the players.
On June 12, 1996, Mrs. Schott agreed to give up daily operation of the Reds through the 1998 season, having been told by baseball's executive council that she would be suspended again if she did not do so.
Mrs. Tishman was one of the first women to gain national recognition as the chief executive of a major charitable federation.
She is survived by her sons, Leonard A., the chairman of the company, and Ronald S., chairman of Clinique Laboratories; four grandchildren, including William, who will become chief executive of the Estée Lauder Companies on July 1; and six great-grandchildren.
From the beginning, she was its chief executive and made its most important marketing and product development decisions.

        Joan Richman, a retired executive at CBS News who oversaw the network's early coverage of the Apollo space program with Walter Cronkite, died on Friday at her home in Lumberville, Pa. She was 64.
Ms. Richman became executive producer of the weekend editions of the CBS Evening News in 1976, while also producing special events coverage, including the election-night specials in 1976, 1978 and 1980.
She built her career at CBS News during a time when it was rare for a woman to be a senior media executive.
In his memoir ''A Good Life,'' Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, wrote: ''In the 60's I had been allowed to carry her bags and typewriter during the presidential campaign.
Her death resulted from complications of breast cancer, said her husband, Joseph Lelyveld, former executive editor of The New York Times.
Eventually, the White House gave up its claim of executive privilege to keep the documents secret, and Ms. Burford resigned on March 9, 1983.
She began working as a secretary for Mr. Copley, who had become chief executive of Copley Press after the death of his father, Ira C. Copley, who started the company in 1905.
With full panache intact at 51 -- her black skirt is short, her patent heels are high, her blue Hermès scarf is, like that 600-pound granite gargoyle on a corner pedestal, a gift from colleagues at the City University of New York, where she was executive vice chancellor -- Ms. Mirrer is an avowed fan of blockbusters on a national scale.
''
        She lives on Beekman Place with two of her three children -- both attend public schools -- and, despite seeing her husband only on weekends, makes time for Saturday-morning tennis with another female executive, Kathryn Wylde, who heads the Partnership for New York City.

        Lenore Benson, a former executive director of the Fashion Group International, died on Wednesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Benson, who was born in Cleveland and raised in Minneapolis, was the only daughter of Charles Benson, a specialty store executive, and his wife, Eleanor.
The foundation, financed entirely by Mr. and Mrs. Stone's contributions, has donated more than $200 million, said Sandra Treacy, its executive director.

        Caroline Lerner Goldsmith, a public relations executive specializing in the visual arts and a founder of influential arts organizations, died on Oct. 2 at her home in Manhattan.
She was executive director for its first 15 years and remained on the board until her death.
From 1966 until her death, Ms. Goldsmith was an executive with Ruder Finn Arts and Communications Counselors, a division of the international public relations agency Ruder & Finn that is active in promoting business support for the arts.
Until her retirement last year, Ms. Manulis was president and chief executive of Martha Inc., the chain of boutiques founded by her mother, Martha Phillips.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.

        Judy Corman, a publishing executive who helped bring to life the global dynamo named Harry Potter, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
