She also served as executive secretary of the Illinois Housing Board when it drafted a law creating housing authorities.
Later that year she married Harold McClinton, an advertising executive, who died in 1977.
Interested in social work, she first worked with Indian communities in Alaska, then held an executive post at the Y.W.C.A.
For many years she served on the executive committee of Hadassah's New York chapter and held other offices in that organization.
She was married for 58 years to Irving Kobrin, a business executive, who died in 1990.

        Margaret M. Mills, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Naples, Fla., Hugo Weisgall, the academy's president, announced.
She was employed by the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1968, became the academy's executive director in 1973 and retired in 1989.
      
She was the executive director and later chairwoman of the Greenacre Foundation, founded by Abby Rockefeller Mauze.
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Branscombe, a retired textile manufacturing executive; two sons: Peter, of Fairfield, Conn., and John, of Manhattan, and a sister, Betty Omohundro of Ponte Vedra, Fla.
      
"
        She was married for 59 years to Frederick Carothers, a sales executive, who died in 1990.
Mrs. Everson's husband, an engineer and executive in her father's Higgins Ink Company, died in 1969.

        Raphaelle Jeanne Semmes, a senior civil servant who became executive director of the Bush Administration's Commission on Environmental Quality, died Tuesday at the Washington Home Hospice.
She served as executive secretary of the Peace Corps from 1982 to 1989.
In the fall of 1991 she was named executive director of the new panel set up to advise President George Bush on ways to protect the environment without excessive cost.
In Yale's early years of coeducation in the 1970's, she taught a course on black women and served on the executive committee for the women's studies program.
A longtime public relations executive in book publishing, Ms. Knickerbocker influenced a whole generation of young public relations executives who now hold significant positions in various houses.

        Jane Pack Dessau, an advertising executive, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1989, Jane Pack, as she was known professionally, was named an executive vice president of Levine, Huntley, Schmidt & Beaver, a subsidiary of Grey Advertising.
Her association with George Washington University began after her husband, a former vice president of Sol Hurok Concerts in New York, was named executive director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
Mrs. Johnson was the widow of Hugh Johnson, executive vice president of Hammond Publishing, who died in 1987.
      

        Ida Sciolino Antonucci, a retired senior executive and buyer of clothes for young women at Bloomingdale's department stores, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Before joining Bloomingdale's in 1950, she worked for five years as senior executive buyer of junior wear at Hengerer's Department Store in Buffalo.
"
        She was a past chairwoman of the Council of Auxiliaries of the American Association of Dental Schools, president of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York City and an executive board member of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York State.
She retired there last year to devote full-time to her volunteer job as the executive director of the youth committee, which she helped found 17 years ago.

        Alice Magdol Conrad, who ran her own executive recruiting firm, Magdol & McCone, died on Wednesday at her country home in Bridgehampton, L.I.
From 1978 to 1985 she was executive director of Siecus, the Sex Information and Education Council of the United States, in New York City.
In addition to her son, who is the executive director of the Van Cliburn International Piano Competition in Fort Worth, she is survived by a sister, Aniela Mieczyslawska of London, and a grandchild.
      
After that success, she became the executive director of the Great Falls Development Corporation and worked to preserve the mills, which were built in the early 1800's and used the water power of the 77-foot-high Great Falls.
From 1937 to 1945, she served as executive secretary of the Philadelphia Orchestra Club and then became promotion manager of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
The Raytheon Company bought Beech Aircraft in 1980, and she was elected to the parent company's board and executive committee.
"
        Self-taught, Mrs. Draper was responsible for the decor of countless country houses, city apartments and houses as well as executive suites in banks.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
In the 1950's she traveled widely as executive director of the foundation-supported Committee of Correspondence, which worked to make women into leaders in their countries' development.

        Olivia L. Gilliam, a foundation executive, died on Sunday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass.
For the last 20 years, Mrs. Gilliam was the executive director of the Myrin Institute, a foundation whose causes include international affairs, the environment and drug-abuse education through its offshoot, the American Council for Drug Research.

        Alberta Moore Meeker, a retired executive of the National Council of Churches who lived in Sarasota, Fla., died on Sept. 3 in Sarasota Memorial Hospital.
She was the widow of Oden Meeker of New York, an author, travel writer and CARE executive who died in 1976.
In February 1971, she was chosen from a field of 20 candidates, the rest of them male, to be executive director of Sydenham Hospital in Harlem, making her the first black woman ever to head one of the city's municipal hospitals.
Eighteen months later she accepted a job in New Jersey, as executive director of Martland Hospital in Newark, a 600-bed teaching hospital operated by the state's medical school.
From 1983 to 1986, she was executive director of the Greenwich Housing Coalition, a nonprofit organization that built low-cost housing.
Mrs. Luke's marriage to the late David L. Luke Jr., a corporate executive, ended in divorce.

        Joan Weidemann Harris, a retired Brooklyn community worker and former board member and executive director of the Y.W.C.A.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer-screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
With her husband, Lee, an insurance executive, Mrs. Coffey was a major contributor to the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center and its Brenner Pavilion and to Mount Sinai Medical Center, where the couple established the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Outpatient Geriatrics Clinic and the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Non-Invasive Cardiology Area.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer and screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
