Her death was confirmed by Pamela Green, her successor as executive director of the Society for the Preservation of Weeksville and Bedford-Stuyvesant History.
The same year, Ms. Maynard became a founding member of the Weeksville Society and served as president from 1972 until 1974, when she became executive director.

        Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.
She moved to New York in 1955 and got a job as a copy writer at McCann Erickson when executive ranks on Madison Avenue remained almost exclusively male.
Waters, the executive chef and owner of Chez Panisse, in Berkeley.
From 1973 to 1975, Ms. Gaines was the executive director of the New York City Board of Education's Office of Educational Planning and Support.
The position was one of three senior administrative posts newly created by the board and all carried the title executive director, ranking just below the deputy schools chancellor.
''
        In his foreword to her book, Turner Catledge, a former executive editor of The New York Times, who grew up in Philadelphia, wrote of her: ''What a witness!
As executive editor at Oxford, Ms. Maguire published ''Harriet Beecher Stowe: A Life,'' by Joan D. Hedrick, which received a Pulitzer Prize in 1995.
Ms. Maguire was later executive editor of Addison-Wesley Longman's trade group before becoming editorial director of the Free Press, an imprint of Simon & Schuster.
By 1995, an article in The New York Times pointed to the ''Wellesley effect,'' a disproportionately large number of graduates of Wellesley, a women's college, in executive suites and corporate boardrooms.
But she will be remembered as much for a quiet, effective style that made her a trusted adviser in the executive suite.
Prince III, Citigroup's chairman and chief executive, a mentor as she rose through its legal ranks to become co-general counsel in 2001.
He recruited her in 2003 to be the top lawyer for Bank One, and later for J. P. Morgan when he became the chief executive.

        Leslie Kaul, who as the executive chef of Daily Soup, a chain of Manhattan soup bars, helped make it trendy for New Yorkers to savor a bowl of tomato cheddar, clam chowder or Jamaican pumpkin soup as a meal in itself, died Sunday at her home in Park Slope, Brooklyn.
Ms. Kaul was executive chef of Daily Soup from 1996 to 2003, and, with four of her colleagues, she wrote ''The Daily Soup Cookbook'' (Hyperion, 1999), a compilation of about 200 recipes that brought soups both plain and fancy into the kitchens of ordinary cooks.

        Diane Shamash, the founder and executive director of Minetta Brook, a nonprofit art organization that helped bring the artist Robert Smithson's quixotic ''Floating Island'' project to life last year and sent it circumnavigating Manhattan for nine days, died on Sunday at her home in Brooklyn Heights.
''You might say they were on different sides of the argument,'' said Robert C. Stempel, the former chairman of General Motors who is now chief executive of ECD Ovonics.
spawned a lot of the work that became the intellectual property for batteries associated with hybrid vehicles,'' said David Hermance, Toyota's executive engineer for advanced technology vehicles.
''Because of her knowledge of interior design and her personal charm, she was able to convince large numbers of people that saving brownstones and saving neighborhoods were worthwhile causes,'' said Ronda Wist, executive director of the New York City Landmarks Commission.
The couple divorced in 1975, and Mrs. Chenoweth moved to Boise, becoming active in politics and serving for a time as executive director of the Idaho Republican Party and then as chief of staff to Representative Steven D. Symms.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.
Until her death, Ms. Webb was president and chief executive of the Ruth Webb Talent Agency, which she founded in 1962 and presided over from her unusually appointed bedroom.
