Instead, she was given the responsibility of redecorating Young & Rubicam's lobby and executive conference rooms.
Their second son, William Hall Janeway, a financial executive, also survives her.
Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.

        Elsa H. Zion, a city official and former publishing executive who campaigned successfully to regulate the workload of interns and residents in New York State's hospitals after the highly publicized death of her daughter, Libby, in 1984, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
She was its executive director from 1977 to 1984 and from 1993 to 1994; at her death she was its chairwoman emeritus.
Ms. Dolbeare earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Swarthmore College in 1949 and began her career as a housing advocate in 1951, as associate executive secretary of the Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore.
For more than 20 years, as a program officer and later as executive vice president of the Carnegie Corporation, Ms. Finberg oversaw at least $100 million in grants given by the foundation.
She became its first executive director in 1965 and oversaw its growth into a national organization, known as WICS.

        Elizabeth Crow, a magazine editor, writer and executive who revitalized Parents magazine, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
''
        In 1988, after Ms. Crow accepted the job of editor in chief of Self magazine, the publisher of Parents lured her back as chief executive officer of its American division, Gruner & Jahr USA, a unit of Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany.
Elizabeth Venture Smith was born in Manhattan on July 29, 1946, the eldest of six children of Harrison Venture Smith, a senior executive at Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, and Marlis deGreve Smith.
In 1951 she married Bennet Korn, an American radio-advertising executive.
Ordained at 50 after a career as a personnel executive in private business, Mrs. Wofford became a full-time minister at the church, doing pastoral work and acting as a liaison officer with other church organizations.
She married Richard F. O'Brien, an advertising executive, in 1973.
Tom Vander Ark, executive director of the foundation's education program, credited Mrs. Hall's inspiration.
After retiring as bureau director in 1975, she became an executive with the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.
The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company, Festival Productions, which was founded by her husband, George Wein
        Mrs. Wein was a biochemist but became professionally involved in music through her marriage in 1959 to Mr. Wein, the founder of the Newport festivals and the chief executive of Festival Productions.
For 18 years, from 1963 to 1981, she was the executive director of the Pennsylvania Horticultural Society.
She was also executive secretary of the city Department of Labor and later held executive posts with the city's Community Mental Health Board.
She was also executive secretary of the city Department of Labor and later held executive posts with the city's Community Mental Health Board.
''She was fed up,'' said Elaine Steele, a longtime friend and executive director of the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development.
The next year, she married William Tucker, a real estate executive, who is her only immediate survivor.

        R. Gaynor McCown, the executive director of the Teaching Commission, a bipartisan advocacy group of leaders in business, government, philanthropy and education, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
In the 1990's, she was a White House Fellow and a senior executive with the New York City Partnership.
Her death appears to have gone unrecorded by American newspapers and magazines, although it is noted on the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia and in a footnote in a 2005 memoir, ''Omaha Blues,'' by Joseph Lelyveld, a former executive editor of The Times, who recounts his experience as the young reporter who knocked on the door of the Ryan home more than 40 years ago.
She grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and in Hong Kong, where her father was an executive with the Exxon Chemical Company.
For much of her career she was an executive at Fawcett Books.
