
        Linda Eder Jamieson Storrow, a former actress, magazine executive and official New York City greeter for the State of New York who was  host for 13 years of a radio program  celebrating those she called ''splendid seniors,'' died at her Manhattan apartment on Jan. 6.
Tanya J. Glazebrook, president and chief executive of the foundation, said that MedicAlert had grown to more than four million bracelet-wearing members and that at least 80,000 lives were believed to have been saved by its efforts.

        Anne Ball, a retailing executive who helped impart a stylish image to some of the country's most elite clothing stores, died on Jan. 19 in Manhattan.
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chairman of the Post Company's executive committee.
'' During the same period she was a protégée of the CBS Records executive Goddard Lieberson, who featured her on five Columbia albums that revived Broadway shows with their original orchestrations.
In 1980 she married Holland Estill, a philanthropies executive, who died in 1987.
Mr. Burton, who became a record company executive, died in 1955.
Ms. Chabot began the markets in her capacity as executive secretary of the New Mexico Association of Indian Affairs, an advocacy group, with the goal of bringing broader awareness of the artfulness of Indian crafts.
''Our relationship resembled that of a chief executive officer Phil and a chief operating officer me,'' Mrs. Graham wrote in her memoir.
Two years after taking over The Post, she hired Mr. Bradlee, Newsweek's Washington bureau chief, to be deputy managing editor and then quickly moved him up to executive editor.
Donald Graham succeeded his mother as publisher in 1979 and chief executive of the company in 1991, a company which by then was valued at nearly $2 billion.
Mrs. Graham stepped down as chairwoman of the board in 1993, again to be succeeded by her son, but remained on the board as chairwoman of the executive committee.
Her third husband, Emilio Bove, an executive with Alitalia, died before her.
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
The Weltys settled in Jackson shortly after their marriage, and Mr. Welty became an executive of the Lamar Life Insurance company.
At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market.

        Deborah Ann Cohen, a New York marketing executive and writer whose battle with breast cancer inspired her to assist other victims of the disease, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Mr. Milstein, who is president and chief executive of the chain, Burlington Coat Factory.
''
        Aaliyah was featured in the movie ''Romeo Must Die'' in 2000 and was an executive producer for its soundtrack album, which included her hit single ''Try Again.
Born in New York City on April 6, 1916, Ms. Williamson graduated from Hunter College and worked as a reporter for The New York Journal-American before entering public relations as an account executive at Constance Hope Associates.
Mr. Dubé, the executive director of Career Transition for Dancers, bounds into the room, jiggling coins that he found on the floor.
Her husband of 20 years, Dennis Revell, a public relations executive in Sacramento, survives her as does a daughter, Rita, whom the couple adopted from Uganda in 1994.

        Isadora Wexler Quinlan, the executive director of the Books for Kids Foundation, a nonprofit literacy organization, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
The cause was gall bladder cancer, said Tracy Van Slyke, spokeswoman for the National Training and Information Center, of which Ms. Cincotta was executive director.
She briefly worked as a production executive for Warren Beatty.
Henri A. Termeer, the chief executive of Genzyme, said that when the F.D.A.

        Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today.
Unable to perform similar magic at Bloomingdale's, where she worked briefly as a public relations executive, Ms. Donovan returned to The Times in 1977 as style editor of the magazine.
She had become a professional portrait painter when her husband, a banker, author, journalist and eventually an oil company executive, suggested she write a novel.
Around 4:30 a.m., the exhausted legislators crept home after a budget was approved for perusal by the not-quite-lame-duck county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, who yesterday vetoed parts of it and cut a proposed property tax increase to 9 percent from the 15 percent that Ms. Jacobs and her fellow Democrats had supported.
In 1999, the Democrats gained a majority and Ms. Jacobs became presiding officer, a position she hopes to retain despite backing a friend, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, in the primary against Thomas R. Suozzi, the incoming county executive.
In 1939 she married Richard W. Johnston, who was also a war correspondent and who eventually became the executive editor of Sports Illustrated.
