Its green-eyed star played Samantha, a witch and the wife of an advertising executive who tried to suppress her supernatural talents yet often resorted to sorcery to solve problems.
After graduating from Skowhegan High School in 1916, she held jobs for which a college education was not always required: telephone operator, circulation manager for a weekly newspaper, grade-school teacher and eventually a woolen mill executive.
"
        Her husband, Ken Pittman, a store chain executive, died in 1990 of H.I.V.-related pneumonia without knowing he was infected.

        Rema Hort Mann, a cable television executive, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Hooper was born and reared in Grosse Pointe, Mich., the daughter of Dexter Mason Ferry, an insurance executive who was the founder of the Ferry Seed Company, and Jeanette Hawkins.

        Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis.
He died in 1952 while campaigning for a seat on the Republican State Executive Committee.
She was a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations and was active in groups like the World Zionist Organization and the American Zionist Movement.

        Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston.
Back in Houston, she renewed her political contacts and expanded the circulation of The Post, where she was an executive vice president and a director of KPRC, which came to include not only the AM station but also FM and television outlets.
Undaunted, she went on to make her mark in the sport through administrative undertakings, and in 1986, was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
        She had been director of the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid since 1985, and was executive director of the United States Ski Association from 1961-68.
In 1927, she married Wesley Simpson, a textile executive.
Her first marriage, to Martin Straus, an advertising executive, ended in divorce.
"
        In 1949, Miss Lupino and Collier Young, a movie executive and producer who was then her husband, founded Filmakers, an independent production company, for which she directed candid films with feminist themes.
She was executive secretary of the American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born.
She was married to Barrett Welch, a marketing and advertising executive, from 1943 until his death in 1981.
Miss Dorman was a member of the board's executive committee and chairwoman of the board's Brooklyn College administrative committee.
Mrs. Haynes served as an executive vice president and assistant treasurer and each owned 26 percent of the team before it was sold to Carl Pohlad in 1985.
The cause was cancer, according to the Education Law Center, a Newark-based public-interest organization of which she had been executive director since 1979.
Mrs. Gallimard was the chief executive officer, with the title of president-director general, of the venerable Paris publishing house Mercure de France, which she had led since 1962.
"
        As chief executive officer, she played roles including, as Agence France-Presse put it, "editor, public relations person" and "discoverer of young authors.
It was her concern over the sparsity of filmed records of Duncan's worfk that led to the founding of the association, said Victor Lipari, its executive director.
"
        After serving as the national organization's executive director until a lack  of money forced it to close the Washington office in 1974, Mrs. Blackston returned to California, where she worked as a legislative aid and served on state and local committees concerned with welfare.
Mrs. Baumann was also a member of the national executive council of the American Jewish Committee and chairwoman of the organization's Westchester chapter.
Mrs. Baumann, who was born in Manhattan, was a daughter of Fred Hirschhorn, the founder and chief executive officer of the General Cigar Company, and the former Hannah deRothschild Sharps.

        Sister Evelyn M. Schneider, a former chief executive of St. Vincent's Hospital and superior general of the Sisters of Charity, the order that founded  it 146 years ago, died on Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She joined the hospital as director of nutrition in 1945,  retired as president and chief executive officer in 1980 and continued as a volunteer until this year.
During Sister Evelyn's nine-year tenure as chief executive, St. Vincent's acquired the National Maritime Union headquarters at Seventh Avenue and 12th Street and made it over as the O'Toole Medical Services Building.

        Mildred (Millie) Robinson, widow of the boxer Sugar Ray Robinson and executive director of the Sugar Ray Robinson Youth Foundation, has died.
Mrs. Robinson died of cancer Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital, the foundation's executive secretary, Thelma Miles Smith, said today.

        Elaine Limpert Horak, the founder and executive director of the Professional  Theater Wing, died on Dec. 20 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.
A marriage to Sy Kravitz, a former NBC executive, ended in divorce, said a spokesman for Virgin Records, their son's recording company.

        Felicia Geffen, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, died on Dec. 21 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
She was serving her fourth term on the National Committee's executive committee in Washington.
For more than 30 years, Mrs. Manoff was the American executive director for the Institute of Contemporary Jewry of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem.
She also served on the executive board of the Nassau / Suffolk Coalition for a National Health Care Plan.

        Sister Ann Gillen, executive director of the Interreligious Task Force on Soviet Jewry from 1972 to 1987, died on Jan. 14 at the Sisters of the Holy Child Jesus convent in Rosemont, Pa. She was 76.
Sister Ann was also executive director of the National Coalition of American Nuns in the 1970's and served several terms on the governing board of Common Cause, the public-affairs lobbying organization.
      
At her death, Mrs. Straus was president of Executive Service Strategies, a management and consulting firm that she founded in 1986.
She worked as the executive secretary of the New York League of Women Voters and on the staff of the Atomic Energy Commission, becoming assistant director of public information.
Later, based in Switzerland while Mr. Straus was an executive with the International Labor Organization, she worked as a Geneva correspondent for several upstate newspapers.
In an organization that likes to precycle as well as recycle its executive talent, Mrs. Ostrander was a representative at news conferences during her two years as president-elect, testified at Congressional hearings during her two years as president and continued to speak out during her two years as "immediate past president," an official association position.
A native of Utica, N.Y., where her father operated a bakery, Mrs. Ostrander, whose maiden name was Romano, received a nursing degree from the University of Buffalo and spent 10 years as a Red Cross executive before settling in Atlanta and becoming a full-time volunteer on issues involving the elderly.
She is survived by her husband, Gladding, a retired Red Cross executive; a daughter, Sylvia Lucas of Columbia, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
In 1988, she was named chief executive of Bronx Psychiatric Hospital and remained in that post until 1993.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
In 1988, she was named chief executive of Bronx Psychiatric Hospital and remained in that post until 1993.
Ms. Lopez also worked with the New Jersey Department of Human Services, as an assistant administrator of Marlboro Psychiatric Hospital in Marlboro, N.J., and chief executive of Ancora Psychiatric Hospital in Hammonton, N.J.
        She held undergraduate and master's degrees in social work from Rutgers University.
In 1992, Judith Kaye, Chief Judge of New York State, appointed Ms. Hermanson the first executive director of the Judges and Lawyers Breast Cancer Alert.
