She is survived by her son, Arthur, of New York City, and her half-sister, Angie McCarthy, of Murfreesboro, said Col. William J. Davis, executive director of the MacArthur Foundation in Norfolk.

        Marian Cowles Botsford, a former executive in the fabric-design and  women's wear fields, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Santa Fe.
She became a designer and executive with Jack Lenor Larsen Inc., a Manhattan-based designer and manufacturer of fabrics for interior design, and an executive at B. H. Wragge, also in Manhattan, which made women's wear.
She became a designer and executive with Jack Lenor Larsen Inc., a Manhattan-based designer and manufacturer of fabrics for interior design, and an executive at B. H. Wragge, also in Manhattan, which made women's wear.
She married Alfred Lippmann, an advertising executive, in 1929.
They said they were unable to pay her what they owed because President Franklin Delano Roosevelt had issued a wartime executive order limiting all salaries to $25,000 a year.
When she joined Lloyds Bank, she became a senior executive in the trust department.
''As a woman, she had to have had a first-class mind to join the Chancery bar, to have built up a successful practice and to have become a senior executive at Lloyds,'' said a friend and fellow barrister, John Tackebury.
Carol Anne Letheren, chief executive officer of the Canadian Olympic Association, said Schmirler ''was a Canadian with whom other Canadians could identify.
After Mr. Wolf left in the early 1970's to open his own production company,  Ms. Trahey then took as a partner Peter Rogers, who had been working for her as an account executive and de facto office manager.

        Jean Head Sisco, a Washington-based executive and consultant and an energetic advocate of putting women on corporate boards, died on Thursday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md.
Ordered to Fort Breckenridge, Kan., after her basic training, she became the executive officer of a company that consisted of 175 black women.
The story goes that when an Atheneum executive called her the ''juvenile editor,'' she addressed him as  ''senile editor,'' adding sharply that ''good children's books are never juvenile.
''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
During her long career with the Y.W.C.A., Ms. Holtz was also the executive director of branches in Brooklyn and New Orleans and was a staff member of the group's national board.
She was principal assistant to Col. Maurice Buckmaster, director of the Special Operations Executive, who is said to have been the model for ''M.
At the outbreak of the war, she joined the Special Operations Executive, which Winston Churchill set up ''to set Europe ablaze'' through sabotage and subversion.
In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
And at 94, she carried the torch for the Atlanta Games when it moved through Daytona Beach, Fla.
        ''Alice was the grand dame of the Olympians,'' said Dorothy Franey Langkop, honorary executive director of United States Olympians, an association of former competitors that the diver and her husband, the Olympic high-jump champion Dick Landon, helped found in the mid-1940's.

        Christie R. Basham, a former executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' who was one of the first women to work as an executive in television network news, died on Sunday at her home in Washington, D.C. She was 68.

        Christie R. Basham, a former executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' who was one of the first women to work as an executive in television network news, died on Sunday at her home in Washington, D.C. She was 68.
Mrs. Basham, a native New Yorker, graduated from Connecticut College and spent 19 years with NBC in Washington, beginning in 1957 as an aide to David Brinkley and advancing to director of news operations and other executive posts.
After some years as an executive with CBS and then at WETA, a Public Broadcasting outlet in Washington, she returned to NBC in 1982 and went on to become assistant vice president for NBC News in Washington.
She also held other executive posts besides being executive producer of ''Meet the Press.
She also held other executive posts besides being executive producer of ''Meet the Press.
After holding paid and unpaid posts with Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., whose headquarters are in Manhattan, she was on its board of directors for some years and was elected national president after holding lesser executive posts in the 1960's.
''
        ''She quietly gave birth to enormous best sellers that achieved cult status,'' said Peter Workman, the company's chief executive.
In 1940, she married Thomas H. A. Lewis, an advertising executive who later became a producer of her television series.

        Helene Ritzerfeld, an internationally known executive of a major German publishing house, Suhrkamp Verlag, died on July 22 at her office desk in Frankfurt.
''
        Lindsay Waters, the Harvard University Press's executive editor for the humanities, said of Frau Ritzerfeld's passing, ''This is the end of an era, as anyone who ever attended the Frankfurt Book Fair will be more than happy to testify.
The executive art director, Alexander Liberman, installed Ms. Denhof as promotion art director of Vogue.
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
She was an executive for a life-insurance company before she threw her energies into the civil rights struggle.
''She felt a responsibility to bring music and dance to this area,'' said Judith Mitchell, chief executive of the Kravis Center for the Performing Arts in West Palm Beach, which took over the performance series in 1994.

        Linda Grey, a top publishing executive who rose from editorial assistant to president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group, died on Aug. 30.
Later she rose to become managing editor there and then took executive positions at Dell Publishing Company, where she was its editor in chief.
Alberto Vitale, her longtime boss as the chief executive at Bantam Doubleday Dell and later Random House, often described Ms. Grey as a ''tremendously good editor.
Because of the long nature of their relationship, there were frequent rumors that the couple had secretly wed.
        For a few months, in 1954, Ms. Peters was married to Stanley W. Cramer 3rd, a Texas oil executive, but it ended in divorce and, like all of her marriages, without children.
Menachem Z. Rosensaft, a member of the executive committee of the United States Holocaust Memorial Council, which oversees the Washington museum, and who knew of Dr. Milton through her work there, said she was a pioneer in studying the memorials and archives of the Nazi death camps throughout Europe.
In 1970 she became the executive director of the Berkshire Theater Festival.
She married Edward F. Addiss, a Burlington Industries executive, when she was 29.
Lying about her age, she volunteered as a nurse and was soon sent to work at the Polish section of the Special Operations Executive, which ran spies and helped resistance organizations in enemy territory.
In 1952 she helped Lawrence Langner found the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., serving first as executive director and later as associate producer.
She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
In 1955 she married Ernest Kanzler, a Detroit business executive who was head of the War Production Board during World War II.
Mrs. Aresty began her collection after World War II when she frequently traveled overseas with her husband, Julian Aresty, a prosperous retail executive who shared her enthusiasm for history.
