She joined the League of Women Voters of New York City in 1926 as its municipal representative and the group's first paid executive.
She was also executive director and president of the American Nurses Association, which inducted her into its Hall of Fame last year, and was a board member of the International Council of Nurses, which honored her with its highest award, the Christiane Reimann Prize, in 1997.
''
        Mrs. Tyng and Mr. Luce, who died in 1967, had two sons: Henry Luce 3d,  chairman and chief executive of the Henry Luce Foundation in New York City, and Peter Paul Luce of Englewood, Colo.
She was scheduled to receive a Humanitarian Award in June from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which will now be given posthumously, said Fern Mallis, the council's executive director.
She also wrote Mayor Wagner's executive order creating the first detailed code of labor relations for city employees.
Miss Greenfield's diminutive figure was a fixture in the elite dining rooms of Georgetown, where she lived near the home of her employer, who was also among her closest friends, Katharine Graham, the chairwoman of the executive committee of the Washington Post Company, which owns both The Post and Newsweek.
She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
From 1979 to 1987 she was executive producer of a series of public television specials, ''SUNY in the Arts on Television.
Conde Nast is a privately held company and does not disclose the earnings of its magazines, but in 1997 Steven T. Florio, the chief executive officer, said that Glamour's annual profits were in the ''tens of millions of dollars.
Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine.
In 1938 she married Ronald Batty, a childhood friend and executive at Foyle's.

        Marie St. Louis, a jazz festival talent executive who booked such artists as Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald during a 37-year career, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
She was the eldest of three daughters of Agnes Irene Turpin and Herbert Edward Zipprodt, an advertising executive.

        Mala Rubinstein, a beauty expert and longtime executive at Helena Rubinstein Inc., as well as an art collector and patron, died on Thursday at a hospital in Manhattan.
She was a member of the business council of the Phillips Collection in Washington, served on the executive committee of the Mississippi Arts Commission and was a trustee of Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.
Until shortly before her marriage, Ms. Bessette was an executive at Calvin Klein Ltd. in New York.
A Calvin Klein executive brought her to the fashion house's headquarters in New York.
She held executive positions at various advertising agencies.
Mr. Presbrey, an advertising executive, died in 1988.
Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empire built by her late husband, Arthur Murray, and played such an important part in promoting their ''dancing in a hurry'' business that the entertainer Sam Levenson joked that Mr. Murray had become rich ''by the sweat of his frau.
And in 1950 she married Mortimer Hall, a Los Angeles television executive.

        Emily Solis Nathan, a journalist who later became a public relations executive specializing in art and museum projects in New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Her father was a movie executive who worked with Charlie Chaplin and other early movie stars; her mother, late in life, decided to get an education and graduated from college at 80.
She was a senior partner in the firm and served two consecutive terms as co-chairwoman of its executive committee from 1995 to 1998.
The cause was renal failure, said Phyllis Brzozowska, executive director of Dayton Contemporary Dance.
Mrs. Slatkin worked as an editor and for several years as executive director of the Iranian Institute of Art and Archaeology.

        Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital.

        Faith Sale, a publishing executive and the editor of dozens of novels and short-story collections by such authors as Donald Barthelme, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, Kaye Gibbons and Amy Tan, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
She spent the last 20 years at G. P. Putnam's Sons, where she was vice president and senior executive editor and is said to have introduced a more literary sensibility.
