As the executive chef of the Indian restaurant Tamarind on East 22nd Street in Manhattan, she combined essential elements of classic French cuisine with Indian ingredients and spices, thereby touching off what has been called the French-Indian fusion movement in gastronomy.
She began at Gourmet in 1953, answering mail from readers, and rose to be the magazine's executive editor from the early 1960's to 1980.
She worked as an editor and researcher in Chicago, including two years as executive secretary of the board of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the mid-1960's.
John Hocevar, executive director of Students for a Free Tibet, said she became ill with what were thought to be stomach problems, and her heart failed.
''They filmed her in her hospital bed, to satisfy the fans and let them share in her happiness,'' said Mary Alice Dwyer-Dobbin, executive in charge of Procter & Gamble Productions.
As the corporation grew, she became executive vice president and treasurer of the four companies it comprised.
As the corporation grew, she became executive vice president and treasurer of the four companies it comprised.
) was executive director of Concern for Dying for 11 years beginning in 1976, a period in which thorny cases like that of Karen Ann Quinlan, who spent years on life support equipment, provoked deep questioning about how people die.
Katherine Strauss Mali, president of Concern for Dying, hired her as executive director in 1976.
She was the foundation's chairman and chief executive until she died.
Mrs. Johnson and her husband, Raymond Johnson, a Saks Fifth Avenue executive who died in 1965, were prominent members of cafe society, constantly seen and photographed at El Morocco, the Stork Club and other fashionable nightclubs of the era, and at numerous charity benefits.
In 1998, Mrs. Spaisman was shocked when the Folksbiene board eliminated her position -- executive producer -- to hire younger producers attuned to younger audiences.
The program's graduates include Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and 2001 mayoral candidate, and Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal.
Ms. Castle's personal popularity with the party's rank and file was confirmed in 1950 when she was elected to its national executive committee, a post she held until 1979.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
Mr. Gruson, who later became a senior executive of The Times and a member of its board of directors, died in 1998.
''
        On an impulse, she called a friend who was a Sun-Times executive and asked whether she could help the advice columnist answer some of her mail.
''
        On an impulse, she called a friend who was a Sun-Times executive and asked whether she could help the advice columnist answer some of her mail.
) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
Mr. Gruson, who later became a senior executive of The Times and a member of its board, died in 1998.
She was executive director of the Coalition of Nurse Practitioners from 1996 to 1998.
She was a lawyer and executive with the Motion Picture Association of America from 1959 to 1983.
Born Phyllis Cannon in 1905 in Salt Lake City, she was a great-granddaughter of the Mormon founder Brigham Young and the daughter of a prosperous sugar company executive.

        Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29.
In 1979, she became executive director, a position she held until 1988.
In a statement released yesterday, Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones, said that Mrs. Cook ''was firm on principles, kind to people and ever modest about herself.
She was executive director of the American Theater Association from 1982 to 1986.
She was the daughter of William Claiborne Hall, an executive of the Standard Oil Company of Ohio, and the former Christine Collins.

        ANNE PASTERNAK, the executive director of Creative Time, is stepping gingerly in beaded flip-flops inside the roofless shell of a 19th-century tobacco warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront.
She is executive director of the arts group Creative Time, not its founder.
      
Ms. Read joined the institute in 1939 when it was based in Chicago, and was executive secretary to Mr. Korzybski before his death in 1950.
She married an advertising executive, Jack Abrahms, and moved to Florida; he died a few years later.
The Reinharts' joint activities included the highly praised Balanchine Festival two years ago at the Kennedy Center and ''Free to Dance,'' a documentary film for public television about black dance for which the Reinharts just won an Emmy Award as its executive producers.
Several years later, she took on Dr. Edgar F. Berman, a member of the Democratic Party's committee on national priorities, who claimed that women's ''raging hormonal imbalance'' made them unfit for executive positions in business and politics.

        Nancy Stephenson Nichols, an executive recruiter who helped stellar educational and cultural institutions find stellar executives to lead them, died last Wednesday in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 57 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Clinton Corners, N.Y.
Dr. Nichols was a managing partner of Heidrick & Struggles, a worldwide executive search firm based in Chicago, which she joined in 1996.
Another match she worked on was that of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Michael M. Kaiser, who took over as president in 2001 after serving as executive director of the Royal Opera House in London.
She then spent three years with Norman Broadbent International, an executive recruiter based in London, before joining Heidrick & Struggles.

        Patricia Hochschild Labalme, an executive and a trustee of foundations that give major support to education and scholarly research as well as a scholar of the Renaissance, died on Friday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She was a trustee and past executive director of the Renaissance Society of America, a former trustee of the American Academy in Rome and a former president and life trustee of the Brearley School board.
Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinnear, former president and chief executive of Texaco and chairman of the Metropolitan Opera who will step down later this month and become honorary chairman.

        Florence Segal Lowe, a retired public relations executive and journalist who managed communications for the National Endowment for the Arts from 1970 to 1986, died on Thursday in Washington.

        Joanna Bistany, who became a broadcast news executive when such positions at television networks were almost exclusively occupied by men, died of cancer at her parents' home in Langhorne, Pa., on Sunday, ABC News said yesterday.
On Oct. 13, 1926, she married Daniel J. Mahoney, a Cox newspaper executive who became publisher of The Miami Daily News.
