She suffered a heart attack, said Duane Silverstein, executive director of the Richard and Rhoda Goldman Fund in San Francisco.
She was married in 1965 to Mr. Rose, the chief executive officer of the Georgetown Group, a privately held real estate and financial service group.
' "  She served as executive director of the school until 1979 and also taught there.
She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.
She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.
She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women as a member of the national board and executive committee and national treasurer.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Harry P. Kamen, the chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
Recently, she was a member of the  executive and national board of the American Zionist Federation and sat on the presidium of the Zionist General Council.
Her grandfather, Thomas E. Murray, was a utilities executive and inventor.
The cause was cancer, Edward Martone, the chapter's executive director, said.

        Ariel Allen, a senior advertising executive for the Colgate-Palmolive Company, died on April 7 in New York.
"In the revolution of 1966, Mary was a key player," said Henry Stern, the current Commissioner of the Parks Department who was then its executive director.
She also attended the Wharton School of Executive Education at the University of Pennsylvania.
She left to become executive director of a  public policy institute, the Richard A. Snelling Center for Government in Vermont, before taking her post at the Fish and Wildlife Service.
A former neighborhood worker in the mayoral campaign of John V. Lindsay, she was later executive secretary of what is now the city's Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services.
As executive director of the Board of Elections, she was in charge of its day-to-day operations, from voter registration through certification of the winners.
Annual gifts to the guild, $90,000 in Mrs. Patton's first year as chief executive, rose nearly fourfold, to $355,000.
He was sentenced to death for war crimes there, but died in prison in 1988 before the execution could be carried out..
        "In the days before computers, she was better than computers," said Elan Steinberg, executive director of the World Jewish Congress.
''
        As a longtime researcher for the Labor Department and later as executive director for various Federal commissions and task forces on the status of women, she came to know scores of accomplished, professional women, in and out of Government, who were concerned about sex discrimination and became important in the feminist movement.

        Helen Kushnick, who managed Jay Leno's rise from small-time comic to star of the ''Tonight'' show but was dismissed as the program's executive producer four months after Mr. Leno succeeded Johnny Carson as host, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
The daughter of a department store executive, Mrs.
Her life changed even more in 1975 when Mr. Noyce left her to marry an Intel executive.
There she was executive vice president of the state's chapter of the Americans for Democratic Action.

        Kathleen Carlin, a social service executive who devoted her professional life to the proposition that men can learn to get along quite well without beating up their wives and girlfriends, died on Sept. 20 at a hospice near her home in Atlanta.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.

        Mary Bass Newlin, an author and former executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal, died at her home in Amagansett, L.I., on Aug. 26.
She was named executive editor and retained that post until 1963.
Ms. Lear made a name for herself among feminists, working in political campaigns, including Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign in 1968; with the National Organization for Women on behalf of the Equal Rights Amendment, which was not ratified; as a partner in an executive search firm specializing in placing women, and as a writer, producing articles for a number of national publications.
She received a master's degree from Columbia in 1932 and  was for many years a member of the executive committee of Alexander's.

        Arlene Wanderman, an editor and public relations executive who was the American spokeswoman for the International Olive Oil Council, died on Monday at Beth Israel North Hospital.
The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plainfield, N.J., for which Mrs. Woodruff wrote political commentary until her illness was diagnosed in the spring.
''Margret lived to the fullest every minute of her long and productive life and enriched the lives of millions,'' said Nader F. Darehshori, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Houghton Mifflin.
In 1981, she became a member of the guild's international executive board.

        Lois Shapiro, a publishing executive who helped handle best sellers like "The World According to Garp" by John Irving, "Faces at the Bottom of the Well" by Derrick Bell and "Passages" by Gail Sheehy, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital.
