"
        Her only survivor is her husband, who is executive vice president of the Sam Ash Music Corporation.
Marilyn Adams Moore, an executive with the United Church of Christ, died Jan. 3 at her home in Dayton, N.J. She was 57 years old.
In 1951, she became executive secretary of the Middlebury College Russian School, and from 1956 until her retirement she taught Russian there.
In 1953 she left again to become executive director of the nonprofit New York Foundation but returned a year later when Mayor Robert F. Wagner promised her a free hand as commissioner.
She later became the executive assistant to the producers Herman Levin, Lemuel Ayres and Saint Subber.

        Charlene Victor, the executive director of BACA, the Brooklyn Arts Council, died on Monday at her home in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.

        Colleen M. Sullivan, a former executive editor of Manhattan, inc. who also held editing positions at several newspapers, including The New York Times, was found dead Thursday in a motel room in West Hollywood, Calif. She was 40 years old.
She was editor in chief of Medica, a national magazine for women practicing medicine, from 1982 to 1984, and was executive editor of Manhattan, inc. in 1985.
She is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Manhattan, and Walker Jr., of Boston; two daughters, Mary Shea of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a brother, Thomas J. Watson Jr., the former chief executive of the International Business Machines Corporation, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She was a delegate to the 1932 Republican National Convention, and in the 1930's served on the executive board of the American Jewish Congress.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
Before joining the authority, she was executive assistant to the president of Federal Metal Maintenance in Manhattan, and from 1974 to 1978, she was the director of executive staff relations for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation.
Before joining the authority, she was executive assistant to the president of Federal Metal Maintenance in Manhattan, and from 1974 to 1978, she was the director of executive staff relations for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation.
National and City Awards
        Mrs. Singer was chairwoman of the voluntary advisory council to the Department of Correction, and of the executive committee of the Women's Prison Association.

        Enid C. Baird, executive assistant to three presidents of the National Urban League, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 85 years old and lived in Port Charlotte and Brooklyn.
Mrs. Baird, who joined the League in 1940 as a secretary, was executive assistant to three chief executive officers, Lester B. Granger, Whitney M. Young Jr., and Vernon E. Jordan.
Mrs. Baird, who joined the League in 1940 as a secretary, was executive assistant to three chief executive officers, Lester B. Granger, Whitney M. Young Jr., and Vernon E. Jordan.
Her husband, William C. O'Keeffe, a life insurance executive, died in 1975.
She was executive assistant to Bishop Stephen F. Bayne in London in the late 1960's and early 1970's.
Before that, she was executive director of the Cold Spring Harbor Symposium on Quantitative Biology on Long Island and taught biology at Adelphi University, Hofstra University, Cornell University Medical College and Wellesley College.
Her husband, Winter Mead, an executive for the Prudential Life Insurance Company, died in 1953.
She was a founder of the Brooklyn Community School in the early 1940's and was executive director of the New York Service for Orthopedic Handicapped.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Baxter, who was born in New York, was an advertising executive in the 1950's and 1960's after graduating from Cornell University.

        Natalie Donay, an advertising and cosmetics executive, died on Sunday at her home in London.
She served as president of the Victorian Studies Association and of the Victorian executive committee of the Modern Language Association.

        Barbara A. Bannon, a retired executive editor of Publishers Weekly, died last Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital from injuries in a fall the day before.

        Freda Resika Caspersen, an executive, philanthropist and former director of the Beneficial Corporation, died on Friday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey.

        Ruth Hornby Page, an educator and former executive director of the New Jersey School Boards Association, died on Sunday at Jupiter (Fla.) Hospital.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Charles R. Corcoran, an insurance executive, died in 1978.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.
She is survived by her husband of 45 years, Dr. Robert Dell, who also is a retired Pace professor of English, and two sons, Douglas, a Nynex executive in Middleton, Mass., and Blair, a law student in Texas.
      
She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS.
She was also the chairwoman of the fund's executive committee, which helps theater professionals who have AIDS.
She was a past chairwoman of the state bar's tax section, as well as of its finance committee, and served on the executive committee of the state bar's House of Delegates.

        Sophie Silberberg, who retired last year as the executive director of the Fund For Free Expression, a human-rights group based in New York, died on Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Silberberg was vice chairwoman of the fund and a member of the Human Rights Watch executive committee.

        Betty Hudson Clark, retired executive director of the New York Building Council, died Wednesday after becoming ill in Jefferson City, Mo., where she had gone to visit her family.
Mrs. Clark, a former account executive, joined the construction-industry trade association of over 1,000 member companies in 1959 as an executive secretary and retired as executive director in 1987.
Mrs. Clark, a former account executive, joined the construction-industry trade association of over 1,000 member companies in 1959 as an executive secretary and retired as executive director in 1987.
Mrs. Clark, a former account executive, joined the construction-industry trade association of over 1,000 member companies in 1959 as an executive secretary and retired as executive director in 1987.

        Sophie Silberberg, who retired last year as the executive director of the Fund For Free Expression, a human-rights group based in New York, died on Saturday at her home in East Hampton, L.I.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Silberberg was vice chairwoman of the fund and a member of the Human Rights Watch executive committee.
She had been executive director of the Twenty-First Century Foundation, established to finance eceonomic development in black communities, and was a board member of the Black United Fund.
She became the first executive director of Creative Theater Unlimited in 1974 and held the position until 1977.

        Rita Greenland, an advertising executive active in Jewish organizations, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital.

        Carolyn Elsinger, executive vice president of CKDC Steel Inc., died on Tuesday in New York.
Before that she was an executive assistant to the chairman of Genimar Inc., manufacturers of fabricated masonry wall reinforcements, also in New York.
In 1961 she worked for George Hinman, a political adviser to Rockefeller when he was Governor of New York, and became the Governor's executive assistant in 1965.
She also had been an honorary governor of Hebrew Union College, vice president of the New York City Y.W.H.A., vice president of the national Girl Scouts and chairwoman of its American Girl magazine, executive committee member of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Parsons School of Design.
She married Alfred R. Bachrach, a prominent accounting executive and president of Temple Emanu-El, the world's largest Reform Jewish congregation.
Her father, Joseph Richardson Dilworth, is a former chairman and chief executive officer of the Rockefeller Group in New York City.
In 1975 she was executive producer for a television special, "Danny Kaye: Look In at the Met.
In 1973 she established Women's Health Services in Pittsburgh and served as its executive director for 11 years.

        Mary Vandergrift, a founder and longtime executive of Parke-Bernet Galleries auction house and for many years a major figure in international auctions, died in her sleep on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
When Parke-Bernet was acquired by Sotheby & Company, an English auction house, in 1963, she was named executive vice president of the new firm, Sotheby Parke Bernet.

        Eleanor Pollock Hughes, former top editor of three national magazines and a public relations executive for several Federal agencies, died Friday at Sibley Hospital in Washington.
"
        While at Madeira, Miss Maynard served six years on the executive committee of the National Council of Independent Schools and was its chairwoman for three years.

        Jean Wade Rindlaub, one of the first American women to become a major advertising executive, died on Thursday at the Courtland Garden Health Center in Stamford, Conn. She was 87 years old and lived in Stamford.
In addition to her work at the conventions, she also arranged meetings of the national and executive committees and kept party records.
She then moved to Harper's Bazaar, becoming executive editor in 1952.
During World War II she served in a number of executive positions with the Brooklyn chapter of the Motor Transport Service of the American Women's Voluntary Services, the organization that aided the armed forces and local military bases.
Miss Kempton's husband, A. M. McNamara, a lawyer and business executive, died several years ago.
      
