She was on the executive committee of the New York chapter of Physicians for Social Responsibility and had an office at the Natural Resources Defense Council in New York, where she was a consultant.
''
        Her own Irene Diamond Fund will continue her work, said Jane Silver, its executive director.
' ''
        Over the years, she was an executive of the Paris Theater in Manhattan and a consultant to the Rugoff Theaters, the Little Carnegie and the Fifth Avenue Cinema.
Ms. Conklin married James D. Thompson, an advertising executive, in 1935.

        Sandy Carlson Tarlow, an advertising executive who was responsible for defining the public face of Polo Ralph Lauren for almost a quarter century, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She also was executive producer of more than 15 network television specials broadcast from Ford's Theater.

        Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio.

        Celine G. Marcus, former executive director of the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, an East Side social services organization, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She retired in 1982 after 12 years as the association's executive director and 11 years as assistant to the director.
She resigned as executive director of Odyssey House in 1983, but remained active in affiliated programs.
Carol Grace Marcus Matthau was born in Manhattan and never knew her father; she grew up in foster homes until she was 8, when her mother married Charles Marcus, an executive with the Bendix Aircraft Corporation, who adopted her.
''
        Dr. Goldman-Rakic was the first researcher to chart the frontal lobe of the brain, the executive center responsible for personality, reasoning, planning, insight and other high-order cognitive functions.
Dr. Magno became the first executive director of the National Hospice Organization in 1980.
In 1959 Ms. Marlow joined the Curtis Brown literary agency, and she remained there, becoming executive vice president.
She was elected to Parliament in 1982 and quickly rose through her party's ranks, becoming chairman of its youth league in 1984 and a member of the policy-making executive committee in 1991.
In 1936, she married Seymour Berkson, a journalist and newspaper executive at the Hearst Corporation, who died in 1959.

        Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She then became president and chief executive of World Learning Inc., a nonprofit organization with programs in 110 countries.
Correction:  October 30, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, misstated the day of her death.
''
        Dr. John Gottman, a therapist and author who is executive director of the Relationship Institute in Seattle, said, ''This insight is threatening to everybody,'' but added that it was ''potentially very healing.
She joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Guild in 1966, became first vice president in the late 1970's and was president and chief executive from 1979 to 1986.

        Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was attending a business conference.
She had been a Philip Morris board member since 1981, when she was the executive vice president leading the sprawling fashion group of General Mills, later spun off as Crystal Brands.
A few days before her graduation, Genesco recruited Ms. Evans for executive training.
She went to lead the apparel group of General Mills where, as an executive vice president, she was responsible for fashion labels like Izod Lacoste, Ship 'n Shore and Monet Jewelers.
In 1984, she became president and chief executive officer of Monet, a big maker of quality costume jewelry, and stayed on when General Mills spun off its fashion components.
But she returned to retailing in 1989 as president and chief executive of the Interpacific Group, an operator of hundreds of specialty stores under various names at resorts in Hawaii and the Far East.
Other founders included Christie Hefner of Playboy Enterprises, Marilyn R. Seymann of M One and Kay Koplovitz, former chief executive of USA Networks.
She became its executive vice president in 1995.
in 1980 and became executive assistant to the chairman, John Shad.

        Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the National Brain Tumor Foundation, died on Nov. 30 in San Francisco, where she made her home.
Ms. Stevenson organized the office of executive director in 1985 as the group expanded its fund-raising efforts for patient care and the search for a cure.
Correction:  January 1, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 19 about Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the Brain Tumor Foundation, misstated the location of the public television station KQED, for which she once worked.

        Regina Ovesey, the first woman to be chief executive of an advertising agency recognized by the industry's main trade group, the American Association of Advertising Agencies, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan, where she lived.
Later she was casting director of ''The Twilight Zone'' and an executive producer of ''Hogan's Heroes'' and ''The Wild Wild West.
When Ms. Winant began her first vice president's job, she told of finding that the single restroom in CBS's executive dining room had a door without a lock.
''One day, I decided to just leave my shoes outside the executive bathroom door.
''
        Correction:  December 21, 2003, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about Ethel Winant, a television executive, misstated her date of birth in some copies.
