She was a past president of Executive Women in Government.

        Natalie Molostwoff, a former executive director of the School of American Ballet, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Nathalie Gleboff, the current executive director of the school, which is affiliated with the New York City Ballet.
When Ms. Ouroussow died in 1976, Ms. Molostwoff succeeded her as executive director, holding that post until she retired in 1991.
Co-Founded Lasker Awards
        Mrs. Lasker and her husband Albert Davis Lasker, a pioneer advertising executive who died in 1952, established the Lasker Foundation in 1942.
In early 1990, when it was announced that no awards would be given that year, the foundation had assets of about $2.4 million, down from about $4.5 million in 1980, but an executive of the foundation said that omitting the awards, of $15,000 each, in that year "wasn't really a financial decision.
"
        In 1940, after leaving the art-gallery world, she married Mr. Lasker, who had achieved wealth and eminence as an advertising executive, having joined the Lord & Thomas advertising agency in 1898 and become its owner in 1908.
Her sister, Alice Fordyce, was the executive vice president of the foundation and director of the Lasker Awards program.

        Dr. Veronica M. Driscoll, a retired executive director of the New York State Nurses Association, died on Sunday at her home in Loudonville, N.Y. She was 67.
She held positions in nursing education and administration before she joined the nurses association, which has headquarters in Guilderland, N.Y., as deputy executive director 1960.
She served as executive director from 1969 to 1979.
Mrs. Heitman then directed President George Bush's Committee on Executive Exchange, which promoted close relations between the Government and private business through an exchange of executives.

        Elsa Victoria Lorne Harvey, chief executive of Lorne-Harvey Publications in Larchmont, N.Y., died on Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 62 and lived in Larchmont.
She was the daughter of an executive for Union Carbide.
She eventually became executive director of the New York State Consumer Protection Board and then commissioner of the New York City Department of Consumer Affairs.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX-TV in New York City and a longtime friend of Ms. Harper.
Miss Furness, whose original name was Elizabeth Mary Furness, was born on Jan. 3, 1916, in New York City, the daughter of George Choate Furness, an executive with what was then called Union Carbon and Carbide, and Florence Sturtevant Furness.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX in New York City, and a longtime friend.
Mrs. Kgositsile was the executive director of the Council on Interracial Books for Children in New York where she directed the production of documentaries and books.

        Shirley M. Sills, the executive vice president of PTN Publishing Company in Melville, L.I., died yesterday in her home in Manhasset, L.I.
Mrs. Sills was an executive for six years at PTN Publishing, which produces 30 financial magazines relating to businesses like photography, chemicals and security services.

        Gail Dunbar, an executive recruiter, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital, where she was taken last Tuesday after being found unconscious in her Manhattan apartment.
"I think she cast a particular spell over the White House that has not been equaled," said Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, who was a friend of the Kennedys.
She was the hospital's chief executive during the institution's greatest period of growth, which included the addition of an addiction recovery center, a hospice, family health centers and home health care outreach operations.
Ms. Gair was the executive producer of an hourlong program of world news and public affairs on WBEZ-FM, the National Public Radio affiliate in Chicago.

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.

        Natalia Danesi Murray, a publishing executive and book editor in New York from the 1950's through the 1970's, died on Thursday at her son's home in Del Mar, Calif. She was 92.
Mrs. Kotlowitz was for a decade, until her death, the executive director of the college's thematic studies program, an undergraduate program in the liberal arts.
In the early 1980's, she became its executive director while continuing to provide academic and personal counseling to students.
In addition to her husband, a novelist and a former editor and executive of WNET, she is survived by two sons, Daniel, a theatrical-lighting designer, of Manhattan, and Alex, an author, of Oak Park Ill., and a sister, Peggy L. Snyder of Manhattan.
      

        Frances Corey, a fashion executive whose career of six decades began before the era of the flappers and took in space-age fabrics developed for astronauts, died on Thursday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 91.
She returned to New York in 1953 to join R. H. Macy & Company as an executive vice president -- the first woman to rise to that executive level at Macy's.
She returned to New York in 1953 to join R. H. Macy & Company as an executive vice president -- the first woman to rise to that executive level at Macy's.
Previously, she was director of executive education at the school and, earlier, an advertising executive.
Previously, she was director of executive education at the school and, earlier, an advertising executive.
board from 1947 to 1967 and was variously a member of its executive committee, its committee on racial inclusiveness and other panels.
In the early 1970's, she was also executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League.

        Irma Shorell, a skin-care specialist and retired cosmetics executive, died on Monday in her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
In the late 1960's, she was the executive director of the oldest Job Corps center in the United States, in Cleveland.
She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942.
Mrs. Ingrao (pronounced in-GRAY-oh) was elected in 1979 as executive secretary-treasurer of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
She later served as administrative assistant to the federation's executive secretary-treasurer.
"
        Born in 1897, Nancy Keene Perkins was a daughter of Lizzie Langhorne and T. Moncure Perkins, a meatpacking executive.

        Dr. Marion F. Langer, a former executive director of the American Orthopsychiatric Association and an expert on widowhood, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
She was the orthopsychiatric association's executive director from 1953 until she retired in 1988.

        Donna Kay Price, a Westchester County real estate executive and former director of the Lighthouse for the Blind of New York and Westchester, died on Saturday at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 59 and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y.
        Mrs. Price died of head injuries suffered in a fall at her home, her family said.
Miss Potts also served as the executive secretary of a commission established by Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia to foster economic and technological cooperation between the two nations.
She returned to Texas in the 1920's to marry Harvey Levan Cliburn, an oil-company executive.
Mrs. Williamson became the executive director of what began as the Essex County Community Foundation in 1980.
"
        She was born in Pontiac, Mich., and was an executive secretary for various companies, including the Chrysler Corporation.
She had been executive director of the National Council in New York for 18 years before being elected president.
She was born Mary Gindhart in 1907 in West Collingswood, N.J., the daughter of Isaac D. Gindhart Jr., a telephone company executive, and Mary Simon Gindhart, a music teacher.
Ms. Schwaninger became executive director of the Willowbrook Review Panel in 1978, three years after it was created under a Federal court order to monitor the release of residents of Willowbrook into community settings.
She was its chief executive director for the last six years.
She was involved in mental health work in Nebraska and was a former executive director of the state Office of Mental Retardation.
In 1938 she became executive director of the Hartford Tuberculosis and Public Health Society.
      
Miss Fizdale made her mark during 19 years as executive director of the Arthur Lehman Counseling Service in Manhattan.

        Elenore Hangley, a former executive vice president of the Advertising Council, died on Saturday at the Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, in Englewood, N.J. She was 63 and lived in Cliffside, N.J.
Seven years later, she was named senior vice president of campaign administration and then, in the same year, was named executive vice president of operations.
Mark Ruben, executive director for Israel Bonds of the Greater Palm Beaches, credited her with raising tens of millions of dollars for Israel.
Two years later, she married Jouett Shouse, the chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee.

        Aminda Badeau Wilkins, a retired welfare official and the widow of Roy Wilkins, longtime executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
