She served as executive director of the White House Commission on the Status of Women during the Kennedy Administration.
In 1961, she was enlisted to help prepar the President's Commission on the Status of Women and became is executive director under Eleanor Roosevelt and Esther Peterson.
She came to national attention as executive director of the San Antonio Housing Authority, where she championed amenities like balconies for every apartment.
As a radio and television columnist in 1957, she quoted a CBS executive, whom she did not name, as saying that Judy Garland was balking about doing a CBS special ''because she thinks she is terribly fat.
She also was a member of the Maritime Law Association of the United States and its committees on marine financing and cruise lines, a member of the European Maritime Law Association, the Liberian Shipowners Council and its legal advisory board, and on the executive committee of the board of the Norwegian-American Chamber of Commerce.
She became Tradenet's chairwoman in 1990, a post she held while also working as an executive with several Soros foundations.
'' She had also been executive producer of the weekly program ''Business World'' for seven years and executive producer of ''Lifetime Magazine,'' a women's news magazine program produced by ABC for the Lifetime cable network.
'' She had also been executive producer of the weekly program ''Business World'' for seven years and executive producer of ''Lifetime Magazine,'' a women's news magazine program produced by ABC for the Lifetime cable network.

        Cassandra Ides Jones, a former  executive of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the owner of an interior design company, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
The couple moved to the Deep South in 1954, when Mr. Morris was appointed a vicar in Dillon, S.C.
        At the end of 1958, they moved to Atlanta, where Mr. Morris became the executive director of the newly formed Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, a group that supported the civil rights movement and addressed segregation within the Episcopal Church.
She began her advertising career two years later at McCann-Erickson, where she was hired as vice president, executive producer.
In 1974 she moved to Grey Advertising as vice president, production group head, and she joined Saatchi & Saatchi Compton nine years later as executive vice president, director of broadcast production, before returning to McCann-Erickson.
She was executive editor when she left in 1968 to become managing editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.

        Leanne Katz, who served as executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship since its creation more than 20 years ago, died at her New York home Sunday, after a three-year battle with cancer.
The newspaper study ''Changing Needs of Changing Readers,'' published in 1979, had ''an electrifying effect on the news business,'' said Lee Stinnett, executive director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which commissioned it in an effort to assess why circulation was declining.
She was a founder of the executive committee of the Lexington Democratic Club, a State Committeewoman, co-leader of the 73d Assembly District and an officer of Community Planning Board 8.
Her career began in 1928 in the controller's office at R. H. Macy & Company after she was rejected for the executive training program in retailing.
She resigned in 1990 and became executive vice president and editor in chief of the Southern Progress Corporation, an arm of Time Warner, with responsibility for overseeing the editorial direction of the magazines Southern Living, Progressive Farmer, Southern Accents, Travel South and Cooking Light.
In 1992 Ms. Woodhull became a trustee of the Freedom Forum, and in 1996 she became a senior vice president and executive director of the Media Studies Center, a unit of the Freedom Forum that focuses on media issues and journalism research.
Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
Her second marriage, to J. Thompson Ruger, an executive of Sturm, Ruger & Company, manufacturers of firearms, was ended by his death in 1993.
''
        Ms. Carpenter was still a student at Girls' Commercial High School of Brooklyn in 1939 when she was heard by John Hammond, the jazz enthusiast and recording executive who had started Billie Holiday, Benny Goodman and Count Basie on the way to stardom.
Benjamin Sonnenberg, a public relations executive, had bought two adjoining houses in 1933 and converted them to a 37-room six-story mansion.
''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show.

        Emily Norris Carey, a foundation executive and philanthropist, died on April 30 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a retired executive assistant district attorney of New York County.

        Marie Salant Neuberger, a New York foundation executive and philanthropist who was long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She suffered a long illness, her family said.
Etched at the bottom is the name of County Executive Robert J. Gaffney -- who two months later, without warning, created a committee to search for her successor.
Instead, Dr. Hibberd will start a new job Monday as a senior executive at Ipro, a health-care consulting firm in Lake Success.
County Executive Patrick Halpin named her acting health commissioner in 1991, and Mr. Gaffney made the appointment permanent.

        Edythe Meserand, who was one of the first women to become a radio news executive, died on Monday at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y.. She was 88.
During her tenure at Dreyfus, which lasted until 1977, Mrs. Talley managed several funds, was a member of the firm's executive committee and earned a reputation as one of the sharper financial minds around.
One of her principal collectors was T. Marshall Hahn, a retired executive with Georgia-Pacific.
During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
''
        Otis Chandler succeeded his father as the paper's publisher in 1960 and held that post for 20 years, though Norman Chandler remained an executive with the company until his death in 1974.

        Margaret Sherman Peet, a former advertising executive, died Aug. 6 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y., after a fall, her son, Charles D. Peet Jr., said.
There, she met an executive of Trans World Airlines, who hired her to travel the world promoting T.W.A.
They had three sons: Joseph, executive editor of The New York Times; David, of Manhattan and Ithaca, N.Y., and Michael, of Lexington, Mass.
Correction:  December 19, 1997, Friday  An obituary of the philanthropist Janet Annenberg Hooker on Tuesday misstated the ownership of The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1974, when Ms. Hooker married James Stewart Hooker, an executive there.
She later joined the county executive committee and took on the chore of research director for the Democrats in the State Legislature.
In addition to her husband and children, Ms. Hubert Allison is survived by a stepson, Matthew Allison, 32, a record industry executive in Hong Kong.
Ms. Steel's skill as an executive was sometimes overshadowed by a reputation for an abrasive, take-no-prisoners style.
In 1942 she took on the additional tasks of executive secretary of Friends of the Library and director of its fledgling Sophia Smith Collection.
She founded its Presidential Services Division in 1974 and was executive vice president of the academy from 1978 to 1988.
Ms. Weisenfeld was chief organizer and executive director over 50 years, often working 12-hour days.
