Her husband, Leo Simon, a clothing retailing executive, died in 1966.
She is survived by her son, Stephen A., the music director of the Washington Chamber Symphony, of Washington; a brother, Walter H., the former chief executive of Triangle Publications and the founder of TV Guide, of Philadelphia and near Palm Springs, Calif.; four sisters, Enid Haupt, Janet Hooker, Lita Hazen and Evelyn Hall, all of Manhattan, and six grandsons.
      
She was chairwoman of Columbia's Advisory Committee for Ethnic Studies and served on its Commission on the Future of the University, the University Senate and the Faculty Executive Committee.
In the 1970's, she was the executive director of an organization called A Bunch of Experimental Theaters.

        Linda M. Arenth, a nursing executive and innovator in the care of cancer patients, died Feb. 9 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore.
In 1978, the Yawkey estate was on the verge of selling the team to a syndicate formed by Haywood C. Sullivan, a Red Sox executive, and the team's former trainer, Edward G. (Buddy) LeRoux Jr., with Mrs. Yawkey as a limited partner.
She also worked as the executive assistant to the Principal of the Ramaz School, a Jewish day school on Manhattan's East Side.

        Susan Kaplan Hopwood, a marketing and sales executive in New York City, died on Feb. 8 at her home in Newtonville, Mass.
She was a trustee of Phillips Academy at the time of her death and had been on the executive committee of the school's development board.
After years of experience, she often found herself explaining procedures to younger male executive trainees.
She also served as executive secretary of the League of Nations Association of Greater New York from 1927 to 1928.
Her husband, Milton, who was a perfume business executive, is dead.
In 1924, she married Gerald H. Carson, an advertising executive, who later wrote several books as a social historian, including "Cornflake Crusade.
Although her career was launched and revolved around her widely acclaimed beauty, Miss Colby became an author, a newspaper columnist, an advertising executive, chief assistant to Hollywood moguls and a host on the "Today" show -- as well as a model and film actress.
"I introduced them to their wives," she told a reporter in 1970 on the occasion of her first and only marriage, to Palen Flagler, a business executive.
In 1947, after working for the Selznick organization, Miss Colby served as a $150,000-a-year executive assistant to the head of Paramount Pictures.
Her husband was John Scott Mabon, a publishing executive who was the acting director of University of Michigan Press.
She was also executive secretary of the National Federation of Music Clubs and of the New York City Opera Guild.
Mrs. Wright was a past executive director of the Chicago Council on Foreign Relations and in the 1950's directed the Midwest office of the Institute for International Education.

        Melissa Stutsman Topping, an executive of the Henry Luce Foundation, died on Friday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.

        Susan N. Brewster, the executive director of the State Financial Control Board for the City of Yonkers for the last six years, died on Tuesday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 41 years old and lived in Ossining.
For 22 years Mrs. Gutman headed Greenburgh's Arts and Culture Committee, first as chairwoman and then as executive director.
Since 1986, she had been the executive director of Gov.
Won Mayoral Award 3 Times
        In 1988, Leonard W. Stern, executive director of the National Assembly, a coalition of charitable organizations, called her "the ultimate volunteer.

        Carole Mills Weinberg, a modeling agent and executive, died on Thursday in Little Rock, Ark.

        Novetah Holmes Davenport, an early pilot who became an executive in the aircraft industry, died July 3 at a nursing home in Pompano Beach, Fla. She was 90 years old.
She was executive director of the American Association of Psychiatric Services for Children from 1972 to 1979, which was based in Washington but moved in 1988 to Rochester.
From 1985 to 1987, Mrs. Kramer was executive director of the Committee for Food and Shelter in Washington, an advocacy group for the homeless, and a forerunner of the National Alliance to End Homelessness.
Miss Thomas served as the first full-time executive director of the organization, from 1952 until her retirement about 25 years later.

        Hope Miller Lessman, a former actress and real estate executive, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Ms. Batchelor founded the Los Angeles Film Critics Association in 1975, and was its president and executive director for three years.
She worked as a decorator before becoming executive secretary of the Spence School.
"She really was the guiding light of the league's work, which played a lead role in court reform," said Elizabeth Hubbard, executive director of the Committee for Modern Courts.
"She really was the guiding light of the league's work, which played a lead role in court reform," said Elizabeth Hubbard, executive director of the Committee for Modern Courts.
Her husband of 48 years, Peter H. Solomon, a shoe company executive, died in 1988.
She later became the executive producer of classical attractions for the Nederlander Organization.
Mrs. Fordyce served as executive vice president of the foundation and director of the awards program until December 1990.

        Helen A. Wilson, a retired executive for international refugee and development agencies, died Friday at her house in Washington.

        Amelia Lobsenz, a public-relations executive who ran her own firm in Manhattan for the last 36 years, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
A native of Greensboro, N.C., Ms. Lobsenz graduated from Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga., and became one of the first women to rise into the executive ranks of her profession.
At the time of her death she was board chairwoman and chief executive of the firm, which counts American Home Products, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Procter & Gamble among its clients.
She is survived by two sons, James W. 3d, of Greenwich, Conn., president and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc., and Peter, of Birmingham; a daughter, Polly Lincoln of West Hartford, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Steve Suitts, the council's executive director, said she did so because she believed it important that whites work for school desegregation.

        Eleanor H. Raynolds, an executive search consultant who was honored by the Queen of England for her work for the British-American Chamber of Commerce, died on Tuesday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut.
The cause of her death was a massive staphylococcus infection, said Penny Paul Mooney, an associate at Ward Howell, the executive search firm where she was a partner.

        Mildred Morton Gilbert, a former executive editor of Vogue magazine, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She joined the merchandising staff of Vogue in 1940 and became executive editor in 1947, a position she held for 19 years.
In 1966 Miss Gilbert was appointed international executive editor.
"
        The actress was born in Manhattan to the former Virginia Wright and Albert J. Ford, a business executive.
A native of St. Louis, she was married in 1934 to John C. Carrington, who became an executive vice president of The Freeport Minerals Company and the president of the Hewitt School's board of trustees.

        Enid Schechter, who served as the executive assistant to four Speakers of the New York State Assembly in the Legislature's New York City office, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was also a founder in 1979 of the Religious Committee on the New York City Health Crisis, of which she was executive director.
She was also a founder in 1979 of the Religious Committee on the New York City Health Crisis, of which she was executive director.
Mrs. Haussamen, a real-estate heiress, was born in Manhattan, the daughter of L. Victor Weil, a real-estate executive, and the former Beatrice Schwab.
In the mid-1980's, she became the executive director of Hale House and later its president.
