
        Sandra W. Meyer, a pioneering marketing executive who was part of the inspiration for the long-running Broadway drama ''The Sisters Rosensweig,'' died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital.
Mrs. Meyer held senior-level executive positions at some of the nation's largest and best-known companies at a time when women worked mainly in the administrative ranks.
She was also one of the founding members of the Committee of 200, a group of the most senior executive women in the country.
In recent years, she was vice chairman of Community Planning Board 14 and was on the executive board of the Midwood-Kings Highway Development Corporation and on the board of the Brooklyn College Performing Arts Center, which gave her its Distinguished Community Service Award in 1995.
Volunteering to become the group's first executive secretary, she operated the organization for its first few years, first from her home and later at a small office.
The only child of Richard Hall and Chesbrough Lewis, a cafe society beauty famously photographed by Horst and Avedon, she dutifully followed her social destiny: finishing school, Briarcliff Junior College and candle-lighted wedding at St. Thomas Protestant Episcopal Church in Manhattan, in 1952, to William P. Rayner, a stockbroker who later became an executive at Conde Nast Publications.
''By 1975,'' said Cynthia Pearson, the network's executive director, ''there were over 2,000 community-based women's health groups that either provided direct services and education and an alternative to traditional male-dominated medical care or were engaged in efforts to change the system.
Her son, Andrew Barnes, is the editor and chief executive of The St. Petersburg Times.
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      

        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Correction:  April 27, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Barbara Burton Elliott, executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell' Opera, misidentified a church in Manhattan where the company has performed.

        Kathleen F. Connelly, a corporate crisis and public relations executive, died Sunday while vacationing in the Virgin Islands.
The extraordinary success that followed propelled Mr. Dilenschneider to the top of Hill & Knowlton, the world's largest public relations firm, and Ms. Connelly rose to become its first female executive vice president and head of worldwide business development.
Mr. White recalled a meeting in the 1950's that he, Ms. Skelly and another male executive from Stewart Dougall, a New York research firm where she worked early on, were asked to attend with the board of the New York Stock Exchange.
Joe Podgor, the former executive director, called her ''the giant on whose shoulders we all stand.
At her retirement from the association, she was its first executive secretary.
Working part time until she obtained a master's in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, Mrs. Mudd, who eventually received her doctorate there, became the council's full-time executive director in 1936 and held the post until her retirement in 1967.
In 1983, she was married a second time, to James Cushing, a construction company executive.
There she met her future husband, a young executive with Standard Oil.

        Beatrice Snyder, a co-founder and former executive of Biocraft Laboratories, a maker of generic pharmaceuticals, died June 21 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Mr. Snyder was chairman and chief executive.
In the 15 years of its existence, the club attracted chief executive officers and economists to Milwaukee as speakers.
Once the lone female copywriter at the giant Foote, Cone & Belding advertising agency, Miss Polykoff became the agency's lone female executive vice president, the toast of Madison Avenue and the 1967 Advertising Woman of the Year.
''
        In 1940, she married Mike Frankovich, a Columbia studio executive and former football star at the University of California at Los Angeles.
She was chief executive of the foundation until she retired in 1994.
Not only would she design a doll, but she would also design the showroom for the manufacturer, said Maurene Souza, a former executive at Hasbro Inc. who worked with Mrs. Albert over the years.
This and several other long sentences she imposed on violent gang members over the next few weeks made Judge Stout such a hero in Philadelphia that when the executive director of the local chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union sent form letters to members of the Philadelphia bar protesting her ''swift justice,'' he received so many angry replies that he sent a second letter, beginning, ''I am sorry that our criticism of Judge Stout has upset you.

        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore.
Like her business acumen and her boundless good humor, her religious commitment seems to have come from her father, Frank, a Pennsylvania Railroad executive with a weakness for practical jokes and such a spiritual bent, his daughter later recalled, that ''he would pray all the way to work, and when I went with him, I would pray, too.
Mrs. Michelfelder retired in April as executive director of Wayside House in Delray Beach, which she co-founded in 1974.
in Tulsa and afterward credited the skills she acquired for the jump she made from stenographer in the Gulf Oil Corporation's accounting department to a senior secretary in the executive suite.
''For the first few years of my life I was an introvert, a shrinking violet,'' the sometimes brash auto executive wrote in his autobiography, ''Iacocca.
Marilyn Shapiro, the executive director for external affairs at the Met, estimated that Mrs. Harrington's donations to the Met totaled more than  $30 million.
''She leaned into it,'' said Alice Yaker, who recently retired as Share's executive director, referring to both the disease and the cancer support center.
Foster, who is an executive in the marketing firm in St. Louis owned by Joyner-Kersee and who has extensive contact with the family, said he had been told that ''she never woke up this morning.
''
        Some in Europe have called for a review of the record, but Craig Masback, the chief executive officer of USA Track and Field, the sport's national governing body, said the matter was closed.
She died of cancer, said Ferrucio Ferragamo, her brother and chief executive officer of Salvatore Ferragamo Italia.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
Ms. Ferragamo's most successful shoe design, a round-toe low-heeled pump with grosgrain ribbon and gold buckle stamped with the family signature, became a badge of executive propriety and country club chic.
''We did Banana Republic, always Saks, Gracious Home was like a candy store to her,'' said Helen O'Hagan, a friend and former Saks executive.

        Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Rockland County service organization for the developmentally disabled that she founded in 1969.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
''She was the toughest deal maker imaginable,'' said Mary Ann Tighe, executive managing director of Insignia/ESG, a real estate brokerage and management concern.
Norman Lear, one of the executive producers of both of her shows, said the once-stocky actress appeared thin but vibrant, and that she had a role in a forthcoming movie, ''Down in the Delta,'' directed by the poet Maya Angelou and scheduled for release this month.
Mr. Lear, who was the executive producer of ''All in the Family,'' from which ''Maude'' and ''Good Times'' were later spun off, said one of his most vivid memories of Ms. Rolle was a musical number she performed with Beatrice Arthur, the actress who played Maude.

        Florence L. Walsh, a fast-rising executive at Lucent Technologies Inc. who helped engineer that company's split from the AT&T Corporation in 1996, died on Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey.

        Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Gulkin, a former specialist in programs for drug abusers, became Greenwich House's executive director in 1976.
Her title was changed to president and chief executive in 1991.
In her 22 years as its senior salaried executive, its annual operating budget grew to $13.5 million from $1 million or less, Mr. Racioppi said.
She was  dean at Russell Sage College and Nazareth College of Rochester before moving to Oswego as executive vice president, provost and professor of English in 1974.
Michael Puccino, an executive with a Manhattan computer consulting firm, and his wife, Anne Marie, a veterinary nurse, would help whenever they could.
Mrs. Baker and Mr. Holzhauer were divorced in 1940, and seven years later she married Jacob Baker, a business executive, and they moved into the Chelsea Hotel.
The two dined together every Saturday night in the Chelsea Hotel apartment of their friends, Gerald Busby, a composer, and Sam Byers, an advertising executive.

        Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.
Correction:  December 25, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday, and in some copies on Sunday, about Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, misstated the position of her husband, Ronald D. Arron, in the Metropolitan Opera  Orchestra.
