With a naturalness and an authority that belied her limited theatrical experience, she was an astonishing success in her first major role.
At 17 she turned her back on religion, saying that her family's experience was ''a spirit-filled, born-again lunacy.
'' Mr. Bayley's descriptions of his struggle to understand his wife's suffering, to find ways to ameliorate it and to come to grips with the physical demands of his new responsibilities and to understand the conflicting emotions aroused in him by the experience are exact, penetrating and unsparing.
She wrote about the experience in ''My Wild Irish Rogues'' (Doubleday & Company, 1952).
''She found the experience in jail heartening,'' Shane Hallinan said.
But she had no newspaper experience.
As Stuart W. Little observed in his 1972 book ''Off Broadway: The Prophetic Theater'': ''For thousands of theatergoers, a visit to the de Lys was the authentic Off Broadway experience.
She wrote of the experience in ''The Book That Came Alive,'' her last.
''
        Ms. Klaus's desire to become a lawyer also derived from the experience of watching her mother battle  the court system for 10 years over her husband's estate.
She was best known for her 1961 novel, ''The Frog Pond,'' which was inspired by her own experience with psychoanalysis and became a best seller.
Ms. Williams fused her experiences in the dusty cotton fields and fruit orchards of the San Joaquin Valley with historical research to articulate the African-American experience.
Louise Thompson enjoyed her experience of Soviet society and told how ''the Russians would push us to the front of the queue line for a bus or ticket, or offer us seats in a crowded streetcar.
The book, which became an underground classic, pulled together ideas about perception, craft, education, creativity, religion and spirituality, arguing for the richness of daily experience if carefully attended to, and the creativity of the average person.
'' These feelings, she said, must be captured before they're labeled with adult words because adult words both falsify experience and render it traumatizing.
As a teenage student at the American Dance Festival, Mrs. Blunden had her first important experience of modern dance.
''My own experience as a woman made me sensitive toward the condition of women of all classes,'' she said.
''And the whole experience of a foreign trip, whether you see 10 new birds or 500, is simply too good to miss.
