The poet Maxine Kumin, a member of that first group of scholars, remembers her two years at the institute as an ''amazing'' experience, with a diverse group of artists, scientists, social scientists and poets, ''with Polly Bunting as our ringmaster.
In the book ''More Than Social Studies'' (Prentice-Hall, 1957) she coined the term ''social educator,'' whose classroom becomes ''a particular setting in which children can experience democratic living.
Bill Buford, the fiction editor at The New Yorker who was previously the editor of Granta, an English literary magazine, wrote about Ms. Gellhorn and her work: ''Reading Martha Gellhorn for the first time is a staggering experience.
''It has been the hardest, and loneliest, experience I can imagine,'' she wrote.
From 1948, when the Schomburg Center was known as the Schomburg Collection, until 1980, when she retired as its chief, Mrs. Hutson harnessed her powerful will to assemble an archive of documents, books and works of art that reflected the experience not just of African-Americans, but of peoples throughout the African diaspora.
Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it.
While at the Harlem branch she helped build its James Weldon Johnson Collection of quality books about the black experience and in 1946 compiled a bibliography, ''Books About Negro Life for Children.
''To see a legend assume the dimensions of reality before us,'' Mr. Martin wrote about her dancing in ''Romeo and Juliet,'' ''and in the process lose nothing of the quality of legend, is a rare and wonderful experience.
''
        It was, however, an experience that Russian ballet fans were able to enjoy for decades.
''
        Ms. Skelly had firsthand experience with sex discrimination early in her career.
Torok was a landmark figure, very important within the world of psychoanalysis,'' Dr. Furman said, ''remembered for the manner in which she brought back the importance of individual experience within the limits of the theoretical apparatus of psychoanalysis.
In the decade after her machete experience, Mrs. Maxwell made dozens of expeditions to the remotest regions of the upper Amazon, befriending the local Indians and slowly learning the secrets of their vast medical lore.
To Indians whose experience with outsiders had been as victims of armed rubber merchants, an unarmed woman posed no threat.
When she came to New York in the 1920's, she was turned down for so many roles that she wrote a poem about the experience.
From this experience she derived her own no-nonsense program and opened the Blairstown center in Warren County, one of the first such treatment centers in the country.
Based on his experience as a customer and as an acquaintance of her children, Mr. Buffett made the acquisition on a handshake without bothering to audit her books or inventory.
Mrs. Harrington immersed herself in the experience, attending rehearsals, talking with  cast and crew, dispensing advice.

        Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines.
Her imposing appearance combined with her strong personality helped her advance her causes and also to defend them against attacks by groups like the Christian Crusade, the John Birch Society and Moral Majority, who contended that her promotion of sex education in schools was encouraging a premature and unhealthy participation in sexual experience and usurping the role of parents in guiding their children's lives.
During rehearsals she was paired with a man, but she found him so clumsy and the whole experience so embarrassing that she persuaded Mr. Azpiazu to let her dance alone, as she did from then on.
Her revivals were doomed in the late 1960's, however, when the city began to experience a series of fiscal crises.
She also had the experience, rare for most authors, of seeing two of her most widely admired novels, ''Black Narcissus'' and ''The River,'' turned into films that became classics.
Her experience with the nuns there contributed to her decision to convert to Roman Catholicism in 1968.

        Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago.
She wrote about her experience in ''Life After Harry: My Adventures in Widowhood,'' which became a best seller.
She was, Ms. Howe said, ''a woman of enormous style, heart, experience, courage, intelligence -- a real original.
At the track or on Broadway, she relied upon her experience and her assessment of form and potential.
