Ms. Zwerin worked for many years with David and Albert Maysles, early practitioners of the documentary genre known as cinéma vérité, which uses a small camera to capture the drama of daily experience.
As she said, ''Somebody with wit and a sense of humor sees the most tragic event without the sentimentality, sees in any life experience something ludicrous -- which is probably why Chekhov is my favorite.
''
        In 2001, she wrote an article for The Times on her experience in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, telling of her surreal night in a bomb shelter under the East Wing that she had never known existed.
Redstockings held its own abortion ''speak out'' soon afterward at the Washington Square Methodist Church, where members used consciousness-raising techniques to testify about abortion in terms of their own experience.
Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children.
She had her first professional stage experience at 19, and she was 21 when she was given the leading role in the first Turkish sound movie, ''Istanbul Sokaklari'' (''The Streets of Istanbul'').
Not all dying patients follow the same progression, Dr. Kübler-Ross said, but most experience two or more stages.
Moreover, she found, people who are experiencing traumatic life changes like divorces often experience similar stages.
As Dr. Kübler-Ross became increasingly interested in spiritual phenomena, she sought her own out-of-body experience.
She attended convent schools before an unsuccessful academic experience at the Sorbonne.
But what Ms. Gee lacked in coffeehouse experience, she made up for in iron determination, familiarity with the Village art and photography worlds, and personal charm.
But what Ms. Gee lacked in coffeehouse experience, she made up for in iron determination, familiarity with the Village art and photography worlds, and personal charm.
''How could I realize the hold which this experience -- the free life, the happy, fascinating natives, the absorbing work and the loyal comradeship -- has obtained over me,'' she wrote in a letter home at the end of the trip.
Out of her experience came ''Illness as Metaphor,'' which examined the cultural mythologizing of disease (tuberculosis as the illness of 19th-century romantics, cancer a modern-day scourge).
