A defining experience of her youth was the eviction of her family from their apartment house, which was demolished to make room for a ramp to the George Washington Bridge.
The experience led her into advocacy for the rights of immigrants, a cause she never gave up.
She often called her Roxy experience her ''formal schooling in design'' and credited it with her later ability to create clothes that looked good on figures in motion.
)  Rather than discouraging her, the experience turned her resolve to achieving greatness in the air.
Miss Sokolow used movement ''as a human experience, not formally, not mechanistically,'' Miss Hagen said at a program at the Kaye Playhouse in honor of Miss Sokolow's 85th birthday.
Her 1981 anthology, ''Gladly Learn and Teach: Poems of the School Experience,'' was selected as an Ambassador of Honor Book by English-Speaking Union Books-Across-the-Sea.
Recalling that experience in an interview in 1986, she said: ''The rich kids all had lawyers, and the poor kids had nobody.
The experience served them well in helping Ailey as much-needed surrogate parents and de facto booking agents and accountants in the tumultuous early days of Ailey's company.
There was her experience working in a bookshop and living in an abandoned warehouse in Suffolk, recounted in ''The Bookshop'' in 1978.
Penelope was sent to boarding school at the age of 7, an experience that devastated her.
She won the $20,000 prize ''by singing well and digging into some of the best aspects of black entertainment culture, the parts that make audience members and performers join in the same experience.
There are a lot of different facets to my personality that I don't use all the time in my house, or in everyday life, that I can experience and share when I'm on a stage.
I learned by experience.
After getting experience with Orchard Street furriers, Ms. Battle started her own business and gradually gained a following among rap and hip-hop stars who saw her out wearing her own designs.
''It's the most humiliating experience for anyone.

        Grace Halsell, a journalist whose curiosity about ''a wider world'' led her to experience life on society's fringes by disguising herself as women of different races, died on Aug. 16  in Washington, where she lived.

        Sophie Koulomzin, a leading Orthodox Christian educator whose life encompassed the history of 20th-century Russia and the experience of Russian emigres, died in Valley Cottage, N.Y., on Friday.
''I want to express with it what I see, experience and feel, a world real or surreal, sad or funny, but a world uniquely my own,'' Ms. Bullaty said of the guiding force behind her work.
It would be her first experience with an up-and-coming choreographer named Bob Fosse, fresh from his first Broadway success with ''The Pajama Game.
'' Years later, looking back on that experience, she recalled how ''Bob choreographs down to the second joint of your little finger.
In the 40's she also began to acquire valuable experience as a freelance television actress, appearing on 36 programs in two years.

        Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died yesterday at her home in Chicago.
She wrote from experience.
Ms. Sterne, called Tracey by her friends and colleagues, brought a vision to the job born of her long experience in music.
Wanting experience in the real world, she became a secretary, soon winding up in the offices of the powerful manager Sol Hurok, where she nurtured the careers of other young artists.
A review in The New York Times called it ''a very good book,'' adding that ''like Solzhenitsyn, Ilona Karmel has succeeded in writing about life in the prison camps'' as ''plausible, possible human experience.
Even though she won the cases, the experience soured her on the law.

        Gwendolyn Brooks, who illuminated the black experience in America in poems that spanned most of the 20th century, winning the Pulitzer Prize in 1950, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago.
She wrote from experience.
Ms. Kauffman's sense of mission began with an embarrassing experience at the theater, her daughter Dorothy Kauffman said.
From Ms. Kauffman's perspective, one of the most rewarding aspects of her service was that the blind were able to experience the theater without being identified as blind.
