"We live, we breathe, we experience, we die, we love, we hate, we experience beauty and tragedy, and we find it in the parts we play," she said in a 1984 interview, adding, "Whatever I do, I'm passionate about.
"We live, we breathe, we experience, we die, we love, we hate, we experience beauty and tragedy, and we find it in the parts we play," she said in a 1984 interview, adding, "Whatever I do, I'm passionate about.
A native of Manhattan, Ms. Samuel came to the city schools in 1983 with several years of experience in children's educational programs at New York University and the Community Service Society.
After years of experience, she often found herself explaining procedures to younger male executive trainees.
In her films and record-breaking cabaret performances, Miss Dietrich artfully projected cool sophistication, self-mockery and infinite experience.
Audiences were captivated by this creature out of no one's experience but out of everyone's imagination.
One of her books, "The Africa That Never Was," which was written with a Brooklyn College colleague, Dorothy Hammond, examined the British experience in Africa and was published by Twain Press in 1970.

        Yoshiko Uchida, a writer of children's books about the Japanese-American experience, died on Sunday at the Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Berkeley.
"The graceful and lively books of Yoshiko Uchida have drawn on the author's own childhood to document the Japanese-American experience" in fiction for her young audience, Patty Campbell wrote in a review of Ms. Uchida's "Happiest Ending" (Atheneum, 1985) in The New York Times Book Review.
Mrs. Lenhart was involved in rehabilitating deserted buildings and transforming vacant lots into pocket parks or gardens in the South Bronx, an experience she turned into a play, "The Greening of Rosita.
She also edited the 1974, 1979 and 1984 editions of "The Black Experience in Children's Literature," a bibliography, published by the New York Public Library.
