''A Glimpse of Eden,'' recounting a safari in East Africa, joined ''a poet's urge to describe her experience in beautiful and even fanciful terms, and a thinker's urge to generalize about it,'' wrote Orville Prescott in a 1967 review in The New York Times.
One of her most joyous trips was a three-week visit to China in 1973, an experience she considered a high point of her life.
She received her architectural and building experience when she drew plans for and built four large stone houses and several small ones in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
        Married to Claude P. Greneker, who was for many years publicity director for the Shubert theater interests, she became interested in mannequins when her husband wanted to use some in a theater stunt.
Eight months ago, at a semiannual meeting of the nation's Catholic bishops in South Orange, N.J., Sister Thea, suffering from breast and bone cancer, brought the assembly to its feet with an address depicting the black experience in America.
They are thought to have derived their name from a belief that shaking from religious fervor was a manifestation of inner spiritual experience.
"
        There was one positive result of her Hollywood experience.
" She could become almost mystical whenever she spoke about the experience, as in her statement: "I discovered I was happier in the air than on the ground.
Mrs. Dawidowicz, the daughter of Polish immigrants, was at the center of the study of the modern Jewish experience at Yeshiva University, where she held a chair in interdisciplinary Holocaust studies.
Before that, while in her early 20's, she had lived in Vilna, Poland, from 1938 to 1939, where she witnessed the onslaught of European anti-Semitism, writing about the experience in a memoir, "From That Place and Time," published by W. W. Norton last year.
Hopes Turn to Agonies
        "There was a certain irony to my trip to Vilna," Mrs. Dawidowicz told an interviewer for Publisher's Weekly last year, speaking of her pre-war experience in Poland.
"
        "This is the best judicial experience I have ever had," she said.
In her 1970 autobiography, "The Bennett Playbill," written with Lois Kibbee, she said her experience with "Dark Shadows," in which she played the mistress of a haunted mansion, had given her new regard for daytime television performers.
In a tribute to her work, Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1986 established the Ann Cole Phillips Room, a classroom, where students can study the artist's experience from her paintings on the walls around them.
