Dr. Horstmann said that the combination of that drug advance, lectures by the renowned microbiologist Dr. Karl F. Meyer and her experience with patients during her internship and residency at San Francisco County Hospital piqued her interest in infectious diseases.
But based on her experience in mental hospitals, she insisted that the arts could also be effective tools in the treatment of many conditions, including schizophrenia and chronic depression.
The situation led to an early experience of being a social outcast that might have influenced the daughter's subsequent attention to class preferences and enforced ignorance of extramarital affairs.
The first experience came in 1927 when Anne Morrow, then a 21-year-old senior at Smith College, arrived for the Christmas holidays in Mexico City, where her well-to-do father, Dwight W. Morrow, was the American ambassador.
''
        But that second experience came four years later, on the evening of March 1, 1932, in Hopewell, N.J., where the Lindberghs were at home with their 20-month-old son, Charles Jr., and a nurse, Betty Gow.
Americans would not experience a similar flood of publicity until the O. J. Simpson murder trial of the 1990's.
She used her own experience in the treatment of others, said Maryann De Leo, the documentary maker, who spent months watching her work.
Her experience writing advertising copy for a store her father managed in Utica, N.Y., paved the way for a job in the advertising department at Bonwit Teller, then a fashionable Fifth Avenue store.
When she was a child, Ms. Smith says, her love of art and poetry were inspired by reading an illustrated volume of Blake's poetry, ''Songs of Innocence and Experience.
She was also the author of ''The Single Parent Experience'' (Walker, 1973), ''The Myth of the Happy Child'' (Harper, 1975), ''How it Feels to Be a Child'' (Harper, 1975) and ''Gramercy Park: An American Bloomsbury'' (Houghton, 1987).
Mrs. Minnich said that she underwent the risky surgery in hopes that her experience would help others if not herself.
Dr. Reardon said he had performed two similar heart operations on patients who learned about the procedure from Mrs. Minnich's experience.
The critic Louis Menand wrote in The New York Review of Books in March 1995: ''Kael was the most brilliantly ad hoc critic of her time, and she made it possible to care about movies without feeling pompous or giddy by showing that what comes first in everyone's experience of a movie isn't the form or the idea but the sensation, and that this is just as true for moviegoers who have been taught to intellectualize their responses to art as it is for everyone else.
With no experience in the field but  an abundance of self-confidence, she moved to Hollywood and began telephoning production companies connected to well-known actors, offering herself as an all-around helper.
In 1963 she moved to New York and walked into an open audition for Martin B. Duberman's ''In White America,'' a dramatic overview of the black American experience from life aboard 18th-century slave ships to the 20th-century crusade for civil rights.
''We feel that our books should be an emotional experience,'' Miss Newman wrote, when ''How to Take Charge of Your Life'' first appeared, ''that they can be picked up at different times in a reader's life, and that they will be both energizing and comforting in times of crisis.
''I believe I can say without equivocation,'' she said, ''that never in my experience has a city administration played such a disruptive role as has this administration.
'' Her paintings, she said, were not creations ''but communications of the essence of that experience.

        Erica Van Acker, whose experience was the basis of a pioneering public television documentary on rape in 1971 and who became an early public spokeswoman for those who had been raped, died on Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
Every transition workshop, every seminar I conducted was somehow deeply out of that experience.
