She endured this horrible experience but it didn't deform  her psychologically.
Partly because of her experience at N.Y.U., San Diego State recruited her in 1963 to help establish its School of Social Work.
She said, "Let us have the courage to accept the inner  experience that tells us we are something more and that we may be part of a process much greater still.
" In an appreciation in The Irish Times, Maurice Harmon, professor emeritus of Anglo-Irish Literature at University College in Dublin, wrote: "She  drew upon her own experience.
"At the high point of her career," he continued, "she wrote about widows who  refuse to be passive in the face of death, who keep their memories of love and go forth to encounter experience with openness and with the wisdom of years.
Her entire body of work, whether for children or adults, is linked by a deep concern with myth and mysticism, a belief in the interconnectedness of human experience, and a ceaseless quest for meaning.
Her experience became the basis for her 1941 book "I  Go by Sea, I Go by Land," the fictional diary of an 11-year-old girl who, like Miss Travers, was evacuated from England.
She helped prepare Thai materials for the armed  forces and taught the language in a special training program at Berkeley, an experience that led to her appointment as an assistant professor of Siamese and  linguistics in 1947.
Helm, who worked virtually every day for 18 months, often hanging upside down or standing in water up to her waist for hours at a time, found the experience excruciating.
Ms. Delza also published a record album on teaching tai chi and wrote four books on tai chi and modern dance, including "The Tai Chi Chuan Experience," published this year by the State University of New York Press.
" Mr. Utt said he suspected that profits from the book "no doubt will find their way into  the coffers of the Communist Party, U.S.A." Miss Mitford had been a Communist in the 1940's, an experience chronicled in her memoirs, but had quit the party.
Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in  Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
She decided that the youthful idealism of, say, a 22-year-old English major might be nicely balanced by the experience and special skills of, say, an agricultural scientist in his mid-50's who did spot-welding in his spare time.
Too young to obtain a teacher's license, she joined her father and uncle on a long trip to Germany, where she had an experience that would change her life.
Since 1990 she had also pursued a mission she considered vital: speaking to thousands of high school students about her experience on behalf of Community Services in Westchester, an AIDS-related organization.
)
        And all her instincts as a collector and her appreciation of carousels and carousel figures as art, Mrs. Dinger never forgot her initial childhood fascination with the fairy tale experience of whirling around on a noble horse.
Among her books on teaching reading are several texts still in use, including ''Guiding Children's Reaching Through Experience,'' published by Teachers College in 1942, and ''Common Sense in Teaching Reading'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1963).
''Holocaust survivors tend to be totally absorbed with that experience, while hidden children have tried to forget what happened to them.
