In one of her first, ''The Comedy of Power'' (1977), she recounted her experience in government.
Mrs. Kerr, who was the widow of the drama critic Walter Kerr, was well acquainted with the glamour, grit and egocentric follies of life in the theater and capitalized on that experience.
For all her experience and success in the theater, Mrs. Kerr never stopped worrying about how her work would be received.
From experience, she found that in a busy municipal hospital the special needs of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary illnesses tended to receive short shrift.
''Then he said, 'How many years' experience have you had?
'' John Steinbeck, who wrote the novella and the screen treatment that became ''Lifeboat,'' does not seem to have mentioned her experience.
She combined her professional knowledge of the workplace with her personal experience with cancer -- she was first diagnosed in her early 30's -- to write about the problems cancer survivors face in their careers.
Over more than 80 years, her writing braided the physical and spiritual strains of the human experience.
The program was called ''Hi Jinx,'' and Miss Falkenburg, who had no experience as an interviewer, was coached by Mr. McCrary, who also wrote most of the show himself.
The experience made her more aware of the physical and emotional pain suffered by the terminal patients around her.
''
        Those ideas were alien to her own experience.
In the fall of 1955, the State Department selected her for a goodwill tennis tour of Asia and the Far East, and the experience inspired her game.
In 1985, Mrs. Foster told about her experience at the bridge in an interview with United Press International.
Ms. Murie, who was known as Mardy, grew up in a log cabin in Alaska, an experience that she wrote about in her autobiography, ''Two in the Far North.
In a book about jazz personalities, ''Barney, Bradley, and Max'' (Oxford, 1989), the jazz critic Whitney Balliett suggested that Mrs. Marcus's talent and experience elevated her into a higher league than the normal run of resort acts.

        Evan Ruderman, whose theatrical monologue about her own experience with AIDS was a major part of a documentary shown on public television in 1996, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
''I had no talent at all but I enjoyed every minute of my experience.
''I had no talent at all but I enjoyed every minute of my experience.
With friends and family members, Ms. Estess set up Project A.L.S., and, calling on her experience as a producer, she raised more than $17 million and brought together scientists from different laboratories to cooperate in the search for a cure.
