
        Virginia Hamilton, an internationally recognized writer for children whose work celebrated the African-American experience as an essential component of American life, died yesterday in Dayton, Ohio.
Seymour Topping, a former Southeast Asia correspondent of The Times, said Ms. Durdin, with her language skills and experience, was a mentor to younger journalists like him and Theodore White.
It was called ''The Lobster Reef,'' in reference to the vulnerability lobsters experience when they shed their shells and are completely naked until they grow a new one.
In her prison journal, Ms. Rinser wrote that she used the experience to rid herself of bourgeois perceptions.
Her only previous theater experience had been as a chorus member in the 1969 musical ''Jimmy.
Ms. Fertel came to the food business with no restaurant experience and even less culinary training.
The experience provided a foundation for her first novel.
Based on her experience in testing and teaching poor readers, Professor Roswell took a more positive tack.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
But covering President Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem in 1977 was different -- there was an atmosphere of such joy and delight, both in Israel and in Egypt, that it was an inspiring experience.
The book's authenticity came from the author's own experience.
Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
But covering President Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem in 1977 was different -- there was an atmosphere of such joy and delight, both in Israel and in Egypt, that it was an inspiring experience.
She established noontime concert series around New York for the students, but although the performances were largely intended to give them experience before audiences, Mrs. Greitzer insisted that they be paid.
It advocates a critical awareness of language, a process that can lead to a rejection of stereotypes and a deeper experience of reality, and has been adopted as a technique by a number of psychological movements.
She graduated from the University of California with an English major and experience in many campus demonstrations.
He said that despite the raciness of her films she herself claimed little sexual experience.
In 1974, in one of the many articles she wrote on her career, she said:
        ''My most unforgettable experience would have to be as the youngest member of the first American women's Olympic swimming and diving team in 1920.
In 1970, she won a regional Emmy Award for writing and moderating the CBS television program ''The Learning Experience.
Her experience was so alarming to her that the most pleasurable work she could later recall was her assignment to help a leper colony of Vietnamese.
'' That experience led her to write her own book in 1992, ''American Daughter Gone to War.
Much of the emotional quality of that experience is contained in Ms. Doerr's first novel, including the male protagonist's struggle with leukemia.
She married for the first time on a lark to experience the Palace of Weddings in Moscow, only to discover that the immediate divorce she and her husband had planned was a bit trickier.

        Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night.
