Ms. Freeman's first book, ''Fight Against Fears,'' recounted her own experience as a psychoanalysis patient who struggled to overcome her shy, whispery voice and social fears.
But she won high critical praise for her performance as the unfaithful wife of a returning veteran in ''The Best Years of Our Lives'' (1946), widely regarded as one of the finest movies to come out of the World War II homecoming experience.
Calling the experience ''my road to Damascus,'' she wrote, ''Their extreme beauty was a revelation.
'''
        Ms. Goodwin concluded that women ''need to read books'' like this ''to have their thoughts and experience confirmed and thus to be reinforced for action.
'' He said it achieved ''just the right balance between beautiful objects for sale and beautiful objects placed to enhance the experience of being in a stage set.
Although Ms. Knight did not begin to exhibit formally until the 1970's and was long known as the wife of Mr. Lawrence, a leading visual chronicler of the African-American experience, she began painting when she was young and was still setting out in new directions in old age.
Stephen Burrows opened his boutique there in 1969, an experience he recalled as a defining moment of his career (one he replicated in 2002 at Bendel's current site: 712 Fifth Avenue).
After a rocky start -- she had virtually no stage experience -- she quickly settled into the role.
's would hire blacks, Mr. Wilson provided Ms. Washington with the requisite experience, according to an account written by Theresa A. Hammond, who is the chairman of the accounting department at the Carroll School of Management at Boston College.
's, who came from across the country to work there because they needed the experience to earn the accounting credential.
She was not a great success, but the experience led her and Ms. Sosenko to take off for Paris to learn the art of cabaret.
She was not a great success, but the experience led her and Sosenko to take off for Paris to learn the art of cabaret.
''
        During World War II she went to England and served in the women's branch of the Royal Air Force, an experience she recounted later in ''All the Brave Promises: Memories of Aircraft Woman Second Class 2146391.
In a speech to University of Alabama graduates in 2000, Ms. Jones suggested one lesson that might be taken from her historic experience: ''You must always be ready to seize the moment.
Mrs. Raphaelson not only played the part in the Ziegfeld Follies of the 20's but wrote about her experience in one of her two novels, ''Glorified,'' published in 1930.
Her death appears to have gone unrecorded by American newspapers and magazines, although it is noted on the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia and in a footnote in a 2005 memoir, ''Omaha Blues,'' by Joseph Lelyveld, a former executive editor of The Times, who recounts his experience as the young reporter who knocked on the door of the Ryan home more than 40 years ago.
