She was the author of "The Maternal Identity and the Maternal Experience" (Springer, 1984).
Nor will it change the fact that I will likely experience the same fate.
" So because of her union experience, she became the labor editor.
It brings out the authentic flavor of every experience.
Or, as she put it, "I just got so much experience in here that I just want to explode.
Mrs. Irwin traced their collaboration to their experience as the only members of a faculty committee whose sole product was a jointly written final report, a spoof they peppered with such leaden jargon as "cognitive learning.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
My schooling was the school of experience.
Her hope, she wrote, was that the young dancers  could come out of the experience "with an informed attitude toward dance where they no longer secretly use the 19th-century classification of dance that is 'graceful, ungraceful or disgraceful,' nor yet again fall victim to the old fundamentalist quarrel between the traditional ballet and the experimental modern dance, which is now only a tale with which the elders sometimes divert the young.
She brought to everything she sang a clean, clear sense of line, impeccable enunciation and a deep understanding of how a good song could convey a lifetime's experience.
The institute was organized to study American historical ties to Israel and the contemporary Jewish experience worldwide.
Seaman underwent a radical mastectomy in 1955, an experience that led her to write "Always a Woman," published in 1965.
The experience started them in their career as a husband-and-wife team examining sexual bias in schools through research based on transcripts of classroom interactions, textbooks, surveys and polls.
And she had experience as a teacher at the University of Kansas and at Douglass College, in New Brunswick, N.J.
It was at this assembly that Justice Sandra Day O'Connor of the United States Supreme Court spoke for the first time about her own experience with breast cancer.
