She published ''China Builds for Democracy: A Story of Cooperative Industry,'' ''The Chinese Labor Movement,'' ''Red Dust: Autobiographies of Chinese Communists as Told to Nym Wales,'' ''Women in Modern China'' and ''An American Experience in Yenan.
There was little in the company's operation with which she did not have firsthand experience.
A friendship with Donald McKayle, a young choreographer, led to her first experience producing dance when Mr. McKayle asked her for help in putting on a concert at the 92d Street Y. Ms. Roberts continued to present dance regularly at Clark Center, where Alvin Ailey had started his company in the 1960's.
As president and then chairwoman of the 12-store Bonwit chain from 1965 to 1970, Ms. Custin used extensive retailing experience, superb taste and a sense of daring to impart a high-fashion image to what had been a traditional store selling the same clothing women could buy just about anywhere else.

        Esther Goldfrank, an accidental anthropologist who did pioneering research among the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest in the 1920's and churned out papers on the experience for the next half-century, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 100.
''Making Things Grow'' was aimed at the novice, and its appeal lay in Ms. Cruso's role as Everygardener, a true amateur who drew her advice from personal experience rather than formal horticultural training.
Behind every news story there is an untold -- or rarely told -- tale of the reporter's personal experience: the hazards of covering a war or a riot, the grind of the campaign trail, a correspondent's travails with foul weather, bad food, crazy hours, unworkable communications and implausible expense accounts.
She later said the experience  made her a chain smoker and cost her a social life, three years of sleep and $16,000 in savings.
From the modest beginning of the collection and until she retired in 1965, Dr. Grierson traveled the world to document the experience of women from the colonial era to the present.
