''It's very necessary that we do this to establish the centrality of the African-American experience,'' Professor McKay told The New York Times in 1996.

        Neyda Martinez, a guidance counselor in the Bronx whose efforts to encourage her students to seek a college experience beyond the city was the subject of an article on the Education page on Dec. 28, died Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Ms. Wasserstein drew on her own experience as a smart, well-educated, funny Manhattanite who wasn't particularly lucky in romance to create heroines in a similar mold, women who embraced the essential tenets of the feminist movement but didn't have the stomach for stridency.
Of course Ms. Wasserstein's devotion to theater took its purest and most enduring form in her writing for the stage, which allowed her the freedom to explore the evolving lives of American women with a fluidity and frankness that befitted the complex experience she was writing about.
''If we experience any difficulties in mixing with Europeans, I shall throw in my lot with the colored people,'' she told The Sunday Express of London.
It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
He pressured her to turn down the fellowship, and she did, an experience she would later recount frequently in interviews.
It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
He pressed her to turn down the fellowship, and she did, an experience she would later recount frequently in interviews.
Frequently assigned in black-studies courses, the book was rooted in the experience of the author's mother, who worked as a maid.
She published eight books of photography, including ''Shiva's Pigeons: An Experience of India'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1972) and ''Animals in Four Worlds: Sculptures from India'' (University of Chicago Press, 1989).
A small book in 1980 arguing for Quebec separatism created a stir in Canada, while a 1996 memoir of her great-aunt's experience as a schoolteacher in rural Alaska, which she edited, impressed reviewers with its homespun wisdom.
In that book, she examined the immigrant experience through the lens of her own girlhood in the Bronx.
''
        Ms. Uhnak (pronounced YOU-nak) combined vibrant elements of her native New York, long experience as a police officer and a hard-boiled literary style that some compared to Hammett's or Chandler's in nine books of fiction and one of nonfiction.
Along with her theater work, Ms. Nye also acted in many television movies, including a two-part 1973 movie starring Richard Burton and Elizabeth Taylor called ''Divorce His'' and ''Divorce Hers,'' an experience she later described hilariously in an essay in Time magazine.
Mr. Kissinger called his experience with Ms. Fallaci ''the most disastrous conversation I ever had with any member of the press.
Reviewing the novel in The New York Times Book Review, Edith H. Walton wrote:
        ''By a kind of miracle, and perhaps because she is so close to an experience not easy to recapture, Miss Daly has made an utterly enchanting book out of this very fragile little story -- one which rings true and sweet and fresh and sound.
Her taste -- seasoned by a girlhood of reading comic books, the careful study of the history of cartoons and experience as a fashion designer -- helped shape the famous look of Playboy's cartoons.
Merely by telling the plot of Wagner's ''Ring of the Nibelungs'' in a voice laced with Edwardian-era class and postwar-era sarcasm, Ms. Russell affectionately sullied opera's most devotional experience.
Her experience was chronicled in a biography, ''From Russia to Russia,'' published in 1996.
      
The novel, about bipolar disorder, was inspired by the experience of a family member, Ms. Campbell said.
''Women in the Dunes'' was hardly Ms. Kishida's first avant-garde experience.
Ms. Kirkpatrick was a political science professor with no diplomatic experience when she arrived at the United Nations in February 1981.
