The cause was breast cancer, her family said.

        Betty Bryant, who had such a satisfying childhood career in the backwaters of show business that she never bothered to try to top herself in the Broadway mainstream, died on Jan. 15 at her home in Park Ridge, Ill.
        She was 76 and was recalled as the third generation of a family of showboat performers who brought corn  pone and culture to riverside mid-America.
The family showboat was both her home and her stage, and for 20 years, until World War II helped bring the showboat era to an end, she spent her springs, summers and falls going from town to town along the Ohio River and its tributaries, sometimes stopping for several weeks in bigger river cities like Pittsburgh or Cincinnati.
During the off-season, with the boat tied up in West Virginia, the family would visit New York or Chicago, sometimes staging variety acts, sometimes just taking in the theatrical sights.
The couple's children, Billy and Florence, were part of the dodge from the beginning and by the time the family graduated to vaudeville a few years later, they had become the Four Bryants.

        Sarah (Sadie) Delany, the last of the storied Delany sisters, died peacefully in her sleep at age 109 yesterday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y., spokesmen for her family said.
The Delanys were a mix of hard-working African, white and American Indian stock, a family that was rich in everything but money, reserved, aristocratic and irrepressible even as they suffered through segregation.
The Delanys were house slaves of a St. Marys, Ga., family named Mock, who taught them to read and write.
The cause was cancer, the family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
''
        Naomi Margaret Haldane was born in Edinburgh in 1897 and brought up in Oxford as a member of a privileged family that produced a number of patrician politicians and noted scientists.
Over the years she changed her hobby listing in Who's Who from ''keeping up with the family'' to ''surviving so far'' to ''burning rubbish.
Dr. Bain's family said that she was the author or a co-author of reports that led to the development of child-proof safety caps for medicines and for chemicals in the home, safety-release standards for the doors of refrigerators in order to keep children from being trapped and suffocated, and some of the first Federal guidelines for the nutrition of children.
Her family said that she had carried out a pioneering survey of breast-feeding practices in American hospitals' nurseries and that her findings had led to changes in doctors' opinions of nursing.
In a family where talent abounded, Mrs. Godowsky and her slightly older brother, Arthur, inherited their share of the Gershwin genes, but when one older brother is one of the century's most acclaimed composers and another is among its most lionized lyricists, it is hard to measure up.
An accomplished dancer who toured at 11 in a children's musical, ''Daintyland,'' she never let George and Ira forget that when they were grateful for $15 paychecks from Tin Pan Alley, she was the family's first big breadwinner -- never mind that most of her $40 weekly salary went to pay expenses.
Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 26, 1906, 10 years to the day after her oldest brother, Ira, Mrs. Godowsky had a peripatetic childhood as her father, Morris, a man with an eclectic personnel file, repeatedly moved the family to be near his latest job.
(Ira once calculated that between 1900 and 1917 the family lived in 28 apartments, 25 in Manhattan and 3 in Brooklyn.
)
        Although she sang in a couple of Broadway shows in the late 1920's, by the time the family moved into the house on West 103d Street made famous in the 1945 biographical movie, ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' Mrs. Godowsky seemed resigned to tailoring her career to her older brothers'.
The success of her painting helped soften the blow when the movie ''Rhapsody in Blue,'' came out in 1945 and excised her and Arthur from the Gershwin family.
''At the time I felt it was one big happy family, but later I said, What an idiot!
Miss Darre left no immediate family.
      

        Mirra Komarovsky, a sociologist who was an innovative authority on gender, family and education, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
In her book ''Women in College: Shaping New Feminine Identities'' (1985) she described changing views of work, family and men that were held by students in the class of 1983 at Barnard, a women's college.
Rather similarly, Professor Komarovsky wrote, on the New York Times Op-Ed page in 1981: ''Young women are becoming aware that the call to equal opportunities for women outside the home is an empty slogan as long as the society insists on traditional role segregation within the family.
When she was 17, she and her family emigrated to the United States.
She attended a high school for a year in Wichita, Kan., where some members of her family lived, and went on to receive a bachelor's degree in 1926 from Barnard, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was taught by the anthropologists Ruth Benedict and Franz Boas.
Her doctoral thesis was published as a book, ''The Unemployed Man and His Family'' (1940).
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
Over the years, she had graphically recalled for her family, as well as for historians and documentary filmmakers, what she experienced and witnessed on March 25, 1911, when the worst factory fire in New York history raged through the top three floors of the 10-story Asch Building on the northwest corner of Washington Place and Greene Streets.
Rose Freedman, 105, of Beverly Hills, Calif., escaped by fleeing to the roof, her family said.
The family moved to Passaic, N.J., and then to New York.
At 17 she turned her back on religion, saying that her family's experience was ''a spirit-filled, born-again lunacy.
Parks said in a letter to the Durr family: ''I will miss you, old soldier, but the rich legacy you have passed to your children, grandchildren and great-grands lives on.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
When she was a year old her family moved to London, where her father, Wills John Hughes Murdoch, joined the civil service.
If her childhood had been mostly idyllic, there was, she later noted, at  least one shadow falling across her memories of those years: her family members were largely ''wanderers,'' cut off from their Irish relations and their roots.
''Italian Girl'' traces the struggle of a young man to liberate himself from the corrosive effects of family secrets and a shallow, destructive image of love.
No immediate family members survive.
      
She then left Dell and edited Epicure for two years under her own name, and later edited another CBS magazine, Everywoman's, which competed with Family Circle.
One of the most controversial cases she handled was a 1988 racketeering trial in which the jury convicted eight men, including the reputed former head of the Genovese crime family.
Balduina de Oliveira Sayao was born on May 11, 1902, into a wealthy family in Rio de Janeiro.
Although her childhood dramatizations in front of a mirror convinced her that she had a future as an actress, the family conviction that it was a metier for loose women dashed that hope.
She also held the family together when he spent six months in jail in the 1950's for contempt of court, in connection with his support of the labor organizer Harry Bridges, who was accused of being a Communist Party member.
Realizing his work was doomed, Rivera hired a photographer to take pictures of the mural, but Rockefeller, determined that there be no record of what the family regarded as desecration of their property, had guards at the building thwart the effort.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
The whole family can see my show.
To the world of the early 1900's, Leo Tolstoy was a literary giant who had become the ''hermit of Yasnaya Polyana,'' the luxurious family estate 150 miles south of Moscow where he lived for 48 years and wrote  ''Anna Karenina'' and ''War and Peace.
Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
As a second-generation descendant of a man who had 13 children (and now has some 200 living descendants) Miss Tolstoy, the youngest of seven surviving siblings, liked to call herself Tolstoy's last granddaughter and never mind that a cousin from the Swedish branch of the family might still be alive.
For Miss Tolstoy, who was 7 when her grandfather died in 1910 and 10 when the outbreak of World War I gave her father an excuse to desert his family (he eventually settled in the United States and remarried), the aristocratic life was short-lived.
In 1991 she went back to Russia for a family reunion that drew dozens of Tolstoys, including many who had remained in the Soviet Union, to Yasnaya Polyana, a museum that is virtually a shrine.
The granddaughter of Baron James de Rothschild, the founder of the French branch of the Rothschild banking family, Baroness de Rothschild became a supporter of Graham after seeing performances by her and her company in New York in the early 1940's.
Mrs. Magruder was the former Countess Felicia Gizycka, the only daughter of the Chicago-born newspaper heiress Eleanor Medill Patterson and Count Josef Gizycki, a fortune-hunting scion of a noble Polish family.
''
        The ensuing custody struggle led President-elect William Howard Taft to intervene with Czar Nicholas II of Russia, in whose realm the Gizycki family estates were located.
Ms. Carroll earned a Pulitzer Prize nomination for her 1933 work, ''As the Earth Turns,'' the story of a long-established farm family in southern Maine and the Polish immigrants who buy neighboring land.

        Estelle Sapir, a Holocaust survivor who won a rare recovery of the family funds she had sought for half a century from a Swiss bank, died on Tuesday at her home in Far Rockaway, Queens.
The Sapir family fortune, the precise amount of which has never been determined, was deposited in several banks before the war by Miss Sapir's father, Jozef Sapir, a Jewish businessman from Poland.
The cause was complications from cancer, her family said.
She published many papers on related topics, including feminism, frigidity, the changing family structure and the roles of men and women.
As a young child growing up in the Brownsville section of Brooklyn, she helped give free food from the family grocery to striking factory workers.
'' Her family fled the Nazis when she was 9, moving first to France and then to New York, where she came to the attention of the Broadway producer Herman Shumlin.
The family is awaiting results of an autopsy.
Ms. Adams described her family as ''three difficult, isolated people.
Mrs. Meserve's interest in holly began shortly after World War II when she and her family moved to a 10-acre estate in St. James on Long Island and she chanced to attend a local garden-club lecture about the holly, the evergreen whose glossy, pointed leaves and clusters of red berries decorate gardens and deck the halls at Christmas.
Among Mrs. Marx's beneficiaries were the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, where she was a trustee for over 40 years and a longtime member of its Child Development Center committee.
Other charities included UJA-Federation of New York, White Plains Hospital Center, Scarsdale Edgemont Family Counseling Service, and Camp Rainbow, a UJA affiliate serving handicapped children.
From 1965 to 1968, the Carters were the only black family to keep their children in the county's schools.
The story of the Carter family's battle was recounted in a book, ''Silver Rights'' (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 1995) by Constance Curry, a field worker with the American Friends Service Committee in 1966, who worked closely with the family.
The story of the Carter family's battle was recounted in a book, ''Silver Rights'' (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 1995) by Constance Curry, a field worker with the American Friends Service Committee in 1966, who worked closely with the family.
The cause was a lung disorder, her family said.
She was a leading expert in wild edible plants and an indefatigable supporter of small family farms.
She will be missed by all those affected by her original, independent thinking, by her family, her colleagues, and her close friends.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She did public relations work for Time Inc. and, until the early 1960's, for the Rockefeller family, then worked as an editor at People magazine.
Ms. Jimenez began musical instruction at age 8 when her family moved to Madrid.
The authorities will now deliver the award to her family.
      
The company she ran, Danieli Group, founded by her grandfather in the family's hometown of Buttrio in Northern Italy, developed in the 1950's from a small manufacturer of scissors and shears to a supplier of compact steel mills to small Northern Italian steelmakers that mainly supplied the steel reinforcing bars that were the sinews of postwar Italian reconstruction.
Ms. Danieli, one of four sisters, was forced to take charge of the family company founded by her grandfather in 1914 in the mid-1970's, when the oil price increases in the first half of that decade drained the capital to invest in steel and scuttled further expansion.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
Her family immigrated to the United States in 1910.
''
        The magazine business was long a family enterprise.
The family moved to Washington, Conn., in 1945, when Mr. Miller became headmaster of the Gunnery School, where he served until he retired in 1969.
No immediate family members survive.
      
No immediate family members survive.

        Gina Berriault, an award-winning writer of short stories and novels, died on July 15 at Marin General Hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Sausalito, Calif.
        She died after a brief illness, her family said.
After his death when she was a teen-ager, she took over his work to help support her family.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Her family said she died at a hospital but declined to identify it.
As a family story has it, Mrs. Cullman proved prescient in guessing on behalf of the magazine which plays would prove durable.
Mrs. Sierra was born on Dec. 1, 1935, in Santiago and grew up in poverty, leaving school in her teens to help support her family.
''
        Born in Bakersfield, Calif., she grew up in Fresno, where her family worked as migrant workers.
Ms. Hussain, who came from a prominent Muslim family in Bombay, was for much of her career a painter of allegorical figurative subjects.
Ms. Fleming lived a colorful life, partly because she was born into a family with both pronounced creative abilities and strong social connections, but also because of her own musical abilities, which drew her into the orbits of the pianist Artur Schnabel, the violinist Joseph Szigeti, the cellists Pierre Fournier and Pablo Casals, the conductor Sir John Barbirolli and the guitarists Julian Bream and John Williams.
Ms. Fleming never married, and left no immediate family.

        Anita Carter, a member of country music's pioneering Carter Family and a star in her own right, died in her home in Goodlettsville, Tenn.,  near Nashville, on Thursday.
Ms. Carter was one of three daughters of Ezra and Maybelle Carter, who formed the country singing group the Carter Family along with her cousin, Sara, and A. P. Carter (Sara's husband and Ezra's brother).
In 1927 the Carter Family drove from their Virginia mountain home to Tennessee and during the next 16 years recorded some 250 songs, one of the most important and influential bodies of work in country and folk music.
As a child, Anita (born Ina Anita Carter in Maces Springs, Va.) hated to be separated from her mother when the Carter Family left to perform at radio stations, so she was brought along.
The performance was such a success that soon she and her sisters were regularly singing with the Carter Family on the Texas station XERA, a powerful radio broadcast set up mainly so that a quack doctor could advertise his unusual remedies for impotence.
When the Carter Family split up in 1943, Maybelle and her three daughters -- June, Helen and Anita -- formed Mother Maybelle and the Carter Singers, performing such Carter Family standards as ''Wildwood Flower,'' ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'' and ''Keep on the Sunny Side.
When the Carter Family split up in 1943, Maybelle and her three daughters -- June, Helen and Anita -- formed Mother Maybelle and the Carter Singers, performing such Carter Family standards as ''Wildwood Flower,'' ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'' and ''Keep on the Sunny Side.
Her sister June married Mr. Cash in 1968 after the family helped bring him back to stability after a period of drug abuse.
Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, who renamed themselves the Carter Family after A. P. died in 1960, broke up officially in 1969, though they continued to record together until near the time of Maybelle's death in 1978.
''If you look at any 'I Love Lucy' rerun, if Lucille Ball is wearing glasses, they are Harlequin glasses,'' said David Mayhew of Maplewood, N.J., a friend of Mrs. Miranda's family.
The cause was the breast cancer she had fought since it was diagnosed in 1985, her family said.
Beer's House'' (1968), about her upbringing in a family of Christian fundamentalists.
She was a member of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Science and co-director of two groundbreaking programs to train geriatric and family nurse practitioners at Cornell University-New York Hospital.
The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
Ms. Katznelson was born in Geneva in 1919, and her family immigrated to Palestine two years later.
Ms. Sorel was born in Paris in 1932, and was already a promising pianist when her family fled France just before the German invasion in 1940.
When her family settled in New York, Ms. Sorel became a student of the Hungarian concert pianist Sari Biro.
She was born into an army family and was unconventional even as a child.
The 1975 book ''Eight Is Enough,'' by her husband, Tom Braden, tells of their family of eight children.
After the couple completed their college work in 1955, the family returned to Mr. Gorbachev's home region of Stavropol in southern Russia.
The coup failed, and Mr. Gorbachev and his family returned to Moscow, visibly shaken.
The dancer Morocco said, ''Women do not show themselves publicly outside the family and, maybe, somebody they're going to marry.
After only two more works, ''Praise a Fine Day'' in 1959 and ''Oriane'' in 1968, both of which met with acclaim, Ms. de Lima ceased writing for publication, preferring instead to spend time with her family, Ms. Greene said.
President Creighton said Professor Lax's experiences in mathematics and family life had endowed her with a special awareness of the challenges confronting young women interested in mathematics.
She and her family fled Hitler's Germany in 1935 and settled in New York.
Ms. Roman was proud of her family's endurance.
She last appeared in 1959 in Launder and Gilliat's ''Bridal Path'' before retiring to spend more time with her young family on their farm in Buckinghamshire, England.
Born into an intellectual Jewish family in Ivanovo, Russia, on July 18, 1900, Natasha Tcherniak -- as she then was -- had an unsettling childhood.
In her second novel, ''Martereau'' (1953), Mrs. Sarraute used the natural intrigue of an extended family to explore her tropisms.
Her early childhood was spent on a small Missouri farm, but then her family moved frequently, to Arkansas and Washington State, among other places.
'' The article describes family members bursting into nervous laughter.
      
She was one of 10 children in a working-class family and was reared by her grandmother.
At first her family did not approve of her singing tango and fado, songs associated with the lower classes and the underworld.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
When the family moved to Paris, Tex., she befriended an elderly black guitar player who taught her the blues and became a major influence on her style.
''
        After taking several years off to start a family, Ms. Morse returned to Capitol studios in 1952 to record ''The Blacksmith Blues.
Two years ago her complete body of work was released in a five-CD box set by Bear Family Records.
''
        She said some asked advice about the dictatorial atmosphere of hospitals and the terror and loneliness of internship, adding, ''The women, in particular, wrote to me about sexism, discrimination, problems juggling career, home, family, husband.
''The culture was to keep the women at home, train them in household chores and make them perfect women: docile, ready to please everyone in the family,'' she said in an interview earlier this year.
''There was a strong anti-British movement, and my family also believed that women should stay out of it.
''Be poor or middle class or upper class, the violence against women in family, society and in public life was always there.
The cause of death was cancer, her family said.
The cause was complications from leukemia, which was diagnosed several months ago, said Lawrence G. Foster, a family spokesman.
That year, she had visited the Johnson Institute in Minneapolis, Minn., which had developed a technique called intervention in which family and friends persuaded alcoholics to enter treatment.
During World War II the Casadesus family settled in Princeton but returned to France in 1946.
Family members and friends could not imagine her without binoculars, floppy hat, sneakers, telescope and other field gear as she scurried around the globe on scores of bird tours, most costing more than $5,000.

        Pearl Resnick, the matriarch of a prominent New York real estate family and a philanthropist, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach.
She came to the United States with her family in 1923.
Art is as much in the family as singing.
Andrew Farkas, co-author with Enrico Caruso Jr. of ''Enrico Caruso: My Father and My Family'' (Amadeus Press, 1990), said that Ms. Murray's paintings were ''of good quality, although she sold very few.
'' Eric D. Murray, one of Ms. Murray's sons, said his mother had become occupied with managing the family estate after her mother died in 1957.
Foot's family.
Ms. Bird's widowed mother, Anne, moved the family to New York, her home state.
''
        The women of her mother's family knitted.
About the same time, the family, with three children, moved into a derelict schoolhouse in the middle of the woods and remodeled it.
Jeanne Stemlicht Chall was born in Poland on Jan. 1, 1921, and moved with her family to New York City when she was 7.
She became the first member of her family to go to college, graduating cum laude from City College in 1941.
