Mrs. Chisholm later described the relatives she encountered there as ''a strongly disciplined family unit.
The first of four children born to a prominent New York family, Ms. Freeman was a member of the first graduating class at Bennington College in Vermont.
She had lived in Norfolk, Conn., until she became incapacitated several years ago after treatment of a brain tumor, her family said.
A cousin was married to a son of the industrialist Norton Simon, and through that association she became part of a well-connected extended family that included the actress Jennifer Jones, who was married to Simon, and Simon's sister, Marcia Weisman, a prominent art collector.
Three decades later, her role as Phoebe, the patrician matriarch of the Tyler family on ABC's ''All My Children,'' fixed her most indelibly in the American consciousness.
Her death was announced by her family.
Her farm at the family estate of Ashton Wold, near Peterborough, was a passion and her main source of income.
Mrs. Cox was descended on her mother's side from the socially prominent Livingston family.
The cause was respiratory problems, her family told The Associated Press.
Mrs. Chisholm later described the relatives she encountered there as ''a strongly disciplined family unit.
Her death was announced by her family.
Most of Ms. Janeway's earlier books were novels that focused on family situations and occasionally the pressures on women of modern society and were cited for their psychological acuteness and good sense.
Her son said that because the Depression wiped out her family's savings, she broke off her education to spend a year writing advertising copy for a department store, Abraham & Straus, and handling orders for the Book of the Month Club.
''
        Victoria Gómez Cima was born in Barcelona on Nov. 1, 1923, to a musical family.
One motivation was to slow down so that she could devote more time to raising a family.
The cause was complications of myelofibrosis, a bone marrow disorder, her family said.
Her family fled Belgium and the Nazi occupation in 1941, escaping via Vichy France, Spain and Portugal and managing to reach Cuba on one of the last refugee ships.
She was 7 when the family came to the United States.
Ms. Garcia, whose family owned a carpet store on Third Avenue, became one of the more outspoken leaders.
Ms. Garcia was born in Santurce, P.R., and moved with her family to the Bronx when she was 6 months old.
The family members moved often, always within the borough, as did their carpet business.
The cause of the death was complications from kidney disease, said Steve Blauner, a family friend.
Her death was announced by her friends and family to Agence France-Presse.
In 1920, she traveled with a foster family to St. Louis, Mo., and then to New York City when she was 13.
No immediate family members survive.
The family moved to Ohio and Eleanor graduated from high school in East Palestine, Ohio, in 1934.
In 1952, the family moved to Central Park West and 101st Street, where Miss Gould remained as long as she worked.
She had suffered a brain hemorrhage two days earlier, a family spokesman, Tom Alexander, told The Associated Press.
Ms. Kauffman learned by chance at a 1986 reunion of her husband's family that Ms.
Petty had been committed by her family to a state hospital in 1934, when she was 16.
Mr. Harrington said: ''Being fundamentalist Baptists her family didn't approve of her wanting to go out dancing and such things.
A church exorcism didn't work, so the family made the decision to commit her.
''They were her family,'' Ms. Kauffman said.
At age 18, after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, she was interned with her family at Topaz, Utah.
Ms. Fittko emerged from a leftist, artistic family to become active in the resistance to Hitler in the early months of his rule, then fled to continue the fight in other European countries for seven years.
After the war, her family moved to Berlin.
By the time she graduated from high school, she had attended 10 to 20 schools, her family said.
In 2002, she received the Heinz Award for the Human Condition from the Heinz Family Foundation; she was named a senior scholar at the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard the same year.
They lived first in Ms. Rostenberg's family house in the Bronx, and then in Manhattan.
The cause was advanced dementia, her family said.
Her death was announced by her family.
''Noah's Garden,'' which mingled good-humored anecdotes about her family with widely applicable advice, caught the attention of gardeners and homeowners around the country and became a bible for a growing native landscape movement.
The books were subtitled ''An Open Family Book for Parents and Children Together'' (Walker & Company).
Among her other books is a series on how to raise various pets that led to ''Great Pets: An Extraordinary Guide to Usual and Unusual Family Pets'' (Workman, 1976).
Ms. Stein, who sometimes illustrated her own books, created a handmade dollhouse that was exhibited at the Museum of the City of New York for more than a year and became the basis of ''A Family Dollhouse'' (Viking, 1979).
      
'' Set in Wales, it tells of a family drawn uneasily home by the impending death of its patriarch.
In 1938, the family moved to Switzerland, where, in 1942, at the age of 16, she appeared in her first film, the Swiss ''Der Steinbruch'' (''The Quarry'').
The cause was complications of lymphoma, her family said.

        Ida Libby Dengrove, a New York courtroom artist who visualized the moods and faces of some notorious trials for the television audience, died on Wednesday while on a family visit to Los Angeles.
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
Her family announced the death.
''
        Ludmilla Nikitina was born in Moscow on June 11, 1913, to a prominent family of artists and intellectuals.
The cause was complications of heart surgery, her family said.
Mrs. Talmadge was married to Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat and the scion of a powerful Georgia political family, from 1941 until their divorce in 1977.
At the Talmadge family plantation in Lovejoy, Ga., 25 miles south of Atlanta, partygoers might be greeted by soldiers dressed in Confederate gray, Dixieland banjo players and the family pets, among them Rabbit E. Lee and a donkey named Assley Wilkes.
At the Talmadge family plantation in Lovejoy, Ga., 25 miles south of Atlanta, partygoers might be greeted by soldiers dressed in Confederate gray, Dixieland banjo players and the family pets, among them Rabbit E. Lee and a donkey named Assley Wilkes.
The cause was leukemia, her family said.
''The message of the Ladies' Home Journal and magazines like that is, 'Hey, we're willing to acknowledge the choices that women have in life, but in the end, we will maintain that most women will choose home and family,''' Professor Scanlon, a historian at Bowdoin College, said.
'' She also earned two more Oscar nominations, one for her portrayal of a ballerina confronting her choice of career over family in ''The Turning Point,'' the other for her work as a mother superior in ''Agnes of God.
She often rejected work in favor of family life -- for a while.
Her family said the cause was complications of the disease.

        Lillian Lux, the matriarch of a celebrated Yiddish theatrical family who performed for decades as an actress and singer in New York and around the world, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
The family was the subject of a documentary, ''The Komediant,'' shown in the United States in 2002.
''The Komediant'' chronicles the family's peripatetic existence as they travel to Europe, South America and Israel in pursuit of an ever more elusive audience.
Lillian Sylvia Lukashefsky was born in Brooklyn on June 20, 1918; her family Americanized its surname when she was young.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Shana and her younger sister spent their early childhood in the family's opulent home on West 57th Street.
In later years, the family lived in a string of elegant hotels.
The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said.
Her family was musical -- two of her aunts had studied with Clara Schumann -- and Richard Strauss, Artur Schnabel, and Ferruccio Busoni were regular visitors to her childhood home.
In addition to spending more than $6 million of her own, she gave 200 acres of her family's farmland, buildings included, to start the college, which became coeducational in 1970.
She wrote and edited textbooks and guides for laymen bracing for a death in the family.
Cicely Mary Strode Saunders was born into a well-to-do family on June 22, 1918, in Barnet, in north London.
The bureau also instituted the city's first family day care programs, which provided child care at home instead of in an institution.
Ms. Bel Geddes's greatest critical acclaim came as Maggie, the restless young wife in a decaying family of Mississippi planters in ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof.
Her first marriage broke up after an ill-fated move to a New Hampshire commune, and she returned to New York, where she supported her family with secretarial work, carving out time to write her first three novels.
Mrs. Wein was a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, a charitable organization, and established the Joyce and George Wein Professorship Fund in African-American Studies at Boston University and the Alexander Family Endowed Scholarship Fund at Simmons.

        Mo Mowlam, the earthy, straight-talking politician who as Britain's Northern Ireland secretary helped negotiate the Good Friday peace settlement in 1998, died Friday morning at a hospice in Canterbury, her family said.
She left instructions that she not be kept alive artificially if there was no hope of improvement, her family said, and doctors removed her artificial feeding tube earlier this week.
She had a tough childhood -- her family was invariably short of money, and her father was an alcoholic.
Her death was announced by her family.
Her family said she helped inspire aspects of the character Blanche DuBois in Williams's ''Streetcar Named Desire.
The cause was complications of a stroke, her family said.
Ernesta Drinker was born into a distinguished Philadelphia family, a daughter of a prominent lawyer, Harry Drinker, and Sophie Hutcheson Drinker, a feminist and author.
No immediate family members survive.
      
She decided that she wanted to be a lawyer, but her family lacked money to send their many children to college.
Nora Kerr was born on Nov. 19, 1943, in Cairo, where her parents had met during the war; the family later moved to New Jersey.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani appointed her a Civil Court judge in 1995, after which she was assigned to Family Court and Criminal Court.
Those include criminal, family and matrimonial issues that, under the prevailing system, were divided among the Criminal Court, Family Court and Supreme Court.
Those include criminal, family and matrimonial issues that, under the prevailing system, were divided among the Criminal Court, Family Court and Supreme Court.
As she was being treated for her illness, Justice Sussman, helped by family and friends, raised money toward a Sussman Family Fund for research at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
As she was being treated for her illness, Justice Sussman, helped by family and friends, raised money toward a Sussman Family Fund for research at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
The family moved wherever her father's job took them, settling in St. Louis when she was a teenager.
After college, Ms. Wilson worked briefly as a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines, a job that she quickly came to loathe, her family said.
When her children were small, she often took them to out-of-town engagements, presenting what she viewed as a living demonstration of the compatibility of career and family.
The cause was a brain tumor, her family said.
Her most recent title, ''Sienna's Scrapbook'' (Chronicle Books, 2005), portrays an young African-American girl and her family visiting black cultural and historical sites in the United States.
Ms. Yard was the family's third daughter.
The family moved to the United States, where Mr. Yard became the director of religious activities for Northwestern University -- until he angered superiors there with his work as a civil rights and labor organizer.
Through much of the Depression, Ms. Yard's mother, who ran a mail-order business selling imported Chinese goods, was the family's sole support.
After her family moved to Pittsburgh a few years later, Ms. Yard worked in the civil rights movement and was a local organizer for the March on Washington in 1963.
She lived all her life in and around Washington, often performing close to home to be near her family.
In her teens she won a scholarship to Juilliard, but it was decided that living in New York would cost the family too much money; she studied classical music at Howard University in Washington instead.
The family later moved to Manhattan and then to Long Island, but Enid was sent away to school at Mount Ida Seminary in Newton, Mass.
''
        In 1954, she became the publisher of Seventeen, the magazine for teenage girls, owned at the time by the Annenberg family.
Because her father refused to accept pay for his pastor posts, Mrs. Tucker's mother became an entrepreneur to feed the family.
Her death was confirmed by her family.
Ruth Elizabeth Clement was born in Louisville, Ky., on May 22, 1904, the fourth of seven children of a prominent black family.

        Dorothy Law Nolte, a writer and family counselor whose ubiquitous inspirational poem, ''Children Learn What They Live,'' was photocopied, circulated, anthologized and affixed to refrigerator doors worldwide for nearly two decades before she claimed rightful authorship of it in the 1970's, died on Nov. 6 at her home in Rancho Santa Margarita, Calif. She was 81.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
In 1954, Mrs. Nolte, who wrote a weekly column on family matters for The Torrance Herald, a local newspaper, found herself on deadline and strapped for material.
She held various jobs before training as a family counselor in the 1950's.
Ms. Cummings's finest performance, many critics said, was as Mary Tyrone, the frail matriarch of an Irish-American family, in the 1971 London revival of ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' Eugene O'Neill's autobiographical tale of a dysfunctional family's day of disintegration.
Ms. Cummings's finest performance, many critics said, was as Mary Tyrone, the frail matriarch of an Irish-American family, in the 1971 London revival of ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' Eugene O'Neill's autobiographical tale of a dysfunctional family's day of disintegration.
She fled Russia with her family during the Revolution and settled for a time in London.
Though a product of a traditional, affluent family from the Antioquia province of Colombia, Ms. Arango produced work that pushed the bounds of decorum, vividly touching on delicate and troubling subjects like Colombia's political violence, poverty and brutality.
In a favorite story, she talked about how she wore pants to ride horses, unheard of in her time, and about how her father permitted her to drive the family car.
The cause was colon cancer, her family said.
Her interest in horses dates from her ownership of a cow pony in Nevada, where her family vacationed.
Mr. Littauer founded a riding academy called the Boots and Saddles Club, and also taught private clients at the family's Long Island home before his death in 1989, at 96.
No immediate family members survive.
      
