Ms. Eisenberger was born in Vienna to a musical family and came to the United States as a child.
She had passed out leaflets opposing an American attack on Iraq in Manhattan earlier and apparently suffered a heart attack on her return to Queens, her family said.
The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, her family said.
The show, which ran from 1981 to 1987, earned her two Emmy nominations and revived the archetype of the mammy, an African-American woman caring for a white family.
After the family's move to Long Beach, Calif., she entered a beauty contest -- and though she did not win a prize, Paramount invited her to audition for a child's part in its film version of ''Peter Pan.
Easily navigating the changeover to sound, she appeared in two 1931 evergreens, George Cukor's ''Royal Family of Broadway'' and Lewis Milestone's ''Front Page.
She cheerfully acknowledged doing most of her writing in the family car, parked several blocks away from the scrambling chaos of several children and pets (''There is nothing to do but write, after I get the glove compartment tidied up'').
Her family was a rich source of comic inspiration, a minefield of the unexpected that demanded resilience and a gift for improvisation.
Jesse Jackson, speaking tonight at a news conference on behalf of the family inside her home, said Mrs. Mobley had been having dialysis about three times a week for some time and that she suffered cardiac arrest today.
Family members said she was rushed to Jackson Park Hospital, where she died about 2:30 p.m.
        After the killing of her 14-year-old son in 1955 in Money, Miss., Mrs. Mobley allowed his mutilated body to be displayed in an open coffin during his funeral service, where mourners recoiled at the sight of Emmett's wounds.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
''
        Miss Trout was born in Greenup, Ill., on Jan. 7, 1906, and spent much of her childhood moving with her family around the country, staying with relatives.
Miss Trout was single, and no immediate family members survive.
''Morning Star,'' a drama she wrote about immigrant family life on Manhattan's Lower East Side, opened on Broadway in 1940.
After World War II she worked with her husband, Benjamin Ginsburg, at Ginsburg & Levy, his family's antiques firm, at 815 Madison Ave., in Manhattan.
Beginning in 1942, when the government ordered the internment of Japanese-Americans on the West Coast, the family spent three years in a desert camp in Arizona.

        Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris.
Her husband, a member of the French branch of the Rothschilds, was a skilled polo player and is reputedly the family's foremost wine connoisseur and a widely knowledgeable collector of art.
But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
She was part of a rival French financial family, a great-niece of Achille Fould, the rival of James Rothschild in the mid-19th century.
Mr. Fould's financial house, Crédit Mobilier, had threatened to smash the Rothschild supremacy, but in the end lost out to the family.
After the war, her husband ran Chateau Lafite, one of the family vineyards.
But when Philippe's daughter, Philippine, was to be married in 1961, Liliane de Rothschild fulfilled her frequent role of unifying the family.
''Here all lifted glasses to the bride, to groom, to both Rothschild vineyards, and to Liliane, the hostess,'' Frederic Morton wrote in ''The Rothschilds: A Family Portrait.
Her family said she recently set up a fund that will raise money for a bronchoscopy suite at Children's Hospital Boston, where she had her transplant.
Although she continued to act after her marriage, the demands of family life proved distracting.
The cause was cancer, her family said, and she died at the Columbia-Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital.
Mrs. Hewitt was born Frankie Teague in Oklahoma's Dust Bowl and migrated at the age of 8 with her impoverished family to California.
The Barrymore family -- which traces its acting tradition to 1752 and is today most famously represented by Drew, the granddaughter of John Barrymore and Miss Costello -- treated Miss Barrie as a pariah.
''
        She was born Evelyn Nadine Henderson into a large, artistic family in Compton, Calif., and studied piano and drama as a child.
Her mother, 59, was an assistant professor and the chief librarian at Dowling College in Oakdale, N.Y.
        Ms. Davis was born in Durham, N.C., her family's longtime hometown.
The cause was cancer, said Deborah Hochman Turvey, a family friend.
Mrs. Augustine kept her teaching job during the early years of the family company, Albert Augustine Ltd., but worked nights filling orders.
She eventually ran out of money, left Juilliard and moved back in with her family, at that time living in Philadelphia.
Her family did not disclose the cause of death.
Ms. Torrey, who was called by both her first and middle names, and was the fifth-generation Ella King in her family, was inspired most of her life by the importance of individual artists and grass-roots artistic collaborations.
In 1983 she was one of the first five winners of the Family of New York Awards, fostered by former Gov.
''
        ''A house is a family for those who don't have a family,'' Miss LaBeija said in the movie.
''
        ''A house is a family for those who don't have a family,'' Miss LaBeija said in the movie.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Born in New Orleans, Ms. Collins moved with her family to Los Angeles at age 4.
And the Hale family remains a major presence.

        Marie-Claude Lalique, keeper of the Lalique family tradition in glass and crystal artistry until her retirement in 1994, died on April 14 on Captiva Island, Fla. She was 67 and lived on Captiva and in Provence.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said.
Ms. Lalique was the last in the family line of renowned crystal artisans that began with her grandfather René Lalique, who designed perfume bottles for François Coty and opened a little retail shop in Paris in 1905.
Ms. Neuffer used two case studies, one of a Bosnian Muslim searching for information about his massacred family and the other about a Tutsi who testified about the rapes she endured in Rwanda, to study the meaning of atrocity.
Valerie June Carter Cash was born into the Carter Family, the most important of the early country music groups, and one that helped changed it from a string-based music to a vocal music.
But when she was 10 the family moved to Texas to be near the high-watt radio station XERA in Del Rio, Tex., where they performed on regular radio shows.
The original Carter Family group dissolved in 1943.
June was the most outgoing of the group, a comedian as well as singer, and the shows mixed traditional songs of the Carter Family (like ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'') with pop, gospel and vaudeville comedy.
Newly separated, Ms. Cash took the advice, studying with Lee Strasberg and with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse in New York and staying with the Kazan family; on weekends she flew home to Nashville with her young daughters to perform at the Opry.
''
        By 1961, June Carter was married to her second husband, Rip Nix, and Maybelle and the Carter Sisters (renamed the Carter Family after the death of the original family's patriarch, A. P. Carter, in 1960) became part of Johnny Cash's touring show.
''
        By 1961, June Carter was married to her second husband, Rip Nix, and Maybelle and the Carter Sisters (renamed the Carter Family after the death of the original family's patriarch, A. P. Carter, in 1960) became part of Johnny Cash's touring show.
It included songs from the Carter Family repertory as well as a new arrangement of ''Ring of Fire'' and several of her own songs, like ''Tiffany Anastasia Lowe,'' a song admonishing her granddaughter of the dangers of Hollywood life.
She often limited her film and theater work to be with her family, but remarked to an interviewer that it was ''impossible to make a success'' of both home and career all the time.
''
        Longing to Be a Boy
        Katharine Houghton Hepburn was born into a close family whose comfortable social status and unconventional opinions fostered self-confidence and independence.
Miss Hepburn, then 14, found his body hanging from the rafters of a house the family was visiting in New York City.
Although the family always called her Kathy or Kath, one summer Miss Hepburn so hated being a little girl that she cut her hair and called herself Jimmy.
In fact, in 1928 she married Ludlow Ogden Smith, a member of a wealthy Pennsylvania family.
The town house they bought together in the Turtle Bay section of Manhattan was Miss Hepburn's home until the end of her life (along with the family home on the Connecticut River, to which she returned often).
''
        In her book, Ms. Fowler, who had both American and British citizenship, said the family moved back to England when she was 12.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Beverly Bailis was born in Manhattan and grew up in New York City and New England; in 1949 she moved with her family to Los Angeles.
Her grandson Danny said he guessed that her only regret would be not dying in the family's store, the Town Shop on Broadway at 82nd Street, something she had often said she hoped to do.
Mrs. Koch went to work in the family store and learned to fit bras from her husband's sister.
By marrying sisters who shared their political goals they cemented that bond with family ties.
Ms. Cruz was born in Havana to a poor family, and she regularly sang her brothers and sisters to sleep.
She had been living in Connecticut for many years to be near her family.
Her poor family went to Irish wakes hoping for sandwiches.
'' In anger, he left the family forever.
''
        Her family was Jewish, and, facing religious persecution in the Soviet Union, immigrated to the United States and settled in the Flatbush neighborhood of Brooklyn when she was 13.
The cause was brain cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Mrs. Warnke, born Jean Farjeon Rowe in Ossining, N.Y., was a member of the board of Family and Child Services Inc. of Washington, serving as its president from 1984 to 1986.
Gertrude Samuels was born in Manchester, England, and came with her family to Chicago when she was 14.
Born Jane Schneider on July 28, 1928, in Florida, she moved with her family to Atlanta as a small child.
The family having been exiled from Brazil, the younger Isabel was educated in France.
Their engagement was made public in 1930 in Belgium, to which his family had long been banished.
The royal family of Bourbon had been driven from France by law in 1886 and were forbidden even to visit until 1950.
The countess wrote two books of memoirs as well as some biographical and historical writings about her family.
Soon after Miss Falkenburg was born, the family moved to Chile and then, in her teens, to Los Angeles, where she went to public schools.
The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
This was followed in 1975 by ''The Thrales of Streatham Park'' (Harvard), an account of Mrs. Thrale and her family.
Lady Eccles financed her collecting largely from her own family fortune.
Her family name was derived from crapaud, the French for toad, which had been the name bestowed by Cape Cod natives on a French ancestor of hers who washed up there in 1680.
But the family prospered, becoming rich from interests in cement, barges and timber, and that allowed Lady Eccles to indulge her passion for book collecting.

        Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said.
In a family of dazzling girls, Diana dazzled perhaps the brightest.
''She was the nearest thing to Botticelli's Venus that I have ever seen,'' wrote James Lees-Milne, a family friend; Evelyn Waugh, who dedicated ''Vile Bodies'' to her, said that her beauty ''ran through the room like a peal of bells.
She is survived by a far-flung extended family, including the Duchess of Devonshire, her last surviving sister; four sons, two by each of her husbands; and a large number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
These days most of their customers are repeaters, who also send along friends and family members.
Using a microscope, she could then pinpoint minute structural characteristics and identify the bird species or family based on the feathers.
The family moved to San Antonio when she was 16.
Mrs. Reeves graduated from Texas Women's University in Denton as a speech major and then attended the University of Texas School of Law, but left to take a job because her family was short of money in the Depression.
By chance, the family moved into an apartment on a West 143rd Street block between Lenox and Seventh Avenues that was a designated play street.
Then, under pressure from her family to make some money from her talent, she announced her retirement from amateur tennis.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
They told friends and acquaintances that the black girl who visited them at their Hollywood home was their adopted daughter, who lived with a black family for most of the year.

        Lady Donaldson, the first woman to be lord mayor of London in the 800-year history of the office, died on Saturday at a hospice near her family home in Lymington, England.
Born Margaret Elizabeth Thomas on Aug. 18, 1902, in Seattle, she moved to Alaska with her family when she was 9.
It also became clear in later years that the Chiang family had pocketed hundreds of millions of dollars of American aid intended for the war.
It also became clear in later years that the Chiang family had pocketed hundreds of millions of dollars of American aid intended for the war.
Her eldest sister, Soong Ai-ling, directed the family's affairs and innumerable money-making ventures with the help of her husband, H. H. Kung, a scion of one of China's wealthiest banking families.
After Sun's death, Soong Qing-ling carried his banner over into the Communist camp, causing an irreparable rupture in the family.
The Communist Party leadership called her the only true patriot in the Soong family, and appointed her honorary chairman of the People's Republic in 1980, a year before her death.
The Soong family's saga, cutting across many strands of modern Chinese history, began when Madame Chiang's father, Charlie Soong, sailed to the United States at the age of 12.
Coming from a family of traders in Hainan Island in the South China Sea, Mr. Soong was taken in by Methodists in North Carolina who converted him to Christianity in hopes of sending him back to spread the word of Jesus in China.
The massacre caused a permanent rent in the Soong family.
It later became apparent that the Soong family suffered vicious infighting over the purloined funds.
By the time she was 9 she was working as a dishwasher to help pay family expenses.
'' The family moved to Manhattan when Ms. Heilbrun was 6, and she became a voracious reader, devouring Nancy Drew and Judy Bolton mysteries and, as a teenager, the novels of Virginia Woolf and Willa Cather.

        Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland.
Ignoring advice to move to neutral Ireland, they stayed as he pursued his career as a lawyer and civil servant and their family grew.
Hailing from a politically involved family, she acknowledged that it was odd for her even in Hitler's Germany not to have spoken out early on.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
The film was a family affair; Matthew Broderick both directed and starred.
Mrs. Love, who also had an apartment on Park Avenue in Manhattan, was the daughter of Edyth Guggenheim and Adm. Louis Josephthal, and was raised in Manhattan in a family devoted to the arts and philanthropy.
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child following the family gardener around her parents' estate on the North Shore of Boston.
Guest, her portrait, which had reportedly been displayed in a Mexico City bar, was bought by her fiancé's family.
Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child following the family gardener around her parents' estate on the North Shore of Boston.
Guest, her portrait, which had reportedly been displayed in a Mexico City bar, was bought by her fiancé's family.
'' even though her family had always called her ''Gertie.
Mrs. Sebastiani, who was also the author of a cookbook of family recipes, had given up day-to-day control of the Sebastiani winery several years ago because of failing health.
Of the firing, which started a long family feud, Mrs. Sebastiani would say only that she loved her three children equally, but that she and Sam ''just don't make wine together.
The family eventually reconciled.
In 1927 the family moved to Sonoma, settling in a house across the street from August Sebastiani's parents, who owned much of the town.
August and Sylvia were childhood sweethearts, going to school together, dating and spending Sundays at family dinners.
Until her husband's death, Mrs. Sebastiani spent much of her time in the kitchen, preparing meals for family members and wine salesmen.
Three years ago, the Sebastiani family sold its Central Valley winemaking operations and six wine brands for $295 million.
The family kept the historic winery in Sonoma, with Mrs. Sebastiani's daughter, Mary Ann Cuneo, as president.
With friends and family members, Ms. Estess set up Project A.L.S., and, calling on her experience as a producer, she raised more than $17 million and brought together scientists from different laboratories to cooperate in the search for a cure.
The cause was complications of pneumonia and of a brain tumor first diagnosed in 1979, her family said.
The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own.

        Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said.
The family moved from Philadelphia to Far Rockaway when she was 10 and, several years later, to Brooklyn.

        Ann Sunstein Kheel, a civic leader and environmentalist whose posts included chairwoman of the State Parks Commission for the City of New York, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan, her family said.
Mrs. Goodman and her husband, Howard Goodman, known as Happy, who died last year at 81, were cofounders of the Happy Goodman Family act.
The Happy Goodman Family, whose enthusiastic and inspirational live performances recalled early camp-meeting evangelism, formed in 1949 and was on the road constantly for 50 years.
The Happy Goodman Family recorded 15 No.
The family was inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1998.
The family's music revived in popularity in the 1990's, taking its place beside the younger contemporary Christian musicians and groups.
The Happy Goodman Family also often featured Happy's brothers Rusty and Sam.
The group, the team argued, subjected Ms. Hearst to intensely stressful conditions, like isolating her from family and friends and locking her in a closet for six weeks, allowing its members to indoctrinate her and force a bizarre behavioral transformation.
Dr. Singer conducted several widely known studies on schizophrenia and was a renowned family therapist.
Ms. Roth was born near Kiev, Ukraine, in 1914 and moved to New York with her family in 1922.
