Wed at Family Estate
        Miss Lillie was married to the future Sir Robert Peel at his family's estate, Drayton Manor, in 1920, but the bridegroom's parents stayed away, disapproving of ''theatrical folk.
Wed at Family Estate
        Miss Lillie was married to the future Sir Robert Peel at his family's estate, Drayton Manor, in 1920, but the bridegroom's parents stayed away, disapproving of ''theatrical folk.
Miss Chang was a member of a family that was influential in China before the Communist takeover in 1949.
Miss Chang was a member of a family that was influential in China before the Communist takeover in 1949.
The loyalty of many listeners who regarded the Fitzgeralds as friends or part of their family frustrated some broadcast executives who tried to take them off the air several times.
In Pegeen's early teens, the family moved to Portland, Ore., where she graduated from high school at 15.
She came with her family to the United States in 1908 and earned bachelor's and master's degrees from Cornell University, then taught high school in New York City.
Born into a New York family that had long been eminent in finance and public service, Mrs. Tuchman could have had an easy, conventional life as the wife of a prominent physician.
Those included ''Three's a Family'' and ''Personal Appearance.
Sister Mary Assisium was director of family and child-care services at New York Foundling Hospital from 1944 to 1955 and later directed social and psychiatric services at the St. Agatha Home in Nanuet, N.Y.
        She was born in Lancaster, Pa.
Memorial Service Is Planned
        Although funeral arrangements were not yet complete, Mr. Brown said yesterday that Miss Steloff would be buried Monday in the family plot in the Jewish Cemetery at Saratoga Springs.
''
        She also wrote a biography of her father, ''Gerald,'' a famous actor and theater manager; ''The du Mauriers,'' a family history; ''The Infernal World of Branwell Bronte, a biography of Patrick Branwell Bronte; and several plays - ''Rebecca,'' based on her novel; ''The Years Between'' and ''September Tide.
The Princess and her family lived in near obscurity in Seoul in the years after the Korean War.
The Princess and her family lived in near obscurity in Seoul in the years after the Korean War.
As a girl she spent a great deal of time with her maternal grandparents, who instilled in her a deep family loyalty and a commitment to hard work.
Ms. Klein was best known for young-adult works that dealt with family problems, childhood and adolescent sexuality, as well as social issues like racism, sexism and contraception.

       Maria Balducci, a founder of Balducci's, the well-known family grocery store in Greenwich Village, died of complications from a stroke Monday at her home in Queens.
Maria Balducci, a founder of Balducci's, the well-known family grocery store in Greenwich Village, died of complications from a stroke Monday at her home in Queens.
With her husband, Louis, she worked in the family's first store on Greenwich Avenue, opened in 1946.
After the Bolshevik Revolution, the family fled to China, then to the United States, where she acted in silent films.
Of her twice-yearly family literary teas, which brought out the worst of the family silver, including claw-footed napkin rings, she wrote, ''Every ornate curve became a duel between object and polisher.
Of her twice-yearly family literary teas, which brought out the worst of the family silver, including claw-footed napkin rings, she wrote, ''Every ornate curve became a duel between object and polisher.

       Cornelia Van Rensselaer King Marsh Templeton, a member of an old New York family, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78 years old and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        Cornelia Van Rensselaer King Marsh Templeton, a member of an old New York family, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78 years old and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        She was descended from three signers of the Constitution, Rufus King of Massachusetts, John Langdon of New Hampshire and William Paterson of New Jersey.

       Cornelia Van Rensselaer King Marsh Templeton, a member of an old New York family, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78 years old and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        Cornelia Van Rensselaer King Marsh Templeton, a member of an old New York family, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 78 years old and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        She was descended from three signers of the Constitution, Rufus King of Massachusetts, John Langdon of New Hampshire and William Paterson of New Jersey.
It was not until 1980 that Mrs. Pirone learned her real mother was Juanita Jennings, a woman she had grown up knowing and loving as a close family friend.
''I loved her like a sister; my thoughts are with Gene and her family,'' said Dan Aykroyd, a fellow ''Saturday Night'' star.
Miss Radner, who won the Emmy as the outstanding actress in a variety series, was reared in a quasi-theatrical family in Detroit.
In Several Films
        After ''Saturday Night Live'' she appeared in several films, including ''First Family'' and ''The Woman in Red,'' a 1984 hit written and directed by her co-star and future husband, Mr. Wilder.
Energetic Social Life
        The wife of the late Clyde M. Newhouse, a member of the communications industry family and an art gallery owner, Mrs. Newhouse maintained an energetic social life as a moderator of charity fashion shows and chairwoman of balls.
He was the president of a Manhattan art gallery; he was not a member of the Newhouse publishing family.
      
In 1950, Mrs. Takatsukasa married Toshimitsu Takatsukasa, a member of one of the five families who have traditionally served as advisers to the imperial family.
Born to a Musical Family
        She was born in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, on May 17, 1906, the daughter of a bandmaster named Rudolf Kunc.
The family was musical, and her brother, Bozidar, became a pianist and composer who often was her accompanist for her recitals.

       Christine Weston, a novelist and short-story writer whose work was set largely in India, died Wednesday in her apartment in Bangor, Me., her family reported.
Christine Weston, a novelist and short-story writer whose work was set largely in India, died Wednesday in her apartment in Bangor, Me., her family reported.
Mrs. Mars was a former member of the board of Mars Inc., the family candy manufacturing company.
Mrs. McGowen, who specialized in family law and government benefits, had joined the Legal Aid Society before graduating from New York Law School in 1978.
Faced with arrest and internment in 1937, she was smuggled aboard a trans-Atlantic liner by a family friend, Guglielmo Marconi, the radio developer.
'' The remark was interpreted as being only half in jest, but Mrs. Newhouse said she was ''particularly delighted to have Vogue in the family.
Thanks to Tillstrom and Miss Allison, who treated the puppets like people, their exploits and personalities made them family favorites on prime-time television for 10 years.
Her family moved to Oakland, Calif., when she was 6 years old.
Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June in her family, published her first book of poems at 22 under the title ''June's Verses.
''
        Her verses, ranging from whimsical family topics to the topically serious, also appeared in popular anthologies.
Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June in her family, published her first book of poems at 22 under the title ''June's Verses.
''
        Her verses, ranging from whimsical family topics to the topically serious, also appeared in popular anthologies.
Later, for health and family reasons, they moved to Huntsville, where he died in 1984 at age 89.
Before that she was president of the Jewish Family Service Agency in Bayonne.
'' Ballet and Riding
        In 1914, spurred by the onset of the war, the family moved to New York, where the Dalziel sisters went to ballet classes three times a week, learned to ride from Buffalo Bill Cody and occasionally attended schools such as Brearley for a few months.
Mrs. Schiff, the granddaughter of a wealthy investment banker, used her family money to obtain the controlling stock of The Post in 1939.
Shedding him, she abandoned a formal conversion to the Episcopal Church and gradually reverted to an old family concern for the fate of European Jewry.

       Lucy Carnegie Ferguson, a member of the industrialist Carnegie family who worked most of her life to preserve Cumberland Island, died Monday night after a long illness.
Lucy Carnegie Ferguson, a member of the industrialist Carnegie family who worked most of her life to preserve Cumberland Island, died Monday night after a long illness.
Her family owns 1,300 acres on the island, which Congress declared a national seashore in 1972.
She met her husband in the Sevastopol railroad station, she often recalled, when she was trying to escape with her family's jewels.
She was the widow of Dr. Alan F. Guttmacher, president of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and a pioneer and international leader in family planning.
In later years Miss Davis said many times that she saw the divorce as her father's abandonment of his family, and that it left her barren of love for him and preternaturally devoted to her doting mother.
She waited on tables at her schools, and once, to help with family expenses, posed nude for a woman making a sculpture.
Thousands of marijuana smokers were helped by the program, said a longtime family friend, Richard Weiner.
She came to New York with her family as a child and lived on the Lower East Side of Manhattan.
Mary Therese McCarthy was born on June 21, 1912, in Seattle, the daughter of Roy Winfield McCarthy, a member of a prominent Roman Catholic family in Minneapolis, and the former Therese Preston, whose father, a transplanted New Englander, was one of Seattle's most successful lawyers.
Mrs. Cash, who was known professionally as Ellen Lewis Buell, ended her 32-year career as a member of the Sunday book review staff in July 1963, retiring to the Cash family farm in Wildwood, Ga., south of Chattanooga.
''
        During her retirement, she and her husband, the late Harold Cash, a sculptor, maintained the Cash family farm.
'' A Delicate Child
        Dolores Ibarruri was the 8th of 11 children of a miner's family in the harsh mountains near Bilbao, in northern Spain.
The family's poverty prevented this.
''
        As a scion of a powerful family, she followed in its tradition of advocacy, philanthropy and concern for social issues.
Her father was Arthur Lehman of the investment banking family.
She turned to the law when she aspired to a judgeship in what is now Family Court.
In a typical ''our crowd'' twist, one of her husband's partners wed her sister, and the firm later merged with Lehman Brothers, the family firm.
Mrs. Buttenwieser then set out to fashion a life that would enable her to fuse work, family and community service.
She formed a coalition of small family foundations, Joint Foundation Support, to serve philanthropists by providing information on the effectiveness of nonprofit organizations.
She was an assistant United States attorney and a hearing examiner in Family Court before joining the Parking Violations Bureau.
Made 30 Films
        The actress worked with many of Italy's leading directors, including Alberto Lattuada, Vittorio De Sica, Pier Paolo Pasolini and Luchino Visconti, but she made only 30 films, preferring to spend time with her family.
The Spanish national news agency EFE quoted a family representative as saying Miss Mangano's body would be cremated today and the remains sent to New York to be placed next to those of her son.
      
Frances Hammer was a co-founder of the International Student Center of the University of California at Los Angeles, a leading sponsor of the city's Music Center and a member of the Campobello International Park Commission, which cares for the Bay of Fundy island retreat of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and his family.
In 1978, the state of Connecticut -convinced that Miss Burr had never been retarded - freed her, 42 years after her family had had her committed to Norwich State Hospital at age 29 because of ''trouble at home.
Miss Burr was committed in January of 1936 on the recommendation of her mother and her family doctor, a cousin.
''Cold Comfort Farm,'' published in 1932, tells how the sophisticated Flora Poste visits her rural relatives, the weird Starkadder family, and reclaims them from gloom, doom and feuding.
