Their daughter was named after an Etruscan queen and was 3 when the family moved to New York.

        Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass.
''
        Leora Hanser, Barnard student government president at the time of the celebration, said Mrs. McIntosh ''came from a different era, but the work and family issue is really very important, and a lot of Barnard students struggle with this today.
''Having both a job and a family broadens one's perspective, which in turn makes a great contribution to a happy home life,'' she told the American Association of University Women in 1950.
Even as she urged young women to participate in politics and community service and careers, she warned them that combining career and family meant pushing out nearly everything else.
And she portrayed family life as a cornerstone of society and democracy, adding that in the face of conflict, family must take precedence.
And she portrayed family life as a cornerstone of society and democracy, adding that in the face of conflict, family must take precedence.
''You must be prepared to sacrifice many of your social contacts until your family is full grown,'' she said, ''and must always remember that your home comes before all else.
'' When Barnard officials referred to her in news releases as ''Dr.,'' she chided them, saying, ''There is only one doctor in our family,'' referring to her husband, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, a pediatrician who taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.
Her feminist notions were shaped by strong role models in her family.
Her father was a lawyer whose family owned a large sugar mill in Cali, Colombia, where she spent part of her youth.
When she was young, her family moved to Walla Walla, Wash., where she was brought up.
The concept of jewelry that could alert emergency personnel to allergies and other critical information, as well as provide a toll-free phone number for details, was born in a family emergency.
''
        The family mailed literature about the bracelet to hospitals and law enforcement agencies throughout the United States and Canada.
So the family developed a system by which emergency personnel could telephone 24 hours a day to get information.
Mrs. Collins remembered ''the whole town of Turlock'' working out of her family room to enroll new members and ship bracelets.
In 1912, she and her family immigrated to Turlock, where she attended local schools.
Italians could not forgive the royal family for its early support of Mussolini or for fleeing Rome in 1943 when he was overthrown and Italy changed sides and declared war on Germany.
Two years after a referendum that abolished the monarchy, Italy passed a law banning all male members of the Savoy family from setting foot in Italy.
He said the family never considered suing for malpractice, but from the perspective of this more litigious time, speculated on what a successful suit might have meant.
For one thing, Mr. Pushnik said, the poor family might have afforded a wheelchair instead of putting wobbly wheels on a high chair.
And family members -- Mrs. Nauts is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Lancaster Nauts of Cornwall, Conn., and New York, and Nancy Nauts Dobbs of the British Virgin Islands and Bali, Indonesia -- said her crusade could be hard on her family.
And family members -- Mrs. Nauts is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Lancaster Nauts of Cornwall, Conn., and New York, and Nancy Nauts Dobbs of the British Virgin Islands and Bali, Indonesia -- said her crusade could be hard on her family.
As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
In 1958, she became a founding partner in the firm of Burstein & Agata, where she specialized in family law.
Six years later, she was elected to Family Court.
But Royal Family members and others of note rated semicolons.
People from business and publishing and advertising and popular culture may have been starting to mix in society late in her career, but they never made it into ''Jennifer's Diary,'' where the exclusivity of prewar family background was remorselessly maintained.
Peter Kenward, a cavalry officer who worked in his family brewery business, in 1932 and was divorced from him 10 years later.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
''
        The family lived in Garden City on Long Island and in Spring Valley in Rockland County, N.Y., before moving to Manhattan 19 years ago.
Mrs. Murkoff says she will probably carry on with the next chapter, entirely predictable, in the family's series: ''What to Expect in the Teen Years.

        Fuki Kushida, a pioneer Japanese campaigner for women's rights, a peace activist and an opponent of nuclear weapons, died at her home in Tokyo on Monday, a family announcement said.
When the hotel burned down in the late 1920's, the family moved to the Bronx and settled down on Morris Avenue.
''This is my husband's sweat and blood,'' she said, according to family lore.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
Edward Steichen included one of her images in the Family of Man exhibition in 1955, the year that Mrs. Gwathmey's photographic career abruptly ended.
Her family ran a profitable business importing and exporting dried foods.
After her father visited New York and fell in love with it, the family began spending more and more time in the United States, finally emigrating in 1909.
An aunt who lived with the family once sharply criticized the young woman's housecleaning abilities.
She attended college in New York, although family members are not sure where.
''My friends and family thought I was crazy,'' she said.
Ms. Essien, whose full name is Mmekutmfon, was born in the village of Ikot Ekpene in Nigeria and came with her family to the United States when she was 2.
Other members of her family were also interned.
''
        ''The drawings reveal a two-way process at work,'' the review said, ''the gradual demoralization of a group where family ties had ceased to matter under the system of mass living and mass feeding, and the resourcefulness and resilience of these fellow-Americans who tried desperately to turn negative living into something positive.
''
        Starting with family and friends, Ms. Lawry built a network.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Born in Russia on June 10, 1909, Ms. Ginsberg moved with her family to Canada and then to the United States, said her cousin, Barbara Franchi.
He was staying with her family, and the sight of the boyish aviator tugged at her heartstrings.
Young Anne attended Miss Chapin's School in Manhattan, where her family maintained an apartment, and went on to Smith, where she won two literary prizes before she graduated in 1928.
''
        In 1929 the young couple were wed in a simple Protestant service in the drawing room of the Morrow family's hilltop manor in Englewood.
A. Scott Berg's 1998 biography of her husband, ''Lindbergh'' (Putnam), which drew on previously inaccessible family papers provided by Mrs. Lindbergh, showed that she was more aware of the flaws in Charles Lindbergh's character than had been thought.
Charles Lindbergh's abhorrence of any display of emotion or weakness took a toll on his family.
I cannot be a nun in the midst of family life.
Contrary to common practice at the time, when such children were institutionalized, and contrary to Hollywood myth making, in which fans were not to know that perfect couples sometimes had imperfect children, Miss Evans and Rogers had kept Robin, who was their first child, at home with the family.
It was a large family from the start.
Her family considered his fees exorbitant, so her father offered his legal services free to Fokine in exchange for ballet lessons for young Pauline.
No immediate family members survive.
Debra Ellen Bernhardt was born on May 9, 1953, in Nuremberg, West Germany, where her parents were civilian employees of the United States Army; she was raised in Iron River, Mich., where several members of her Danish-American family worked in the iron mines.
Toby is an old family nickname.
Her father, Geronimo, or White Flower, was mainly concerned with raising food for the family, but he was also the main marketer of his wife's pottery.
She had to drop out of high school to help her family during the devastating flu epidemic of 1918.
In the 1950's the family become friends with the owner of a resort at Royal Gorge on the front range of the Rocky Mountains in Colorado.
The cause was melanoma, her family said.
''
        The daughter of an English Army officer, she was born Edris Stannus in County Wicklow, Ireland, in 1898; her family moved to England when she was 10.
Of Danish stock, she was raised in Minnesota by her mother and grandmother after her father, a meat salesman and womanizer, deserted the family when she was 5.
Her first, ''A Yard for John,'' which told of a city boy who so longs to play in the mud and grass that his family moves to the suburbs, was praised in The New York Times as a story of reality ''touched with magic.
'' In ''The Trolley Car Family'' (1947), a man who loses his job as a street car driver turns his old trolley into a home for his family and moves it to the country.
'' In ''The Trolley Car Family'' (1947), a man who loses his job as a street car driver turns his old trolley into a home for his family and moves it to the country.
She spent most of her life in New York, but in an essay in the ''Something About the Author Autobiography Series'' in 1994, she fondly recalled how she explored the land around her family's tarpaper-covered summer home in New Jersey, and how disappointed she was when her parents had to give up plans to live there permanently because her father could not find a job.
She and her family put a down payment on a farm and began repairs, but finances again got in the way, and the Clymers returned to the city.
''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
After the family moved to Brooklyn, Mr. Dovgolenko went to the box office of Loews State, a movie house in Manhattan, and asked where his daughter could take ballet lessons.
Because she came from a wealthy  family, the Whitneys (her mother was Dorothy Payne Whitney), she never had to act for a living but was dedicated to the art of theater.
Produced by Donald Wilson to coincide with the centenary of Galsworthy's birth, the 26-part ''Forsyte Saga,'' which recounted the lives and loves of an upper-middle-class merchant family in London from 1879 to 1926, was first broadcast in 1967 and went on to attract more than 100 million viewers in 26 countries.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
Catherine Rubacky Willis was born in Passaic, N.J. She attended Chestnut Hill College in Philadelphia but left before graduation in 1950 to marry and start a family.

        Ida Fisher Davidoff, a family counselor and expert on aging, died on May 11 at a chronic care center in New Canaan, Conn. She was 97.
Dr. Metlitzki was born in Germany and spent part of her childhood in Russia, where her family fled the Bolsheviks for two years.
And Dr. Metlitzki herself left Eastern Europe just as the Nazis were coming to power and lost members of her family to the Holocaust.
The cause was a stroke, her family said.
No immediate family members survive her.
      
Born in Toronto to a well-to-do family, Ms. Dance attended Ovenden and Trinity Colleges in Toronto and a finishing school in Lausanne, Switzerland.
Soon after, she rebelled against her family by moving to Detroit, where she intended to work as a jazz singer and later met  Ellington by forging an introductory note to him from a jazz critic.
The family moved to Rowayton, Conn., and from 1964 to 1982, while her husband managed Hines, Ms. Dance ran Hicue, the music publishing company for Hines and Hodges.
She grew up traveling the world with her family as Yehudi Menuhin, who was five and a half years her senior, established his early career.
In 1960, he suggested an Easter family vacation to Cuba.
''
        MS. SMITH grew up in a blue-collar family in South Jersey, the eldest of four children.
Then, in the 1980's, she essentially checked out of the music business for 16 years when she moved with her husband to his hometown, Detroit, became a homemaker and started a family.
She was born in 1923 into a family of musicians in the state of Michoacan.
The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
No immediate family members survive her.
      
She died of cancer, said Carlo Tarini, a family spokesman.
When they were born in 1934 to an already large, poor farm family in Callander, in Ontario, Yvonne, Emilie, Marie, Cecile and Annette together weighed 13 and a half pounds on an old potato scale.
''
        A spokesman said the family was upset that the world had been notified before succession could be discussed or funeral arrangements made.
She owned a leopard-skin cloak that had been in the family for five generations but could be found sitting barefoot on the mud stoop of her thatched reception hut.
Correction:  July 13, 2001, Friday  An obituary on June 30 about Modjadji V, a rain queen and tribal ruler in South Africa, misidentified the member of her family who died a few days before she did.
After a residency in family medicine, she trained in space medicine at the University of Texas and at the Johnson Space Center.
In 1985, Mrs. Wirth turned over the administration of the Hassler, which remains one of the leading city hotels still owned and run by a single family, to her son Roberto.
Harriet Lindsay Findlay came from a family of art dealers.
In 1938, her father, David B. Findlay Sr., moved his family to New Canaan, Conn., and opened the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan.
His family, including Ms. Chabot's father, fled Mexico City, traveling by horse-drawn wagon.
The family settled in San Antonio, where she was born in September 1913.
'' Mrs. Graham did not object because she knew how important it was to her father to keep The Post in the family, and, she wrote, ''in those days, of course, the only possible heir would have been a male.
''
        Mrs. Graham met with the directors of The Post a month after her husband's death and told them that the paper would not be sold and that it would remain in the family.
Christine Akbar, a spokeswoman for the Kushi family, told The Associated Press that Ms. Kushi had traditional radiation therapy after learning she had cervical cancer nine years ago.
'' The first, one of the most popular of the dozens that were to be printed in the years to come, is a first-person explanation by a small-town postmistress of why she is moving out of her eccentric family's home to live at the post office.
As the narrator prepares to leave her family's home, she says: ''So I hope to tell you I marched in and got the radio.
During this period she cared for her family and worked on two novels.
In ''Delta Wedding,'' Miss Welty concentrates on the frenzied activities of the extended Fairchild family in the week before the marriage of a daughter to the plantation's overseer, who is considered by several of the Fairchilds to be an intruder unworthy of admission into the family.
In ''Delta Wedding,'' Miss Welty concentrates on the frenzied activities of the extended Fairchild family in the week before the marriage of a daughter to the plantation's overseer, who is considered by several of the Fairchilds to be an intruder unworthy of admission into the family.
Fiction of Family Life
        That book, as well as the short novel ''The Ponder Heart'' (1954) and her longest one, ''Losing Battles'' (1970), are examples of Miss Welty's preoccupation with family life.
Fiction of Family Life
        That book, as well as the short novel ''The Ponder Heart'' (1954) and her longest one, ''Losing Battles'' (1970), are examples of Miss Welty's preoccupation with family life.
They focus on weddings, reunions and funerals, which all bring family members together to recall the past, criticize and lavish praise on one another and settle old scores.
Before joining the Chicago faculty in 1953, she took 10 years off to start a family.
The Murphys were close family friends.
The cause was complications of breast cancer, her family said.

        Tove Jansson, a Finnish author and artist whose tales for children about a family of trolls called the Moomins have been popular in many countries, died on June 27 in Helsinki.
Tove Marika Jansson was born in Helsinki to a Finnish family that spoke Swedish.
Intrigued by the inscription, she painstakingly researched his life and found how he, a complex man with a deep sense of honor, bought his freedom and built a home, a family and his own successful business as a skilled weaver and tanner.
Her parents were divorced when she was a young girl, and she and her three brothers were raised by her mother, an interior decorator who moved the family from New Mexico to Texas.
Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career.
She did her bit to help the act -- she took to the stage for the first time at the age of 2 -- but the family business eventually failed.
The cause was lung cancer, family members said.
''If you had ever told me that I would make being an athlete my profession, I would have laughed at you, and my family would have laughed at you,'' she once said.

        Alix Williamson, a classical music publicist who helped promote and shape the careers of legendary musicians from Lotte Lehmann to the Trapp Family Singers, died on Sunday at her home in New York.
It was she who suggested to the Baroness Maria von Trapp that she write a book about her family's experiences.
But you wouldn't know it upon meeting the matriarch of the Newhouse  family in the formal sitting room of her Park Avenue apartment.
Just ask the many wealthy relatives whom she has ordered to fan out into the philanthropic world, assigning them to various boards and charities, even making her pitch at the family Thanksgiving dinner.
She has become the grande dame of charities in her family.
But her red-painted lips curl into a sly smile and she chuckles, confirming how she has indeed parceled out charity assignments to family members.
Mrs. Newhouse has been particularly adroit at roping family members into involvement with Career Transition for Dancers, which has served more than 2,000 dancers since it began in 1985.
Mrs. Newhouse thinks she and the Newhouse family are a good match.
'' She noted that people who accused her of exploiting family ties ''forget I was a Republican before the president was.
She soon returned to the West, to Las Vegas and California, where she sang in nightclubs, did a few commercials (Duncan Hines and Crisco) and had bit parts in television shows (''The Partridge Family'' and ''Marcus Welby, M.D.
In 1983, she was given the title of special consultant to the Republican National Committee and moved to the family quarters in the White House.
Mine was a rather liberated family.
''
        Mrs. Minnich was born in Bronxville, N.Y., and worked in her family's woodworking business.
Eventually moving into a shop at the present location at 179 East Houston Street, the Russ family developed an enviable reputation for the finest smoked fish, cheeses, olives, salads, dried mushrooms and sweets, the nonmeat delicacies known as appetizers among Eastern European Jews.
Mrs. Federman said that their father, an immigrant from Russia, was a demanding taskmaster, and the entire family worked in the store, often after school and always on the busiest holidays and crowded Sundays.
The family tradition continues at Russ & Daughters, with Mrs. Federman's son Mark, his wife, Maria, and their daughter, Niki, owning and operating the store.
      
''
        Among her film credits are ''The Great Gatsby,''  ''Death on the Nile,''
        ''The Age of Innocence,''  ''The Addams Family,''  ''Moonstruck'' and  ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
The cause of death was kidney failure, her family said.
Her family moved soon after to Rochester, where she grew up.
Supported by her stake in the family company, Sallie made a living of her love of horses.
Ms. Kael was 8 when her family moved to San Francisco.
''A bookish girl from a bookish family'' is the way she once described herself.
Her daughter, an artist, lived nearby with her family.

        Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She had been returning to her house in the Hollywood Hills from a family summer home on Cape Cod.
Berinthia Berenson was born in New York, part of a seemingly charmed European family.
In an interview published in the most recent Fashions of the Times, she characterized herself as something of a peacemaker in a family of strong-willed women.
Many who knew her said Ms. Raines was persuasive, whether on Capitol Hill or around the family dinner table.
''
        Another signature role that showcased Miss McGuire's ability to project simplicity, warmth and forbearance was that of the wife of Jess Birdwell (Gary Cooper) and the mother of Josh Birdwell (Anthony Perkins) in ''Friendly Persuasion,'' William Wyler's 1956 film about a Quaker family living in southern Indiana during the Civil War.
She also had roles in the films ''Mother Didn't Tell Me'' (1950), ''I Want You'' (1951), ''Callaway Went Thataway'' (1951), ''Make Haste to Live'' (1953), ''This Earth Is Mine'' (1959), ''The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker'' (1959), ''Swiss Family Robinson'' (1960) and ''Flight of the Doves'' (1971).
No immediate family members survive.
      
Ms. Ellenbogen, who was prominent in the fields of matrimonial and family law, belonged to the New York County Women's Bar Association before the state association was formed in 1980.
They often painted on Monhegan, where the Hudson family had its summer home.
Through the years, she amassed a vast collection of paintings by Bellows, Henri, her father and others, which she gave to the Monhegan Museum as a memorial to her family.
Ms. Babbin also produced CBS's ''Beacon Hill,'' a short-lived but critically acclaimed 1975 series about a rich Boston family and its servants that resembled the British series ''Upstairs, Downstairs.
No immediate family members survive.
      

        Barbara L. Kaiser, a former judge of Westchester County Family Court, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1987, Judge Kaiser, who opposed compulsory retirement for judges, reached 70, the state's mandatory retirement age for Family Court judges, and could not finish her elected 10-year term.
She spent her youth living in two family castles and in London.
The family's poverty forced her to leave school at 14 and work as a secretary.
Born into an artistic family, she attended acting workshops and appeared on children's television at age 8.
The philosophy of the fledgling company was based on three principles enunciated by Mrs. Ash -- treating others as they themselves would like to be treated, putting God first, family second and career third, and the belief that with praise and encouragement, everyone could succeed.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
The philosophy of the fledgling company was based on three principles enunciated by Mrs. Ash -- treating others as they themselves would like to be treated; putting God first, family second and career third; and  believing that with praise and encouragement, everyone could succeed.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
With fine features and a delicate stiff upper lip, Ms. Gurney was a natural for the role of Lady Marjorie, the wealthy Edwardian matriarch at the heart of the show, which chronicled three decades in the lives of an upper-class British family (upstairs) and their servants (down).
The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her family said.
She and her sister, Joan Donovan, saw nothing of their father, who left the family early, and the girls did not live regularly with their mother until 1942, when the independent-minded Margaret was working for a war production factory in Brooklyn.
The family's apartment was above a dance hall, and she won dance contests as a girl.
The Campanellis had long thought that a ghost inhabited Flying Witch Farm: that of Mary Insley Hunt, a member of the family that long owned the place.
Her sister said she devoured books and seldom went outdoors, leading neighbors to think that the family had only one daughter.
She died of complications of melanoma, said her family.
Her association with the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services spanned more than four decades.
It was his idea that the buildings would make a perfect home for the Studio School, which bought them from the Whitney family in 1967.
''
        The Hubleys kept both promises, and filmmaking became a family affair.
Reticent in interviews about her childhood except to say that her parents had ''made no room for children,'' she created an intimate self-portrait on film in the 25-minute ''My Universe Inside Out'' (1996), which hints at child abuse and her parents' burning down the family house.
Returning to New York, they fed their growing family by working on commercials and educational films.
She had cancer, her family said.
