In 1941 the de Menils left Nazi-occupied France and made their way to the United States, where Mr. de Menil was to represent the family firm of Schlumberger both in North and South America.
She was 60 and the cause of death was breast cancer, her family said.
She had suffered a long illness, her family said.
Mrs. Bunting-Smith, who was also known for overseeing the fuller integration of Radcliffe College into Harvard, founded the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Study -- now the Bunting Institute -- to help women who were scholars, writers, artists and scientists return to careers interrupted by family obligations.
To see a model of an active, engaged woman, Mrs. Bunting-Smith had only to look within her own family.
Its purpose was to pursue research into the psychological and cultural factors that affected women's status in society, and also to support female artists, scientists and scholars, particularly those who had suspended their careers because of family responsibilities.
Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler.
Ms. Ruvinska was born to a family of musicians in New York in 1912, and studied the piano privately with Clarence Adler.
She died of breast cancer, family members said.
While she was in elementary school, the family moved to Dayton, Ohio, for three years.
It's the tradition in the family.
Her family said the cause was congestive heart failure.
The cause was complications from lung cancer, her family said.
Her family's name was Hall, and she was born in Greenville, S.C., on the very first day of 1895.
She told Mary Lou what it was like to cook a really wonderful meal for the master's family and then not be allowed to eat any of it.
Years later, she could recall how her dog, Bruno, would pick up a pail with his mouth and carry it along in his teeth on family errands.
She remembered feeding the pigs and the chickens and the other animals the family kept behind the house.
The stories might have stayed mostly in the family if Mrs. Lollis had not been waiting for a bus one day in 1989 when she met a woman named Malika Lee Whitney.

        Rose Sheppard Milbank, a longtime volunteer with the Red Cross and the United Nations, and a philanthropist who supported projects in underdeveloped countries, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 81 and had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said.
Mr. Sheppard ran a printing and office supply concern in Long Island City, Queens, and other family businesses in Charlotte, N.C.
Her husband died in 1990, and the following year she married Jeremiah Milbank, a philanthropist whose family was involved in investment banking and founded the International Center for the Disabled.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
When she was 4, she and her mother moved to Baltimore while her father remained in Florida to run his business, commuting back and forth to Baltimore to visit his family.
''
        Her family said the cause was breast cancer.
Her daughter chafed a bit, but provided enough good subject matter that for a while she became a virtual subsidiary of the family enterprise.

        Helen Billings Burnham, a one-time real estate woman with no legal training who spent 22 years dispensing justice, sometimes from her family room, as a part-time, round-the-clock town justice in Salina, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Mattydale, a suburb of Syracuse.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
By the time of her husband's death, Mrs. Burnham had spent enough time in his courtroom, an attached garage that had been converted to a family room, to know pretty much what to expect.
But as a town justice on call 24 hours a day, she did not bother to redecorate the old family room.

        Countess Anthony Szapary, the doyenne of Newport society and the great-great-granddaughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt who lived a good part of the year on the upper floors of  the Breakers, maintaining the family's presence in the 70-room mansion built by her grandparents, died on Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 79.
The Countess had suffered a stroke at her home in Pound Ridge, N.Y., her family said.
Her mother was the daughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt 2d, who built the Breakers as the family's summer home.
As a child, she used a large silver tray to toboggan down the impressive staircase at the Breakers, a tradition that younger members of the Vanderbilt family are said to have carried on.
Creating an image that has endured among preservationists as well as family members, the Countess appeared at the opening, immediately before the family ball was to begin, clad in a T-shirt with a New York Central logo, an engineer's cap and a bandaged foot.
Creating an image that has endured among preservationists as well as family members, the Countess appeared at the opening, immediately before the family ball was to begin, clad in a T-shirt with a New York Central logo, an engineer's cap and a bandaged foot.
''
        Mrs. Young was born into a family of diplomats in Milton, Mass., the daughter of Ralph Emerson Forbes and Elise Cabot and a great-granddaughter of Ralph Waldo Emerson.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
Before her 1975 book on Rosalind Franklin, Mrs. Sayre had written just one other book, a well-received 1957 book for teen-agers, ''Never Call Retreat,'' about a Quaker family living in the South during Reconstruction.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
Indeed, in one of those epochal synchronicities -- Jung's term for coincidences that are not -- when Marie-Louise was 3, her family moved from Germany to Switzerland, Jung's homeland.
Her mother was Katherine Crowell Cushing, of a socially prominent family in Cleveland.
Although marriage into the Roosevelt family did not apparently meet her highest expectations, it merited no objections.
Mrs. Harrington was born in the Germantown section of Philadelphia, and her father abandoned her when she was 6 years old, family members and a friend said.
Learning that the Titanic had room, the family, along with two teen-age girls they had met in Sweden, hopped a boat-train to Southampton and bought third-class tickets just hours before the Titanic sailed.
Her first, in 1919, to a theater manager from Montreal, resulted from family pressure and soon ended in annulment when it was discovered that the man already had a wife in Belgium.
Born into an affluent bourgeois family in Frankfurt, Ms. Bing was trained in music and art.
No immediate family members survive.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
For years after that, she made a point of stating her Jewish credentials, dating to childhood: her family was religious and she went regularly to synagogue (though she was bothered that women were relegated to the back rows of the balcony), studied Hebrew and was enrolled for a time at the Jewish Theological Seminary.
Her mother, Esther, had been a machinist in a textile factory in East London who, as a teen-ager, became a shop steward for the garment workers' union; her father, Charles, a journalist and actor, was a leading member of the Canadian Socialist Party and later, when the family returned to England, of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
With the Conservatives in power through the 1980's and into the 1990's, Ms. Lestor worked as the opposition's chief spokeswoman on a number of issues, including children and the family, juvenile crime and race relations.
Her family said the cause was breast cancer.
Mrs. Cormier, who had no birth certificate but traced her birth date through family records to Nov. 9, 1879, was 118 when she died two minutes before midnight on Tuesday at a nursing home in Crowley, La.
Mrs. Cormier recalled growing up at a time of such racial tension that after her family was given some land by a white woman grateful that little Felicie had nursed her through a bout of smallpox when no one else would take the job, the Ku Klux Klan drove the family away.
Mrs. Cormier recalled growing up at a time of such racial tension that after her family was given some land by a white woman grateful that little Felicie had nursed her through a bout of smallpox when no one else would take the job, the Ku Klux Klan drove the family away.
Mrs. Meilleur's family, though, kept better records.
Mrs. Cormier, her family said, neither smoked nor drank.
The Maddoxes were a typically hard-bitten Depression-era dust bowl family.
Influenced by singers like Jimmie Rodgers and Emmett Miller, as well as the early music of the Carter Family and the Sons of the Pioneers, they played a raucous, uptempo, eight-to-the-bar music later called ''hillbilly boogie,'' and not too far away in its energy and speed from rockabilly.
A native of the little Ozarks town of Dwyer, Ark., and the first member of her farm family to attend college, Mrs. Spelce, who was born in 1908, completed four years of nursing training in Fort Smith, Ark., spent a high-kicking year in New York honing her skills at the city's leading hospitals, then returned to Arkansas to begin a troubled marriage and a hopscotching career working in a series of small-town and big city hospitals from Arkansas to California.
The first day, according to family legend, when the teacher arranged a classic still life and told his students to go to work, Mrs. Spelce spent the first part of the class working in a tiny area at the center of the canvas until the teacher told her she was supposed to use the entire surface.
Although her work included portraits of family members and some urban scenes, Mrs. Spelce's favorite subject was her childhood farm, a decidedly busy and happy place, according to her renderings, and one that clearly gave her a much recollected contentment in her long nursing career.
The cause was breast cancer that spread to her liver, said Geoff Baker, a family spokesman.
The cause was complications from multiple myeloma, her family said.
Over the years, Dr. Lukomnik held teaching, medical and administrative positions at Columbia University's School of Public Health, the United States Public Health Service, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jersey City Family Health Center, among others.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
Dr. Bernard leaves no immediate family.
''Stand By Your Man'' made her  synonymous with the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
''Stand By Your Man'' established Ms. Wynette in the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Growing up in a wealthy Christian Science family in San Francisco, Mrs. Maxwell had harbored a grudge against the religion ever since she broke her arm when she was 9 and was denied medical treatment until she went to a doctor on her own.
It was a streak of independence that would resurface a few years later when she contracted a teen-age marriage of convenience simply to escape her family, then obtained a divorce as soon as the couple reached Paris.
She could also speak authoritatively on subjects like world literature, the British royal family and baseball, a sport she became devoted to after moving to New York in 1951.
She died of cancer, said her family.

        Dr. Emily Mudd, a onetime college dropout who trained to be a landscape architect before the trajectory of her life and her own inner fire led her to become a pioneering marriage and family counselor, died on Saturday at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 99 and widely regarded as a giant of the field she helped create.
For one thing, she and her husband, Stuart, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania, had helped start Pennsylvania's first birth control clinic six years earlier, and her experiences there dealing with often overburdened and sometimes abused wives had led her to see the need for broader family counseling.
Along the way she helped lay the groundwork for virtually every aspect of professional marriage and family counseling.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She had a heart attack, said a family member, John Connolly.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
According to family legend, after a single political meeting in Boston, the actor Zero Mostel was so taken with Dr. Lansing that he followed her to a bus stop, pretended he was her abandoned husband and in an impromptu performance worthy of the Broadway stage made an impassioned plea that she return to him and their babies.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
British readers have not seemed to be able to get enough of Dame Catherine's gritty tales of family conflict, social despair and the debilitating effects of deprivation.
Her family said the cause was a stroke.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
In October, Algonquin is bringing out a second Whaley collaboration with Mr. Baldwin, a book of recipes and family stories, ''Mrs.
A spokesman for her family said Ms. Merritt died after a six-year battle with skin cancer.
By her own account Miss Mathiot  garnered a total of seven marriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors on religious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiot considered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn't and bowed to her family's wishes.
After she established a life and career away from her family, the proposals kept coming, but Miss Mathiot continued to reject them, she said, though for reasons of her own.
In addition to emphasizing nutrition, Miss Mathiot's books appealed to family cooks because they showed how to keep food costs down while remaining true to the spirit of French cooking.
Based on Clarence Day's reminiscences about his youth in New York in the 1880's, the play told the story of a large family, led by a frequently exasperated father tempered by his charming wife who put up with all his crotchets.
No immediate family members survive.
She then moved her family from Southern California to Manhattan.
After that, Ms. O'Sullivan had an active career as a Broadway actress, starring in ''The Subject Was Roses,'' ''Keep It in the Family,'' ''No Sex Please, We're British,'' ''Charley's Aunt'' and the charming 1980 revival of Paul Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven.
As the matriarch of a very large family, she was asked about off-screen motherhood.
The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, family members said.
Not long after moving to New Haven with her family in 1983, Mrs. Kennedy became aware of the lack of nursing centers and services for people with AIDS.
After two years of research and attempts to raise money, she received a $60,000 grant from the Merck Family Fund.
The cause was leukemia, her family said.
She looked after the needs of board members and organized annual dinners and meetings for them and family members, as well as special parties for donor groups.

        Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn.
        She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems that began over a year ago, said Kelly Hancock of House of Cash, the business office of Johnny Cash, Mrs. Carter's brother-in-law, and of her sister June Carter Cash.
The original Carter Family band, which helped kick-start the country-music record industry in 1927, was begun by A. P. Carter, a railroad worker and farmer from Maces Springs, Va.; his wife, Sara, and Sara's cousin, Maybelle.
The family band lasted from 1927 to 1943, and it was of inestimable importance to American music.
The cause was heart failure, her family said.
Her mother's family was instrumental in the founding of Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky.
        Mrs. Rennie attended the Downer Seminary in Milwaukee and Collegiate School in Louisville and graduated from Vassar College in 1935.
''
        Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above her career, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000 so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George P. Halperin.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Her family said the cause was a stroke.
For Ms. Timoner, a New Haven native whose father was a railroad carpenter, religion, the military and pushing limits were all family traditions.
She illustrated his ''Baby Sister for Frances'' (1964) and drew the pictures for five more books in that series about Frances and her family.
Miss West, who began writing stories at age 7 in her family's elegant four-story house in Boston, was not yet 20 in 1926 when her short  story ''The Typewriter'' won a prize from the Urban League's Opportunity magazine.
Both were written at her family's former vacation home on the  Vineyard, where she had lived year-round since 1947 and was a columnist for The Vineyard Gazette.
Her father, born a slave, built a fruit and vegetable business that lifted the family into the slim ranks of Boston's black upper middle class.
Family members ''ranged in color from the blond child to me,'' Miss  West wrote in ''The Richer, the Poorer,'' a collection of short stories and essays published in 1995.
The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed in September 1996, her family said.
(Miss Smith, whose romantic life  became a subject of intense speculation among her grandnieces and grandnephews, apparently found a satisfying solution to the problem of juggling job and family: attracting a steady supply of smitten suitors without actually succumbing to matrimony.
While it is tempting to speculate on what direction her life might have taken if she had not joined the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, in an era when women's horizons were bounded largely by home and family, it would be hard to find a secular career path that would have allowed her to become president of the nation's largest nonprofit hospital chain.
But then for Sister Irene, who grew up in Philadelphia, the religious life seems to have been a foregone family conclusion.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Her spokeswoman and family members said she was 65, although the birth date listed in reference books would have made her 64.
Wayside House offers programs of intensive therapy and rehabilitation for alcohol and drug abuse, along with family and children's counseling.
The cause was a brain tumor diagnosed a few months ago, her family said.
Her father was a rabbi, and her mother ran a grocery store to support the struggling family, which lived in a two-room log cabin and slept on straw mattresses.
The family eventually repaired the rift, and Mr. Buffett acquired the new venture in 1992, merging it into the Furniture Mart.
Ms. Bernadino, born in Seibo in the Dominican Republic, was the granddaughter of a provincial governor and one of seven children in a family that was unusually liberal on women's rights.
Greg Foster, a former champion hurdler and a family friend, said he had spoken with Griffith Joyner's husband, Al Joyner, and with her sister-in-law, the track star Jackie Joyner-Kersee, and had been told that Griffith Joyner was believed to have suffered a heart seizure.
Foster, who is an executive in the marketing firm in St. Louis owned by Joyner-Kersee and who has extensive contact with the family, said he had been told that ''she never woke up this morning.
The family said little about that incident.
According to David Wallechinsky's ''The Complete Book of the Summer Olympics,'' Griffith Joyner began racing as a 7-year-old, but stopped temporarily in 1979, when she withdrew from California State-Northridge to help support her family.
) The association is based in New York and works in the United States and more than 40 other countries to provide training and other support to health care professionals in the fields of family planning and reproductive health.
Ms. Ferragamo pursued her vigorous activities for her family company in defiance of doctors' prognostications a decade ago after she underwent surgery for breast cancer.
Ms. Ferragamo's most successful shoe design, a round-toe low-heeled pump with grosgrain ribbon and gold buckle stamped with the family signature, became a badge of executive propriety and country club chic.

        Phyllis M. Rhinelander, a lineal descendant of two early mayors of New York City and of the Kip family, who gave their name to the Kips Bay region, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
The Episcopal church, at East 88th Street and Second Avenue, was commissioned by her great-great-aunt, Serena Rhinelander, in 1895, and was built on property owned by the Rhinelander family.
A son from that marriage, Robert M. Gray, died of cancer, said Sarah Jennings, a Canadian arts journalist and a family friend.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
Because the lightweight duckpin ball, which has no finger holes, is small enough for a child to handle, duckpins has long been cherished as a family sport in Baltimore.
Her husband, Eric Butler, a family doctor, died in 1967.
In 1953 she became medical director of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America, where she carried forward Margaret Sanger's mission for family planning.
Three years earlier, as a representative of family planning, she took part in the first American Conference on Church and Family run by the National Council of Churches.
Three years earlier, as a representative of family planning, she took part in the first American Conference on Church and Family run by the National Council of Churches.
At age 6, for example, she criticized the sculptor Constantin Brancusi, a family friend, for creating ''L'Oiseau d'Or'' with a horizontal head, a position that she said would make it impossible for the bird to sing.
'' She reminded her critics that modern children were in desperate need of sex education because they were sexually vulnerable: ''devoid of chaperones, supervision, rules and close family relations and subject to onslaughts of commercial sexual exploitation.
In 1981 she and Eric Johnson wrote a widely praised book, ''The Family Book About Sexuality,'' which was published in five languages.
Dr. Calderone also contributed to many professional publications and served as editor of texts on abortion and family planning.
She returned to California to work for the family that had previously employed her, later lived in Stockton and then went back to Phoenix a few years before her death.
She was 74 years old and died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, her family  said.
Late in life, she traced the roots of her family's tradition of statesmanship and their appreciation of America.
In ''Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage'' (Harvard University Press, 1986) she told the story of her two grandfathers: one, born to a peasant family, became a wealthy silk merchant in New York; the other, from a samurai family, rose to be Prime Minister twice and a powerful Finance Minister responsible for overhauling Japan's financial system in the 19th century.
In ''Samurai and Silk: A Japanese and American Heritage'' (Harvard University Press, 1986) she told the story of her two grandfathers: one, born to a peasant family, became a wealthy silk merchant in New York; the other, from a samurai family, rose to be Prime Minister twice and a powerful Finance Minister responsible for overhauling Japan's financial system in the 19th century.
For instance, she opened the swimming pool, long reserved for the Ambassador's family, to everyone.
One stepson, Robert D. of Bethseda, Md., following the family tradition of public service, went on to become director of the Congressional Budget Office and is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution.
Her family said the cause was cancer.
David, now 36, has what his family describes as a happy life, living at a Camp Venture group home in New City, N.Y., and participating in activities at a Camp Venture day services center, all thanks to the efforts of a more or less ordinary woman who saw her duty as making sure her children got the care they needed.
      
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Elysabeth Kleinhans, a lawyer who manages the real estate business with other family members.
The family will not estimate the size and value of her portfolio, and not only because owners are customarily loath to disclose such things (tax assessors read the newspapers).
In 1931, for $6,000, the Koreins bought a six-story apartment house in the East Flatbush section of Brooklyn -- not as an investment but so that family members would have a place to live rent free.
But even when he was alive, Mrs. Korein was the ''driving force,'' said Lawrence Friedland, the family's lawyer.
Mr. Pillsbury was also a grandson of Gen. Charles H. Taylor, who headed a family that has controlled or managed the newspaper for 125 years.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
She directed the Adolescent Gynecology and Family Planning Clinic at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, which provided treatment as well as information on birth control and sexually transmitted diseases to tens of thousands of disadvantaged teen-agers.
She created specialized programming for family physicians on the Lifetime medical network, and later became the head of Ob/Gyn news for the Medical News Network.
Mr. Pillsbury also was a grandson of Gen. Charles H. Taylor, who headed a family that has controlled or managed the newspaper for 125 years.
It was Mrs. Kissinger -- the practical one in the family -- who decided that they had to leave Germany when Hitler came to power.
''
        Mrs. Kissinger was born Paula Stern in 1901 into a prosperous middle-class family in Leutershausen.
He took the name Henry when the family came to the United States.
There was no shortage of money in her family; her grandfather, an officer in the Civil War, had founded a coal and lumber business that sustained the family very well.
There was no shortage of money in her family; her grandfather, an officer in the Civil War, had founded a coal and lumber business that sustained the family very well.
No immediate family members survive.
Her family said the cause was heart disease.
After all, after marrying James Donovan, a leather importer, and starting a family, Mrs. Donovan, a 1939 graduate of Rosemont College near Philadelphia, had willingly given up her job as an assistant Vogue beauty editor in New York and moved to Westport, Conn.
In the show she played the matriarch of a struggling black family in Chicago.
Mr. Lear, who was the executive producer of ''All in the Family,'' from which ''Maude'' and ''Good Times'' were later spun off, said one of his most vivid memories of Ms. Rolle was a musical number she performed with Beatrice Arthur, the actress who played Maude.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
She was buried on Wednesday in a family tomb at Beaugency, near Orleans.
Her mother's family, originally from Alsace, had moved back to France after Germany occupied the region in the 1870 Franco-Prussian war.
After the war, the family moved to Dijon in France where she showed interest in the theater by acting in school plays.
The cause was cardiac arrest, her family said.
Eventually a Slinky wound up under the Malsed Christmas tree, where according to family legend, 6-year-old Fredrick thought to ask, ''I wonder what this could do with wheels?
Born in Cincinnati, Mrs. Malsed spent her first 16 years in St. Maries, Idaho, before moving to Spokane, Wash., with her family.
After leaving Russia in 1921 he settled with his family in Paris, where Ms. Youshkevitch studied ballet with Olga Preobrajenska and Lubov Egorova, former ballerinas with the Imperial Ballet in St. Petersburg, and with Leo Staats, chief balletmaster at the Paris Opera Ballet.
The family moved to India when she was less than a year old.
Until she was 12, Ms. Godden was largely educated by her family in a home that she later described as ''English streaked with Indian, or Indian streaked with English.
''
        Ms. Godden's precocity was evident during her early days in Bengal, where she wrote a fictional autobiography at age 7, vying with her sister Jon -- who also became a writer -- for the family literary laurels.
She supported her family through writing, teaching the local children, watching over the children of women doing war work in Calcutta, and selling herbal teas.
The vicissitudes of time on family history was the theme of several of her novels set in Britain.
The book told of a family of Dutch dolls owned by two girls in London.
She trained in ballet first with her mother, who died when she was 10, and then with the noted Russian teachers Anatole Vilzak and Ludmila Shollar in New York City, where the family moved in 1940.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
In the summer of 1925 the family moved to Antibes, on the Riviera, then an unheard-of destination in warm weather.
) The photographs in the family album were by Man Ray.
In recent years, she lectured on the Lost Generation writers and opened her vast archive of family memorabilia to scholars of the period.
''Two boys went out from our family, and now two other boys have come into it.
She was 30 and lived in Los Angeles, though she had been staying with her family in Weehawken, N.J., since November.
''
        Born in Heidelberg, Germany, Ms. Farber came to the United States with her family at the age of 7 and became a naturalized citizen six years later.
Her sentiments were expressed in a 1922 poetry collection, ''The Indians in the Woods,'' in a series of stories later included in a 1946 collection, ''Good-Bye, Son and Other Stories,'' and in a 1932 narrative, as she called it, ''The Invasion,'' the multi-generational account of a Scotch-Irish-Indian family.
After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
For Miss Lewis, who is survived by a daughter, Joanna Thomson of Madison, Wis.; a son, Daniel Winters  of Davis, Calif., and three grandchildren, her family was always more important than her work, and her life is well reflected in her final collection, ''The Dear Past,'' (1994) with poems covering most of the century.
For a woman who charmed generations of troubled poets and other literary figures with her almost otherworldly serenity, looking back over the domestic scenes of a long, literary life it would be hard to find a more compelling image of Miss Lewis -- or one more evocative of the flesh-and-blood life beneath the surface of 20th-century literature -- than one of the many at the family's house after a warm, rollicking meal with the couple's dearest friends.
After the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor during World War II, Mrs. Fujikawa's family was interned in Arkansas in a relocation camp.
''The family talk around the dinner table always concerned business,'' Miss Bishop said.
Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring from a career largely in family therapy in New York, said Dr. Samuel Roll, a professor of psychology at the University of New Mexico.
The key to her success in therapy with Indian patients was her understanding of the importance placed on a balance of life's forces, and she often asked family members to join in the therapy, Dr.
Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service.
Born into a musical family in Brooklyn and named Mildred Sophia Weiss, Mrs. Baker became deeply involved with museums and art galleries after marrying an artist, Emil Holzhauer, in 1925.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Soon after the war began in September 1939, Mrs. Murrow made her first radio broadcast, for CBS, about family life in wartime, and she became an occasional broadcaster for CBS and the British Broadcasting Corporation.
