She had a long illness, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
A defining experience of her youth was the eviction of her family from their apartment house, which was demolished to make room for a ramp to the George Washington Bridge.
In 1962, the family moved back to the Bronx into a fifth-floor five-room apartment on Perry Avenue, but in a few years, the ailments of the inner city moved into the neighborhood.
Her first party meeting, she recalled in a speech years later, was at a home where the local sheriff was at that moment trying to evict a family.
''I wanted to study medicine,'' she said, ''but no school in New York would admit a woman, and my family was too poor to send me away to study.
The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said.
The family lived in several towns in northern California during Ms. Cashin's early years, and in each her mother would open a custom dress shop.
One sister contracted polio and another died of influenza in 1918, leaving a long shadow over the family, said a niece, Cheryl Chalmers.
''I remember saying to my family that I thought if I were a man I might try for a job in city government,'' she said in her oral history.
'' Ms. Caudwell chose the surname Caudwell because it was a family name.
Her family ''recognized how much of Sarah there was in her characters,'' Andrew Cockburn said.
Ms. Kenner-Jackson was born Doris Coley in 1941 in Goldsboro, N.C., and moved with her family to Passaic, N.J., as a teenager.
Mrs. Pelletier, the former Madeline Nuala Moran, began working for The Times in 1959, where she was joined by other members of her family as the years passed.
She was born into a well-to-do family in Reykjavik, where her father was a prominent surgeon.
''Hattie and the Wild Waves'' describes in detail her artist mother's childhood in a wealthy German-American family.
Her death, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, came after a prolonged gastrointestinal illness, her family said.
Christi Kangas grew up in a food-oriented family in Cutler City, Ore.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The apparent cause was a heart attack, her family said.

        Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A.
Born into a wealthy family, she at first also supported the movement that sent the dictator Fulgencio Batista into exile in 1959.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
Her parents immigrated  from Russia, and she was born in Hartford in 1910; three years later the family moved to New York, where they struggled to survive.
The family lived in poverty on the Lower East Side.
No immediate family members survive.
      

        Alice Sheets Marriott, matriarch of the tight-knit family whose name stands on thousands of hotels worldwide, died on Monday in Washington.
Today, Marriott International, which is still run by the Marriott family, has more than 140,000 workers and annual sales approaching $10 billion.
Along the way, Mrs. Marriott also raised a family that now numbers two children, eight grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
The Marriott family was also growing -- J. W. Jr. was born in 1932, and Richard followed in 1939.
Miss Kedrova, who was born in Leningrad into the Kedroffs, a distinguished and well-to-do musical family, fled the aftermath of the Russian Revolution with them and became an emigree in Paris.
He said that when her family fled Russia, they left their papers behind.
Two years later, after Mrs. Glover had moved with her family to Montlucon, she discovered that her English tutor was in the Resistance, and she asked him whether she could do something ''to help our cause.
Mrs. Glover then devoted herself to raising a family.
''
        Her play, ''Ring Round the Bathtub,'' which was produced on Broadway in 1972 and starred Elizabeth Ashley, was a sentimental look at an American family in Chicago, her hometown, during the Depression.

        Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        By that time the center's services, besides family counseling, had come to include child care, a food bank, job placement, a sports league, centers for teenagers, even a thrift shop.
''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
''She treated everybody she worked with as a family member, and that became the model for the Center for Family Life, and in fact became a model for similar institutions across the country,'' said David Saltzman, executive director of the Robin Hood Foundation, which fights poverty in New York City and worked with Sister Mary Geraldine for the last 12 years.
Sister Mary Geraldine was born and raised in Newark, and received a bachelor's degree, magna cum laude, in 1967 from Fordham, a master's degree in 1976 from the family and community relations department of Teachers College at Columbia, and a master's degree in 1985 from Columbia's School of Social Work.
Two years later they collaborated again on ''The Virgin Spring,'' which was inspired by a 13th-century ballad about a deeply religious farming family whose young daughter is raped and murdered.
No immediate family members survive her.
      
She regaled readers with accounts of traveling with her family, tedious home renovations and her beloved pug dogs or, after her cancer was diagnosed in 1989, with details of her illness and its often painful treatment.
The cause was vascular disease, her family said.
And she hunted them down for scholars like Irving Howe and novelists like Leon Uris as well as for thousands of ordinary people trying to research their family histories.

        Claire Trevor, an Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists -- reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops -- died Saturday at a hospital near her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 91 and had suffered from respiratory ailments in recent months, said Richard Elbaum, a spokesman for the family.
) Her father was a Fifth Avenue merchant tailor who soon moved the family to Larchmont in Westchester County.
Mr. Bren had two sons from a previous marriage, later prompting Miss Trevor to recall fondly that they had ''an instant family.

        Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Judge McDonald, a graduate of Columbia's law school, was named the administrative judge for the five New York City Family Court complexes in 1986.
She had the title of administrative judge of the Family Court of New York City and retired from the post in 1995.
''
        In 1987, she said that largely because of drug addiction, more and more of the Family Court cases involved abused or neglected children, who had flooded the court system and in turn had overburdened the foster care system.
In 1976, she became a Family Court judge.
She was briefly supervising judge of the Family Court in New York County before becoming the administrative judge.
But one afternoon, she and a friend watched proceedings in Family Court at time when poor children were not given assigned counsel.
Mr. Cartland was handsome and charming and came from a prominent family.
He was not a very good provider, and when his father's fortune was lost, forcing the family members to sell their house, it was Polly Cartland who led them into a home far less commodious than the one they had lost.
They were divorced five years later, and although she said she did not like the McCorquodale family much, she married Hugh McCorquodale, Alexander's cousin, in 1936.
It was a deeply competitive family, with Ms. Fitzgerald, her brother, Rawle, who became a foreign correspondent, and their uncles vying at the dinner table at literary games.
'' She supplemented the family income by working at various jobs, including in the Ministry of Food.
The family moved often and ended up living on a dilapidated houseboat in London.
'' The family moved to public housing and Ms. Fitzgerald became its main breadwinner.

        Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif.
The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, her family said.
'' (Random House), which recounted the logistical problems of raising 20 children in a modern middle-class American family.
The Navy commissary listed the family as a restaurant so that the Beardsleys could buy food at wholesale prices.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
She suffered a brief illness, her family said.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
After her divorce that year from Representative Gilman, she married Manuel G. Guerreiro, a former judge on the Family Court of New York City, who died in 1994.
According to her family, the father attended every season opener from 1894 until 1970, when he died at 97.
''It reminds me of all the great help you gave to me and my family while I was in prison,'' he wrote.
After she graduated cum laude in 1963, her family urged her to study medicine, but she instead chose graduate study at Columbia University, from which she received a doctorate in contemporary British and American literature in 1970.
The eldest daughter in her poor family, Ms. Goncalves da Silva was born in 1922 in Madureira, another Rio neighborhood, and moved to Mangueira as a child.
''
        After Ms. Goncalves da Silva's burial on Tuesday, her friends and family members gathered to dance until 3 in the morning to some of the legendary sambas with which she was associated.
      
Dr. Martin, who lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, had long battled an autoimmune disorder, her family said.
When Josephine was very young, her family moved to New York City, where she attended elementary and high school.
At the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, she worked with troubled adolescents, homeless families and others who needed help.
''
        In the early 1950's she and her family -- another son, Peter, had been born in 1943 -- left England for East Berlin.
One of them, ''The Old Man at the Railroad Crossing and Other Tales'' (1957), is a collection of fables he wrote for her, some as bedtime stories when she couldn't sleep, and others as Christmas gifts for the family.
The family lived in Brooklyn but had relatives in North Carolina, and Ms. Battle, who was part Tuscarora Indian, often visited a grandmother there who raised minks.
The cause was cancer, her family said.

        Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24.
At the time, federal law prevented any family from adopting more than two foreign-born children.
It opened with family portraits of Ndebele people in tribal garb, particularly of mothers with infants, and other tribal groups at work, rest and play.
Two of her South African photographs were included in Edward Steichen's famous international exhibition and collection of the mid-1950's, ''The Family of Man.
In 1936 she started a portrait studio in Pretoria to capture the white South African elite along with visitors like Noel Coward and members of the British royal family.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Frieda's father, a railroad worker, had moved the family to Kentucky and then Ohio, and she had taken a job at a department store in the town of Portsmouth.
Her family said she had been ill for a long time, but gave no details.

        Helen Culver Ewing Breasted, who worked at Hull House in Chicago with Jane Addams, its founder and a family friend, died Sunday at her home in Tamworth, N.H. She was 90 and also had a home in Sewickley, Pa.
        Mrs. Breasted, a native of Chicago, attended Vassar College.
At 14 her family moved to New York City.
She left Germany for New York with her family in 1938.
The cause was cancer, her family said.

        Mary MacLeod Trump, a philanthropist who supported charities near her home in Jamaica, Queens, and elsewhere, died on Monday at 88 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, her family said.

        Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce.
Sister Isolina was born into a Puerto Rican family that owns two leading newspapers.
She employed her family's influence in establishing charitable organizations.
''Soul Sister'' was followed in 1973 by ''Bessie Yellowhair,'' based on her life on a Navajo reservation and as a American Indian nanny for a Los Angeles family, and in 1978 by ''The Illegals,'' in which she wrote of crossing the border with a group of Mexican immigrants.
In 1974, after a period of turbulence in which she accused her husband of selling her belongings to buy whisky, the family moved to Catskill, N.Y.
''I would like her to be remembered as the grandmother that she was, as a family woman,'' Ms. Simmons said.
With the conviction of a Rosa Parks, she leads her family into block-busting not as an act of revolution but as her birthright.
A family memorial service was held at the Hampstead Parish Church on Sept. 14, where Miss Shepard worshiped daily as long as she was able.
Her family said she died during surgery.
That year, she met Marshall Field IV, a multimillionaire whose family owned a department store chain and published The Chicago Sun-Times.
At the end of their road trip, the family settled in Anchorage.
''
        ''There'd be no parents, no family, just alphabetic characters equally divided between male and female,'' he said.
'') Another song, ''The Family,'' became the theme of the United Nations' Year of the Family in 1994.
'') Another song, ''The Family,'' became the theme of the United Nations' Year of the Family in 1994.
That year, she met Marshall Field IV, a multimillionaire whose family owned a department store chain and published The Chicago Sun-Times.
At the end of their road trip, the family settled in Anchorage.
The cause was thyroid cancer, her family said.
Her family moved to Canada and, in 1945, on to New York, where she graduated Phi Beta Kappa in psychology from Hunter College in 1950.
A life of privilege was replaced by one of poverty as the family endured the first years of Soviet rule, then fled, first to Estonia, where her father died, then Berlin, then Paris.
Surviving the occupation, the family lived in Paris and then in the French provinces, where they helped Soviet prisoners of war taken by the Germans.
Mrs. Bandaranaike's final act was to vote in a parliamentary election she hoped would return the family's party to power leading a governing coalition known as the People's Alliance.
Her death from a heart attack on Election Day seemed poetically timed for a woman whose family business is politics and whose political career spanned four decades.
In the final years of her life, her daughter, Chandrika Kumaratunga, succeeded her as the standard bearer of the family party and has served as president of the country since 1994.
But she not only survived, she sustained the party and the family in politics.
She will be buried alongside her husband on Saturday in a state funeral at the family's ancestral home in Horagulla.
But the political family she had nurtured splintered in her later years.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
But both the son, as a leader of the opposition, and the daughter, as president, have carried on the family's political tradition.
      
Born in Prague into a Jewish banking family, Ms. Bullaty received her first camera at 14, a consolation gift from her father for having to abandon school and normal teenage activities as their world darkened with the approach of war.
There, she discovered that none of her family had survived.
Her death was unexpected, and the cause was not immediately clear, her family said.
Mrs. Johnston's book ''The French Family Feast'' (1988) was about home cooking and family dining traditions.
Mrs. Johnston's book ''The French Family Feast'' (1988) was about home cooking and family dining traditions.
The following year, when ''Redhead'' was on tour in Chicago, Miss Verdon and Fosse were married, and by the time the tour reached Los Angeles she had decided to retire from show business with the intention of concentrating on family life.
No immediate family members survive.
      
She became the first girl in her family to go to college, and she arrived in New York in 1922 to study for a master's degree in home economics at Columbia University.

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Only the protests of family members prevented her from going door to door in her wheelchair to canvass for Hillary Rodham Clinton's senatorial campaign in New York this fall.
The free spirit of Mrs. Belcher, who by then was married to Arthur Fuller Belcher, a lawyer, is suggested by a family story of borrowing a minister's house for a Maine vacation.
'' She told friends and family members that if women had voted as a bloc, they could have effected more change.
''Her devotion to her family, her profession and her work in both the local and global community is an example for women everywhere,'' the first lady said.

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
After Ms. Evangelista retired from singing in 1957 to raise a family, she worked as an administrator and fund-raiser for arts organizations.
Born into a wealthy ranching family, Ms. Hernandez had lessons in classical ballet as a young woman.
Born Margaret Susan Ryder in 1923 into a prosperous farming family outside Leeds, Sue, as she was called, was the youngest of her mother's five surviving children.
As the Depression ground on in the mid-1930's, the family fell on hard times and left the family home and moved to what had been a summer cottage in Thurlow, Suffolk.
As the Depression ground on in the mid-1930's, the family fell on hard times and left the family home and moved to what had been a summer cottage in Thurlow, Suffolk.
In the 1960's she moved to Talcottville, the Black River family seat Edmund Wilson memorialized in ''Upstate'' (1970).
She was born in Brooklyn on March 29, 1927, to a cultured family with a toehold on the middle class.
Ms. Sterne's father, a violinist, deserted the family when she was 14.
Born in Brooklyn on April 24, 1911, as Alice Recknagel, Mrs. Ireys lived all her life in the Brooklyn Heights town house occupied since 1835 by five generations of her family.
Mrs. Leighton-Porter settled into family life in Bermuda and in England, turning to more staid endeavors like sponsoring teas for a cricket team in Horsham.
Her butler found her in her swimming pool after she had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Mrs. Buckey was the main administrator of the school that her family operated in Manhattan Beach, a Los Angeles suburb.

        Eloise Jarvis McGraw, author of ''The Moorchild,'' a 1996 Newbery Honor book, and other novels for children, died on Thursday in Portland, Ore. She was 84 and lived in Oswego Lake, Ore.
        Mrs. McGraw began writing at the age of 8, shortly after her family moved from Houston, where she was born, to Oklahoma City.
In 1926, when Ms. Lamarque turned 18, her family moved to Buenos Aires.
''
        Felicia Shpritzer was born on Nov. 12, 1913, in Gloversville, N.Y., but soon moved with her family to New York City, where she graduated from Washington Irving High School.
The family talked to her while the community barred The Compass's white reporter, Ms. Cooke told Kay Mills in an interview for a 1988 book, ''A Place in the News: From the Women's Pages to the Front Page.
