Janice Farrar Thaddeus was born in New York City on July 20, 1933, into a family immersed in the literary world.
A critically praised New York solo show at Terry Dintenfass in 1992 included paintings of family, friends and pets, living and dead, surrounded by glowing flowers, all done in a distinctive, luminous style.
His job kept the family moving from town to town in lonely parts of North Dakota.
She was the eldest of the 10 grandchildren of John Vernou Bouvier Jr., who spent summers at the family estate in East Hampton, Lasata.
Mr. Davis, another grandchild and author of ''Bouviers: Portrait of an American Family'' (Farrar, Straus, 1969), said Edie was the family beauty, ''surpassing even the dark charm of Jacqueline.
Mr. Davis, another grandchild and author of ''Bouviers: Portrait of an American Family'' (Farrar, Straus, 1969), said Edie was the family beauty, ''surpassing even the dark charm of Jacqueline.
Though he was 22 years her senior, it was love at first sight, according to family lore.
The Loeb family gave the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park to New York City.
Ms. Knef was bombed out of the family's apartment on New Year's Eve 1943.
Ms. Patchett arrived in New York in 1948 from her family's home in Preston, Md., on the Eastern Shore.
By the time she retired in the early 1960's to raise a family, Ms. Patchett had appeared on more than 40 magazine covers, Eileen Ford said.
She grew up on the small farm in Yellow Springs that had been her family's since the 1850's;  she later returned there with her husband and children.
She came from a family of storytellers.
''
        Annalee Whitmore was born on May 27, 1916, on the kitchen table of her family's home in Price, Utah, the eldest of four children born to Leland Whitmore, a bank president who built and flew airplanes as a hobby, and Anne Sharp Whitmore, who later became a librarian at the main branch of the New York Public Library.
When Mr. Whitmore lost his job during the Depression, the family  moved to California and struggled to make ends meet.
Ms. Bloch was born in Geneva in 1907 and moved with her family to New York in 1916, when her father began a series of conducting and teaching posts in American cities.
But the fact that he was divorced raised strong objections from the very establishment the royal family represented.
The Family Braved the Blitz
        She was educated at home with her sister, the future Queen Elizabeth II.
He and the princess helped liven the staid image of the royal family with a touch of the Swinging Sixties.
''
        Although the princess and her husband appeared to have a happy family life, by the late 1960's there were nasty public quarrels.
In March the royal family announced that Lord Snowdon and Princess Margaret were separating.
Then in May, while she was hospitalized with hepatitis, Kensington Palace, where she lived, issued a statement announcing her divorce, an action that ended a 400-year-old taboo on divorce in the royal family.
''In my opinion, this was the turning point to disaster for the royal family,'' said Harold Brooks-Baker, publishing director of Burke's Peerage, at the time of Group Captain  Townsend's death.
The queen decided that from then on, anyone someone in her family wanted to marry would be more or less acceptable.
The royal family and the public now feel that they've gone too far in the other direction.
But, she recalled, ''New York captured my heart,'' and the family settled in Manhattan.
Miss Trigère's family said there would be a viewing tonight at the Riverside Memorial Chapel on the Upper West Side.
      
But, she recalled, ''New York captured my heart,'' and the family settled in Manhattan.
The Mann family had left Germany after Hitler came to power, moving first to Switzerland and, in 1938, to the United States.
She grew up surrounded by lamas and a loving family, said William Edelglass, a professor of philosophy who specializes on Tibet at Emory University.
When her family relented on the marriage plans, she returned home and divided her time between learning from her father how to be a chieftain and religious studies.
When Gonjo was overrun, she fled to the hills with her family and led the fighting.
She died after a stroke, but had been ill with gastric cancer and bone cancer, her family said.
She worked 12 to 14 hours a day and kept four secretaries busy in New York and Florida, the family's second home, where the company had moved its manufacturing operations.

        Eda J. LeShan, a psychologist and family counselor who brought psychoanalytic insights and common sense to two dozen books meant to guide people through life's challenges, died on March 2 at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Douglas Knight Jr., who survives her along with their son, Aniruddha, a dancer who is the last direct inheritor of the music and dance traditions preserved in his family for 10 generations.
News of her death was delayed until the family returned from India.
Mr. Knight, an American who is an Indian classical musician, noted that after Balasaraswati's death in 1984, this interpretative aspect was unique to Lakshmi and was integrated with the musical sensitivity of her family tradition.

        Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the enduringly popular grande dame of the British royal family and the country's most beloved symbol of courage and self-sacrifice during World War II, died in her sleep this afternoon at the Royal Lodge at Windsor Palace, a spokesman for her daughter, Queen Elizabeth II, announced.
''
        Many years later, through the traumas of the divorce and then the death of Diana, the Princess of Wales, her granddaughter-in-law, the queen mother proved to be the royal family's most resiliently popular member, providing the country with a rock-steady reason for remaining a monarchy.
''She has helped make the royal family more secure in the nation's affections than it has been at any other time in history.
She was the fourth daughter and ninth child of Lord Glamis, a Scottish nobleman whose family occupied Glamis Castle in Scotland, said to be the place where Macbeth murdered Duncan in Shakespeare's play.
The wedding was a tiny, fraught affair, with only 12 guests, none from David's family.
The royal family's role in wartime was a largely ceremonial one -- visiting Red Cross centers, civil defense installations, air-raid shelters, hospitals and munition factories; comforting the wounded, and boosting the morale of soldier and civilian alike --but the importance of such ceremony at such a time cannot be overstated.
Although the royal family's life was naturally easier than that of most of her countrymen, it was still rigorously ascetic.
She worked 12 to 14 hours a day and kept four secretaries busy in New York and Florida, the family's second home, where the company had moved its manufacturing operations.
The premise was simple: more than education, health care or family planning, women in poor countries need money in their pockets.
The cause was leukemia, her family said.
She left for Switzerland to earn her doctorate in Basel in 1935 and traveled abroad until called home in 1937 to help administer the family estates.
The cause was a thoracic aneurysm, her family said.
She had been hospitalized for about two years, her family said.
''The sadness is still there, and the need to have the truth is still there, and every family of any victim would tell you that,'' she says.
The cause was injuries from a car accident on April 3, her family said.
The family lived on welfare when Mr. Marchiano was unemployed, and Ms. Boreman had a liver transplant in 1987.
She wrote of an extremely disorganized family, and of a father who sexually abused her and once tried to kill her.
He maintained that he had taken his family to Mexico because he had lied about belonging to the Communist Party.
When Ms. Félix was about 10, her family moved to Guadalajara, where she was expelled from several schools.
She sang in local churches and started a family group, the Royal Gospel Singers, as a teenager.
She quit school after the 10th grade to support her family as a maid.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
Ms. Levinson's message was that family doctors, nurses and others should strive to honor the dying person's wishes.
She then briefly worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, but never told her family what she did.
Correction:  May 4, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about A. J. Levinson, an advocate for living wills, included a family member's erroneous reference to the work of her father, Dr. John Rock, in the field of birth control.
The family says Dr. Rock, a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the birth control pill, did not perform abortions.
      
She died at Fairview University Hospital surrounded by family members and Dr. Park.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She spent the years after 1948, as pieced together from family and friends, at the Sorbonne in Paris, where, she said, she received doctorates in law and philosophy, but apparently never practiced or taught in either discipline.
Catherine Marie-Agnès Fal de Saint Phalle was born into a wealthy family on Oct. 29, 1930, at Neuilly-sur-Seine, a Paris suburb, but was partly raised in New York, where her parents moved after the crash of 1929, and educated at the Brearley School, among several others.
When Mrs. Spaisman returned to Poland after the war, she learned that all the members of her family were dead, as were most of the country's Jews.
She cause was lung cancer, her family said.
She also directed the New York premiere of David Storey's ''March on Russia,'' an elegaic portrait of a family in Yorkshire, England.
Her subjects included sexual politics, family and the seemingly unbridgeable gulf between men's and women's attitudes toward emotionally laden topics like adultery, eroticism and divorce.
Her father, Edward J. Regensburg Jr., a debonair cigar manufacturer, left the family, ''whistling,'' she would write, when Lois was 3.
She died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Buckinghamshire, her family said in a statement.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
Ernestine Holly was born in 1915 to a prominent Miami family, and moved to New York City when she was 5.
When asked how she managed both family and career, Miss Lewis would sometimes joke, ''By neglecting both.
Her family became refugees in 1939, living in Berlin, southern Germany and Bern.
''
        After the family moved to Brooklyn, Ms. Jordan became the only black student at Midwood High School.
Born in Moscow, Ms. Lidova joined the ranks of Russian émigrés in Paris as a child with her family.
When the Nazis invaded Poland at the outbreak of World War II, the family escaped to southern France and later joined her father, a colonel and chief of staff of the Polish Air Force, in England.
After the war, the family moved to Los Angeles.
The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said.
The paper in St. Joseph, Mich., refused to print the column; the publisher told her he planned to run an announcement on Page 1 that the column would not be appearing that day because the subject matter was unfit for a family newspaper.
The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said.
The paper in St. Joseph, Mich., refused to print the column; the publisher told her he planned to run an announcement on Page 1 that the column would not be appearing that day because the subject matter was unfit for a family newspaper.
Nellie Smith was born in 1921 in St. Petersburg, Fla. She and her family moved to New York City early in her life, first to Brooklyn and then to the San Juan Hill area of Manhattan, west of Lincoln Center, where Monk's family lived.
Nellie Smith was born in 1921 in St. Petersburg, Fla. She and her family moved to New York City early in her life, first to Brooklyn and then to the San Juan Hill area of Manhattan, west of Lincoln Center, where Monk's family lived.
A small, delicate and sensible woman who contrasted with her bearish, abstracted husband, she was never interviewed at length about her husband; they both kept their family life private.
When asked how she managed both family and career, Miss Lewis would sometimes joke, ''By neglecting both.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
In ''Drinking'' Ms. Knapp wrote about the disturbing incongruities of her life as what she called a ''high-functioning alcoholic'': she was an award-winning journalist, an Ivy League graduate from a well-to-do New England family and by all appearances a happy, healthy and successful young woman.
A small, vivacious woman with silver-blond hair, Ms. Solomon was a forceful personality who regarded her artists as part of her family.
Ms. Solomon's survivors include, besides her son Thomas, of Los Angeles, another son, John, also of Los Angeles, and a brother, Dr. Donald Dworken of Greenwich, Conn.
        ''She was an original, as strong a personality as any of her artists,'' said Mr. Wegman, who was particularly close to the Solomon family.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
Rosemary and her siblings were sent to live with her mother's family, the Guilfoyles.

        Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday.
She was the largest family shareholder at Dow Jones.
Hammer, a senior partner at the Boston law firm of Hemenway & Barnes and the trustee of many of the family trusts, said yesterday that Mrs. Cook had been intensely interested in the company, particularly its flagship newspaper.
She held more shares than any other individual family member, Mr. Hammer said.
Mrs. Marshall's anthropological career began when her husband, Laurence K. Marshall, a founder and president of the Raytheon Corporation, retired in 1950 with the thought that it was time to get reacquainted with his family.
''Where is the remotest place we can go and be a family again?
He decided he would take his family to live among the legendary Bushmen.
''They became a sort of Swiss Family Robinson of the Kalahari,'' Dr. DeVore said.
The family's accomplishments made it more than that.
''
        Over the next two decades, the Marshall family made eight trips to the Kalahari, a desert the size of Spain in what is now Namibia, Botswana and the Republic of South Africa, staying for as long as a year and a half at a time.
Then the family would return to Cambridge, where Mrs. Marshall would employ the best graduate students to organize her voluminous notes, which resulted in two books and many articles.
Mr. Marshall said he wanted to do something with his family when he retired, and its members were interested in anthropology.
The family was at first apprehensive about tales of poison darts and trance dances, but found the Bushmen polite and kind.
The Marshall family lived in tents, even as temperatures ranged from freezing to 125 degrees.
Besides having soldiers entertaining soldiers, she encouraged the participation of their family members and civilians from nearby towns.
Family lore says that was why she stopped writing.
Her refrigerator has contained a complete, unpublished novel for years, her family said.
      
She helped guide its transition from a small family museum to a larger public one with a professional staff.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, the family said.
At 19, she married Sol Goldman, who had bought his first building at 17 and whom she urged to leave his family grocery business in Brooklyn and plunge full time into the world of New York real estate.
In 1998, she made a $5 million gift to the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan for the family center there, and a few weeks before her death, she gave $1 million for renovation of the Kane Street Synagogue in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
Quail Hawkins, the oldest of seven children, was born Helena Ann Hawkins on March 29, 1905, in Spokane, Wash. No one in the family today is sure how she came to be called Quail, said a nephew, Mark Hawkins, but the name stuck.
According to family lore, Quail became a storyteller because she spent so much time caring for her younger brothers, especially after her father's death at an early age.

        Helen Matthew Robinson, the matriarch of the family that in 1864 bought the Hawaiian island of Niihau and then so zealously guarded its privacy that it is the only one of the islands where Hawaiian is still spoken as an everyday language, died on July 31 at her home in Makaweli, on the island of Kauai.
''
        The family, who were strict Calvinists, required all residents of the island to attend Congregational church services on Sunday.
They also remained close to the royal family and opposed the American overthrow in 1893, after which the provisional government forbade use of the Hawaiian language.
Keith Robinson said the family totally cut off visits to Niihau in the 1930's because of the vulnerability of people to diseases to which they had never been exposed like measles, which had killed 11 children on the island.
He grew up in the family compound in the Makaweli District of Kauai, where Mrs. Sinclair had bought more property.
Helen Marion Matthew was born on Aug. 2, 1910, in Washington, D.C., which her family was visiting.
Ms. Hellman, who had played on the streets of Paris at a music fair as recently as June, was recuperating from injuries suffered in a fall last month near her town house on East 61st Street, her family said.
She was married in October 1951 to Ralph Kiner, the Pittsburgh Pirates' slugger and future Hall of Famer, and retired from most tournament play after winning the 1952 indoor title, devoting herself to rearing a family.
He said family members believe she was around 90.
The cause was complications from heart surgery, her family said.
Her belief made all of us, coming from different countries and different cultures, into one family.
The cat, by then known as Mollie Mercedes, was passed on to her neighbors, the Pulitzer family, who sent it to the beauty parlor for a thorough fluffing and then outfitted it in velvet collars decorated with gold.
She was named after her grandmother, who began as a clerk and underwear buyer in the family store and became known as ''the merchant princess of State Street.
She was married to and divorced from Eddie Bragno, a wine merchant who is now dead; Albert Bostwick, of the polo family; and Mr. Wilmot, a fashion publicity agent.
In 1938, her family fled to Czechoslovakia to escape the Nazis.
Her mother and stepfather moved the family to Miami Beach when she was 10, and there she developed a taste for the theater.
For additional income, she worked at a university and helped raise the children of a large local family.
She traveled primarily by horse-drawn buggy, sewed her family's clothes and canned fruits and vegetables.
The book, ''The Amish Cook: Recipes and Recollections From an Old Order Amish Family,'' is to be published in November by Ten Speed Press of Berkeley, Calif.
''
        NOTHINGS
        Traditional wedding pastry, adapted from The Amish Cook: Recipes and Recollections from an Old Order Amish Family.
A grant from the Manitoba Ministry of Education helped the family moved to England in 1929.
''
        Mrs. Connelly treasured her family more than anything, and she is survived by her two daughters Jeanne Meehan of Goshen, N.Y., and Elizabeth Reilly of Greenwich, Conn.; 27 grandchildren; 30 great-grandchildren; and 7 great-great-grandchildren.

        Elizabeth Longford, the best-selling biographer and political activist who was the widow of the social reformer Lord Longford and the matriarch of a family that bred other well-known writers, died on Wednesday at her home in Sussex.
She began writing articles on family life and parenting for Lord Beaverbrook's Express newspapers.
By the 1980's Lady Longford, who had begun public life as an ardent socialist, had become close to the royal family, and her next major biography was ''Elizabeth R,'' in 1983.
She helped support her family by selling eggs, and she became a volunteer clerk at the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee around 1952.
The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, her family said.
The ruling overturned many similar laws around the country, including another Idaho law declaring the husband the head of the family, with the right to determine where it lives, as well as a 1948 Michigan law prohibiting women from serving alcoholic drinks in bars.
List, from Fall River, Mass., who made his family's grocery the basis of a business empire that eventually included RKO Theaters.
The saying in the family was that ''the money was his, the ideas were hers,'' her daughters said.
The List family's sculpture collection included works by artists from Giacometti to Joel Shapiro and a full-length portrait of Mrs.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She grew up with nannies and servants, as well as more intangible blessings: her family loved reading and lively discussions, her daughter said.
The family went to Mexico in the late 1950's.
There Mr. Doerr oversaw the revival of his family's mining business.
She also headed the UJA-Federation Family Violence Task Force's subcommittee on children and worked with leaders in Jordan, Israel and other countries in setting up pilot programs for guarding children against abuse.

        Tamara Kern Hareven, a social historian of the family and its place in contemporary society, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital in Newark, Del.
A seminal writer in her field, Dr. Hareven focused on the family's adaptation to the ups and downs of an industrial society, like that of New England.
In 1982, she complemented it with ''Family Time and Industrial Time: The Relationship Between the Family and Work in a New England Industrial Community.
She founded The Journal of Family History in 1975, editing it for 20 years.
In 1995, she founded The History of the Family: An International Quarterly, of which she was co-editor.
At her death Dr. Hareven was the Unidel professor of family studies and history, with a joint appointment in urban affairs and public policy.
Born into a well-off Jamaican family, Ms. Carroll moved to Harlem when she was 10 and found an instant affinity for the arts, playing viola with the Dean Dixon Symphony when in high school.
A sailor herself, Mrs. Grossman was born in Manhattan and grew up multingual in a musical family.
Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned a wine- and spirits-importing company, donated $1 million earlier this year to endow the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program in the Center for Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
The cause was brain cancer, her family said.
But she is probably best known outside the Bay Area for the rich, thick milk produced on the family farm, which her son Albert turned into high-quality cheese, yogurt and butter at the Straus Family Creamery.
But she is probably best known outside the Bay Area for the rich, thick milk produced on the family farm, which her son Albert turned into high-quality cheese, yogurt and butter at the Straus Family Creamery.
Her family fled the country just ahead of the Nazi invasion in 1940.
The Straus family used the money it received for its own conservation easement to convert its farm into an organic operation, a move that saved it from the unprofitable co-op milk market and made it possible for the Strauses to stay in business by selling more profitable products.
In 1998, the American Farmland Trust in Washington, D.C., presented Ms. Straus with the annual Steward of the Land Award in recognition of her lifelong struggle for family farms.
''
        During the war, she met Jefferson Patterson, a young diplomat whose family founded the National Cash Register Company.
In 1973, the couple donated a 23-acre family estate in York, Me., to nearby Bowdoin College.
The Pattersons' summer villa, River House, and its grounds became the college's Breckinridge Public Affairs Center, named for her family.
Her family lived in New York for a time after their release, which was arranged by Quakers.
Actually, she is a second-generation exhibit designer: her father, Richard, created industrial exhibits for trade shows, building them in his garage in Glen Rock, N.J., where the family had moved.
''
        NOW, Ms. Enseki's family is an unofficial sounding board for her museum's endeavors.
She wrote ''Three-Cornered Heart'' (Viking, 1970), a chronicle of English family life.

        Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven.
Mrs. Hancock was the product of a multiracial, multi-ethnic family and grew up black.
In 1994, Simon & Schuster published ''The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White,'' a portrait of life in the black bourgeoisie drawn by her daughter, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip.
In the 1900 census, Margaret Morris's family was classified as mulatto; it split only later into white and black branches.
Mrs. Wells, who was one of the last four of the 99, devoted much of the latter part of her life to maintaining the group's International Forest of Friendship in Earhart's hometown, Atchison, Kan.
        Helen Fay Gillis was born on Oct. 15, 1908, in Minneapolis, and her family moved often.
For four of those years, the family lived on a houseboat in Florida and Mrs. Wells designed nautical furniture.
The cause was breast cancer, which she had for 12 years, her family said.
The cause was complications from a stroke, her family said.
Her death was announced this week by her family.
Her family immigrated to the United States in 1967 when she was 4.
After settling the family in Spring Valley, N.Y., her parents saw themselves as fallen aristocrats.
Ms. Grealy felt at first that by suffering heroically, ''I could save the entire family.
'' But as her endless and crushingly expensive ordeal continued, she realized that her face, more than her own and her family's fortune, was her very self-image and life.
In 2000 she published a second book, ''As Seen on TV,'' a collection of essays about her family and her experiences.
      
