Her family said the cause was a heart attack.
The cause was a respiratory ailment, her family said.
Mrs. Shea, known to her family and friends as Nori, was involved in such causes as the National Center for Disability Services, the Foundation for Children with Learning Disabilities, Catholic Charities, Little League Baseball and the American Ireland Fund.
Family members said she died of natural causes.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, said Janette Ganster, a spokeswoman for the Johnson family.
The cause was an aneurysm, her family said.
For many years, her principal interest lay in the Field Family Foundation, which contributed millions to charities promoting child welfare and improved race relations.
The cause was lung cancer, said Bob Troyer, a spokesman for the family.
After rejoining her family in Warrenton, Mrs. Wallach taught French and Latin at the Highland School for 18 years.
Mrs. Douglas was the author of "Appleseed Farm" (1948), a children's book; "Remember the Ladies" (1966), the story of women who helped shape America, and "Margaret Sanger" (1970), about the pioneer in family planning.
After appearing as a Southern ingenue in "Three's a Family," she was cast in "Anna Lucasta," a play written for white actors.
The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to her family.
She was in her late 60's or early 70's, her family said.
The cause has not been determined, said her family, whom she was visiting.
Her 1953 book about the writer Charlotte Bronte and members of her family, "The Bronte Story," won praise as an outstanding literary biography.
She had a long illness, her family said.
The cause was a stroke, her family said.
During World War II she managed the large McMillan family farm in Maryland while her husband served in the Navy in the Pacific.
Willie Mae Ford was born in Rolling Fork, Miss., 1 of 14 children in a musical family.
She moved to St. Louis at the age of 12, and sang with family members in the Ford Sisters.
She and her husband, Julius Fleischmann, whose family made its fortune through yeast, were benefactors of many cultural and civic groups, including the New York Public Library, the Metropolitan Opera and the Council on Foreign Affairs.
"
        After her family moved east, she attended Bronx High School of Science, Hunter College and, after moving to London when she was 18, the London School of Economics.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause of death was a brain tumor, her family said.
Mai Elisabeth Zetterling was born in Vasteras, Sweden, to a working-class family.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rony Rogoff, a family friend.
She died after a long illness, her family said.
She was also a member of the boards of family planning, environmental and civic organizations.
The cause was complications from a stroke she suffered several months ago, Prof. Harvey J. Goldschmid, a family friend, said.
"Those Extraordinary Blackwells" (1967) was the story of a family of 19th-century reformers in England, including Elizabeth Blackwell, the first woman to become a fully accredited physician there.
She died of cancer, her family said.
The cause was lung cancer and emphysema, her family said.
She suffered a brief illness, said Sidney Babcock, a family spokesman in New York.
Miss Mercouri, whose greatest screen success was her role as a flamboyant prostitute in the 1960 film "Never on Sunday," was 68, her family said, although references disagree on the year of her birth.
Coming from a politically prominent family, the actress was a passionate anti-Fascist who lost her citizenship and property in 1967 for her aggressive opposition to the junta that held power in Athens for seven years, until 1974.
Her family's home was open to people from all classes, from scholars to beggars, and meals were shared by up to 100 guests.
The cause was complications from emphysema, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause of death was cancer, her family said.
The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
The Furness family was well off and young Betty was raised on Park Avenue and sent to the Bennett School in Dutchess County, N.Y.
Left Rockefeller Job
        In 1962, she was the hostess of a five-minute radio show called "A Woman's World," in which she talked about food, clothes, child rearing, family relationships, teen-agers and the aged.
The cause was an acute respiratory incident, her family said.

        Luba Potamkin, a broadcasting spokeswoman in the 1970's for her family's Cadillac auto dealerships on the East Coast, died yesterday at her home in Miami.
Three years after her husband founded Potamkin Cadillac in 1972, Mrs. Potamkin and other members of her family appeared in television commercials that featured the line: "If this nameplate isn't on the back of your car, you probably paid too much.
The Potamkin family relinquished the dealership in 1987, selling the assets and leasing the company's Manhattan real estate to General Motors.
Two years ago the Potamkin family resumed operations under the name Potamkin Cadillac-Buick-Chevrolet.
She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000.
Mrs. Donaldson was also involved with the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the New York Women's Association and the Ackerman Institute for Family Therapy.
No immediate family members survive.
      
She was 87 and had homes in Chadds Ford, Pa., and Aiken, S.C.
        She had been ill for a long time, her family said.
Mrs. Bissell, of the duPont family of Wilmington, Del., was also associated with the Winterthur Museum and Gardens near Wilmington.
Mrs. Onassis, who had enjoyed robust good health nearly all her life, began being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in early January and had been undergoing chemotherapy and other treatments in recent months while continuing her work as a book editor and her social, family and other personal routines.
Mrs. Onassis was surrounded by friends and family since she returned home from the hospital on Wednesday.
After she died at 10:15 P.M. on Thursday, Senator Edward M. Kennedy's office issued a statement saying: "Jackie was part of our family and part of our hearts for 40 wonderful and unforgettable years, and she will never really leave us.
"
        Five years later, with images of her as the grieving widow faded but with Americans still curious about her life and conduct, Mrs. Kennedy, who had moved to New York to be near family and friends and had gotten into legal disputes with photographers and writers portraying her activities, shattered her almost saintly image by announcing plans to marry Mr. Onassis.
It was a field day for the tabloids, a shock to members of her own family and a puzzlement to the public, given Camelot-Kennedy mystique.
There was also a spacious family apartment at 765 Park Avenue, near 72d Street, in Manhattan.
Although the family lived well during the Depression, Mr. Bouvier's fortunes in the stock market rose and fell after huge losses in the crash of 1929.
John H. Davis, a cousin who wrote "The Bouviers," a family history, in 1993, described her as a young woman who outwardly seemed to conform to social norms.
"
        John Vernou Bouvier Jr., her grandfather, wrote a history of the Bouvier family called "Our Forebears.
The family's original immigrant, Michel Bouvier, left a troubled France in 1815 after serving in Napoleon's defeated army and settled in Philadelphia.
It was near the homes of family and friends and also not far from the Convent of the Sacred Heart at 91st Street and Fifth Avenue, where Caroline was to attend school.
Mr. Manchester, whose work was admired by President Kennedy, asked for and received permission from the Kennedy family to do an authorized, definitive work on the assassination.
Her family never spoke of it; out of loyalty or trepidation over her wrath, her closest friends shed no light on it and there was nothing authoritative to be learned beyond her inner circle.
She was the hospital's chief executive during the institution's greatest period of growth, which included the addition of an addiction recovery center, a hospice, family health centers and home health care outreach operations.
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
She died of complications from breast cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, her family said.
She had a heart attack in her home, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Making a Difference
        Mrs. Smith founded her own agency, the Family Systems for Living Center, to provide individual counseling, classes, referrals and other social services.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The institute provides therapeutic counseling for people with family problems, overeating habits and other disorders.
She died of complications from a head injury she suffered in a fall last weekend, her family said.
She suffered a brief illness, said Keven Bellows of Los Angeles, a family friend.
After starring in the radio soap opera "Mr. Pepper's Family" and taking ingenue roles on the stage, she made her Broadway debut in "The Land Is Bright" in 1941.
The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
Gallery Named for Family
        She last visited the museum in May, when it opened an exhibition and named one of its four galleries of Japanese art in honor of the Shorenstein family.
Gallery Named for Family
        She last visited the museum in May, when it opened an exhibition and named one of its four galleries of Japanese art in honor of the Shorenstein family.
In the last 20 years, the Shorenstein family has donated works from China, Japan, India, Korea, Indonesia, the Philippines and Turkey.
With her family, Mrs. Shorenstein established the Joan Shorenstein Barone Center on the Press, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University.
The cause was sepsis, a type of blood poisoning, her family said.
She taught high school there until the Second Sino-Japanese War in 1937 drove the family from China.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She was a longtime member of the boards of the Jewish Family Services of Greenwich and the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association.
She suffered a brief illness, her family said.
The family went to live at Shanghai's International Settlement, an enclave of foreigners guarded by Western forces, when the Japan invaded China in 1937.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
Scion of Blair House Family
        A native of Boston, Ms. Blair was raised in Washington, a scion of the family that gave Blair House to the United States Government, which turned it into a residence for dignitaries visiting Washington as guests of the White House.
Scion of Blair House Family
        A native of Boston, Ms. Blair was raised in Washington, a scion of the family that gave Blair House to the United States Government, which turned it into a residence for dignitaries visiting Washington as guests of the White House.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The family left Russia in 1919, after the October Revolution, and she was educated in France and England.
She died of lung cancer, her family said.
She suffered a lengthy illness, her family said.
She suffered a brief illness, her family said.
She was a past president of the Junior League of Long Island; the Family Service Association of Nassau County; the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, and United Way of Long Island.
She died after suffering a stroke, her family said.
The cause was chronic kidney failure, her family said.
Among her other books were "Rainbow Jordan," "Those Other People," "When the Rattlesnake Sounds," "Let's Hear It for the Queen," "Like One of the Family" and "A Short Walk.
Dr. Coser, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of kidney failure, her family said.
At her death she was an adjunct professor of sociology at Boston College, specializing in the family and medical sociology.
She was the author of "Life in the Ward" (1962) and was involved as a contributor to or editor of "Sociological Studies of Health and Sickness" (1960), "Studies in the Hospital" (1963) and "The Family, Its Structure and Functions" (revised in 1974).

        Donna Kay Price, a Westchester County real estate executive and former director of the Lighthouse for the Blind of New York and Westchester, died on Saturday at Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 59 and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y.
        Mrs. Price died of head injuries suffered in a fall at her home, her family said.
Mrs. d'Erlanger, who modeled and was a professional dancer in Europe in her youth, became a well-known hostess in London during her marriage to the baron, whose title was German but whose family had lived in England since the 19th century.
At 17, she returned to New York with her family and worked for Clare Boothe Luce as a junior editor at Vanity Fair magazine.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
She died of cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was stomach cancer, her family said.
She then resumed practicing law in Milford and helped manage her family's insurance company, grain elevators and farms, in addition to the bank.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
An environmentalist, she donated a 400-acre family farm to the Chesapeake Audubon Society for an educational center in Easton.
She and her family kept the infection a secret until she decided to speak out in 1990.
The 1,500 people of Monona, a farming community in northeastern Iowa, gave her family "nothing but support," she said at the time.
Dr. Michael Osterholm, an AIDS expert and epidemiologist with the Minnesota Department of Health who became a friend of her family, said she "helped bridge the gap between the worlds of the health care provider and the AIDS patient in need of competent and compassionate care like no one else could.
The cause has not been determined, Marilyn McCully, a family friend, said yesterday.
Mrs. Hoffstot, whose family has spent winters in Palm Beach for three generations, was born Barbara S. Drew in Pittsburgh, graduated from the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., and attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.
        She is survived by her husband of 46 years, Henry Phipps Hoffstot Jr.; a daughter, Thayer of Westlake Village, Calif.; a son, Henry Phipps 3d of Ligonier, Pa., and New York, and four grandchildren.
      
As a philanthropist, Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson was instrumental in providing support, through family foundations, for the New York Public Library.
"The happiest times of my life are associated with beautiful, familiar things and family.
Speaking of Mrs. Kennedy's plans for redoing the family quarters in the building, Mrs. Parish said early in 1961 that the nation's new First Lady was a person of "simple tastes who wants to create a home.
"
        The walls of the family quarters were done in pastel tones -- the private drawing room was eventually done in yellow and white.
"
        Her brothers would stage family theatricals in their five-room flat in northeast London, but she said she did not show any promise.
The cause of death was complications after a fall and surgery, her family said.
The cause was cancer, said Robert Sonderskov, a family friend.
At her death, Mrs. Sullivan represented the International Council of Women, an umbrella organization for 78 national councils worldwide, to the United Nations Family Committee.
The cause was colon cancer, her family said.
In 1969, she wrote a comprehensive publication on family planning, "Yes, You Can," which the city bought in bulk for general distribution when New York State rewrote its abortion law the next year.
She was born on Aug. 27, 1916, into a show-business family in the charity ward of a hospital in Butte, Mont.
"
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country.

        Gertrude Russek Nemerov, whose family founded and ran the Russeks Fifth Avenue department store in Manhattan and whose children won fame in the world of arts and letters, died on Tuesday in Albuquerque, N.M. She was 93.
Her death followed a long illness, her family said.
Among her films were "The Enchanted Cottage" (1945), "The Late George Apley" (1947), "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950), "The Court Jester" (1956), "If It's Tuesday This Must Be Belgium" (1967), "Daisy Miller" (1974) and "Dangerous Liaisons" (1988)
        No immediate family members survive.
She was bequeathed a large block of Trenton Trust stock by her millionaire second husband, Siegfried Roebling, whose family had long been prominent in engineering and cable manufacturing.
In the early 1950's, her family joined with three others to found a congregation, Temple Emanuel in Great Neck, L.I., of which she served as administrator.
Mr. Blumka introduced her to medieval and Renaissance art, the field in which his family had specialized in Vienna for several generations.
She died after a brief illness, her family said.
"
        No immediate family members survive.
      
The cause was an aortic aneurysm, her family said.
She had suffered a brief illness, her family said.
Mrs. Lewis took the case after the family of the boy, Gerald Gault, had virtually exhausted its appeals.
The cause was pneumonia, her family said.
" She appeared in prime-time dramas, as well as in guest roles in the series "All in the Family," "Archie Bunker's Place," "The Jeffersons," "General Hospital" and "Farrell for the People.
She then served as a psychiatric caseworker at the Jewish Family Service's Mandel Clinic in Brooklyn and with the New York Association for New Americans.
      
She fell ill three weeks ago on a trek in Nepal with friends, her family said.
The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
The cause was complications from a stroke, her family said.
She was born Adda von Bruemmer into a Baltic German family in Geistershof, Latvia, and graduated from l'Ecole Libre des Sciences Politique in Paris.
She was in her 90's, but her exact date of birth was unknown, her family said.
In 1939, fleeing Hitler, her family immigrated to the United States where her acting career came to a temporary halt until she landed the part of a Swiss housekeeper in the 1941 Broadway production "Letters to Lucerne.
She had suffered a long illness, her family said.
Ms. Hubbard, who retired in 1970 at the onset of Cushing's disease, an adrenal disorder, died of congestive heart failure, said Marc L. Alper of Rockview, Md., a family friend.
Mrs. Stralem, who was born into the Lehman investment banking family, devoted much of her life to the blind and to children with multiple handicaps.
Among her films were "Age of Innocence" (with Irene Dunne), "The Scoundrel" (with Noel Coward) and "A Family Affair," the first in the Andy Hardy series.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
The cause was complications from AIDS, said Josh Baran, a spokesman for the family.
The baby was delivered successfully but four years later, became seriously ill. Hospital tests found her red blood count low, and she was later tested with the other members of the family for H.I.V.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
The cause was complications from AIDS, said Josh Baran, a spokesman for the family.
The baby was delivered successfully but four years later, became seriously ill. Hospital tests found her red blood count low, and she was later tested with the other members of the family for H.I.V.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
