The family moved to Manhattan when Ms. Wasserstein was 12.
I miss her already, as does the entire Met family.
Both were deeply involved in Jewish and Zionist affairs; frequent visitors to the family home included David Ben-Gurion, Shimon Peres and Golda Meir.
Andrew Young, a former United Nations ambassador and longtime family friend, said at a news conference yesterday morning that Mrs. King died in her sleep.
'' A year later she and Dr. King, then a young minister from a prominent Atlanta family, were married, beginning a remarkable partnership that ended with Dr. King's assassination in Memphis on April 4, 1968.
In recent years, the center had been widely viewed as adrift, characterized by squabbling within the family and a focus more on Dr. King's legacy than on continuing his work.
She grew up in a two-room house that her father had built on land that had been owned by the family for three generations.
The family was poor, and she grew up picking cotton in the hot fields of the segregated South or doing housework.
His wife drove a school bus, and the whole family helped raise hogs, cows, chickens and vegetables.
So, by the standards of blacks in Alabama at the time, the family had both resources and ambitions beyond the reach of most others.
In 1960, the family moved back to Atlanta, where Dr. King shared the pulpit of the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church with his father.
Critics worried that it had become a family enterprise, Dexter and Martin III vying for leadership.
Many supporters were saddened and baffled by the family's campaign on behalf of Mr. Ray, who confessed to killing Dr. King and then recanted.
After Mr. Ray's death, Mrs. King issued a statement calling his death a tragedy for his family and for the nation and saying that a trial would have ''produced new revelations about the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. as well as establish the facts concerning Mr. Ray's innocence.
''
        Besides her four children and her sister, Edythe, of Cheyney, Pa., survivors include her brother, Obie Leonard Scott of Greensboro, Ala.
        Mrs. King remained a beloved figure, often compared to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis as a woman who overcame tragedy, held her family together and became an inspirational presence around the world.
In 1965, a suspicious fire broke out in her family's home, killing her mother.
Despite a quiet demeanor, Miss Lewis had a reach that extended from her family farm in Virginia, to left-wing politics in Manhattan to the birthplace of California cuisine.
Growing, gathering and preparing food was more than just sustenance for the family; it was a form of entertainment.
Without fancy cooking equipment, the family improvised, measuring baking powder on coins and cooking everything over wood.
As Miss Lewis aged, Mr. Peacock became her caretaker, causing a split with her surviving brothers and sisters, who waged an unsuccessful legal battle to move her to the family home in Unionville, Va., a town about 70 miles southwest of Washington.
She will be buried in a family plot in Unionville.
The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said.
Her signature song, ''Anemones,'' was played at her hospital bedside in her dying moments as family and friends sang along, they said.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
Ms. Dill said no one in the family knows -- if anyone was ever told -- how her grandmother met the man.
Romance came a few years later when Miss Neumann met Friedrich Wilhelm Muse, a ship's electrician who, while in port, happened by a bakery owned by family members.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Emily Bazelon, a family spokeswoman.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
After moving back to Manhattan with her family, she determined to start a progressive organization that would be the equivalent, as she often said, of an N.A.A.C.P.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Emily Bazelon, a family spokeswoman.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
After moving back to Manhattan with her family, she determined to start a progressive organization that would be the equivalent, as she often said, of an N.A.A.C.P.
Her girlhood was rootless: her father was a probation officer, and the family moved wherever his job took him.
When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
On a family trip to Hollywood in 1940, she barged into Bing Crosby's studio and sold him a song, ''Lone Star Trail,'' which he recorded.
Her family said she died as a result of injuries suffered in a fall this month.
Anna Betoulinsky was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, on Oct. 30, 1917, into an aristocratic family.
When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy.

        Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville.
In May 1954, Ms. Braden and her husband, Carl, both white Kentuckians active in progressive politics, bought a house in a segregated Louisville suburb on behalf of a black associate, Andrew Wade IV, and his family.
Her father was a feed salesman, and Anne grew up in Anniston, Ala., where his job took the family.
The cause was complications of scleroderma, a chronic disease of the connective tissue, her family said.
Her family was fond of hamburger, which was always served by candlelight.
Her father died when she was an adolescent, and afterward the family moved to New York.
The family moved to Como, Italy, and when she was 15 Ms. Valli enrolled at the Rome filmmaking school established by Mussolini.
It was he who decided that the family should move to Toronto in 1968 after their sons said they would go to jail rather than serve in Vietnam.
Nathaniel Sylvester arrived on the island, between the two forks of eastern Long Island, in 1652 to create a plantation that would supply food, timber and materials for his family's sugar plantations in Barbados.
Mrs. Fiske also had a keen interest in horticulture and restored the gardens of Sylvester Manor, including trees that the family believes were brought to America as cuttings in the 17th century.
She also oversaw the family's large collection of papers, dating to the founding of the plantation.
Mrs. Jordan left no immediate survivors, said Mary Jo Kaplan, a friend and former student, but her family was huge: a legion of devoted former pupils who tended to her needs.
Mrs. Pflueger, who was known as Kiyi (pronounced kai-yai), was born into a family that counted among its ancestors early settlers of Manhattan, Rhode Island and Martha's Vineyard.
The rest of the collection will remain with the family, Ms. Poulet said.
The cause was a brain tumor, her family said.
''
        She was born Muriel Sarah Camberg in Edinburgh on Feb. 1, 1918, the daughter of Bernard Camberg, an engineer whose Jewish family had settled earlier in Scotland, and his wife, the former Sarah Elizabeth Maud Uezzell, a Protestant from a country village near London.
Ms. Kuzwayo, whose name before her marriage was Nnoseng Ellen Serasengwe, was born June 29, 1914, in the Orange Free State, an Afrikaner-dominated farming region, into a family of ministers and teachers; her maternal grandfather graduated from a missionary college in 1879 and had been the headmaster of a multiracial boys school and a court interpreter.
She later inherited the 6,000-acre farm owned by her mother's family, but lost it in the 1970's when the area was rezoned for white ownership only.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Born Elizabeth Ann Keresey on June 19, 1928, Mrs. Connelly was a Brooklyn native whose family moved to the Bronx when she was 2.
''A family member suffered from mental illness,'' her husband said yesterday, ''and that's why she dedicated herself to that cause.
''The death of Sister Rose Thering is an immense loss for the entire Seton Hall family, indeed for all men and women who seek to forge a world of greater understanding,'' said Msgr.
Rose Elizabeth Thering was born on Aug. 9, 1920, in Plain, Wis., the sixth of 11 children in a German-American farm family that prayed together daily.
During World War I, her family moved to the capital, Vilnius, where her father, Leib Kadison, became a founder and the director of the Vilna Troupe.
She had been suffering from leukemia, and died at Calvary Hospital, her family said.
But since I was married and wanted a family, I could afford to wait.
Her father then married Annette Poindexter, a schoolteacher from Iowa, and moved his family to predominantly white Joliet, Ill., where he ran a dry-cleaning business.
The cause was gastric cancer, her family said.
Her death was confirmed by her daughter, Abigail Blatt of Manhattan, who is her only immediate family member.
Her family is to accept the award at the association's convention in Seattle.
The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
The movie, in which Barbara Hershey plays the mother, is about an expatriate family in Paris and its difficulties after the adoption of a French boy.
Family members said she was 95.
When Mr. Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999 -- he towered over her as they hugged -- he said, ''A tenacious and effective union activist, she has been a force for social justice and improved labor conditions by working for increases in the minimum wage, health care reform, family and medical leave, and pay equity for women.
''
        Dorothea Towles was born on July 26, 1922, in Texarkana, Tex., the seventh of eight children in a farming family.
In 17 years with the Trumans -- including two years chaperoning their daughter, Margaret, when she was making national tours as an aspiring classical singer -- Miss Odum became close to the family.
''
        If it does not offer significant historical observations, Miss Odum's oral history does provide interesting glimpses of Truman and his family, for example, how much he missed Mrs. Truman when she went home to Independence in the summer.
Her father died when she was 4, and her mother raised the family.
''
        Dr. Newlin, who never married, leaves no immediate family members.
The expensive therapy the injuries required tumbled the Geisman family out of genteel poverty into desperation.
''I wondered what it feels like, how a criminal tells his family what he's done,'' she said to Newsday.
''I felt so sorry for him when I saw his family.
The result was ''Law and Order'' (1973), Ms. Uhnak's breakout book, about three generations of a police department family.
''Not only hospices, but hospitals must make room for family members to stay overnight, not just during visiting hours; that they be able to feed their dying family members; that the minister or the rabbi be part of the decision-making process.
''Not only hospices, but hospitals must make room for family members to stay overnight, not just during visiting hours; that they be able to feed their dying family members; that the minister or the rabbi be part of the decision-making process.
In 1935, she was expelled, along with other Jewish students, at the insistence of the Nazis, and in 1938 she emigrated with her family to Sweden, where she enrolled at the Royal Academy of Music in Stockholm.
In 1941, the family fled Stockholm; unable to obtain a visa for the United States, they went to Mexico City.
The family moved to the Bronx when she was a child.
After graduating from James Monroe High School in the Bronx, Ms. Walker promptly informed the Welfare Department that their help was no longer required: she would support the family.
Friedrich Schwarzkopf's work as a teacher necessitated that the family move several times.
The family moved to Berlin in 1933, the year Hitler came to power.
The estate, with more than 10,000 acres of land, had been in the Russell family since 1547, and when the new duke and duchess, who had been farming in South Africa, were called home to do their dynastic duty, they literally rolled up their sleeves and washed antique porcelain dinner services and dusted off the paintings by Canaletto, Landseer and Van Dyck.
Lydia Yarde-Buller, the duchess was a member of a family whose genealogical tentacles connected her to an array of notables, including Sir Walter Raleigh, Robert E. Lee, Olivia de Havilland and President Benjamin Harrison.
Marie Tharp was born in Ypsilanti, Mich., on July 30, 1920, into a mapping family.
Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the family, who has exhibited with Ms. Juda's gallery since 1963.
Ms. Juda began studying art history, but the family, which was Jewish, moved to Palestine shortly after Hitler came to power.
In 1939, she married Paul Juda, also German, and in 1949 she returned with her husband to Germany to try to reclaim his family's confiscated property.
She won three years in a row, from 1986 to 1988, and again in 1990 before retiring from competition to raise a family with her husband and fellow musher, David Monson, in the mid-1990's.
The cause was respiratory failure, her family said.
''
        As a young woman with no college degree but a passion for writing since childhood, Ms. Ogilvie made her mark in the mid-1940's with what became known as the Tide trilogy, about the Bennett family, who return to the lobster-trapping life on a barren island that bears their name.
The family lived in Quincy, Mass., and Ms. Ogilvie graduated from North Quincy High School in 1934.
Summers with her family in Maine became the source of her work.
She also wrote 14 books for young adults, focusing on two new generations of the Bennett family.
In her last novel, ''The Day Before Winter'' (Down East Books, 1997), a new family of outsiders arrives on the island.
The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, a family spokeswoman, Cathy Bonner, said.
Hers was a family that expected women to be graceful and well-rounded while remaining in the background, quietly serving the ambitions of their men.
She was an accomplished athlete but unlike her ambitious siblings, she never caught the family's legendary fire for competition.
Mrs. Lawford was the only Kennedy to move away from the family's traditional East Coast settings of Hyannis Port, Palm Beach and New York.
The house became a recreation center for other family members, and the President would spend time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.

        Margaret Phipps Boegner, who opened her family's vast Long Island estate, Old Westbury Gardens, to the public, died on Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 99.
Mrs. Boegner was the daughter of John S. Phipps and of Margarita Grace Phipps, whose family started the Grace Shipping Line.
A year later, the family moved to Old Westbury.
When her family moved to Bronxville, N.Y., she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart school in the Maplehurst section of the Bronx.
Hers was a family that expected women to be graceful and well rounded while remaining in the background, quietly serving the ambitions of their men.
She was an accomplished athlete, but she never caught the family's legendary fire for competition.
Mrs. Lawford was the only Kennedy to move away from the family's traditional East Coast settings of Hyannis Port, Palm Beach and New York.
The house became a recreation center for other family members; the president spent time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.
Hélène Deschamps came from a military family, was a tomboy and hated the thought of the Nazis' taking over her country.
In the introduction to ''Spyglass,'' she asked a question: ''If you had to renounce family, friends, any kind of a normal lifestyle to fight a fierce enemy, would you?
''
        Though opera was the family business, Ms. Varnay was a latecomer to singing.
When Astrid was 4, the Varnay family, in search of opportunities, moved to Buenos Aires and then to New York.
Her mother married an Italian tenor, and the family settled in Jersey City, where Ms. Varnay was brought up.
She served six years and two months, then lived quietly in Chicago, running a family gift shop.
She ran an Asian grocery store and gift shop on Chicago's North Side that family members had opened after their release from a wartime internment camp in Arizona.
In the early 1970's, the Bayer family moved to Stratham, N.H., living along the Squamscott River, and Ernestine Bayer founded the Alden Ocean Shell Association, whose members used an all-purpose boat called the Alden.
The Bayer family also forged women's rowing into a varsity sport at the University of New Hampshire.
She came to the United States with her family as a young child.
Among her many other books are the young-adult novels ''Acts of Love'' (1986) and ''First a Dream'' (1990), both published by Scholastic, and ''Mention My Name in Mombasa: The Unscheduled Adventures of an American Family Abroad'' (Dodd, Mead, 1958), a travel memoir written with her husband, William P. McGivern, a well-known crime novelist.
Jolly Rancher became a family affair, drawing in the Harmsens' three children, who dipped candy, handled paperwork and, seated at their kitchen table, became influential judges of new flavors and products.
Ms. Levien dined out on stories about Duncan she heard from childhood, including an account of Duncan's visit to a reception for writers at her family's home in the Bronx, which the dance star described as ''the charming little hideaway I've dreamed of.
''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children.
The family moved to Brooklyn when she was a baby and, after her father died when she was an adolescent, their existence was threadbare.
The family eventually settled in Chennai.
In 1958, Miss Bigley retired to raise her family.
Ms. Russell was born Claudia Anna Russell-Brown in London, Ontario, in Canada, on Dec. 27, 1911, though she later said she had been born in London, England, where early reports suggest her family had moved six months after her birth.
When she was 10 months old, her family went into exile during the Bolshevik Revolution, moving to Rome, where they bought a house overlooking the Spanish Steps.
In Philip Barry's wryly titled play ''The Joyous Season'' (1934), she was a moody member of a family seething with petty feuds.
Jane Waddington Wyatt was born on Aug. 12, 1911, in Campgaw, N.J., into a family of distinguished lineage and grew up in New York City.
The show followed the lives of the Anderson family in the Midwestern town of Springfield, with Robert Young as Jim Anderson, Ms. Wyatt as his wife, Margaret, and their three children, two of them teenagers.
Family crises arose -- a son's first dance, a daughter's first crush -- and were firmly but lovingly resolved.
)
        Mary Caswell Orr was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 21, 1910, and moved with her family to Canton, Ohio, as a girl.
Her death was confirmed by a family member.
Wang Guangmei was born in 1921 and grew up in a distinguished and prominent Chinese family.
She even donated some of her family's valuable antiques, a few dating back to the Qing and Song dynasties, to charity.
As a teenager, she would tell her family she was going to choir practice and perform instead at U.S.O.
Ms. O'Day had no children or immediate family, he said.
The youngest of six children, Ms. Castanis, born Muriel Brunner, grew up in Greenwich Village and discovered her love for art at Greenwich House, the settlement house where she would go to escape her family's hectic, crowded cold-water apartment.
Family legend has it that Ginger Rogers got her stage name because as a child, Phyllis had trouble pronouncing her real one, Virginia.
Family legend has it that Ginger Rogers got her stage name because as a child, Phyllis had trouble pronouncing her real one, Virginia.
The novel, about bipolar disorder, was inspired by the experience of a family member, Ms. Campbell said.
I decided it's first of all a family problem.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.

        Hilda van Stockum, an award-winning children's author and illustrator whose books depicted family life in the Netherlands, Ireland, the United States and Canada, died on Wednesday at her home in Berkhamsted, England.
''The Mitchells'' (1945) was the first of three books about a family like the one she and her husband reared; they lived in Washington, then moved to Canada.
Dr. Hodgson's death was confirmed by her family.

        Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif.
''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' which became a best seller when it was published in 1948, beguiled readers with the autobiographical details of the Gilbreths, a family in the 1920's dominated by Dad but discreetly monitored by Mother.
The book, replicated in numerous editions since its publication, is a testament to the intelligence, energy and eccentricity of the Gilbreth parents, who ran the family's management consulting firm.
Frank Bunker Gilbreth believed that the factory management principles he espoused to his clients could also be applied to his family of six girls and six boys, produced in 17 years; Lillian Moller Gilbreth, who had a Ph.D. from Brown University (earned around 1915, while she had several children at home), was an industrial psychologist and an engineering expert.
The family moved to the Boston area when she was a child.
After her older sister, Jean, became a bit player in Hollywood -- she worked first as Jean Morgan and later as Jean Fenwick -- the family relocated to California.
Mr. and Mrs. Mattus were married in 1936, and soon after she began working for the family business.
The cause was complications of a stroke, her family said.
The cause was an infection resulting from a broken hip, said Karen Cragnolin, a family spokeswoman.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
) One of 15 children, she picked cotton and helped her mother make quilts for the family.
Around 1980, Ms. Tompkins started to quilt in earnest, producing hundreds of patchwork items of various sizes, showing them to almost no one outside her family.
She was also fiercely circumspect about disclosing the names and whereabouts of family members.
The cause was complications of congestive heart failure and pneumonia, her family said.
The cause was pneumonia, said Leslie Gottlieb, a publicist and family friend.
There, Frieda discovered a talent for singing; by the time she was a teenager, she had left the orphanage and was supporting her family by working in Boston ballrooms.
Martha Ellen Tilton was born on Nov. 14, 1915, in Corpus Christi, Tex., and her family moved to Edna, Kan., when she was 3.
Her family sang and played the piano, and she began singing without pay at a small radio station while still in high school in Los Angeles.
