Mrs. Goodman and her husband, Howard Goodman, known as Happy, who died last year at 81, were cofounders of the Happy Goodman Family act.
The Happy Goodman Family, whose enthusiastic and inspirational live performances recalled early camp-meeting evangelism, formed in 1949 and was on the road constantly for 50 years.
The Happy Goodman Family recorded 15 No.
The family was inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1998.
The family's music revived in popularity in the 1990's, taking its place beside the younger contemporary Christian musicians and groups.
The Happy Goodman Family also often featured Happy's brothers Rusty and Sam.
Her family moved to Tokyo when she was a child, and at age 15 she joined the Shimbashi Geisha Association.
One of her books, ''The Type E Woman,'' published in 1986, described the stresses of balancing a career and family.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
I had no time for much besides my house chores and training, and when I went shopping it was only to buy food for the family and never to buy dresses.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
Eleanor Holm was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of a New York Fire Department officer, and learned to swim at the pool near her family's summer cottage in Long Beach, N.Y.
        She finished fifth in the 100-meter backstroke at the 1928 Olympics in Amsterdam.
When he took over the family business, he turned to his former teacher to help train his staff in reporting, writing and ethics.
Her family grew to five children.
Her father, a doctor, ran his practice out of the family's home near Crotona Park, in the heart of the South Bronx.
In the three-story house, the family often put up Jewish refugees who like themselves had fled Hitler.

        Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said.
But in 1932 she returned to New York for good as the wife of Eliot D. Pratt, a member of a socially prominent family, and the couple helped other refugees from Europe find their way to the United States.
Henry James, a family chum, cuddled her as a baby.
Dr. McCord is survived by her sons, Geoffrey Sayre-McCord of Durham, N.C., and Robert McCord of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; her ward, whom she regarded as a family member, Tom Underwood of Boston; her brother, Robert Fish of Santa Cruz, Calif.; her sister, Connie Arnosti of Milwaukee; and four grandsons.
The cause was colon cancer, said Laurie Cohen, a family friend.
Ms. Wood was born into a family of means, a world she eventually rejected to help the downtrodden.
She was related to the Davis family, the namesake of the Davis Cup of tennis.
For some time she had been unable to recognize her family because of memory loss, said her husband, Prince Bernard, in 2001.
The family spent much of the war in Canada and returned to a devastated, impoverished country at the end of the war.
Prince Bernard was often linked to extramarital relationships, which were treated as a public secret within the royal family and in some of the Dutch and European press.
Governor Pataki issued a statement yesterday expressing his condolences to Mrs. Goodhue's family and announcing that he had ordered the flags at the State Capitol in Albany and elsewhere to be flown at half-staff in her honor.
The family moved to Paris, where she was educated at the Couvent des Oiseaux.
' ''
        She married Charles Schott, a member of a wealthy Cincinnati family, in 1952, and gained notice for the parties she held for friends and charities at her mansion in the suburb of Indian Hill.

        Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77.
The cause was complications from a broken hip she suffered three weeks earlier, her family said.
One was ''My Mother's Request: A True Story of Money, Murder and Betrayal'' (Atheneum) by Jonathan Coleman; the other was ''Nutcracker: Money, Madness, Murder: A Family Album'' (Doubleday) by Shana Alexander.
She inherited a comfortable income from her mother, despite family members' efforts to invoke a statute barring convicted killers from inheriting anything from their victims.
Her family, in announcing her death, said she was 97.
Although the mythmaking that is so much of the magic of the beauty industry led many women to believe that Estée Lauder was born in Europe to an aristocratic family, she was a New Yorker and not an aristocrat at all.
Josephine Esther Mentzer was born at home in Corona, Queens, on July 1, 1908, according to several biographies, although her family believes it may have been two years earlier.
But Lee Israel, whose unauthorized biography, ''Estée Lauder, Beyond the Magic,'' was also published in 1985, maintained that the Lauder family's life in a working-class Italian neighborhood was much more modest than Mrs. Lauder would acknowledge.
Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents.
The cause was cancer, Kyle Good, a family friend, said.
In a statement released by Ms. Richman's family, Mr. Cronkite said that she ''was probably more important than any other individual in shaping the presentation of a new science that gripped the world's imagination.
''It's difficult for the many women thriving in broadcast journalism today to imagine the battles Joan Richman fought and won on their behalf,'' said Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, in the statement from the family.
Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family.
Born Rosemary Timotea Aurro in Chicago, she moved to Los Angeles as a child and began singing in her family's Italian restaurant.
She thought of her Aunt Sarah, ''a very nice, lonely person in our family,'' she said later, and a genre was born.
Ms. McGrory did not marry or have children, but had a large extended family, including two nieces, in addition to her nephew; a loyal group of Washington Star veterans; and a longtime relationship as the ultimate volunteer with St. Ann's Infant and Maternity Home.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Her family was Brahmin, the highest Hindu caste.
This family history was reported in the book, ''Mississippi Harmony, Memoirs of a Freedom Fighter'' (Macmillan, 2002), written by Mrs. Hudson and Constance Curry.
Mrs. Hudson was 8 when her mother died, and she and her siblings were raised by her father on a 105-acre farm until the land was seized by a white doctor to whom the family owed money.
A more sinister family memory, mentioned in an oral history by the Southern Regional Council, was her father's mentally ill brother being lynched by a white mob.
In 1936, Winson Gates married Cleo Hudson, whose family owned 500 acres in Harmony, a center of black property owners since Reconstruction.
Ms. Capers was an experienced but little-known character actress when she was cast as Lena Younger, the matriarch of the struggling working-class black family in ''Raisin,'' a musical that opened in the fall of 1973, based on Lorraine Hansberry's play.

        Dorothy Van Engle, a 1930's star of several films of the pioneer black filmmaker Oscar Micheaux, died here on Monday, her family said.
She left the movies around 1940, at the height of her career, to marry and start a family.
Family members said that her death stemmed from an April 26 asthma attack at home that led to heart failure and brain damage.
Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer was born Feb. 24, 1907, the daughter of a railroad accountant who moved the family to stations throughout South Africa.
''
        Ms. Manning was born Inez Harvout into a musical family in Cincinnati; both her parents were singers.
Born to a poor farming family in Watonga, Okla., Ms. Cunningham graduated from what was then called Southwestern State College in Weatherford, Okla., and married Mr. Friesen, another Oklahoman, in 1941.
The cause was cardiac and renal failure associated with a blood disorder, family members said.

        Emma Buck, who ran a pre-Civil War family farm in Illinois that remained virtually unchanged into the 21st century, died on June 5 on the sleigh bed with handmade ticking she had slept in for 98 years, in the log cabin built by her great-uncle, a German immigrant, in 1849.
''
        While contemporaries embraced tractors and other modern machinery, the Buck family stuck to the old ways.
Her death was announced by her family in a paid notice in The New York Times.
Her death was announced by Lee Redmond, a family friend.
Her smart-talking fictional voice, making light of family problems large and small, carried through a 30-year career in which she wrote more than 30 books.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.

        Isabel Sanford, the Emmy Award-winning actress who portrayed Louise Jefferson, the stoically beleaguered better half to Sherman Hemsley's reactionary in ''All in the Family'' and ''The Jeffersons,'' died on Friday at a Los Angeles hospital.
''
        As Tillie, the Drayton family's staunchly loyal housekeeper, Ms. Sanford displayed a defiant acceptance of position and disdain for interracial marriage that stood in stark contrast to the presumed liberalism of the characters portrayed by Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy.
The portrayal impressed show-business insiders, including the television producer Norman Lear, who in 1971 hired Ms. Sanford to play a Queens neighbor to the confrontational Archie Bunker, and an eventual friend to his wife, Edith, in ''All in the Family.
Her family later settled in San Bernardino, where Ms. Lewitzky received dance and piano lessons.
Her father, a surgeon, moved the family to Denver when she was an infant.
''Death and Dying'' became an indispensable manual, both for professionals and family members.
Patients reported that their experiences after clinical death were remarkably free of pain; that they were aware of precisely where they were at death and of seeming to float out of their bodies; that they seemed not to be suddenly alone but still with family members or friends; that they felt as if they were guided to a place of psychic energy, light, love and warmth greater than any they knew in life; and that they did not want to return.
Keeping Copley Press in family hands was a priority for Mrs. Copley, and she turned it over to her son, David C. Copley, when she retired.
''
        Typical of ''Winners & Losers'' were lines like these, about Joseph (Teddy) Humber Jr., who lost both his legs in a mine explosion in Vietnam in 1972 and came home to his family in Westboro, Mass.
The New York City medical examiner's office ruled the death a suicide, but Ms. Peroni's family is disputing that finding.
He recalled that Miss Wray's family moved to the United States from Canada in a stagecoach and said that she was possibly the longest-living true star of silent films.
By the time Fay was 12 or 13, her parents had separated, a sister had died of the flu, and the family was struggling financially.
On television, she starred in a situation comedy, ''The Pride of the Family,'' from 1953 to 1955.
Her illness was diagnosed about a year ago, when they were moving to the Seattle area to be near Ms. Revsin's daughter, Rachel Arp Ramstead, and her family.
Before retiring in the mid-1950's, the Doll family -- Harry, Grace, Daisy and Tiny -- performed with the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
The family moved here in 1934.
''
        Ms. Schneider, the last of the Doll family, left no immediate survivors.
The cause was a blood clot in a lung, friends of her family told Agence France-Presse.
When she was 15, her family moved to Paris.
After two years at the Sorbonne, with much time spent in cafes and little studying, she failed crucial year-end examinations in June 1953, angering her family.
Although both a ceramist and a painter, Ms. Radi was best known for her book ''Baghdad Diaries,'' a vivid account of the texture of daily life during the first gulf war and its aftermath, when she found shelter from the bombing in the family orchard in a well-to-do neighborhood.
''
        After her book's publication Ms. Radi, uncertain of the reaction from the government, chose to live in exile in Beirut, following something of a family tradition.
The family later moved to Beirut, where her survivors still live periodically.
Her parents were Jewish -- the family's original name was Neumann -- and at 19 she adopted the surname Nyilas to pass as Catholic.
Mrs. Whitman, who was an officer or board member of several other charities and societies, belonged to a politically prominent family.
The cause was vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, said Heidi Schaeffer, a spokeswoman for the family.
No immediate family members survive.
Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize for fiction in 1970 for ''The Elected Member,'' the story of a Jewish family whose secrets drive one son insane.
The daughter of Orthodox Jews, and the lone non-musician among gifted siblings, Ms. Rubens made family relationships and expectations frequent themes in her stories, placing familiar characters in peculiar circumstances.
In ''Spring Sonata'' (1979), a fetus decides against being born after listening to its parents' high expectations, while ''Brothers'' (1983) follows four generations of a Jewish family that flees Russia for Europe, as Ms. Rubens's father did.
Born Theresa Kline on Easter in 1920, she grew up in Atlantic City, where her family owned a small department store.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The hall is now transformed into the downtown branch of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, with 21 portraits of the powerful Medici family dating to the 16th and 17th centuries.
Her family responsibilities and the deaths of her sworn sisters ended Ms. Yang's writing until 1990, when a scholar urged her to resume.
Besides her contributions to causes like housing for the homeless, Greenpeace, the Actors' Fund and animal rights (she often brought home animals that appeared in shows to become family pets), she was involved with Community Board 5 in Midtown Manhattan and was prominent in continuing efforts to acquire landmark status for all the Broadway theaters.
Settling in New York, he supported his family by painting apartments.
Settling in New York, he supported his family by painting apartments.
Growing up in the Midwest, she heard family stories of the massacre, but as an adult she was unable to find much about it in print.
''Fathers were forced to rape their daughters, and sons their mothers, as other family members watched.
The cause was vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Seeking relief for Susan's asthma, her mother moved the family to Tucson, spending the next several years there.
The couple were married -- Susan took her stepfather's name -- and the family moved to Los Angeles.
From her family, she inherited both an interest in writing (her father owned The Athens Morning Journal) and the progressive social conscience that informed much of her work (her maternal grandfather's home had been a stop on the underground railroad).
Her father, a wheat farmer, died when she was 2; her mother supported the family by selling real estate.
