A Family of Activists
        Mrs. Cahn was born into a family of social activists.
A Family of Activists
        Mrs. Cahn was born into a family of social activists.
Mrs. Frum was 6 years old when she and her family fled to a hilltop and watched a wall of water roar through Johnstown on May 31, 1889, killing 2,209 people.
She died of cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
Sole, an architect who designed the Roman Catholic Church of the Holy Family in Manhattan.

        Janet Woodbury Adams, an authority on decorative screens, died Sunday at Hazelfield, the family farm in Jefferson County, W. Va. She was 60 years old.

        Mary Francis Shura Craig, a writer of mystery novels and children's books, died on Saturday at the Loyola University Medical Burn Center in Maywood, Ill. She was 67 years old and lived in Hinsdale, Ill.
        She died of injuries suffered in a fire in her apartment on Dec. 13, a family spokeswoman said.
Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.
Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.

        Marie Provaznik, a leader of the nationalist Sokol gymnastics movement in Czechoslovakia who defected to the United States after directing the Czechoslovak women's contingent at the 1948 Olympic Games in London, died on Jan. 11 at St. Clair's Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y. She was 100 years old, and her family said she suffered a stroke two weeks earlier.
She died of respiratory failure, her family said.
She died of lymphoma, a family spokeswoman said.
She died in her sleep, a family spokeswoman said.
She died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said.

        Charlotte L. Peskin, chairwoman and president of Polyplastex United, a producer of interiors for aircraft cabins, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 76 years old and lived in Tamarac, Fla.
        She died of peritonitis after surgery, her family said.
A longtime resident of Brooklyn and West Hempstead, L.I., Mrs. Peskin became secretary of Polyplastex, a publicly held family concern, in 1963.
She died of respiratory failure, her family said.
Miss Masiello was born in Milan, Italy, into a family of singers; her mother, Josephine La Puma, had a subsequent career with small opera companies in New York City.

        Cipe Pineles Burtin, who broke the sex barrier at the Art Directors Club of New York by becoming a member in 1943 and went on to become the first woman inducted into its Hall of Fame, died on Thursday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 82 years old and lived in Stony Point, N.Y.
        Mrs. Burtin, who worked under the name Cipe Pineles (pronounced seep pin-ELL-iss), suffered from chronic kidney disease and died of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for the family said.

        Rhoda Bacmeister, an authority on early childhood education who directed nursery schools and wrote eight books about children, died on Wednesday at All Saints Catholic Nursing Home in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 97 years old and lived in Clemson, S.C.
        She died of respiratory failure, her family said.

        Sylvia Weiner Leiferman, an artist, philanthropist and president of the Leiferman Investment Company, died on Thursday at the Heartland of Miami Lakes, a nursing home in North Miami, Fla. She was 77 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla.
        She died of a respiratory ailment, a family spokesman said.
She died of a heart attack, her family said.
Mrs. Louchheim, who had been in failing health for the last few years, died of pneumonia, her family said.
She died of breast cancer, said a family spokeswoman, Sidney Branch.

        Laura Mondadori, a member of a prominent Italian publishing family, died on Wednesday at her home in Milan, Italy.

        Helen Watson Buckner, a philanthropist, died yesterday at her home in Gulfstream, Fla. She was 73 years old and also had residences in Manhattan and on Fishers Island, N.Y.
        Mrs. Buckner died after a stroke, a family spokesman said.
Her family moved around (she lived in Kentucky at one point), and when her father found work in China, she studied with George Goncharov, a Russian-born dancer who had settled in Shanghai.
After working as an editorial assistant at Family Circle magazine, she joined The Times as a trainee in 1986, working on the copy desk of the Connecticut weekly section.
She died of cancer, a family spokesman said.
Mrs. Assael died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Mrs. Rowe died of pnuemonia, a spokesman for the family said.
Ms. Rosen died of lung cancer, a family spokesman said.
She died of breast cancer, a family spokesman said.
She died after a series of strokes, a spokesman for the family said.
She died of a heart ailment, her family said.

        Elizabeth Youngblood Cobb, a writer on home improvement, died on Sunday at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Chester, Conn.
        Mrs. Cobb died of complications from pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Miss Magid died of natural causes, a spokesman for the family said.
Mrs. Baird died as the result of a stroke, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Mrs. O'Keeffe died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
The Kramarskys came to the United States from the Netherlands in 1940, aided by Dr. Chaim Weizmann, a family friend who became the first president of Israel.
Miss Chisholm died after a cerebral hemorrhage, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She died of a brain tumor, a family spokesman said.
She died of cancer, a family spokesman said.
She leaves no immediate family survivors.
Her family was among the first to move into the Devon Colony, a group of Mediterranean-style houses privately built in the early 1900's.
She died of cancer, a family spokesman, Frank Lieberman, said.
She said her family still lives in Sarasota, where her father is a school principal, and her mother is a painter.
She died of leukemia, her family said.
She died in her sleep, a family spokeswoman said.
In 1908, the family moved to Santa Barbara, Calif.
Ms. Donay died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She was 48 years old and also had an estate in Rappahannock County, Va.
        She died of lymphoma, her family said.
She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan and Warren, Conn.
        She died of congestive heart failure, her family said.
Mrs. Liberman, whose original name was Tatiana Yacovleff, was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, on May 7, 1906, into a professional family that found sanctuary in Paris after the Bolshevik Revolution.
She died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
She left in 1952 to devote herself to her family.
She died of cancer, her family said.
" The family was stranded by the Great Depression and Ms. Lansbury graduated from North Sydney Girls High School, a selective institution, and entered the University of Sydney at age 15.
She died of pnuemonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.

        Kathryn Teaze, a Red Cross volunteer whose more than 70 years of service spanned two world wars, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 93 years old and lived in Weston, Conn.
        She died of pneumonia, a family spokesman said.
She lived in Yugoslavia before moving to the United States with her family in 1907, at the age of 10.
She died of lung cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
Bland died of heart failure after suffering complications following heart surgery, her family said.
Bland died of heart failure after suffering complications following hip surgery, her family said.
Ms. Koehn died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said.
She died of lung cancer, a family spokesman said.

        Virginia R. Forrest, a volunteer who in 1961 became the first woman to win the Florida Governor's Award for Conservation, died Sunday at Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. She was 94 years old and also lived in Stuart, Fla.
        Mrs. Forrest died of natural causes, a spokesman for the family said.

        Alison Stilwell Cameron, a daughter of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell who became an artist, author and lecturer on China, died Thursday at the Community Hospital in Monterey, Calif. She was 70 years old and lived in Carmel, Calif.
        Mrs. Cameron died of pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said.

        Wilhelmina Harris, for nearly four decades the superintendent of the Adams Presidential Family National Historic Site in Quincy, Mass., died on May 20 at her home in Quincy.
Mrs. Harris had been associated with the heirs of Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams since the early 1920's, when she became social secretary to Brooks Adams, a historian and a fourth-generation family member who died in 1927.
Dr. Washington, who was being treated for complications from a stroke, died of cardiac arrest, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She died of lung cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
She also had a private practice in family therapy.
She died of breast cancer, and her husband, the actor Vincent Price, was at her bedside, a family spokesman said.
She died of colon cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She died of heart disease, her family said.
Already an outspoken opponent of Nazism, she realized that the protection she had enjoyed as a member of the Wagner family would no longer guarantee her safety.
She wrote a lively autobiography, "Heritage of Fire," but her only real ally in the Wagner family was her brother Wieland.
She died of lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She died of cancer, her family said.
She died of Hodgkin's disease, a spokesman for the family said.
Mrs. Murray graduated from Columbia law School in 1943 and was associated with the law firm of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn for about six years before leaving to raise a family.
She died of heart failure, a family spokesman said.
Miss Arthur died of a heart ailment, a family spokeswoman said.
"
        The actress also won plaudits for roles in such films as "Diamond Jim," "The Plainsman," "History Is Made at Night," "Only Angels Have Wings," "Arizona" and later, in 1953, in "Shane," about the disturbing effect of a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) on a frontier family, with Miss Arthur playing a gentle and loyal wife and mother.
She died of heart failure after suffering from lymphoma, a family spokesman said.
She died of pancreatic cancer, a family friend said.
Mrs. Yarrow, the mother of the singer Peter Yarrow of the group Peter, Paul and Mary, died of leukemia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Her theater work included sets for John Moran's multi-media opera "The Manson Family" and collaborations with XXY Dance/Music, a multi-media dance company.
Eva was 15 when Constance Collier, a family friend, got her a walk-on role in Maeterlinck's "Monna Vanna" in London.
She was then on tour, in "The Royal Family.
" The revival of the Edna Ferber-George S. Kaufman comedy based on the Barrymore family was a hit of the 1976 Broadway season and a triumph for Miss Le Gallienne, who played the mother of the tribe, skipping girlishly upstairs in Act I and descending like an elderly queen in Act III.
As a result of her work in "The Royal Family," she received New York City's cultural award, the Handel Medallion, and the observation by the actress Rosemary Harris:
        "If you listen to Miss Le G., you can hear 15 shades of meaning in 15 syllables.
"  Molded by 1929 Market Crash
        Miss Porter was born into a Russian-Jewish family in Patchogue, L.I., on June 18, 1913.
Miss Waldron died of breast cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
She previously worked in child welfare, family assistance and disaster relief.
She died of congestive heart failure, her family said.
She often spoke about the Roosevelt Presidency from her privileged station close to the family but was unassuming and meticulously factual and circumspect in her recollections.

        Anita Hart Balter, an artist and writer well known for her role in fostering the arts in the Hudson Valley, died on June 29 at her home in Garrison, N.Y.
        Mrs. Balter, who was 57 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla., died of complications from breast cancer, a family spokesman said.
Mrs. Balter, who was born in Amsterdam and moved to the United States with her family just before World War II, was also on the board of the Garrison Art Center, where she established a Scholarship and Mentor Program in which artists worked with promising local pupils.
She died of lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Mrs. Abrams is her only family survivor.
      
Born in Wittenberg, Germany, Mrs. Fisher, whose family name was Wollenweber, lived in England before moving to the United States in 1945.
The actress died of cancer after fighting the disease for two years, a spokesman for the family said.

        Barbara J. Eichner, director of the Family Life Center of the Hackensack Medical Center in New Jersey, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
She was 52 years old and lived in Closter, N.J.
        Mrs. Eichner died of breast cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said.
From 1977 to 1988, she was director of the Family Center of the Passaic County Mental Health Center.
The family moved to the West Coast, and she attended the University of California at Los Angeles and taught school in Brawley, Calif., while playing small parts at local theaters.
She died of complications after surgery, her family said.
Mrs. Parker died of the effects of a stroke suffered a year ago, a family spokesman said.
Her husband, Raymond, is chairman of the resort in the Catskills, the nation's largest independently owned family resort hotel.
She continued her efforts at the family's farm in Grahamsville, N.Y., and more recently at its 10,000-acre ranch at Rancho Arroyo Grande in California.
Dr. Scribner died of cancer, a family spokeswoman said.
Miss Laise died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
Mrs. Cohen died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
She left nursing to raise a family but returned to the profession in the early 1970's, most recently working at the now defunct Flower and Fifth Avenue Hospitals.
Mrs. Davis died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Mrs. Stern died of natural causes, a spokesperson for the family said.
In our family, there is only
        one
        Madame Nijinska.
"
        It was a distinguished family.
Miss Nijinska married Mr. Raetz, an aeronautical engineer, in 1946, and for much of the 1950's and 60's devoted herself to her family.
She died of a brain tumor, her family said.
She died of cancer, a friend of the family said.
She died of cancer, a friend of the family said.
Mrs. Tree came from a distinguished family and privileged circumstances and could have spent her life quite insulated from the tensions of international diplomacy and the frustrations of a city that so frequently seemed to be in crisis.
Her mother was the former Mary Parkman, daughter of a prominent New England family.
The family believed that it was a responsibility to dedicate at least some of one's life to public service, and the message was received by all five of their children.
There will be a memorial service in New York City in September, but the date and location have not yet been selected, the family said.
She died of cancer, said Margo Britton, a friend of the family.
Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
Her first Broadway role with lines came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
Her family left Canada when she was a child, moving first to Boston and later to Milwaukee.
Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
She came from a family with a tradition of social involvement.
Family members gave the cause of death as cardiac arrest.

        Betty Hudson Clark, retired executive director of the New York Building Council, died Wednesday after becoming ill in Jefferson City, Mo., where she had gone to visit her family.
Family members gave the cause of death as cardiac arrest.
She died of breast cancer, family members said.
Her family said she died after a long battle with cancer.
Mrs. Jacobs was born and raised in Etna, N.H., where her family lived for many generations.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.
She died of cancer, her family said.
The family said she died of cancer.
The princess was born in 1901 in Istanbul to a prominent Ottoman family that included many artists.
Company Name Changed
        The 12th of 13 children, Mrs. Reed was born Ellen Quinlan on March 6, 1889, and grew up in Parsons, Kan., where her family had moved from County Cork, Ireland.
She died of a stroke, a spokeswoman for the family said.
She was born in Lancaster, Pa., where her family owned the local newspaper company.
Early in her career she was a newspaper reporter for the Lancaster New Era and later was a director of her family's company.
Her family said she died of cancer.
She was 46 years old and had homes on Shelter Island, L.I., and in Avon-by-the-Sea, N.J.
        She died of pancreatic cancer, family members said.
In 1952 he went into self-imposed exile with his family.
She suffered a stroke at her home in Carmel on Sept. 14 and was in a coma until her death, family members said.
Her family said the cause of death was emphysema.
Mrs. Burnett, whose family name was Southgate, had little formal schooling in her native St. Louis.
Miss MacMahon was born in McKeesport, Pa., and moved to Brooklyn with her family.
Miss Rosenthal, who lived in the Salvation Army Williams Residence in Manhattan, died of respiratory failure, her family said.
She was 70 years old, her family said, and lived in Manhattan and Tamarac, Fla.
Mrs. Bachrach died of cancer, her family said.
Recipient of Irwin Sizer Award
        Margaret MacVicar was born in Hamilton, Ontario, and moved with her family to Flint, Mich., as a child.
Mrs. Gold was also a member of a prominent East Coast family.
The book describes a white family fleeing civil war with the help of their black servant, July, who takes them to his village.
"The ambiguity of the novel's title quickly etches itself -- July's people are the white family he still serves but also the members of his tribe," the academy's literary critique said.
Mrs. Dooling had been diagnosed with acute leukemia last month, her family said.
Although once dismissed as a minor writer because of her preoccupation with family life, Miss Ginzburg had seen her six works of fiction, a play ("I Married You for the Fun of It"), essays, a biography of the 19th-century novelist Alessandro Manzoni and translations of Flaubert and Proust recognized in recent years as the creations of a major artist.
She won several Italian literary prizes and gained international recognition with the publication of "Voices in the Evening," a novel (1961), and an autobiography, "Family Sayings" (1963).
In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars.
In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars.
"When you are the youngest in the family, people are always telling you to hurry up, to get to the point, say what you mean.
Miss MacMahon was born in McKeesport, Pa., and moved to Brooklyn with her family.
Her fortune was based mainly on the family business started by her father, Vernon K. Krieble.
She was 61 years old and died of a brain tumor, her family said.
Miss Tierney died of emphysema, a spokesman for the family said.
She was the editor in chief of Cue and Family Life, the managing editor of Charm and an assistant to Fleur Cowles in the women's division of Look and Quick magazines at Cowles Publications.
She died of pneumonia, her family said.
Justice Kooper was appointed to the Family Court by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973, elected to the State Supreme Court two years later and was named by Gov.
As an attorney, she specialized in family law before being named to the Family Court.
As an attorney, she specialized in family law before being named to the Family Court.
Justice Kooper was appointed to the Family Court by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973, elected to the State Supreme Court two years later and was named by Gov.
As an attorney, she specialized in family law before being named to the Family Court.
As an attorney, she specialized in family law before being named to the Family Court.
Miss Beck was born on July 7, 1904, in Tocqueville-en-Caux, near Dieppe in Normandy, into a wealthy family that had made its fortune from the production of Benedictine liqueur.
As a child, she learned about cooking from the family cook.
She died of complications from a stroke, her family said.
Mrs. Rindlaub, born in Lancaster, Pa., was from a Pennsylvania Dutch family.
When she was in the eighth grade, her family moved to Columbus, Miss., so that she and her sisters could attend Mississippi State College for Women, from which she graduated in 1938.

        Sarah Nederlander, the matriarch of the Nederlander theatrical family, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Southfield, Mich. She was 97 years old.

        Sarah Nederlander, the matriarch of the Nederlander theatrical family, died Dec. 19 at her home in Southfield, Mich. She was 97 years old.
She died of cancer, her family said.
In 1938 she accompanied the Trapp Family Singers, whom she had known in Vienna, at their Town Hall debut.
She studied art in Vienna and, after her family moved to the United States in the early 1920's, at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League in New York City.
She died after a brief illness, her family said.
