Miss Howes was born in New York, adopted into a well-to-do Massachusetts family and reared chiefly in a suburb of Boston, Chestnut Hill, where she attended Beaver Country Day School.
One colleague described her as a master clinician who  achieved insights into children based not only on formal testing but on observations of a child's personality and an estimation of the relationships with family and friends.
"She always treated newcomers to the game as if they were one of the family, and she was a wonderful role model,"
        Danzig briefly turned professional in 1947 for an exhibition tour with Pauline Betz before switching her attention to a business career in which she also thrived.
He brought the family back to the United States five years later and eventually become rector of Christ Church in Sharon, Conn.
        Miss Meadows began her career as a coloratura soprano, making her concert debut at 16 in Carnegie Hall.
She virtually retired from acting after her 1961 marriage to Robert Six, the  chairman of Continental Airlines, turning her attention to business activities and her family.

        Sharman Douglas, a socialite whose life was defined by her friendship as a youth with Princess Margaret and her ensuing lifelong friendship with Britain's  royal family, died on Saturday at New York Hospital.
When the family returned to the United States in 1950, she made her home in New York.
Her mother, Peggy Zinsser Douglas, was a descendant of the family that founded the Zinsser Chemical Company.
The cause of death was cancer, a family member said.
Baroness de Rothschild, whose husband, Baron Guy de Rothschild, is dean of the French branch of the banking family, was well known in the world of fashion  and was particularly renowned for the dinners, balls and benefits she organized.
Mrs. Lewis was active in a number of other organizations, including the American Foundation for Jewish Culture, the advisory board of the National Jewish Family Center of the American Jewish, the United States and New York Holocaust Commissions, the Synagogue Council of America and the World Synagogue  Council.
"
        That story began in her childhood when she dug in her family garden, which had once been part of an Anglo-Saxon cemetery.
She leaves no immediate family.
      

        Phyllis Smith Vineyard, a corporate communications and customer service consultant who was also involved in health, family planning and social welfare,  died of cancer on March 16 at her home in Blue Point, L.I.
A board member of Planned Parenthood Federation of America, she represented that organization at the International Planned Parenthood Federation in London, and led the first visit of American family planners to Communist China.
In her early years, Ms. Beltran sang at family gatherings or to the Carmelite nuns who educated her.
The cause was complications from heart surgery, a family spokesman said.
In the mid-1970's, Mrs. Rockefeller began to buy and raise cattle, first on Bartlett Island in Maine, near the Rockefeller summer home in Seal Harbor, and then at Pocantico, the family home in Tarrytown, N.Y.
When she was 10 the family moved back to Athenry, in Western Ireland.
One of 14 children in the prominent New York family of James F. McDonnell, Mrs. Johnson was born in Rye, N.Y., and grew up in a duplex apartment in Manhattan and on the 55-acre family estate in Southampton.
One of 14 children in the prominent New York family of James F. McDonnell, Mrs. Johnson was born in Rye, N.Y., and grew up in a duplex apartment in Manhattan and on the 55-acre family estate in Southampton.
She was only a child when her father died, and her first memories were of economic hardship, above all after her mother invested the family's savings in a disastrous rice-farming venture.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
Early ballet classes led to a friendship with the choreographer Leonide Massine  and his family, which in turn led to her career as a press agent.
' "
        Fans appreciated Mrs. Bombeck's slapstick approach to housekeeping and family relations.
At various times, she wrote a monthly column for Good Housekeeping, contributed to magazines like Reader's Digest, Family Circle, Redbook and McCall's; lectured; created, wrote and produced the short-lived 1981 ABC television series "Maggie" and saw "The Grass Is Always Greener" turned into a 1978 prime-time CBS television movie starring Carol Burnett as a concerned mother who was Mrs. Bombeck's alter ego and Charles Grodin as her husband.
"One day you were a family, living in a little house at the bottom of a hill," she said.
Ms. O'Donnell produced and directed several films, but her greatest critical  success came with "Crumb," a dark portrait of the underground cartoonist Robert  Crumb and his family.
Mrs. Suharto's body was taken to her hometown in Solo, in central Java, for burial on Monday at the family mausoleum.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
She recalled a childhood of scrimping, study and an abiding ambition to act despite her family's pressure on her to teach.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
"
        Miss Frenaye was born in Lawrence, L.I., into a family of remote French origin.
Ms. Revueltas was born into an artistic family in Durango, Mexico.
She was born in Sykesville, Pa., one of 12 children of a coal miner and grocer who moved the family to Detroit in search of work when she was 15.

        Frances L. Loeb, who spent a dozen years as New York City's liaison to its vast corps of foreign diplomats and a lifetime maintaining a family tradition of philanthropy, died on Friday at her home on Park Avenue.
"
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
Besides forgoing a salary, Mrs. Loeb stretched the commission's relatively scant $158,000 budget by coaxing, cajoling and wheedling tens of thousands of dollars from friends and family.
In 1976, Mrs. Loeb and her staff handled more than 1,800 inquiries about housing, education, traffic, consumer fraud, police, family matters and legal problems.
Her father was Arthur Lehman of the investment banking family.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
She died of pancreatic cancer, her family said.
Friends say her Main Line family offered her a choice: she could have a "coming-out tea" or a college education.
A great-granddaughter of Clarence W. Barron, who bought Dow Jones in 1902 from a co-founder, Charles H. Dow, she became a director in 1982 to represent the Bancroft and Barron family descendants.
She then delved into fieldwork with various other endangered or extinct species: Natchez, the only known member of its family of languages, as well as several of the Muskogean branch-offs, like Creek-Seminole.
The cause was cardiac arrest, her family said.
Mrs. McHugh's first novel, written at the family's summer home in Sag Harbor, L.I., was "A Banner With a Strange Device" (1964).
Mrs. McHugh then turned out a historical novel in 1969, "The Luck of the Van  Meers," which traced several generations of a Dutch-Jewish family.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Ms. Wallenda, who was 17 and an utter novice on the high wire in 1985 when she married into the Wallenda family, famous for its aerialists and acrobats, gave her final performance on March 4, 1990, at Mansfield University.
"
        The sixth of seven children, she was born into a family of Hungarian refugees who had fled Communism and settled in the suburbs north of New York City.
When her husband, Paul Rose, was transferred to California, the family moved to the West Coast, and Ms. Montana went into temporary retirement during the 1950's.
She and her husband bought a two-story home in Sarasota where she cared for grandchildren when the rest of the family was touring.
She had met the exiled Emperor Haile Selassie, whose family were guests of Britain's royal family during the Italian occupation of Ethiopia.
She had met the exiled Emperor Haile Selassie, whose family were guests of Britain's royal family during the Italian occupation of Ethiopia.
Mrs. Frelinghuysen was a member of a family that has long been prominent in  New Jersey's public life.
The cause was a brain tumor, her family said.
"
        Ms. Clark was born in Baltimore to an academic family.
Ms. Kerouac had also tried to have her father's remains moved from Lowell, Mass., where he was born and reared, to Nashua, N.H., where the Kerouacs have a  family plot.
The cause was cancer, the family said.
The widow of Dr. Archibald Cary Randolph, a landed surgeon whose family helped settle Virginia, Mrs. Randolph succeeded her husband as hunt master after his death in 1959.
Her father, Charles Ayer, was a member of the family that settled Ayer, Mass., and made a considerable fortune dealing in woolens and patent medicines,  including the 19th-century tonic rage, sarsaparilla.
The cause was complications from breast cancer, family members said.
"She was never deterred from showing her love of the L.P.G.A., her family and friends while she was making a lasting impact on the lives of many.
The cause was a massive stroke, her family said.
Mrs. Schizer was born in Bialystok, in what is now Poland, and she came to the United States with her family after an organized persecution of Jews there in 1905.
No immediate family members survive.
      

        Frances J. Tyler, longtime owner and operator of the Tyler Place, a family resort in Highgate Springs, Vt., died last Friday at the Northwest Medical Center in the nearby town of St. Albans.
Mrs. Tyler and her husband, Edward J. Tyler Jr., started the business in 1933, when they and other members of their family bought a dairy farm in Highgate Springs.
Upholding the Quaker tradition of her family, she was a mainstay of the Women's Prison Association and Home on Manhattan's Lower East Side for almost 70 years.
But these women were considered too busy to pay more than cursory attention to the family radio.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Patton left no immediate family.
Her family donated summer homes and other properties used by the institute.
Mrs. Landon insisted that she could not campaign and also guard the privacy of her family.
It was by any measure a family given to eccentricity.

        Jean Muir, whose dismissal from the television series "The Aldrich Family" in 1950 brought widespread attention to the television industry's practice of blacklisting suspected Communists, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mesa, Ariz. She was 85.
On Aug. 27, 1950, Ms. Muir was preparing to appear in the role of Mother Aldrich in the premiere episode of "The Aldrich Family," when the show was abruptly canceled by NBC and the General Foods Corporation, the sponsor of the series.
"I am not a Communist, have never been one, and believe that the Communists represent a vicious and destructive force, and I am  opposed to them," she said after being dismissed from "The Aldrich Family.
The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, the family said.
The cause was heart complications, her family said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The rest of her family stayed behind.
Her first book was "Stepchild in the Family: A View of Children in  Remarriage" (1964), a primer based on her own experience as a stepchild and as a stepparent.
" They were divorced in 1935, and in December  of that year she married Dr. Joel Pressman; he died in 1968, and she leaves no immediate family members.
The family spent several years on Ernest Hemingway's farm in Cuba.
In 1967, the family moved once again to mountainous Ketchum, Idaho, where Ernest Hemingway committed suicide six years earlier.
      
The family spent several years on Ernest Hemingway's farm in Cuba.
In 1967, the family  moved to mountainous Ketchum, Idaho, where Ernest Hemingway had committed suicide six years earlier.
No immediate family members  survive.
      
The cause was heart failure, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
When Jascha Heifetz, a family friend, was looking for a secretary, she applied.
The cause was AIDS-related, her family said.
The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said.
After her marriage in 1925 to Mark Hamburger, a member of a prominent clothing store family, she continued her interest in racing, but had to cut down a bit in 1938 when, at age 47, she became the first woman in Baltimore licensed to sell real estate.
She later was a counsel in the Office of Price Stabilization, but took eight years off in the 1950's to rear a family.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Born in London in 1909, Miss Forbes came from a theatrical family: her mother, Mary Forbes, was an actress and her brother Ralph Forbes was an actor.
The family eventually moved to Edinburgh, where Mrs. Greig, then 14 years old, spent four years as an apprentice at a fly-dressing factory.
Law,'' ''Law and Order,'' ''Night Court,'' Family Ties,'' ''Dr.

        Evelyne V. Johnson, widow of Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, the philanthropist and chairman of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at Longleat, her estate in Princeton, N.J.
        Mrs. Johnson's family would not give her age, but a family friend said she had been in her 90's.

        Evelyne V. Johnson, widow of Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, the philanthropist and chairman of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at Longleat, her estate in Princeton, N.J.
        Mrs. Johnson's family would not give her age, but a family friend said she had been in her 90's.
The daughter of a blue-collar worker from Auburn, Mass., who had to hold two jobs to support his family in the Depression, Mrs. Noyce was majoring in English at Tufts University in the early 1950's and dreaming of becoming a writer when she signed on as costume director of a summer theatrical production and caught the eye of one of the cast members, a graduate student at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology named Robert N. Noyce.
When she became the Crown Princess, she was the second commoner ever to marry into the imperial family.
'' But in a country where divorce is still uncommon, any kind of parting in the imperial family is unthinkable.
''Indeed, being the wife in the imperial family has got to be the No.
It has not only cloistered  Princess Masako and the Crown Prince, but many say it has created a greater distance between the imperial family and the ordinary Japanese people.
''The Japanese imperial family is not in step with the times, with the perception of the new generation of citizens,'' said Toshiaki Kawahara, who has written many books on the imperial household.
''Unless they mix with the ordinary people, the imperial family will be forgotten.
''Some women were happy having Masako-san enter the family, hoping the imperial system itself might change, but I said it would not be like that,'' said Mikiyo Kano, a professor who focuses on women in history.
Unlike an empress, Masako-san is a yome, the wife of a son, and according to Confucian patriarchy, a yome doesn't hold any role, not even a place in the family.
At the train station, Mrs. Tadakawa was snapping pictures to add to her collection of nearly 5,000 photographs of the imperial family.
''I care more about the British royal family, and I'm interested more in Queen Elizabeth and Princess Diana than in Masako-san,'' said Daisuke Sakaguchi, a 25-year-old clothing salesman.
''Whenever the imperial family gets sensational news coverage because of some ceremony, like Masako-san's wedding, for example, sure, I feel happy and want to congratulate them.
The imperial family here is just too boring.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The family finances were so desperate that when she was 15, she forged her mother's name to a document that authorized her to drop out of school.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
The family finances were so desperate that when she was 15, she forged her mother's name to a document that authorized her to drop out of school.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
Sabina Schwast was born to a Jewish family in Warsaw.
The cause was cancer, the family said.
Ms. Carlin, a native of Maywood, Neb., who graduated from the University of Nebraska and received a master's in social work there, married right after college and began raising a family, first in Atlanta and later in Houston.
She did not begin her career until the mid-1970's, when she and her family returned to Atlanta and settled there for good.

        Martha Entenmann, the matriarch of the family that turned a small Bay Shore, L.I., bakery into Entenmann's, one of the nation's largest and best-known baked-goods companies, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I.
Dr. Jones, who was the first woman to head a department in the School of Medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, died of cancer, her family said.
She died after a brief illness, her family said.
Among her writing projects on leaving the magazine was ''Careers at Home,'' a monthly column she wrote for Family Circle magazine from 1967 to 1974.
There are no surviving close family members.
      
Ms. Lear was married for 28 years to Norman Lear, the highly successful television producer of series like ''All in the Family'' and ''Maude.
She had also just completed a book, ''Frances Lear's Guide to Work and Family in the 21st Century,'' which does not yet have a publisher.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Her family moved to Ohio when she was 3, and then to California.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Late in life, even after nearly all her family's stock in the Waldbaum's supermarkets was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in 1986, Mrs. Waldbaum  liked to keep an eye on the stores.
According to family legend, one day during World War I, Anna Leffel asked Izzy Waldbaum if he could get her some sugar, which was in short supply.
When a store ran short of a product, Mrs. Waldbaum, the first woman in her family to have a driver's license, would put her children in the car, drive to a store with a surplus of the product and take some to the needy supermarket.
For years, much to the consternation of her family, she refused to have her telephone number unlisted.
One of the most widely known of the Hidden Camera photographs, taken by Cas Oorthuys and included by Edward Steichen in his collection ''The Family of Man,'' studies the face of a sunken-eyed woman gnawing on a crust of bread.
Mrs. Kahlenberg, whose maiden name was Wallheimer, was born in Bremen and moved to Amsterdam with her family in 1939.
)
        Her husband, only mildly irritated at the loss of space for the family cars, could hardly complain.
Anyone who hasn't seen them there may have caught a glimpse of a few of her prize pieces in the family mail.
''My first responsibility was to my home and family,'' she once said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
She had suffered injuries in a fall at her home in Great Neck, L.I., earlier that week, her family said.
She was born in Palestine and brought as a child to the United States, where her family settled in Chicago.

        Marjorie Shostak, a woman from a traditional family in Flatbush whose book about a bold older woman from the !Kung San tribe in Africa's Kalahari Desert rode an early wave of women's studies and injected new life into techniques of anthropology, died on Sunday at DeKalb Medical Center in Atlanta.
The cause was breast cancer, family members said.
''
        No immediate family members survive.
      
She moved her family to Washington and became a central figure in the feminist revolution, studying subtle forms of sex discrimination as scholar in residence for the United States Commission on Civil Rights, for example, and becoming a founding board member for the Center for Women in Policy Studies.

        Former Representative Coya Knutson of Minnesota, a fierce champion of family farms, medical research and campaign finance reform and the creator of Federal student loans, died at a nursing home in Edina, Minn., on Thursday, her legislative achievements all but overshadowed by her vindictive husband's ''Coya, Come Home'' campaign that led to her defeat after two terms in 1958.
Once the resulting ''Coya, Come Home,'' newspaper headline was carried across the country, it created a firestorm of publicity that accepted Mr. Knutson's story as the plaintive truth and portrayed his wife as an uncaring wife who had abandoned her family for political ambition.
Born in Mechanicsville, N.Y., Ms. Alvarez studied Spanish dancing during visits to northern Spain, where her family originated, and also trained at the Ballet Arts studio in New York City with teachers who included Angel Cansino and Yeichi Nimura.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.

        Irma Ullmann, the matriarch of a New York philanthropic family, died on Nov. 4 at White Plains Hospital while staying with family in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 91 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since moving from Manhattan more than 30 years ago.

        Irma Ullmann, the matriarch of a New York philanthropic family, died on Nov. 4 at White Plains Hospital while staying with family in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 91 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since moving from Manhattan more than 30 years ago.
Working through the Ullmann Family Foundation, she carried on the work she began with her husband, Siegfried Ullmann, a Wall Street commodities trader, supporting educational and medical institutions here and in Israel.
The Ullman Teaching Center serves undergraduates and Technion's 19 faculty departments, and family funds sustained an Ullmann Robotics Center, along with scholarships, dormitories and laboratories.
Her family said the cause was scleroderma, a rheumatological disorder.
Along the way, Miss Kitchell interviewed prominent women like Eleanor Roosevelt, discussed family and social issues and chatted about her own active life.
According to family legend, she was chaperoned by her mother during her first year in New York, spent the second year on her own and in the third married her voice teacher, Charles W. Kitchell.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said
        Ms. Anthony was born in New York City, where her father, Jack Murray Anthony, was a cartoonist for The New Yorker and art director at Young & Rubicam.
In her law practice, Mrs. Rosenberger worked on behalf of youthful offenders, and she later served as a law guardian in the Nassau County Children's Court before the establishment of Family Court in Westbury.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Tower City was built by her family's Forest City Enterprises, a national real-estate developer.
When she was 30 she met David Simon Blondheim, a philologist who, as an Orthodox Jew, was not regarded by her family as marriage material, she indicated in her memoir.
The cause was breast cancer, according to her family.
She was also a familiar radio voice, having played for seven years in the weekly program ''The Aldrich Family'' and performed in the daytime serial ''Rose of My Dreams.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
The cause was emphysema, family members said.
It was also her family money that enabled him to leave Fortune for The Partisan Review, where she worked as business manager.
Dr. Fahmy, born in Mansura, Egypt, in 1910 to a family prominent in medicine, was trained as a teacher before turning to psychology.
''There is no family to leave it to.
The foundation's only mandate was ''the alleviation of human misery,'' but Mrs. Astor decided that since the Astor family money derived in part from New York City real estate, she wanted to return it to the city.
The cause was colon cancer, her family said.
Mrs. Pulleyn felt the need for such a school in 1968 when her family realized that her first grandson, Rollie, was autistic, a still-enigmatic condition with many associated disorders.
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, her family said.
The cause was cancer, Mary D. Kierstead, a family friend, said.
She apparently had suffered a heart attack or stroke, her family said yesterday through a friend, Geoffrey Weill.
For five months in 1944, she and her family lived in a basement, and on occasion, she wrote, she hid in a filthy bathroom and an oven.
In despair, she and her family once debated whether to commit suicide or continue to hide.

        Mary Leakey, matriarch of the famous fossil-hunting family in Africa whose own reputation in paleoanthropology soared with discoveries of bones, stone tools and the footprints of early human ancestors, died yesterday in Nairobi, Kenya.
Her family announced her death but did not give the cause, saying only that she died peacefully.
''She was one of the world's great originals,'' said Dr. Alan Walker, an anatomist at Pennsylvania State University who has long excavated fossils with the Leakey family.
''
        In a biography of the Leakey family, ''Ancestral Passions,'' published last year by Simon & Schuster, Virginia Morell characterized Mary Leakey as ''the grande dame of archeology.
In 1959, her discovery of a well-preserved skull of a hominid, a member of the extended human ancestral family, brought fame and substantial financial backing to the Leakeys.
''
        After Louis Leakey's death in 1972, Mary Leakey overcame some of her natural shyness to assume direction of the family fossil enterprise, which by then one of their sons, Richard, joined as an expedition leader.
After World War I, the family spent months each year in Switzerland, France or Italy, where the father painted and took Mary to archeological ruins and the caves painted by Cro-Magnon hunters.
But in her autobiography, Mrs. Leakey wrote that after an earlier major find they ''cast aside care'' and that was how their son Philip ''came to join our family.
Her family owned a department store.
Her family owned a department store.
Ms. Jordan received a law degree in 1959 from Boston University and was soon  at practice from her family's dining-room table.
Eventually, she had a second-story office above a print shop near her family's simple frame house.

        Josephine Patterson Albright, who flew the mail, shot tigers in India, covered Chicago crime in journalism's colorful "Front Page" era, ran an Illinois dairy and pig farm, bred horses in Wyoming, wrote a column about her family and  helped establish a foundation for journalists, died on Monday at her home in Woodstock, Vt. She was 82.
"
        In "Ladies of the Press" (Harper & Brothers, 1936), Ishbel Ross wrote, "She sailed along successfully under her own steam, in spite of the professional handicap of being born into a noted newspaper family.
The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone marrow cancer, her family said.

        Elizabeth Clementine Miller Tangeman, a philanthropist and matriarch of a leading Indiana industrial family, died on Wednesday at her home in Columbus, Ind.
A family foundation, it reported grants of more than $1.65 million in the 1992 fiscal year.
In 1919, the Miller family founded the Cummins Engine Company of Columbus, which grew into the world's largest independent maker of diesel engines, with annual revenue of more than $4 billion and a payroll of more than 23,000.
"
        Mrs. Davenport's best-known work of fiction was her best-selling 1942 novel "Valley of Decision," which covers the years 1873 to 1941 and focuses on Mary Rafferty, who comes into the lives of the Scott family of Pittsburgh, owners of the Scott Iron Works, as a maid.
In 1941, her family moved to the United States, where, she once said, they were considered "enemy aliens" and her father, a dentist, was unable to pursue his profession.
The cause was acute leukemia, her family said.
While she was still a child, the family moved to  Milan, where at 17 she had her first exhibition as a painter.
She was born in a Prague to a working-class family and met her husband, the  oldest son of a Prague industrialist impoverished by Communist nationalization in 1948, when he was a theater stage hand in the 1950's.
The cause was emphysema, according to her family.
The cause was a heart attack, her family said.
The Manhattan agency, which has since been renamed the Center for Family Support, provides services and volunteers to help  families keep seriously retarded and handicapped children in the home, a novel approach at the center's founding.
Covering the years 1910 to 1917, it recalled her upbringing at the family home in Kuokkala on the Gulf of Finland.
She noted that women's careers were often interrupted, or ended, when they had children and suggested that employers create policies to help mothers balance career and family responsibilities by giving them more flexibility in work hours and providing high-quality day care.
Catalyst, founded in 1962 after Mrs. Schwartz had spent a decade at home raising her children, focused in its early years on lobbying employers to allow  women to combine family and part-time work.
It also undertook studies on family issues in the workplace.
The family moved to Cincinnati where Dr. Schwartz had been offered a post at a medical school.
"
        Miss Hart, who never married, leaves no immediate family.

        Deborah Henry, a Broadway dancer who appeared in "A Chorus Line" and in a number of touring musicals, died on Feb. 5 at her family's home in Memphis.
