The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
Mrs. Fryer's dedication stemmed in large part from living with mental illness in her immediate family.
The all-scarlet racing colors carried by Morris horses, the oldest continuous silks in the country, were originated by the family before the Civil War.

        Elspeth Huxley, a witty and energetic journalist and author of more than 30 books, including memoirs, biographies, crime stories and novels, many inspired by her childhood in colonial Kenya, died on Jan. 10 in a nursing home in Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England, a family friend said.
In any case, no money came to the family.
When she was 5, her family  moved to Kenya, taking possession of a 500-acre coffee farm that Major Grant had bought on a whim in the bar of a Nairobi hotel.
No immediate family members survive.
He left his daughter to be reared by a paternal grandmother with such a haughty and virulent disdain for the Irish that it was years before Miss Bancroft learned that the woman had herself been an Irish working girl before marrying into the august Bancroft family.
''She never revealed his name, even to members of our family,'' Mr. Lopez said yesterday.
No immediate family members survive.
      
The cause was lung cancer, her family said.
She was born in Clamart, France,  into an aristocratic White Russian family, the Troubetzkoys.
'' Her cookbook, ''Italianamerican: The Scorsese Family Cookbook,'' was recently published by Random House.
In 1935 she met Mr. Ganz, who ran a family costume jewelry business.

        Herta Lande Seidman, who headed two philanthropic foundations and was a former senior trade official in the Carter Administration, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of pancreatic cancer, her family said.
After the war, the family left Romania, going to Belgium, France and Canada before reaching the United States.
In early 1979, on a trip to Russia as a state trade official, family members and friends said, she visited Jewish refuseniks in Kiev and was detained for a day by the K.G.B.
Born in New Orleans on Dec. 27, 1921, the former Evelyn Aramburo and her family moved to New York when she was a child.
She later wrote several other novels, including ''One Fine Day,'' typically, about an ordinary midlands family, which was published in 1947 and reissued by Virago in 1986.
The cause was pneumonia, the family said.
In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.
She died of ovarian cancer, her family said.
She grew up at Minterne Magna, a 50-room stone mansion in Dorset, where despite severe financial pressures, the family's four children were tended to by maids, governesses and tutors.
After their breakup there were five years as mistress to Baron Elie de Rothschild of the French banking family.
A $100 Million Fortune, And a Family Feud
        There were two funeral services, one in New York and one in Washington, and two burials.
Mourners thought they were witnessing his burial in the family plot next to his previous wife, Marie.
The financial arrangement set the stage for another family feud.
Family members suggested she had pushed Mr. Rich into making risky investments to maintain her expensive habits.
Her family moved to the United States when she was 3 and settled in Manhasset, L.I.
Whatever her father's influence,  Dr. Fosdick, who was born in Montclair, N.J., and grew up in the faculty housing at the Union Theological Seminary, took as her mentor the family's friend and neighbor, Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian whose belief that evil is a palpable world force that must be resisted and overcome became the geopolitical creed of a generation of cold war theorists.
The cause of death was complications from injuries suffered in a skiing accident this year, her family said.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
She showed intellectual promise and ambition at an early age: Embedded in the family lore is the tale of how the young Marie, told by her grammar school that she could not be valedictorian although she had the academic credentials, hopped the subway, went to City Hall, and had an audience with an Italian compatriot, Mayor La Guardia, who immediately ordered the wrong rectified.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
She showed intellectual promise and ambition at an early age: Embedded in the family lore is the tale of how the young Marie, told by her grammar school that she could not be valedictorian although she had the academic credentials, hopped the subway, went to City Hall, and had an audience with an Italian compatriot, Mayor La Guardia, who immediately ordered the wrong rectified.
The cause was complications from exploratory cancer surgery, her family said.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
The concept, which came to be called ''news you can use,'' appealed to editors nationwide as they experimented with reports on family issues and other articles of a type that they began to refer to as soft news.
She grew up in a theater-mad household (during the Depression, her father, a shirt salesman, took the family to the theater every week by slipping shirts to the box-office men in exchange for tickets), and all she ever wanted to be was a playwright.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Born Dorothy Stecker in Philadelphia in 1905, Mrs. Norman grew up in a well-to-do family.
Mrs. Norman became the subject of many of his photographs and a crucial force in his third and final gallery, An American Place, which he opened in 1932 with her encouragement and money she raised from family and friends.
She was the co-founder and for many years the principal manager of the B. G. Sulzle Company, a family enterprise with headquarters at 1 Needle Lane in North Syracuse.
Born Dorothy Stecker in Philadelphia in 1905, Mrs. Norman grew up in a well-to-do family.

        Evelyn Sharp, a New York businesswoman, investor and philanthropist and the head of a hotelier family that owned and managed some of the country's best-known properties, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
At one time or another, the Sharp family also had stakes in Delmonico's, the Ritz Tower, the Carlyle, the Beaux Arts and the Paramount Building in Manhattan, and the St. Francis in San Francisco.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
The daughter of a prosperous businessman and an international society figure, Miss Frooks was born on a 400-acre Hudson Valley farm near Saugerties, N.Y., and grew up there and at the family's winter residence at the Waldorf Hotel.
She was 86, and a family spokesman said she had been in failing health for several years.
In 1992, Mr. and Mrs. Rockefeller donated her family home and surrounding property in Woodstock, Vt., to the Federal Government for development as the state's first national park.
Several members of her mother's family were pharmacists, too, and in time Mrs. Petry graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Connecticut and went to work at her father's store.
A native of Wilmington, Del., who graduated from the College of New Rochelle and worked as a biochemist before starting a family, Ms. Flannery grew up with a trim, athletic build in an age when girls were generally not welcome in athletics.

        Mary Dewart Gleason, whose family owned The New York Sun from 1926 until 1950, died of liver failure yesterday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland, her daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar, said.
In 1950 the family sold the newspaper to Scripps-Howard, which merged it to create The World-Telegram and Sun.
Mrs. Gleason served on the board of the C. W. H. Merlis Corporation, a Dewart family holding company with interests in real estate and banking.
No immediate family members survive.
      
''
        Ms. Carpenter, who left no immediate family survivors, was an only child and never married.
The garden of her home on Morton Street in Greenwich Village and of her family home -- established 50 years ago by her mother, Leslie Ten Eyck Michaels, at Manursing Island in Rye, N.Y. -- were among the first to be shown to the public under the auspices of the Garden Conservancy, a national organization that works to preserve exceptional gardens.
No immediate family members survive.
      
No immediate family members survive.
      
Her family's past reflected the racism she fought: one of her grandfathers was lynched, and one of her grandmothers, a slave, was raped by a white man.
The cause was multiple myeloma, her family said.
Mrs. Carey was vice president of the W. P. Carey Foundation, a family philanthropy that focuses on the education of needy youth and on international economic policy.

        Florence M. Kelley, the first administrative judge of the modern Family Court in New York City and an advocate for the legal rights of the poor, died last Saturday at her home in Little Compton, R.I. She was 85.
''
        In 1962, when the court was reconfigured as the new Family Court of the State of New York, within the City of New York, with jurisdiction over a range of social problems, she became administrative judge.
Then as now, the Family Court, regarded as the stepchild of the system, was criticized for its sprawling caseload.
Her dedication to legal and social services for the poor was a family heritage: her grandmother, for whom she was named, was one of the first women lawyers in the country and the founder of the National Consumers League, an advocates' group for which Judge Kelley worked.
It was a family tragedy that gave Mrs. Riggs the opportunity to hear these and other tales firsthand.
Mrs. Riggs, who always spent summers on Martha's Vineyard, retired there with her husband in 1954, and after his death in 1975 converted the sprawling family home into a bed and breakfast catering to poets.
The cause was uterine cancer, her family said.

        Marie Salant Neuberger, a New York foundation executive and philanthropist who was long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She suffered a long illness, her family said.
Mrs. Monroe's remaining kidney began to fail two years ago, and that led to her death, her family said.
Left with two young children after her husband was killed in a car accident, Mrs. Monroe, like millions of other women nationwide, joined the work force both to fulfill a call to arms, so to speak, and to support her family.
In 1918 she and her family, Mennonites of German descent, rode on a wagon for two weeks with other refugees to reach Germany, where she continued her agricultural training and worked on farms.
According to family legend, a paternal ancestor, John Cruso, was a schoolmate of Daniel Defoe, who would later add an ''e'' to the surname and bestow it on his best-known literary hero.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
Brilliant, who combined his family's interest in real estate with his own passion for music, built La Chansonette for her.
The cause of death was breast cancer, family members said.
No immediate family members survive, a spokesman for the Art Institute said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
''Everybody in my family has started his own business,'' she said in a 1979 interview.
She performed as a child with her family's act, began a solo act at 15 and later performed with her brother, Bob Brown, in a tap act.
For financial reasons, she was forced to end her schooling in the ninth grade and spent the remainder of her childhood on the family farm.
Dorothy Buffum was born in Lafayette, Ill., and moved with her family to Long Beach, Calif., when she was a toddler.
Roberta Gorsuch was born in Lawrence, Kan., on Jan. 3, 1899, and moved with her family to Maryland during World War I.
No immediate family members survive.
The cause was a ruptured aorta, her family said.
Longevity ran in the family; Mrs. Calment's mother lived until she was 86 and her father until he was 93.
Eight years later, Yvonne died of pneumonia, and Mrs. Calment raised her grandson in the family home.
His family was still paying when she died.
A native of Waco whose restless father kept the family on the move, including three years homesteading in the New Mexico Territory, she was 13 when she hitched up a four-horse team, gathered the reins and led a Conestoga convoy that took her family to the dusty little town of Alpine in the Big Bend region of southwestern Texas.
A native of Waco whose restless father kept the family on the move, including three years homesteading in the New Mexico Territory, she was 13 when she hitched up a four-horse team, gathered the reins and led a Conestoga convoy that took her family to the dusty little town of Alpine in the Big Bend region of southwestern Texas.
The cause was cancer, her family said.
Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations.
She practiced family and labor law in New York and Washington before becoming the District's first administrative law judge in 1976, working in the newly formed Office of Consumer Protection.
Making the most of her family connections and even more of those she formed on her own, Miss Halle got her start in political society early.
During a family visit to Washington when she was 13, President Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, a former Cleveland mayor, had a young assistant, Walter Lippmann, show her around.
As a result, Miss Halle, who was an old friend of Franklin D. Roosevelt and campaigned for him in 1932, became one of the few people to be on intimate family terms with the two wartime leaders.
Her family said she died of a heart attack last week in the small home she had built in Manila using part of a $19,000 settlement she received from a specially created Japanese fund a year ago.
Mrs. Henson, who married after the war and supported a family as a worker at a cigarette factory, embarked in her 60's on a new life as a symbolic representative of as many as 200,000 women who had been forced to work in Japanese Army brothels.
Mrs. Linen, known as Sally, was a descendant of the family that founded Scranton, Pa., where she was born on March 29, 1913.
She had no business partners or immediate family, and the boutique will close on Saturday after a memorial service for Ms. Blum.
She was not a member of the Adler family that is related to the Sulzbergers who own The Times.
In the divorce she had to give up the honorific Her Royal Highness, the title that separates the royal family's inner circle from other nobles and aristocrats, but was able to keep the title Princess of Wales.
She was born in Constantinople, now Istanbul, in 1915 to Armenian parents, moved with her family to Germany as a child and later lived on the Swiss-French border before coming to the United States at the age of 11.
''We need programs designed to provide a safety net for the parent with mental illness, the offspring at risk and the family under stress.
But her team of clinical social workers arranged for Owen and his mother to stay with Owen's grandmother, preserving Owen's caretaking environment and family connection, she said.
While Mr. Green was separated from the family, Owen, his mother and grandmother received continuing treatment.
She served on the board of the Puerto Rican Family Institute for more than 30 years and on the New York Council on Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for eight years.
Mrs. Mindell, who lived in the Village for more than 50 years, died of lung cancer at Lenox Hill Hospital, according to a spokesman for her family.
At first glance, Mrs. Weiss would hardly seem the type to be attracted to Leon Trotsky's version of Marxism, and not simply because she cut a stylish figure in leftist circles -- a small, attractive woman who was always immaculately turned out, generally in a well-cut suit of lush material run up by her husband's tailoring family.
But by the time she joined the Socialist Workers Party while attending the University of Utah in 1935, her family had already distanced itself from the Mormon Church.
Dropping out of college to follow her family to California, she took courses at the University of California at Los Angeles, but she soon left college, first to organize agriculture and cannery workers and later to help establish the Socialist Workers Party in Los Angeles, where she and another party organizer, Murry Weiss, began a romance that led to marriage.
Born in Istanbul, where her father was a doctor to the Sultan of Turkey, Ms. Margolis came to the United States with her family in 1907.
She went on to set up welfare institutions ranging from a family clinic, to mobile leprosy clinics, to nurseries for abandoned children.
She died of complications from injuries suffered when struck by a car two weeks ago, her family said.
No immediate family members survive.
      
When the bureau was abolished in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for family planning and population.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
She died of lung cancer, her family said in a statement.
The family's involvement with the university covered 75 years.
A native of San Juan, Mrs. Diaz was born into a politically active family of lawyers and judges.
The cause was heart failure, her family said.
Ms. Wright, who used her family's name professionally, worked as an astronomer before she turned to freelance writing and editing in the 1940's.
And when she did not, she would come home to regale her family with stories of what she had seen or heard at the White House that day.
Parks to combine her mother's recollections with her own in what became ''Backstairs,'' and two other books written with Miss Leighton: ''It was Fun Working in the White House,'' a children's book, and ''The Roosevelts: A Family in Turmoil,'' published in 1973.
A native of LeRoy, Ill., Mrs. Church, who grew up doing chores on a family farm (and never tired of telling her pampered sons how easy they had it), met her husband at the University of Illinois, where she received a degree in home economics.
An excellent cook, she was not content to serve her family precisely balanced meals.
She conceded that the medicine makers performed much good work among the people, especially in family matters.
She is not survived by any immediate family members.
      

        Carol Clark Tatkon, a former senior vice president for Exxon U.S.A., died on Oct. 11 at a family home in North Egremont, Mass.
No immediate family members survive.
      
Mrs. Meyner was born into a prominent Democratic family in New York City in 1928.
In 1972, Democratic Party leaders asked her to run for Congress from the Meyner family home in Phillipsburg, in the heavily Republican 13th Congressional District in Sussex and Morris Counties.
In 1990, Governor Meyner died and Mrs. Meyner retired to Captiva Island, Fla. She and her family established the Robert B. Meyner and Helen S. Meyner Center for the Study of State and Local Government at her husband's alma mater, Lafayette College in Easton, Pa.
      
Ms. Carabillo leaves no immediate family.
      
In 1988, when she won a $7 million jackpot the first time she played the New York State Lottery, Miss Katzenbogen was a cosmetics consultant living at home with her parents and younger brother in Canarsie, where the whole family collected and sheltered stray cats.
''If I want to spend my money and take care of my cats, which are my family, I don't think it's anybody's business.

        Lillian B. Miller, a Boston butcher's daughter who made American cultural history her oyster and the Peale family of painters her particular pearls, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington.
Her family said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage.
But until Dr. Miller came along in 1974 and began turning out volume after annotated volume covering four generations of Peale family papers, Peale had been largely dismissed as little more than a comic footnote to American history, a well-known practical joker whose grandiosely named sons -- Rembrandt, Raphael, Rubens and Titian -- drew scholarly snickers.
At Radcliffe, as the first member of her family to earn a college degree, she became interested in American history and, while working her way through school as secretary to the head of the Harvard observatory, picked up the skills that would lay the groundwork for her scholarship.
Then in 1974, as the Smithsonian's historian of American culture, she published the voluminous Peale family papers on microfiche, providing scholars of diverse fields with a trove of source material and giving her a life's work.
Dr. Miller, who organized an acclaimed traveling exhibition of Peale works last year, published four of a projected seven volumes of Peale family papers.
She was 93 and had homes in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hooker was one of the principal benefactors of the National Museum of Natural History, the largest of the Smithsonian Institution's family of museum buildings on the Mall in Washington.
Mrs. Hooker was educated at Kemper Hall, an Episcopal school in Kenosha, Wis. An outgoing woman with a determined will and a quiet sense of humor, she tapped into the family tradition of charity as a young bride.
The cause was cancer, her family said.

        Louise Loewenstein Ottinger, a New York philanthropist who supported the arts, community development and family planning, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Ottinger, a Chicago native and a graduate of Smith College, was the matriarch of a New York family prominent in business and politics.
Disney was a full-time partner to Walt and we are all grateful for her contributions in the creation of Mickey Mouse and the Disney Company and the example she set for family life and community service.
The cause of death was breast cancer, said Dr. Wayne Lavender, a family friend.
Her father, Nat, was a zipper salesman to the military who had a nervous breakdown when she was a child; her mother, Lillian, was a formidable businesswoman compelled to work to support the family.
(The family's name was originally Spielberg, but her father changed it to Steel to reflect his prowess as a semiprofessional weight lifter).
' ''
        Soon enough, the Gucci family sued her for copyright infringement.
'' Mr. Davidoff, building a First Amendment defense, made sure the New York tabloids heard about the case, which was quickly headlined ''the toilet-paper caper'' and led to an editorial cartoon showing the Gucci family as Goliath and poor Dawn Steel as David.
Her father's conversations about the family background in Hasidism and her mother's knowledge of Welsh and English folklore proved influential.

        Corinne Roosevelt Alsop Chubb, who helped guide the Victoria Foundation, a family trust that fosters social services, education and the arts in Newark, since its inception in 1934, died on Dec. 9 at her farm in Chester, N.J. She was 85.
Mrs. Chubb married into the family in 1932, when she became the wife of Percy Chubb 2d, a former chairman of the Chubb insurance underwriters group.
After the family moved to California, the director Robert Z. Leonard heard her singing at a party and was instrumental in having her signed by Metro Goldwyn Mayer.
Her father is retired from the family consortium.
In 1929, the family bought an abandoned 50-acre farm near the village of North Coventry, which they named Caprilands, and set about raising goats.
The family restored the 18th-century buildings on the site, and Mrs. Simmons grew herbs and vegetables, inviting neighbors over to share in the harvest.
''The old dictator and his wife were often at odds over family matters.
Her vivid autobiography ''Split Seconds'' (1972) describes her tumultuous family history and life in St. Petersburg at the time of the Russian Revolution.
No immediate family members survive.
      
