Isabel after creating the fashion for decorated cashmere sweaters, died on Wednesday at the home of a niece, Eva Ballantine, in Kingston, N.Y.
        Mrs. Kambert was 103.
Baroness de Rothschild, whose husband, Baron Guy de Rothschild, is dean of the French branch of the banking family, was well known in the world of fashion  and was particularly renowned for the dinners, balls and benefits she organized.
In 1956, she was selected as one of the 10 best-dressed women in the world and four years later was named to the Fashion Hall of Fame.
Before taking up dance, she was a fashion consultant and high-fashion designer.

        Janet A. Sloane, a fashion director who helped bring haute couture headware from Europe to upscale American stores, died on April 20 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
As president of Madcaps International, Ms. Sloane was a regular at fashion shows in Europe, Tokyo and Hong Kong, where she sought new trends in designs, colors and fabrics.
She was also a conservator of the New York Public Library and a member of the Corporation of Yaddo, the artists' retreat in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
        She was a founding member of the Fashion Group International and the Fashion  Round Table, two organizations for industry executives, and a member of the Soroptomists, an international women's community service alliance.
She was also a conservator of the New York Public Library and a member of the Corporation of Yaddo, the artists' retreat in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
        She was a founding member of the Fashion Group International and the Fashion  Round Table, two organizations for industry executives, and a member of the Soroptomists, an international women's community service alliance.
Joe Eula, the New York fashion artist, said in 1975 that Ms. Hemingway had "the face of a generation, as recognizable and memorable as Lisa Fonssagrives and Jean Shrimpton.
Joe Eula, the New York fashion artist, said in 1975 that Ms. Hemingway had "the face of a generation, as recognizable and memorable as Lisa Fonssagrives and Jean Shrimpton.
Born on Staten Island, Ms. Bearden studied at the Fashion Institute of Technology and was a model with the Ophelia DeVore Agency.

        Martha Phillips, a notable force in luxury fashion retailing for more than 60 years and an early supporter of many of today's leading designers, died on Saturday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98.
Martha, as she was generally known (Miss Martha to her employees), was for many years a well-known front-row figure at major fashion shows in New York and Europe and a booster of, among others, Valentino, Halston, Geoffrey Beene, James Galanos, Pauline Trigere, Bill Blass, Oscar de la Renta and Zandra Rhodes at the beginning of their careers.
There was never a time when she was not fascinated by fashion, Mrs. Phillips said in a 1983 interview on the 50th anniversary of her business.
Although she was always appropriately dressed, Mrs. Noyce had no interest in fashion and even less in travel, preferring to stay in Maine rather than visit the world's resorts.

        Hildegarde Fillmore Smith, a former fashion and beauty editor at the women's magazine McCall's, died on Monday in her garret apartment at the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park South.
She also served on the Board of Governors of the Fashion Group and on the committee for the American Fashion Critics Award.
She also served on the Board of Governors of the Fashion Group and on the committee for the American Fashion Critics Award.
They presaged many of the concerns of 90's art, including the emphasis on the body, sexuality, fashion and, in their resemblance to puppets, performance.
Seated at the tables in her two bedroom apartment in the East 60's  would be diplomats, society doyennes and fashion designers.
Seated at the tables in her two-bedroom apartment in the East 60's would be diplomats, society doyennes and fashion designers.
