
        Jeanne A. Henabery, a public relations specialist in the beauty and fashion field, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She attended Bryant and Simmons College and also took courses at the School of Visual Arts, the Fashion Institute, Baruch College and the Herbert Berghof Studio.
" As for artistry, Ms. Henderson recalled a tribute that Miss Merman had made, in her fashion.
"Mrs. Brown had that uncanny ability to look at a room and instantly tell exactly how to place the furniture and objects so everything just worked," said Stanley Barrows, the former head of the department of interior design at The Fashion Institute of Technology.
In 1953 she became the first children's designer to win the Coty American Fashion Critics Award, for her designs for Youngland Inc.
She also created designs for Sears, Roebuck & Company; Saks Fifth Avenue; Alyssa, a children's fashion concern, and for her own company, Designs by Helen Lee Inc.
Despite the reputation of English children's clothes as the best in the world, her designs won accolades from critics at a London fashion show in 1962.

        Dagmar Freuchen-Gale, an artist and illustrator for such fashion magazines as Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, died March 9 at a hospital in Fredensborg, Denmark.
She also taught fashion illustration at the Art Students League for 20 years, from the late 1940's.

        Shirley Goodman, a driving force behind the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York for more than four decades, died on Sunday at her Manhattan apartment.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
Since her arrival at the fashion institute in 1949, it has grown from two floors of borrowed space in a nearby high school to an eight-building complex on West 27th Street between Seventh and Eighth Avenues.
Ms. Goodman is credited with leading the expansion from a small trade school to a specialized college offering 24 majors in fashion design, art, business and technology.
It houses a library, galleries, a graduate center and a design laboratory with one of the country's largest collections of fashion costumes and textiles.
Throughout her career, Ms. Goodman worked in community and government organizations promoting the fashion industry.
She was an honorary professor of the Bunka College of Fashion in Tokyo.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
She joined the fashion institute in 1949 to help draft the legislation making the five-year-old college part of the State University system.
People in the fashion industry described her as "a dynamo" and "a woman of simple dignity and pride.
In 1971 Ms. Donay rejoined McCann Erickson and moved to London, where she founded the London Fashion Group.
The designs were often praised by fashion reporters as irresistible.

        Gladys Marcus, dean of liberal arts at the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Sunday at New York University Medical Center.
Mrs. Marcus joined the faculty at the Fashion Institute of Technology as a part-time instructor in 1950.
A proponent of global education, she initiated an overseas curriculum for the fashion institute.
She then taught sociology at Hunter College, New York University and the Fashion Institute of Technology.
Miss Caulfield, who was a native of West Orange, N.J., attended Columbia University and was a fashion model and a cover girl before she landed ingenue roles on Broadway in the early 1940's.

        Elizabeth Sorel, a former fashion model, died Monday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
One of her roles was that of Nora, the rebellious modern woman, in Henrik Ibsen's "Doll's House," which was then very much in fashion in China.
In that period she was also chairwoman of the Coty American Fashion Critics Award organization.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.

        Mary McDonough Phillips, an editor who helped train a generation of fashion journalists, died last Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long illness.
Her friends included major fashion figures such as the designers Ben Zuckerman, Archie Davidow and Norman Norell.
