
        Anne Cox, a New York socialite who designed high fashion for high society in the 1950's and became the mother-in-law of a president's daughter, died on Tuesday in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of Palm Beach, Fla.
She was also an occasional fashion and society columnist for The Herald Tribune and a fashion adviser for Bergdorf Goodman.
She was also an occasional fashion and society columnist for The Herald Tribune and a fashion adviser for Bergdorf Goodman.
She was the mother of Chessy Rayner, a decorator and fashion writer and editor who died in 1998.
After working briefly in Paris as a fashion designer and model, she made her stage debut in 1931 in the operetta ''Balthazar.
Ms. Stutz is best known for her 29-year career as the president of Henri Bendel, with a legendary eye for discovering the newest designers and using them first, installing their collections in elaborately merchandised departments that heralded the introduction of a new generation of fashion stars -- Stephen Burrows, Perry Ellis, Jean Muir, Sonia Rykiel, Carlos Falchi, Mary McFadden, Holly Harp and Ralph Lauren among them.
She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
In an article in New York magazine in 1987, Ms. Stutz described her taste for what she called ''dog whistle'' fashion: ''clothes with a pitch so high and special that only the thinnest and most sophisticated women would hear their call.
'' She was also one of the first retailers to consider merchandising food and furniture alongside fashion, and she made way for the in-store designer boutique in the late 1960's, as she did for Ms. Rykiel.
''She recognized that fashion was more than just about clothing; it was about lifestyle and how one lives,'' said Joan Kaner, the fashion director of Neiman Marcus, who worked under Ms. Stutz from 1967 to 1976.
''She recognized that fashion was more than just about clothing; it was about lifestyle and how one lives,'' said Joan Kaner, the fashion director of Neiman Marcus, who worked under Ms. Stutz from 1967 to 1976.
He designed windows for the company in the 1970's, and recalled Ms. Stutz's ability to intermingle her interests in art and film with fashion.
To take this little town house and make it look like someone lived there, as you were going from room to room -- it was just one woman's vision on the world of fashion, and yet it did incredibly well.

        Nan Kempner, one of New York's most serene hostesses and clotheshorses, a glittering fixture at social events and fashion shows on both sides of the Atlantic for decades, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
As slim as a stalk of celery and, as she proudly acknowledged, ''possibly one of the first people to have plastic surgery,'' Mrs. Kempner was a member of fashion's Hall of Fame and a Park Avenue hostess whose table was considered one of the best in Manhattan.
Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.
'' Ms. Settle attended Sweet Briar College in Virginia for two years, then began a career as a fashion model.
She often told the story of how, while going over a Harper's Bazaar fashion layout that had been inspired by ''Wuthering Heights,'' she noticed in some notes that Emily Brontë had died at 30.
She attended Johns Hopkins University, ran a nursery school with her sister and worked as a fashion model.
