
        Clare Potter, a leading American fashion designer of the 1930's and 40's known for imaginative use of color and simplicity of line, died Jan. 5 at her home in Fort Ann, N.Y. She was 95.
'' She also received a Neiman Marcus Award in 1939 and a Coty Fashion Critics Award in 1946.
''She did forward-looking active sports clothes, sundresses, trousers, bathing suits and evening sweaters,'' said Valerie Steele, the chief curator of the Museum at the Fashion Institute of Technology.
Ms. Springfield, with her teased beehive hairdo and eyes heavily blackened with mascara, was a 1960's pop fashion icon.

        Elizabeth Tilberis, the editor in chief of Harper's Bazaar, who transformed it from a tired magazine into a viable voice in fashion while she battled ovarian cancer and raised awareness of the disease, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
When Hearst Magazines, which publishes the 132-year-old Harper's Bazaar, hired Ms. Tilberis away from her job as editor in chief of British Vogue, it created a sensation in fashion magazine circles.
The fashion world was abuzz with gossip on two topics: speculation that Hearst was paying Ms. Tilberis an annual salary of $1.25 million (never confirmed or denied) and anticipation of a rivalry between Ms. Tilberis and Ms. Wintour, her predecessor at British Vogue, who had recommended Ms. Tilberis as her replacement there.
)
        Ms. Tilberis's aim when she took over Harper's Bazaar, she said, was to make it ''the most beautiful fashion magazine in the world.
'' It was a startling contrast to the usual fashion magazine cover with multiple headlines in different colors.
Subsequent issues added text lines and color and eventually looked more like other fashion publications.
In 1994, Ms. Tilberis was named editor of the year by Advertising Age and received an award from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which was presented to her by Diana, the Princess of Wales.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in fashion design from Leicester Polytechnic, a British school comparable to New York's Fashion Institute of Technology.
She received a Bachelor of Arts degree in fashion design from Leicester Polytechnic, a British school comparable to New York's Fashion Institute of Technology.
Following her graduation in 1970, Ms. Tilberis went to British Vogue as a fashion assistant and worked her way to the top, becoming editor in chief in 1987.
She was scheduled to receive a Humanitarian Award in June from the Council of Fashion Designers of America, which will now be given posthumously, said Fern Mallis, the council's executive director.
Despite Ms. Tilberis's personal popularity and the publicity her tenure brought to the magazine, Harper's Bazaar never ousted Vogue from its pinnacle as the fashion publication with the largest circulation and the most advertising pages.
As time went by under her editorship, the magazine lost some of its specialness and began to look more like other fashion publications.
''I think we made the niche we wanted to make, and I think we are the elegant fashion magazine I wanted to create,'' she said.
In an interview published last year in The Times, Ms. Tilberis discussed the stark contrast between her glamorous job and her illness: ''You can live in the fashion world and go to fashion shows and have your picture taken, et cetera, et cetera.
In an interview published last year in The Times, Ms. Tilberis discussed the stark contrast between her glamorous job and her illness: ''You can live in the fashion world and go to fashion shows and have your picture taken, et cetera, et cetera.
Her reputation for frankness reached into the pages of Glamour, where -- along with the standard fare of women's magazines, like frothy fashion spreads and light service articles -- she published articles about sexuality, politics and women's health issues that other women's magazines had generally avoided.
''She was always trying to get as much real information into the pages of a fashion and beauty magazine as she possibly could,'' Ms. Steinem said.
The combination of fashion and service with strong editorial articles worked especially well on the newsstand.
By the 1950's Ms. Zipprodt was living the bohemian life in New York, where she painted at the Art Students League, studied at the Fashion Institute of Technology and waited on tables at Schrafft's until her visit to the ballet altered her life forever.
After her marriage, she quickly became a fashion icon herself, on the cover of numerous magazines.
A Calvin Klein executive brought her to the fashion house's headquarters in New York.
He said she easily juggled the demands of the job, which required a keen fashion sense and attention to countless administrative details.
She was promoted to director of publicity of the collection, a job that entailed working with fashion editors as well as coordinating the shows for the line.
Since her marriage, Ms. Bessette Kennedy had largely shunned the fashion world.
''I don't think she particularly missed being in the fashion industry,'' said John Perry Barlow, a friend of the couple.

        Diane Erickson, a model who was on the cover of Self magazine's first issue in 1979 and who later became a fashion photographer, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.
Born on May 24, 1956, in the Boston area, Ms. Erickson studied photography at the State University of New York at Buffalo and later worked with well-known fashion photographers.
Georgia Hofmann was born Georgia Ellis on a farm near Montgomery, Ala. She became a fashion model in New York and had a minor part in a musical production staged by Florenz Ziegfeld.
