
        Diana Adler, a New York fashion designer for almost 40 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan.
In the early 1970's, she joined Baron Peters, a fashion concern with its headquarters in Lowell, Mass.

        Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
Regularly listed as one of the best-dressed women, she acquired a large collection of designer clothes and patterns, part of which is to be shown at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan starting March 16.

        Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
She donated the clothes to the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan, and they are to be exhibited there starting March 16.
She died of cancer, said her daughter, Mary McFadden, the fashion designer.

        Lisa Fonssagrives-Penn, a leading fashion model in the 1940's and 50's, died Tuesday at New York Hospital.
"She epitomized a very noble period of fashion and couture.
"
        In addition to modeling, she also pursued careers as a ballet dancer, a photographer, a fashion designer and a sculptor.
Her book "Figleaf" (Lippincott, 1960) punctured the fashion industry with a glossary of garment gab that defined exclusive as "a product offered to the broadest possible mass market" and timeless as "a style that remains fashionable for more than one season.

        Constance Montague Montgomery, who at the age of 66 started a successful fashion designing career that continued for 26 years, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. Montgomery worked for several leading fashion companies, including Bill Blass, Geoffrey Beene, Norman Norell and Donald Brooks.

        Mollie Parnis, the fashion designer, whose Park Avenue living room was as well known to actors, journalists and Democrats as her Seventh Avenue showroom was to the women who bought her dresses, died yesterday at New York University Hospital.
A Desperate First Design
        She said she got some notion that she might want to go into fashion in high school.
As their business prospered, Miss Parnis hired other designers, but she remained the fashion editor.
Her mother cofounded a national chain of fashion stores, Tennis Lady.
"
        Mrs. Fenwick, whose colorful personality inspired cartoon characters, had a varied career, including stints as a fashion model, an author and editor and decades of public service in local, state and Federal elected and appointed posts.
Ms. Neill, a former dietitian, founded the boutique four years ago to showcase fashion and art by young black men and women.
Early in her career she studied fashion design, was a model and appeared in Vogue.
Serving Hot Meals
        Later, along with Eleanor Lambert, she organized a fashion show to benefit the March of Dimes that Time magazine called "the event of the year.
The Marquesa, who was widely known as Mimi Herrera, died of heart failure due to complications from cancer, said her son, Reinaldo Herrera, whose wife is the fashion designer Caroline Herrera.

        Marie McCarthy, who for many years designed the Larry Aldrich fashion collection, died on Tuesday at the Windermere Nursing Home in Virginia Beach, Va., at the age of 86.
