She left college for a job on the paper, eventually becoming the fashion editor.
This particular ruse endeared her to young black women with dreams of careers in fashion.
She was a true inspiration for those who followed fashion.
She then found jobs on the West Coast in fashion shows and magazines that catered to black audiences, and a husband, a much older dentist who spoiled her.
She staged fashion shows and fund-raisers for more than 200 branches of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a college sorority established by black women.
Mrs. Levine designed shoes for 30 years under the label Herbert Levine, named for her husband, and was known as America's First Lady of Shoe Design because of her prominence in 20th-century fashion, and because her designs were worn by the American first ladies Lady Bird Johnson, Patricia Nixon and Jacqueline Kennedy.
The song increased the demand for fashion boots so much that Saks Fifth Avenue opened a corner in its shoe department called Beth's Bootery.
''
        Although she worked closely with fashion designers to create shoes that would match their clothes, including a regular collaboration with James Galanos, Mrs. Levine was often a vocal critic of their work.
Her taste -- seasoned by a girlhood of reading comic books, the careful study of the history of cartoons and experience as a fashion designer -- helped shape the famous look of Playboy's cartoons.
She also wanted the museum to welcome art that was excluded elsewhere because it was difficult, out of fashion, unsalable or made by artists who were not white or male or straight.

        Princess Irene Galitzine, a descendant of Russian nobility who founded a glamorous fashion house in Italy and popularized ornate pants as evening wear in the 1960's, died Friday at her home in Rome.
Princess Galitzine's couture collections, shown in a Roman villa, were once praised as the social highlight of the fashion season, and her salon on the Via Veneto was where du Ponts competed with Fords to have first crack at her designs, which often featured a spiral cut.
She said in 1960 that she was deluged with orders even before she showed the look at a fashion show.
They have frequently been exhibited in Italian fashion retrospectives, including one at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York in 1985 and one in Rome this year.
They have frequently been exhibited in Italian fashion retrospectives, including one at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York in 1985 and one in Rome this year.
Fashion and home designs are still manufactured under her name under several licenses in Europe.

        Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29.
''
        Correction:  October 10, 2006, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Sunday about Rosamond Carr, a former fashion illustrator who opened an orphanage in Rwanda and was driven from it by violence, misstated the date of the orphans' return to the facility.
That led to a five-year career as a fashion model.
Directed by Hiroshi Teshigahara and released in 1964, ''Woman in the Dunes'' is a bleak allegory in the fashion of films by Ingmar Bergman and Michelangelo Antonioni.
Woe to the pleasure-seeking listener who spots certain religiose titles -- 'Dona Nobis Pacem,' 'Amen,' 'Dies Irae' -- and expects a Mystic Minimalist after the fashion of Henryk Gorecki or Arvo Pärt.
