Wills also became a champion of fashion, particularly on the tennis court.
Ms. Kreig was born in Chicago and was a fashion model as a young woman.

        Chessy Rayner, a decorator, fashion icon, editor and author of ''New York: Trends and Traditions,'' a recently published book about significant Manhattan interiors, died on Thursday night at Sloan-Kettering Medical Center in New York.
But rather than idling indefinitely in the social spotlight, Mrs. Rayner  went to work for Ladies Home Journal, moved to Glamour, and then became a fashion editor at Vogue from 1956 to 1964.
'' Bored with the business of fashion and chafing under her dictatorial boss, Diana Vreeland, Mrs. Rayner left Vogue and went in search of what William Rayner  called ''less ephemeral, more creative'' work.
Soon, however, they became a force to be reckoned with, and by the early 1980's had amassed a portfolio of residential and commercial projects for boldface celebrities like the artist Kenneth Noland, the television producer Douglas Cramer and the fashion designer Bill Blass.
''
        ''Chessy was a decorator, not a re-decorator,'' said Arnold Scaasi, the fashion designer.
As a young married woman, Betsey Cushing Roosevelt ''could be imperious,'' the fashion photographer Horst P. Horst later told Mr. Paley's biographer, Sally Bedell Smith.
Paris in the 1920's and 30's was home to modernists like Henri, who saw photography as the medium to revolutionize visual language in everything from photojournalism and commercial advertising to fashion and book illustration.
She did fashion assignments for Harper's Bazaar and Schiaparelli.

        Sybil Connolly, who designed the linen dress that Jacqueline Kennedy wore in her White House portrait and who elevated Irish style to high fashion, died on Wednesday at her home in Dublin.
In addition to her fashion collections, Miss Connolly designed fabrics and wallcoverings for Brunschwig & Fils and Schumacher, and crystal and china for Tiffany & Company.
Her fashion career began in 1938 as an apprentice at Bradley's, a prestigious dressmaking establishment in London.
In 1952 her career took a leap forward when a group of Philadelphia matrons, under the auspices of that city's Fashion Group, touched down in Dublin and discovered her.
      
In an era when hair color is no longer a fiat of nature but a routine fashion choice, it is easy to forget that as recently as the mid-1950's hair coloring was such an exotic exception to a cultural norm that only 7 percent of American women dared dye their hair, mainly actresses, models and other fast women.
When the Met's director offered her a curatorial position in charge of its Textile Study Room in 1949, she said yes, but added that he should know three things: she didn't know much about textiles; she cared less than most women about fashion, and she never used a needle and thread unless she had to.
''
        Mrs. Albert, a native of Rockville Centre, N.Y., graduated from the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan and joined the Ideal Toy Company, then based in Queens, in 1960.

        Florence Griffith Joyner, the three-time gold medalist at the 1988 Summer Olympics who revolutionized women's sprinting with her searing speed and flamboyant fashion sense, died yesterday at her home in Mission Viejo, Calif. She was 38.
Always a fashion maverick, she was once asked to leave a shopping mall for wearing her pet boa constrictor around her neck like a feather boa.

        Fiamma di San Giuliano Ferragamo, a designer who helped develop one of the most famous shoe labels in fashion, died on Monday at her home in Florence.
For almost 40 years Fiamma Ferragamo was responsible for the design of the famed Ferragamo shoes and leather accessories, helping to build Ferragamo from a custom shoemaker for the elite to a global fashion powerhouse with a network of boutiques in New York, Milan, London and Paris.
In 1967 she received the Neiman Marcus Award for Distinguished Service in the Field of Fashion, 20 years after her father was similarly honored.
At the museums, which she joined in 1988, Ms. Baer was the curator of three major exhibitions: ''Paris Modern: The Swedish Ballet, 1920-1925'' in 1995-96, which traveled to the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio and the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan; ''Theater in Revolution: Russian Avant-Garde Stage Design, 1913-1935'' in 1991-92, also at the I.B.M.
In Manila, she began managing and later bought a chic fashion boutique catering to the city's American and European elite.
In the years that followed, she worked as a photographer's model and in 1934 did some fashion reporting for radio station WBBM in Chicago.
Her third career was in fashion education.
In 1978, she became an adjunct professor at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan in a program preparing young people for careers in cosmetics.
