
        Mildred Finger Haines, who helped shape fashion tastes for four decades as a top buyer for department stores and a consultant to clothes makers and retailers, died on Saturday.
She later became vice president of Charles of the Ritz, headed fashion merchandising for Yves St.Laurent and became an independent consultant, with clients like the Limited and Arthur D. Little.
In succeeding years, she frequently contributed her knowledge of the fashion industry to the oral history projects of the American Jewish Committee and the Fashion Institute of Technology.
In succeeding years, she frequently contributed her knowledge of the fashion industry to the oral history projects of the American Jewish Committee and the Fashion Institute of Technology.

        Jean Muir, the British fashion classicist whose design career spanned more than 30 years, died on Sunday in London at the London Clinic.
Often referred to as the doyenne of British fashion, Miss Muir, as she insisted everyone call her, designed starkly simple clothes that were timeless and elegant.
" It was a statement that applied equally well to herself and to the clothes she designed, which were instantly identifiable as Jean Muirs and never followed the vagaries of fashion.
In 1962, she became the designer for Jane & Jane, a company of young Londoners who, along with designers like Mary Quant, helped to shake up the staid British fashion world.
She won many fashion awards, including election to the British Fashion Awards Hall of Fame last year, and was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1984.
She won many fashion awards, including election to the British Fashion Awards Hall of Fame last year, and was named a Commander of the British Empire in 1984.

        Ermina Stimson, an illustrator, art director and fashion editor during 36 years with Women's Wear Daily, died on Tuesday at her home in Wellfleet, Mass.
Ms. Stimson, who began her career at Women's Wear Daily as an illustrator in 1930, was appointed fashion editor in 1960, a job she held for six years before retiring.
She then moved to Paris, where she worked for several fashion publications.
"
        An avid reader of The Times, Mrs. Sulzberger especially championed its coverage of fashion and the arts.
She went from being a small-town lawyer's well-read daughter to being a regular on fashion magazines' lists of well-dressed women, with her trendy designer gowns and hats from Bergdorf Goodman.

        Adele Simpson, an important player in the postwar fashion movement, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 91.
Her coming of age as a designer mirrored the development of American sportswear, which was defining itself and growing in importance as the mass-market technology that followed World War II left its mark on fashion.
"She made clothes for ladies," said Helen O'Hagan, a fashion publicist who once worked at Saks.
Mrs. Simpson was the recipient of numerous fashion accolades, including the Coty American Fashion Critics award in 1947.
Mrs. Simpson was the recipient of numerous fashion accolades, including the Coty American Fashion Critics award in 1947.
This ensemble, with it color coordination and clean, practical lines, was typical of Mrs. Simpson's concept of fashion.
At the time of her diagnosis in 1991, Ms. Shaw was a fashion coordinator for  Polo Ralph Lauren.
Later she drew fashion designs for the I.  Magnin department store, an assignment that caught the eye of Richard Dey, a motion picture art director, who introduced her to Fleming.
She won the Coty American Fashion Critics' Award in 1953 and was honored in 1970 with a retrospective exhibition at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
)
        Mrs. Maxwell became known as a designer in the 1930's when American fashion was struggling to be born and most designers toiled anonymously.
In the 60's, her star waned as fashion's attention shifted to swinging London designers like Mary Quant and Zandra Rhodes.
Ms. Leen was married for many years to Serge Balkin, a fashion photographer.

        Evelyn Tripp, a leading fashion model of the 1950's and 1960's, died on Monday in her home at Remsenburg, L.I.
Ms. Tripp was widely considered to be among the most versatile of a small group of models that exemplified the postwar American fashion industry's emphasis on glamour.
His 1958 photograph of her, blowing cigarette smoke from beneath the veil of a beaded cocktail hat, appears on the cover of "William Klein: In and Out of Fashion" (Random House, 1994).
As the designer for Lawrence of London, which she founded with her first husband, Norman Lawrence, in the 1950's, Mrs. Green helped to bring rainwear into the fashion spectrum by offering water-repellent coats that could also be worn on sunny days and as evening wraps.
" In the 1970's she developed a successful nightclub act, and she was also a fashion consultant to the J. C. Penney chain.
But Mr. Buchman said on Friday in reporting her death that Mrs. Harp once described herself as a "counterculturalist," an apt description for a woman who began her career translating the clothes of the flower children into fashion for counterculture heroines.
