
        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
She recognized that fashion was as important a cultural barometer as music or art and that it should be -- demanded to be -- covered as rigorously as a political campaign.
In an industry more accustomed to flattery and sympathetic reviews, she possessed a rare nerve, upbraiding fashion executives when she thought they were dissembling and beseeching designers to be better than they were.
''She explained to us how we really feel about fashion,'' Tom Ford, the creative director of Gucci, said yesterday from Los Angeles.
''She saw the relevance of fashion for intelligent people -- saw it in its broadest cultural context.
''
        Incensed by the fatal overdose in 1997 of Davide Sorrenti, a promising young fashion photographer, Ms. Spindler chided magazine editors for glamorizing ''heroin chic'' by depicting models in a drugged stupor.
In a front-page article in The Times, Ms. Spindler wrote: ''What Mr. Sorrenti's death has revealed is that fashion photography is indeed a mirror of the tight-knit world that produces the photographs.
''
        As a columnist and reviewer, Ms. Spindler applied her tart and witty outlook on such mid-1990's fashion trend setters as the deconstructionist Belgian designers who, after attending one of the strictest couture schools in Europe, started selling what were basically the stitched underpinnings of finished creations, and the reclamationist designers, mostly from Africa, who patched cast-off garments into novel creations.
Perhaps, she wrote, ''the financially strained fashion industry is seeking salvation from above.
In two years, she went from writing press releases for Bride's magazine to turning out highly detailed feature articles for The Daily News Record, the men's fashion journal of Fairchild Publications.
In 1993, she joined The Times as a columnist on the Tuesday fashion page, where she used her training at Fairchild to engage in scoop warfare with the former colleagues at Women's Wear Daily.
In 1994, The Times created the position of fashion critic for Ms. Spindler, making her an equal with the paper's other critics and acknowledging the weight of her view on a subject she not only knew in depth but also believed should be taken seriously.
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
After some time as an assistant editor in the 1950's, she was Footwear's fashion editor for more than 30 years, until she retired from full-time work and became fashion director at large in 1996. .
Other company members included Rudi Gernreich, who became an innovative fashion designer and a stage designer for some of Ms. Lewitzky's later productions, and Newell Reynolds, Ms. Lewitzky's husband, who later became an architect.

        Lenore Benson, a former executive director of the Fashion Group International, died on Wednesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan.
From 1984 to 1993, Ms. Benson directed the Fashion Group, a 6,000-member organization that promotes the advancement of women in the fashion industry.
From 1984 to 1993, Ms. Benson directed the Fashion Group, a 6,000-member organization that promotes the advancement of women in the fashion industry.
During that time, she inaugurated an annual Night of Stars awards dinner honoring outstanding designers, retailers and fashion icons and expanded the group's activities to include seminars and workshops.
So far, the program has cataloged more than 600,000 fashion slides dating from the 1950's to the present.
In 1955, she became merchandise and marketing director of Mademoiselle magazine, and later Harper's Bazaar and then Vogue, before accepting a position with the Fashion Group.
Lonely survivors fly about in a distracted fashion.
The 19-year-old Jeanette Morrison became a movie actress in classical old-Hollywood fashion.
''It's all about networking; that's the key,'' says Ms. Rudge, who is 57 and a former fashion model.
She was a hometown girl from Providence, R.I., who made good as a fashion model in Milan and Paris in the 1970's and early 1980's, gracing the covers of European Vogue and Cosmopolitan.
At 10, she began learning Nushu from a woman whose feet had been bound in the traditional fashion and could not find work.

        Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla.
        She was 85.
