
        Angela Taylor, a former feature writer in the Style department of The New York Times who specialized in beauty and fashion, died on Wednesday at the Riverhead Nursing Home in Riverhead, L.I.
Sometimes her style mimicked fashion illustration to comment on society's depiction of women.

        Dorothy Fosdick, the foreign policy expert who helped fashion the United Nations, the Marshall Plan and NATO in the 1940's, advised Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1952 Presidential campaign and then spent nearly three decades as Senator Henry M. Jackson's chief cold war strategist, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Washington.

        Mildred Custin, who built Bonwit Teller into a leading fashion force in the late 1960's by introducing designers such as Pierre Cardin, Andre Courreges, Emanuel Ungaro and Calvin Klein to the American public, died Thursday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 91.
She filled the store with a series of boutiques, including the famous S'fari Room for trendy fashion, and turned the 57th Street side into a men's haberdashery.
She believed that women were better than men at the fashion business.
''All women who have reached the top in fashion did it by risking their necks.
Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.
But following the balletic fashion of the time, she Russianized her surname.
In a 1967 article in The Times, while she allowed that Moody ''did not look at me'' when she retired, Jacobs summed up the moment in typically generous fashion: ''So she defaulted.

        Loretta Blum, a fashion retailer in Dallas for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at Baylor University Medical Center in Dallas.
Ms. Blum became prominent on the Dallas fashion scene with the opening of the first boutique bearing her name in 1973 in the Highland Park area.
Her clientele, Mr. Knight said, was ''the Dallas woman who had a passion for fashion, as she did.
Ms. Blum was born in Kehoka, Miss., attended Ohio State University and graduated from the Tobe-Coburn fashion school in New York City.
      
The organization's annual fund-raiser, which included a fashion show, featured several European designers who later became well known in this country, including Gianni Versace and Valentino.
She could discriminate between fashion and something with a real core.
Mrs. Moonan's designs were also frequently featured in fashion magazines.
Richard Martin, curator of the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, acquired some of these designs for the costume collection at the Fashion Institute of Technology, when he was the curator there.
