In addition to administering the Capezio shops across the country, Mrs. Sommers owned and managed the Capezio Fashion Shop in New York City from 1964 to 1975.
Ms. Satz and Mr. Gittler used the top American fashion houses to produce their copies.
Leading American fashion producers would not sell to Ohrbach's under their own names because the store was a discount house and their other retail accounts would complain.
Only Christian Dior would not let its name be used, but the fashion world soon discovered the identity behind Dior's pseudonym, Monsieur X.
        Yves Saint Laurent, Hubert de Givenchy, Chanel and Balenciaga were some of the designers whose work was shown repeatedly.
Many women, like Shirlee Fonda, the widow of Henry Fonda, told Ms. Satz that her shows were their introduction to French fashion.
Fashion Show as Event
        The presentations themselves, which Ms. Satz produced, were the precursors of the fashion show as a media event.
Fashion Show as Event
        The presentations themselves, which Ms. Satz produced, were the precursors of the fashion show as a media event.
The combination of fashionable clients, visiting Hollywood stars like Claudette Colbert and Anita Louise, and the presence of American designers drew hordes of fashion journalists and photographers.
Fighting Against Alzheimer's
        She said of her career as a Cadillac spokeswoman on television, which she amplified to include health and fashion tips, that she never studied a script in advance.
There was an avalanche of articles and television programs on her fashion choices, her hair styles, her tastes in art, music and literature, and on her travels with the President across the nation and to Europe.
Her victory entitled her to spend some time in Paris, writing about fashion for Vogue, but she was persuaded not to accept the prize.
"She can do exactly as she pleases -- visit international fashion shows and travel and go out with friends to the theater or anyplace.

        Sally Milgrim, a designer of women's apparel who with her husband, Charles, owned the Milgrim fashion store on 57th Street for many years, died on Saturday at St. Francis Barry Nursing and Rehabilitative Center in Miami.
The Milgrim shop emphasized quality dresses that were ready to wear at a time when high fashion was still a world of made-to-order styles and custom-made tailored suits.

        Frances Corey, a fashion executive whose career of six decades began before the era of the flappers and took in space-age fabrics developed for astronauts, died on Thursday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 91.
She subsequently became director of fashion and advertising for Bloomingdale's in New York.
In the 1970's and 1980's, she was associated with the Fashion Institute of Design and Merchandising in Los Angeles, lecturing and meeting weekly with students for career counseling.
Mrs. Buchwald, who was born in Warren, Pa., was also a fashion coordinator for Neiman-Marcus in Dallas, and later was a publicity director for Pierre Balmain in Paris.
As the design editor Elaine Greene wrote later in The New York Times, "when shown in the January 1967 issue of House & Garden, the house dazzled decorators the way Christian Dior's 1947 New Look did the fashion world.

        By all appearances, this was a great year for Alix Gres, the French fashion designer.
Her daughter, Anne Gres (the name is pronounced greh), provided the fashion industry newspaper with a response she said her mother had dictated on Oct. 9.
"
        So the fashion world was startled to learn yesterday that Mme.
Not Jacques Mouclier, the head of the Chambre Syndicale, the governing body of French fashion, where she held the title of honorary president for life.
For the French fashion industry, where designer names are often bought and sold without consulting the founders, it is an eerie illustration of how a design house can continue on without its progenitor.
One of the reasons for the deception may have been the resentment that Anne Gres indicated to Le Monde over the way the French fashion industry had reacted in 1987, when her mother's couture house was liquidated after rent on her atelier went unpaid for two years.
Her daughter condemned the fashion professionals yesterday in Le Monde.

        Mildred Orrick, a designer who gave women's fashion a natural, informal look for more than three decades, died on Dec. 9 at her home in Elliston, Va., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
With the emergence of American designers as a dominant influence in the 1940's, Mrs. Orrick was one of the new generation of designers who were leading fashion toward sensible clothes at a time when the market was quickly growing.
By the 1950's, her designs were a regular part of New York fashion shows.

        Rose Wells Bing, a fashion consultant who was instrumental in bringing the ideas and trends of Europe to American consumers, died on Wednesday in Beth Israel Hospital.
Known for an eye as sharp as her opinions, she was a front-row observer to the major fashion shows in Europe as well as in Manhattan, watching for trends that major retailers could adapt into affordable clothes.
Mrs. Julianelli, whose career spanned 40 years, won the Coty American Fashion Critics Award in 1950 with her husband and partner, Charles Julianelli, for artistry and craftsmanship in shoe styles.
In an article in The New York Times in 1964, Angela Taylor, a fashion writer, wrote that Mrs. Julianelli "ignored the rule that bare shoes come out only in spring and summer," designing several sandals for the fall, including "one that is virtually nothing but toe.
