She pursued her interests in fashion, theater and opera.
Ms. Cashin was one of a handful of women in the 1940's and 1950's who made an important contribution to American fashion, at a time when Parisian couturiers dominated the runways and supplied most of the original fashions for manufacturers to copy.
''Women buy Cashin clothes because they are cozy and comfortable, not because they bowl people over,'' the fashion writer Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times in 1968.
She usually returned with a different wardrobe from the one she had packed, not only because she had given away her clothing but also because she was interested in acquiring fashion ideas from other countries.
''
        Ms. Cashin enjoyed the work in Hollywood, explaining: ''I wasn't designing for fashion, but for characteristics, which is the way I like to design clothes for daily wear.
She was inducted into the Coty American Fashion Critics Hall of Fame in 1972 after receiving her second Coty Award in 1968.
'' A retrospective of her work is scheduled to open in September at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York.
In 1979, she established the Innovative Design Fund awards, a nonprofit organization based in New York that gave up to $10,000 to designers with original ideas in home furnishings, textiles and fashion so they could transform their sketches into marketable products.
Bernadine Morris summed up Ms. Cashin's fashion philosophy and appeal in a 1968 article in The Times: ''In a day when most fashions seem stamped out by cookie cutters, hers look as if they had been touched with human hands.
So she changed her last name to that of the photographer, Mahoney, even though her father continued to foot the bills for her fashion shows and beauty contests.
Born Ruth Rubin in New York, she had a successful career as a fashion stylist and as a business partner of her first husband, Samuel Kass.
For a designer who did not have a store, who often met her future clients at clubs or outside restaurants, and who, until the editor Andre Leon Talley wrote about her in Vogue last year, was almost unknown in the fashion world, Ms. Battle had a large following.
And although much of the attention at the Costume Institute's ''Rock Style'' gala at the Metropolitan Museum of Art last December was focused on fashion nabobs like Tom Ford of Gucci and Donatella Versace, it was Ms. Battle of Brooklyn who designed the wraps worn by Naomi Campbell, Iman, Lynn Whitfield and Mary J. Blige, who had on a turquoise fur chubby.
Her custom-made designs, often dyed in colors like champagne, burgundy and green, projected a high urban style -- what Mr. Talley called ''a ghetto fabulousness'' -- that not only appealed to Ms. Battle's celebrated clientele but also evoked the 1970's in fashion.

        Thea Porter, one of the earliest  among British fashion designers who rode hippie chic to high visibility, if not always to enduring commercial success, died on Monday in London.
Well before globalization became a fashion cliche, Ms. Porter was deploying the concept in her own canny rendition of it.
''
        The marriage dissolved in 1964, and Ms. Porter began a fashion career with textiles collected during her travels.
''Her real contribution was introducing ethnic clothes for that late 60's, rich hippie period,'' said the fashion designer Zandra Rhodes.
Although she was offered more than 150 parts, her last major role was that of an owner of a fashion magazine in ''Lady in the Corner,'' a 1989 television drama.

        Miki Denhof, one of the first women to be the art director of a magazine, and a noted mentor of fashion photographers, died on Wednesday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 88.
In 1945, when Ms. Denhof joined Conde Nast, its fashion and lifestyle magazines were widely influential for their use of elegant typography and conceptual photography, approaches in which she, too, excelled.
Ms. Sinclair, whom Life magazine called ''a hazel-eyed beauty,'' was born in San Diego and became a Los Angeles fashion model but forsook Hollywood for New York.
George Hurrell, a distinguished fashion photographer, called her one of the three most beautiful women he ever photographed.
He called Miss Carlson ''perhaps the best fashion model in the entire country.
In the immediate post-war years, models became the elegant emblems of a newly booming haute couture fashion business, perhaps epitomized by Christian Dior's romantic New Look of 1947.
She flipped through a directory of fashion photographers and under the B's, spotted one named Erwin Blumenfeld.
She had not started modeling until her late 20's, but she quickly became a regular in both the fashion and general press.
''
        She sometimes veered beyond fashion, once escorting a sheep around the country for a wool dealers' group.

        Emily Wilkens, an award-winning fashion designer who rejected the idea that young girls should be dressed as if they were their mothers in miniature, died in the Bronx on Saturday.
''She was the first to really recognize that this was a growth area,'' the fashion publicist Eleanor Lambert said.
''
        The fashion historian Richard Martin once wrote, ''Long before rock 'n' roll and James Dean movies, Emily Wilkens invented the American teenager, pegging her sensibility to young, playful, energetic women.
While vacationing in Hollywood in the early 1940's, Ms. Wilkens, then an illustrator, was erroneously introduced at a party as a children's fashion designer.
Born in Hartford in 1917, Ms. Wilkens studied fashion illustration at Pratt Institute.
'' She wrote four more books on beauty and grooming and served as a trustee of the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York from 1966 to 1976.

        Jane Troxell Stark, a dealer in exotic fabrics and jewelry who was a fashion editor for magazines including Glamour, died last Saturday outside Mexico City.
Mrs. Stark honed her sense of fashion in the college shop at Lord & Taylor and as a fashion photographer for the B. Altman department store in New York.
Mrs. Stark honed her sense of fashion in the college shop at Lord & Taylor and as a fashion photographer for the B. Altman department store in New York.
In the 1950's and early 1960's, she edited fashion pages at Charm, Glamour and Look magazines.
