In the mid-1980's, Ms. DeWitt left the music business and worked with Mr. Weber to cast and produce print advertising campaigns for fashion companies like Ralph Lauren, Gianni Versace and Calvin Klein.
She studied literature and art at Morgan State University in Baltimore, then moved to New York, where she worked as a fashion photographer.

        Sarah Tomerlin Lee, whose career in fashion, advertising, retailing and interior design spanned more than six decades, until her retirement three years ago, died on April 15 at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Lee, an imposing woman who was rarely seen without her pearls, came to New York in 1936 and quickly rose to prominence in the fashion world.
For about 30 years, she shuttled between the advertising world, where she worked with Helena Rubenstein, Elizabeth Arden and Leona Helmsley, and magazine editing, where she became a colleague of major fashion figures, including Diana Vreeland and Carmel Snow.
On behalf of the Fashion Institute of Technology, Mrs. Lee edited ''American Fashion: The Life and Times of Adrian, Mainbocher, McCardell, Norell, Trigère,'' a compilation of midcentury American clothing designers, published by The New York Times in 1975.
On behalf of the Fashion Institute of Technology, Mrs. Lee edited ''American Fashion: The Life and Times of Adrian, Mainbocher, McCardell, Norell, Trigère,'' a compilation of midcentury American clothing designers, published by The New York Times in 1975.
She was also president of the Fashion Group from 1960 to 1963 and was for a time president of the Decorators Club.
Joan Gelb, a striking woman known for her keen interest in fashion, quickly realized that Clairol could potentially improve the self-image of older American women.
Once an ardent partygoer and a devoted fashion buff, Mrs. Scull lived with her husband in an art-filled apartment on upper Fifth Avenue and wore creations by designers like Halston, Adolfo and Yves St. Laurent.
Gossip and art writers sought them out, and Mrs. Scull regularly made the fashion pages.

        Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman for the family said.
With her sister, Marisa, a widely known model of that era who became an actress, Ms. Perkins captured the attention of fashion editors and society columnists.

        Carrie Donovan, a fashion editor who could easily have rested on her laurels and leopard skins but came out of semiretirement to find a new and even more enthusiastic audience as ''the lady from Old Navy,'' died yesterday in Manhattan.
''She was perfectly cast for a fashion editor,'' said Karl Lagerfeld, the designer.
''
        What Ms. Donovan possessed was an eye for talent and a nose for news, a combination that, with her inevitable pearls and outsized black glasses, set her apart from her fashion sisters.
She may have been French in her leanings, sprinkling her pronouncements with French même choses, but in her translations of fashion's edicts, she was as American as Carrie.
If Ms. Donovan, the last of a trilogy of great fashion dames that included Mrs. Vreeland and Carmel Snow of Bazaar, reigned in a small world, she now had fans everywhere.
''
        As a child in Lake Placid, N.Y., where Carolyn Gertrude Amelia Donovan was born on March 22, 1928, she craved fashion, and struggled with home economics.
In 1955, recognizing her limitations as a designer, Ms. Donovan went to work as a fashion reporter for The Times, where, according to Mr. O'Brien, a former colleague, she felt outgunned by more experienced writers.
Armed with tidbits of fashion gossip and ''always fully fragranced,'' as a former protégée, Linda Wells, the editor of Allure, said, Ms. Donovan could turn a routine meeting into a performance.
Although in many ways Ms. Donovan was simple in her tastes, preferring plain food and the subway, she was also at home in the upper reaches of fashion and society, a friend to Mr. Lagerfeld as well as the philanthropist Bunny Mellon.
She and Bill Blass, a frequent escort, fell out in 1993 when Ms. Donovan excluded him from a published list of 50 people who had influenced fashion in modern times.
''She gave us fashion credibility,'' said Dennis Leggett, the creative director at Old Navy, a division of Gap.
Correction:  November 14, 2001, Wednesday  A picture credit was omitted yesterday for a portrait with the obituary of Carrie Donovan, fashion editor and later spokeswoman for the Old Navy stores.
