The loss devasted her father, a bricklayer, who deserted his five children.
The loss devasted her father, a bricklayer, who deserted his five children.
Her father died when she was 16, and her mother then managed a boardinghouse.
In 1966 she succeeded her father as president of the Campbell Farming Corporation, of Hardin, Mont., and held the post until 1982.
Her mother, Sadie, was an actress in the Yiddish theater, and her father, Isadore, a play producer.
After her family moved to her father's native town of Van Hornesville, she wrote and published her first book, ''At Midnight on the 31st of March'' (1938), in blank verse.
Her writing included a biography of her father, ''Owen D. Young and American Enterprise'' (1982), in which her husband collaborated.
Mrs. Sulzberger nurtured and bridged the generations of the family that has controlled The Times since 1896, when her father, Adolph S. Ochs, acquired it as a small and ailing property.
Mrs. Sulzberger also served the paper as a director and as a trustee for the stock left by her father.
Perhaps the first time was at the age of 13, when her father discovered that she was using her weekly allowance to buy newspapers that carried comics.
''
        Columbia University, at its 1951 commencement, gave Mrs. Sulzberger a Doctor of Laws degree, citing her as the ''distinguished daughter of a distinguished father'' and praising her civic involvement as well as her role at The Times.
Her father was then proprietor of The Chattanooga Times, a growing Tennessee newspaper.
''Unquestionably, the high point of my week was Sunday, when my father stayed home and took me to Central Park,'' Mrs. Sulzberger said of her girlhood.
When she was older, she was often a guest at luncheons her father gave for figures in business, the professions or politics.
'
        At home, Mr. Ochs was an indulgent yet perfectionist father.
Her father persuaded her to memorize a passage from Benjamin Franklin's ''Autobiography'' that described how Franklin had cultivated humility by avoiding dogmatic statements.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
At her death she was a trustee of the stock trust established by her father that exercised effective control of the enterprise.
Barbara Tuchman, in the foreword to ''Iphigene,'' notes that Mrs. Sulzberger was appointed by her father to the board of The Times when she was in her 20's and had the longest connection of anyone with the paper.
''Through her, the continuity of family control from father to husband to son-in-law to son has been maintained for over 60 years and, through her, it will be passed on to the next generation - her grandchildren,'' Mrs. Tuchman wrote.
In ''Bronx Primitive,'' she recalled vividly and unsentimentally her early years, her father, a tyrannical shoemaker, and her mother, who believed deeply in learning and in earning her own living before she married.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother,
        Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother, Billy.
Mr. Yardley, considered the father of American crytography, died in 1958.
She was the widow of Prince Mozaffar Firouz, whose grandfather, King Mozaffar ud-Din Shah of the Qajar dynasty, was overthrown by the father of the late Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi in 1925.
Her father was an unskilled laborer of peasant stock who was often out of work.
The family lived in a shabby district of Stockholm, and Greta had to leave school at the age of 13 to help care for her seriously ill father.
Her father died when she was 14 and she had to go to work, first as a latherer in a barber shop and then as a salesclerk in a department store.
From 1934 to 1973 she was a trustee of the Carnegie Corporation of New York, the grant-making foundation established by her father in 1911.
Her father was a carpenter and amateur guitarist and her mother a laundress and church vocalist.
Her grandfather and father took up the camera in turn, and as a beginner she was encouraged to start out by making her own camera.
'' In it, she discussed her father's debilitating aphasia and the drug abuse of her adopted son, Jason, who subsequently died of a lethal drug combination.
Her father was an engineer.
Her father, Waldron, was a prominent lawyer.
Five years later, after the death of her father, Mrs. Richards and her brothers and sisters went to Surrogates Court in Manhattan to challenge his last will, which disinherited five of his six children and left the vast bulk of his $350 million estate to his third wife, Barbara Piasecka Johnson of Princeton.
Her father, Stanley, had been a police officer in Manhattan.
In 1946, the father, then a clothing manufacturer, advanced money for the sons, fresh out of wartime service, to go into business for themselves.
She is survived by her father, Sam Rosenberg of Hallandale, Fla; her daughters, Ba-Nhi Mai and Kim Thuy, both of Westport, and Nguyet Baty of Berlin; a brother, Richard Balin of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
In 1932, after her father, Herbert Lincoln Clark, a stockbroker, lost a fortune in the Depression, she returned to Shipley as a teacher and later became a supervisor at the Episcopal School in Overbrook, Pa.
Her father, a railway clerk in the British colonial service in India, had little contact with her.

       Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
She died of pancreatic cancer, her father said, adding that she had been under treatment for a year at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
' ''
        ''She had always wanted to write a book,'' Mr. Burns said, adding that their father had been a storyteller and that Ms. Burns had been taking copious notes of his tales, some of which inspired ''Cold Sassy Tree.
It told of her four years in Berlin beginning in 1933 when her father, William E. Dodd, was appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt as Ambassador to Germany after Adolf Hitler's rise to power.
In 1941, after her father's death and nine months before the United States entered World War II, Mrs. Stern and her brother, William E. Dodd Jr., published the Ambassador's diaries.
She is survived by her husband, Frederick; a daughter, Nancy Bergen of Nashville; her father, Harry Spiewk of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
At an early stage of their career, Hines, Hines and Dad, the dance trio with Maurice and Gregory Hines and their father, Maurice, were featured in many of Ms.
Her father was a supervisory steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, an accomplished pianist, was her first music teacher.
'' She was the indestructible Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's King in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian-American family in early 20th-century San Francisco in ''I Remember Mama.
) Her father was a steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, a pianist, was her first music teacher.
'' She was an indomitable Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's monarch in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian immigrant family in ''I Remember Mama.
MAGNOLIA, MAMA AND MRS. ANNA
        These are among the more than 40 films made by Irene Dunne during her 22-year film career:
        Cimarron (1931)
        Ann Vickers (1933)
        Roberta (1935)
        Magnificent Obsession (1935)
        Show Boat (1936)
        Theodora Goes Wild (1936)
        The Awful Truth (1937)
        Love Affair (1939)
        My Favorite Wife (1940)
        A Guy Named Joe (1943)
        The White Cliffs of Dover (1944)
        Anna and the King of Siam (1946)
        Life With Father (1947)
        I Remember Mama (1948)
        The Mudlark (1950)
      
She was born on May 27, 1939, in New Orleans about the time that her father, Hale Boggs, was beginning his first term as a Democratic Congressman.
In 1972, the plane carrying her father, then the House majority leader, was lost over Alaska, and her mother, Corinne Lindy Claiborne Boggs, succeeded him in Congress.
Her family moved to Manhattan in 1893, when she was 2 years old, and a decade later her father acquired the fieldstone house and grounds, known as Wave Hill, overlooking the Hudson River.
She contributed money as well as her time, benefiting institutions like Smith College, from which she graduated in 1907 at the age of 19; Northwestern University Law School, from which her father, Levy Mayer, graduated, and Princeton, where she endowed scholarships in memory of her husband, Walter A. Hirsch, a lawyer, who died in 1938, and their son, Lawrence, who died in 1960.
She grew up in Clinton, Mass., where her father had a grocery store.
She grew up in Clinton, Mass., where her father had a grocery store.
Mrs. Behrman, who was known as Madame Alexander, began designing dolls for her father, a Russian emigre, during World War I, when she began making ''Red Cross Nurse'' rag dolls.
In 1922, she married Crown Prince Mohammed Hassan, whose father was deposed in 1925 by Shah Riza Pahlevi.
As one of a trio of little girls dressed as bellhops, she sang on a bandstand outside her father's courtroom.
He also became her producer and closest professional adviser and the father of their daughter, Heller Halliday.
Surviving are her father, Victor, of Manhattan; a sister, Maura, of Los Angeles and Manhattan, and a brother, Chad, of Connecticut.
      
Mary Colston Kirk, a native of Denver, was a pupil there of Paul Whiteman's father.
That year Miss Seton followed with "The Turquoise," a novel of the American Southwest in the 1890's, inspired by visits to her father's ranch in New Mexico.
Ms. Rinzler is survived by her father, Irving Eisen, of Mount Pleasant, S.C.; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Jane, both of Manhattan.
      
Three years later she graduated from Columbia University Law School and worked in her father's law firm.
Then, easily shifting images again, she was an elegant, witty and nurturing mother in two classic film comedies directed by Vincente Minnelli: "Father of the Bride" (1950) and "Father's Little Dividend" (1951), co-starring Spencer Tracy and Elizabeth Taylor.
Then, easily shifting images again, she was an elegant, witty and nurturing mother in two classic film comedies directed by Vincente Minnelli: "Father of the Bride" (1950) and "Father's Little Dividend" (1951), co-starring Spencer Tracy and Elizabeth Taylor.
That same year, her father got her the ingenue role in a Broadway melodrama, "Jarnegan," in which he starred as a lecherous, brawling movie director.
Her father, Clinton, was a stockbroker, and she grew up on the Upper West Side and in Westfield, N.J. She earned a Bachelor of Arts at Wellesley College in 1926 and studied at the American Laboratory School in New York City with Maria Ouspenskaya and Richard Boleslavsky.
Her father owned a textile and clothing factory that was taken over by the Nazis in 1938.
