Her father, Dr. John E. T. Camper, a physician in Baltimore, was a founder of the first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in that city, where she was born and reared.Regular visitors to the home included Thurgood Marshall, who was to become the first black Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and the singer Paul Robeson, who was her godfather.
Dr. Baumgartner was born in Chicago and raised in Lawrence, Kan., where her father taught zoology at the University of Kansas.
She is survived by her husband, David Kelly, chairman of the history department at D'Youville College in Buffalo; two daughters, Jennifer, of Manhattan, and Elizabeth, of Buffalo; her father, Joseph Paradise of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Judith Moskowitz of Manhattan, and a brother, Steven Paradise of Washington.
      
Her father, Louis Stockstrom, founded the American Stove Company.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her father, Edward Burton, of Manhattan; a brother, James Burton, of Manhattan, and a sister, Lorraine Burton Koiner, of the Bronx.
      
Ms. Sullivan, who lived in Gainesville, Fla., is survived by her mother, C. Burnice Sullivan of Seattle; her father, Charles E. Sullivan of San Jose, Calif.; a sister, Charla Sullivan of Seattle, and four brothers, Steven Sullivan of Canoga Park, Calif., Patrick and K. C. Sullivan, both of Seattle, and Mike Sullivan of San Jose.
      
Her father was an English engineer; her mother was half-Irish, half- Brazilian.
Her family moved around (she lived in Kentucky at one point), and when her father found work in China, she studied with George Goncharov, a Russian-born dancer who had settled in Shanghai.
She was 28 years old and lived in Hamden, Conn.
        She died of brain cancer, her father, Steven, said.
Besides her father, Ms. Wilson is survived by her mother, Doris, and two younger sisters, Toni and Kori, all of Hamden.
      
Survivors include her father, Henry Hobhouse of Somerset, England.
      
In addition to her husband, a theatrical producer and former art dealer, she is survived by her father, Dr. David Shapiro of Palm Beach, Fla. A memorial service is to be held in New York on a date to be announced.
      
She is survived by her father, Adrian C. Israel of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; two daughters, Julie Ann Pollitz and Karen Jeannette Rosen, and a son, Thomas Andrew, all of Manhattan, and a brother, Thomas C. Israel of Manhattan.
      
Her father, Gen. Miguel Primo de Rivera, was dictator of Spain from 1923 to 1930.
Mrs. Rich was born in Huntington, Mass., and grew up in Bridgewater, where her father was the editor of a weekly newspaper.
She said her family still lives in Sarasota, where her father is a school principal, and her mother is a painter.
Started Dance Training At 22, After Father Died
        In 1916, after the death of her father and after graduation from a junior college, the Cumnock School, Miss Graham enrolled in the Denishawn school in Los Angeles and then joined the Denishawn Company.
Started Dance Training At 22, After Father Died
        In 1916, after the death of her father and after graduation from a junior college, the Cumnock School, Miss Graham enrolled in the Denishawn school in Los Angeles and then joined the Denishawn Company.
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      
A year later her father, who had become a sound-effects man in the country's fledgling radio industry, got her a part in a drama on the air.
She received a 21st-birthday trip to London from her father, a restaurateur, started working in the theater and never stopped.
Her father, Siegfried, whom she adored, died in 1930, along with her grandmother Cosima, who was Franz Liszt's daughter.
She devoted much of her time to raising money for orphaned children throughout Italy and for restoring La Scala, where her father was the principal conductor for many years.
Her father was killed in World War I when she was 10 and her mother died when she was 18, leaving her elder brother, Edward, as her only close relative.
Her father was a photographer.
Her mother was a concubine and her father a small-town landowner who beat mother and daughter until they fled home.
Her father was a physician, and her mother became a successful milliner.
"
        Miss Marshall, who was part American Indian, was born on the Cherokee Strip in what was then the Oklahoma Territory and spent her early school years in Pawnee, where her father was the sheriff.
Actors who were guild regulars ranged from James O'Neill, Eugene's father, to Eva Le Gallienne, Claudette Colbert, Humphrey Bogart, Judith Anderson, Shirley Booth and Judy Holliday.
Her uncle was the legendary dancer and choreographer Vaslav Nijinsky, and her father, Alexander Kotchetovsky,was also a dancer.
Her father was Fred Dewhurst, a hockey and football player who later became sales manager of a lighting concern.
Her father was Fred Dewhurst, a hockey and football player who later became sales manager of a lighting concern.
Ms. Trueblood is survived by her father, Wilson Trueblood, and stepmother, Ruth Trueblood, of Tucson, Ariz.; a stepbrother, Walter Burr, of Burbank, Calif., and a stepsister, Joanna Greene, of Tucson.
      
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Chaplin's parents had had a bitter divorce when she was 2, and she saw her father only infrequently as she grew up.
She was raised in South Africa, where her father had inherited an ostrich farm.
Her father, the late William Marcus MacMahon, was the editor of Munsey's Magazine.
Her next job, which she held for 16 years, was as a personal secretary to Adele Rosenwald Levy, whose father was a founder of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
Her father, Joseph Richardson Dilworth, is a former chairman and chief executive officer of the Rockefeller Group in New York City.
She and Mr. Graham were first acquainted about 12 years ago, her father said, and their friendship was renewed when they worked on the plans for the public welcoming of Nelson Mandela to San Francisco last year.
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Both her parents were immigrant Jews -- her father from Lithuania, her mother from England.
Her mother was Catholic; her father, a professor of anatomy, Jewish.
In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars.
Her father, the late William Marcus MacMahon, was the editor of Munsey's Magazine.
Her fortune was based mainly on the family business started by her father, Vernon K. Krieble.
Her father, Walter R. Hart, was also a justice of the State Supreme Court and rose to become Presiding Justice of the Appellate Term, Second Department.
Her father, Walter R. Hart, was also a justice of the State Supreme Court and rose to become Presiding Justice of the Appellate Term, Second Department.
As a teen-ager, she taught typing and shorthand at her father's business school and worked for Armstrong Cork as a secretary to the advertising manager.
Ms. Savoyka, whose father was arrested and killed by Russian forces in Cracow, Poland, came to the United States in 1948, under a program for orphans, sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
