Her father was 73 at her birth.
Her father was the actor and director Robert Montgomery.
After three years of intensive training, she made her television debut in the 1950's television playhouse series "Robert Montgomery Presents," of which her father was the producer and host.
Her father, George Emery Chase, was the town barber and her mother was the former Carrie Murray.
As the eldest of six children in a family of modest means, Margaret was expected to work -- and that she did even as a schoolgirl; she was skillful enough to shave her father's customers when he was busy or away from the shop.
At a news conference at the time of the award, Mrs. Pittman observed that while she was happy with the judgment, "No amount of money can compensate me and my family for the loss of a husband and a father.
Like her brothers and sisters -- including two older full siblings, Frances and Jay, and three still older half siblings, Abe, Charles and Celia Adler, born from her father's two previous marriages and an intervening liason in Russia --  Miss Adler began her career early.
Her father, John, was a miner.
The family soon moved to San Francisco, where her parents separated and her father was mugged and murdered.
Her father, John, was a miner.
Miss Keswick's father, Sir John Keswick, was a major trader at the head of the Scottish company Jardine Matheson.
Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer.
With her aunt, Annette E. Church, she wrote a biography of her grandfather and father, "The Robert R. Churches of Memphis: A Father and Son Who Achieved in Spite of Race" (Burke's, 1974).
With her aunt, Annette E. Church, she wrote a biography of her grandfather and father, "The Robert R. Churches of Memphis: A Father and Son Who Achieved in Spite of Race" (Burke's, 1974).
Her father was an early civil rights leader; in 1916 he formed the Lincoln League to register and organize voters, and in 1917 he founded Tennessee's first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
In a career that extended from the 1930's to the 60's, Miss Griffin wrote or helped write such movies as "St. Louis Blues," "Good Morning, Miss Dove" and "Imitation of Life," but by far her most significant work was "Boys Town," the 1938 movie in which Father Flanagan, a compassionate Roman Catholic priest (Spencer Tracy) runs a school for a group of endearing juvenile delinquents led by Mickey Rooney.
She was her father's favorite; at 10 she read the Congressional Record in his office, and when he won a seat in the Texas Legislature in 1919 she went with him to Austin.
When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.
Her father was David May Sr., the founder of May Department Stores, who started his chain in Leadville, Colo. As a young woman, she hoped to study journalism at Columbia University but her father would not permit her to attend.
Her father was David May Sr., the founder of May Department Stores, who started his chain in Leadville, Colo. As a young woman, she hoped to study journalism at Columbia University but her father would not permit her to attend.
Her father, Stanley Lupino, was a noted comedian, and her mother, Connie Emerald, was an actress who was also descended from a theatrical family.
As a child, she improvised and acted scenes with her younger sister, Rita, in a small theater their father had built for them in their London garden.
"My father was dead, and I had to go to work," she said.
Day, the widow of Clarence Day, author of "Life With Father" and other books, died on Aug. 25 at her home in Manhattan.
After her husband's death in 1935, Mrs. Day acted as the technical adviser for the Broadway production of "Life With Father" in 1939 and contributed heavily to its sequel, "Life With Mother," in 1948.
Mrs. Day also served as an adviser for the 1947 film adaptation of "Life With Father.
According to her friends, Miss Chang's insights into human emotions, especially those of women in the throes of thwarted romance, were grounded in her experiences with a cruel father who abandoned her mother and her first husband, Hu Lan Cheng, a Chinese writer who collaborated with the Japanese in World War II and later betrayed Miss Chang with another woman.
Born in Australia, where her father, Randolph A. Kidder, was on assignment in the Foreign Service, Mrs. Ramsay was the great-great-granddaughter of Eben D. Jordan, founder of the Jordan Marsh department stores and The Boston Globe.
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
Her father went to work in a factory and eventually became pastor of the Mount Hermon Missionary Baptist Church.
"
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
Her father, Benjamin Dorman, a leading figure in the Democratic Party in Brooklyn, worked his way up through the court system to become chief clerk of the Surrogate's Court in Brooklyn, where Miss Dorman practiced as an estate planner and wills litigator for more than 30 years.
"My mother's interest in art developed with her marriage to my father," Mrs. Polsky said.
"My father was more passionate about art but my mother also loved museums and paintings.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Aissatou Parks of Manhattan; her mother, Elizabeth Dearing of Tuskegee, Ala.; her father, Charles, of Manhattan; two sisters, Carole, of Tuskegee, and Bianca, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Charles, of Tuskegee, and Andre, of Manhattan.
      
Her father, an alcoholic, abusive man, left the family when her mother was pregnant with their third child.
Ms. Vlachos was a legend in Greek journalism whose popularity rose in the late 1940's when she began writing a column in her father's respected daily paper, Kathimerini, in which she regularly criticized the Government.
When she returned to Greece, she went to work for her father as a bookkeeper, and became a reporter in 1935.
Her father, George, had already set a precedent for political opposition through the press -- he was jailed by a series of Greek Governments for his discourse, and refused to cooperate with Nazis when they took over one of his papers in 1941.
Miss Cole, who was born in Greenville, Ohio, was sent to Cincinnati by her father, a ballroom-dance teacher, to study dance so she could help him with his  studio.
Her dual interest in art and science was encouraged by frequent visits to the Berkshire Museum, where her father worked and which had collections devoted to both art and natural history.
Her dual interest in art and science was encouraged by frequent visits to the Berkshire Museum, where her father worked and which had collections devoted to both art and natural history.
Her father was a Government official, and her maiden name was Simone Cornu.
She also appeared in "I Love  Lucy" and other Lucille Ball series and in episodes of "Dennis the Menace," "The Father Dowling Mysteries," "Murder She Wrote" and many other television shows.
She is survived by her father, Donald H. Shaw, and stepmother, Carol Henning Shaw; her mother, Marijane Shaw, and her sisters, Victoria and Donaly, all of Manhattan.
      
Her father, Torsten, was a publisher of art books; her mother, Karen, a painter.
In addition to her daughter, whose father was Folke Rogard, she is survived by two sons, John Tabori of Washington, whose father was Henry Hasso, and Kristoffer Tabori of Los Angeles, whose father was Don Siegel, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, whose father was Folke Rogard, she is survived by two sons, John Tabori of Washington, whose father was Henry Hasso, and Kristoffer Tabori of Los Angeles, whose father was Don Siegel, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, whose father was Folke Rogard, she is survived by two sons, John Tabori of Washington, whose father was Henry Hasso, and Kristoffer Tabori of Los Angeles, whose father was Don Siegel, and four grandchildren.
      
Georgia Neese was born in Richland, a rural community of about 200 people 15 miles southeast of Topeka, where her father, Albert, had founded the Richland State Bank in 1892.
Her stage career ended when her father's health faltered and the arrival of talking pictures diminished the appeal of traveling stage troupes.
At her father's death in 1937 she became president of the bank; in 1964 she moved it to Topeka and renamed it the Capital City State Bank.
She took up the piano at an early age, and she and her brother Joseph were taught violin by their father.
Her father, Gregory Aller, who was a cellist like his father, had immigrated from Russia.
Her father, Gregory Aller, who was a cellist like his father, had immigrated from Russia.
She took her first lessons from her father, with whom she studied until the age of 7.
When she was 5, she said  in 1988, her father, who wore expensive clothes and lived in cheap apartments, took her from her mother and hid her in a series of foster homes.
"Well," she said, "it happens that I do, sir, because my father was stationed in both countries.
While  she was still in elementary school, her father, a theatrical agent, booked $1-a-night singing dates for her at nightclubs, company parties and police benefits.
Ms. LaMott, born in Midland, Mich., was a self-taught musician who began singing with her father's band in her hometown.
As a chamber music player, Mrs. Hermanns performed regularly with John Corigliano, the concertmaster of the New York Philharmonic (and the father of the composer of the same name).
In addition to her son, she is survived by her father, Albert Roker, and a granddaughter, Zoe.
      
She made her theatrical debut as a child, in a production of "A Midsummer Night's Dream" in which her father played the role of Bottom.
"
        "The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys," by Doris Kearns (Simon & Schuster, 1987), also said that Rose and Joseph Kennedy were less than ideal parents, that Mrs. Kennedy eventually became the more remote and even withdrew from her husband into the isolated comfort of her religion, because of "the complicatedly intense relationship she had experienced with her father so many years before.
After serving in the Massachusetts Legislature and the United States House of Representatives, her father became Mayor of Boston in 1906.
Her mother was a quiet woman who disliked the limelight, and Rose tasted politics early, parading through the streets with her father and attending public gatherings where the beer and the blarney flowed like the lilt of brogue.
But she chose Joseph Kennedy, a political lieutenant of her father.
But he proposed on the sidewalk outside, and Rose made it clear that she was going to marry him, with or without her father's permission.
According to Ms. Kearns's book, she was also given a lobotomy upon orders of her father.
"
        "The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys," by Doris Kearns (Simon & Schuster, 1987), also said that Rose and Joseph Kennedy were less than ideal parents, that Mrs. Kennedy eventually became the more remote and even withdrew from her husband into the isolated comfort of her religion, because of "the complicatedly intense relationship she had experienced with her father so many years before.
After serving in the Massachusetts Legislature and the United States House of Representatives, her father became Mayor of Boston in 1906.
Her mother was a quiet woman who disliked the limelight, and Rose tasted politics early, parading through the streets with her father and attending public gatherings where the beer and the blarney flowed like the lilt of brogue.
But she chose Joseph Kennedy, a political lieutenant of her father.
But he proposed on the sidewalk outside, and Rose made it clear that she was going to marry him, with or without her father's permission.
According to Ms. Kearns's book, she was also given a lobotomy upon orders of her father.
She graduated from Dorchester High School and received her diploma in 1906 from her father the Mayor, John F. Fitzgerald, who was known as Honey Fitz.

        Margaret Kahn Ryan, an heir to a New York financial fortune who carried on her father's interests in opera and art, died yesterday at her apartment in Manhattan.
Father and daughter, Mr. Kobler wrote in "Otto the Magnificent" (Scribners, 1989) "golfed together, rode together, swam together, chaffed each other, went to the opera together, and when apart, corresponded frequently.
Mrs. Ryan called her husband "Johnny" and her father declared, "It is my deliberate conviction that you are the nicest girl in this here republic.
Psychiatric patients are often reluctant to take drugs, doctors say, because it is a tacit admission that they are ill.
        Born in Berlin, Dr. Forrest received her Ph.D. in biochemistry from the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute, where she studied under her father, Carl Neuberg, the director.
After World War II she was reunited with her father and worked with him at New York University, the Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn and the New York Medical College until his death in 1956.
In one novel, "Miracle Father" (1952), a couple produced a child by artificial insemination.
It was republished in 1968 as "Test-Tube Father.
After his death in 1975, she contributed to the Mayo Clinic in honor of her father and her first and second husbands, establishing a James C. Masson Professorship in Surgery.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Sadker is survived by two daughters, Robin and Jacqueline; a brother, Dr. Murray Pollack of Potomac, Md., and her father, Louis Pollack of Boca Raton, Fla.
      
Her father was Dwight Whitney Morrow, Ambassador to Mexico from 1927 to 1930; her sister is the writer Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the wife of the aviator Charles A. Lindbergh.
Her father, Jules Mastbaum, a real estate investor who owned a chain of movie theaters, bought many Rodin sculptures in France and built a museum to house them.
She wrote several novels, including "Life Without Father," "House Happy" and "The Girl in the Turquoise Bikini.
Shortly after 9:30 P.M. a 32-year-old woman identified by the young singer's father as the former president of her fan club abruptly surrendered after keeping the police at bay for nearly 10 hours as she sat in a red pickup truck in the motel parking lot with a gun pointed at her temple.
The singer's father, Abraham Quintanilla, said Ms. Saldivar was a former head of the Selena fan club who three weeks ago was fired from her job at the family's clothing boutique here, Selena, Etc.
Born in Lake Jackson, near Houston, on April 16, 1971, Selena began singing with her father's band at age 3.
Selena's father had toured nightclubs across Texas in the 1960's with the original version of Los Dinos but did not achieve wide success until he made young Selena, with her belting vocal power, the lead singer.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985) and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985), and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell.
Mrs. Stern was born in Berlin, where her father was a prominent psychiatrist.
Miss O'Shea was born in Cardiff, Wales, where her father was a newsdealer, and began singing and dancing as a child.
As she noted in her 1991 autobiography, "No Stone Unturned," (Ballantine) she was conceived in Memphis, where her father, a traveling district manage for Dunn & Bradstreet, was working at the time.
Her father, William McMath, and her mother were divorced soon after.
A native of Utica, N.Y., where her father operated a bakery, Mrs. Ostrander, whose maiden name was Romano, received a nursing degree from the University of Buffalo and spent 10 years as a Red Cross executive before settling in Atlanta and becoming a full-time volunteer on issues involving the elderly.
