Her father, Edward C. Faircloth, was a banker and businessman.
As a young girl, she had not been close to her father, but as he grew older and wealthier, he frequently took her on trips and cruises with him.
Her father was Canadian and her mother was American.
In 1942 she married a musician, Lyn Davies, against her father's wishes.
Talk often revolved around corruption cases that her father, John Kirkland Clark, investigated as a lawyer in the Manhattan district attorney's office.
Her father suggested speaking to his secretary, who just happened to be Mayor La Guardia's sister.
She had never been in the South and was warned by her father about the segregation she would face.
Her father, Pierre Douet, was a wealthy shipbuilder.
His father, Vincent, was a prominent leader of the Socialist Party.
She was born into a well-to-do family in Reykjavik, where her father was a prominent surgeon.
Her father, George Kangas, was in the grocery business, and her mother, Janice, tested recipes at home for a local flour mill.
Her father, a Pennsylvania Railroad mechanic, remained in Chicago, visiting his wife and daughter regularly until his death in 1967.
So she changed her last name to that of the photographer, Mahoney, even though her father continued to foot the bills for her fashion shows and beauty contests.
Her father took her to Hollywood one summer in the late 1920's.
Her father, Sam, gained some fame as a boxer and then became a customs inspector.
Her father developed Parkinson's disease, which steadily incapacitated him until he had to be hospitalized;  her mother worked as a sewing machine operator and was active in the Socialist Party.
Writing in The New York Times, Charles Poore described the work as ''ruthlessly sentimental'' and ''a cheerful mixture of 'Goodbye Mr. Chips' and 'Mary Poppins,' with touches of the rigorous way to salvation from 'Life With Father.
Frances MacRae Gray was born in Raleigh, N.C., where her father was editor of The Raleigh Times.
Her father, a Prussian baron named Walram-Voystingus Albert Alexander Von Schoeler, did not approve.
''Almost from the start, my parents -- especially my father -- launched the process of figuring out how to do something right and then writing it down.
Her mother, Margaret Sallee Barnes, was active in community and civil rights groups, and her father, James D. Barnes, worked as a chef.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
After the war, she found her father in New York, where he had traveled just before the war broke out in September 1939.
) Her father was a Fifth Avenue merchant tailor who soon moved the family to Larchmont in Westchester County.
He was not a very good provider, and when his father's fortune was lost, forcing the family members to sell their house, it was Polly Cartland who led them into a home far less commodious than the one they had lost.
Her father, Edmund Valpy Knox, was the editor of Punch.
She later wrote a biography of her father and his brothers, ''The Knox Brothers,'' published in 1977.
''I had lost a father, but all of a sudden I had older brothers.
Her father was cabinet maker; her mother was a dressmaker.
In 1901, her father, John Stephen Dooley, helped the new Red Sox team get a home at the Huntington Avenue Grounds.
According to her family, the father attended every season opener from 1894 until 1970, when he died at 97.
She left the country in 1966, returning only once in the next 24 years -- for a month in 1968, to be at her father's deathbed -- but continued to write about South Africa through the late 1990's.
Growing up in Brooklyn and then Westchester County, Alice Lord was encouraged by her father to pursue physical fitness.
In 1928, her father, Saturnino Goncalves, was a founder of the Mangueira Samba School and Recreational Society, together with Jose Gomes da Costa, also known as Ze Espinguela, a master of organization who arranged the first competitions among Rio's samba schools.
Her father was born in Spain, became a cigar-maker, then immigrated to Tampa.
Her father was a distinguished economist.
Ms. Werner was also running other agents, including a Royal Air Force officer, a specialist in submarine radar and even her brother and father.
Ms. Battle began making furs about 10 years ago, though in a sense, she started as a child when she and her sister would take skins given to them by their father, an avid hunter, and turn them into blankets and doll clothes.
Born Dorothea Schlesinger in Munich in 1902, she studied piano and was tutored by her father, a lawyer, author and violinist who had married the daughter of a wealthy banker.
Her father was a schoolteacher and a mail carrier.
Frieda's father, a railroad worker, had moved the family to Kentucky and then Ohio, and she had taken a job at a department store in the town of Portsmouth.
' '' Frieda's mother took her back to the recruiting station and told the Navy man that she could not sign up without her father's permission.
But the next day, her father said, ''Let her go,'' and off she went.
Her father was the cinematographer Charles Rosher Sr. She appeared in the Pickford films ''Daddy Long Legs'' (1919) and ''Pollyanna'' (1920).
She spent the last few years archiving the photo albums and diaries of her father, Bernhard Bardach, a doctor in the Austro-Hungarian Army during World War I.
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
The daughter of a West Texas cattleman, she was reared on her father's tales of frontier life on the Great Plains.
They also provided funds for a performing arts center, Aaron Davis Hall, named after Mr. Davis's father.
Born in Moscow, Ms. Riabouchinska was put under house arrest early in the Russian Revolution along with her father, who was a banker for the czar, and her mother and three siblings.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her children, Adam, 12, and Eliza, 10; her father, Zeno W. Wicks of Louisville, Ky.; three brothers, Zeno Wicks of Brookings, S.D., David Wicks of Louisville and Douglas Wicks of Pittsburgh; and two sisters, Kayo Wicks of Louisville and Robin Wicks of Mogadore, Ohio.
      
Her father was E. H. Shepard, the illustrator of ''Winnie-the-Pooh'' and ''The Wind in the Willows.
In 1937 she married E. V. Knox, a friend and colleague of her father's, and outside publishing was known as Mary Knox.
Her father was the 10th Duke of Marlborough.
A life of privilege was replaced by one of poverty as the family endured the first years of Soviet rule, then fled, first to Estonia, where her father died, then Berlin, then Paris.
The father, mother and daughter have led Sri Lanka for 21 of the 52 years since it gained its independence from the British.
In a recent interview, Anura, the Bandaranaike's youngest child and only son, said their father had been the affectionate, demonstrative parent while their mother was aloof.
Her father soon left for New York, where he set up a shop on Ludlow Street in the Lower East Side; Biala, her mother and her older brother Jacob, who would become the Abstract Expressionist painter Jack Tworkov, followed in 1913.
Born in Prague into a Jewish banking family, Ms. Bullaty received her first camera at 14, a consolation gift from her father for having to abandon school and normal teenage activities as their world darkened with the approach of war.
Her mother, Gertrude, had been a member of Denishawn, the influential modern dance troupe.Her father, Joseph, was an electrician at MGM.
She was born in Akron, Ohio, where her Austrian-born father ran a plumbing business.

        Rosalind Baker Wilson, an editor and writer who published a memoir of her father, Edmund Wilson, one of America's foremost men of letters, died on Oct. 30 in Syracuse.
Ms. Wilson was the author of ''Near the Magician: A Memoir of My Father, Edmund Wilson'' (Weidenfeld, 1990).
She spent the summer after graduation working as a script girl for de Mille's father, William, at Laske Studios before heading to Wellesley College.
Ms. Sterne's father, a violinist, deserted the family when she was 14.
''
        Emily Marie Bertelsen was born on Dec. 11, 1919, in Marysvale, Utah, a small farming community where her father was a mechanic.
''
        Christabel Jane Drewry was born on April 11, 1913, in Eastleigh, England; her father worked at the town carriage works.
Her father was a Pullman porter and later owned a taxi business.
''
        Her father was a Lutheran minister who frequently conducted services in Swedish.
Her father was Gaudencio Lamarque, a Uruguayan descendant of French immigrants and a militant anarchist.
Philip November, a lawyer who now does the organization's legal work, as his father also did, said some who attend Ms. Kauffman's memorial service on Monday at 6 p.m. at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan ''are going to be astonished Pat was blind.
