Her father worked in a factory that made burlap bags, and her mother was a seamstress and domestic worker.
Dame Miriam's father was the banker Nathaniel Charles Rothschild, who found more than 500 new species of fleas.
Her world darkened when she was 15 and her father committed suicide.
Her father worked in a factory that made burlap bags, and her mother was a seamstress and domestic worker.
Joanne Grant Rabinowitz, whose father was white and mother biracial, was born in Utica, N.Y., on March 30, 1930.
Her father died when she was 2.
The sea was in her blood: her grandfather was a captain, an uncle was a lighthouse keeper and her father was on the crew of the lifesaving station at nearby Quoddy Head.
She was born on Dec. 23, 1942, in Milledgeville, Ga., where her father, Culver Kidd, owned a drug store.
Ms. Fleming's father was the distinguished Southern novelist Berry Fleming, who died in 1989 at 90.
Through her father, a writer and a publicist for avant-garde artists there, she met many members of the Weimar intelligentsia.
Her father was a dermatologist.
Her parents separated soon after she was born, and her father, an insurance salesman, farmed her out to various relatives in New York and New Jersey.
That led to summer stock work, an understudy role on Broadway in ''Our Town'' and, in 1939, the part of Mary in ''Life With Father,'' based on the memoirs of Clarence Day.
Her father and mother were devout secular humanists, and at 19, Anna rebelled by converting to Roman Catholicism.She entered a convent as a postulant, but back problems forced her to leave the order, with its requirement of physical labor.
She was born in Berlin on Aug. 14, 1916, to a German father and a mother, Paula Pfingsthorn, who was half-American.
Her father, Joseph Eugene Corrigan, was a judge.
She grew up in Manchester, N.H., where her father, Herbert, was superintendent of schools, and graduated from Skidmore College in 1930.
Charlotte Kempner was born in Manhattan on Dec. 8, 1931; her father, S. Marshall Kempner, was a prominent investment banker.
In 1947, at 24, she became Georgia's first lady for 67 days after Mr. Talmadge briefly succeeded his father, Gov.
Herman Talmadge was later officially appointed to fill out his father's term through 1948, when he won a special election; he went on to win a full four-year term as governor in 1950.
Her father, Michael, was a patternmaker, and her mother, Mildred, a telephone operator.
In 1995, she published a memoir, ''Happy Days: My Mother, My Father, My Sister and Me'' (Doubleday), an account of her privileged but loveless childhood.
Her father, Milton Ager, was a successful Tin Pan Alley composer whose tunes included ''Ain't She Sweet'' and ''Happy Days Are Here Again,'' which became a Democratic Party anthem.
Her father was a scientist at Charles University in Prague, where she would earn a master's degree in biology and chemistry in 1964.
Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.
Her father made a fortune in the chewing gum industry.
Her father was Norman Bel Geddes, the architect and stage designer.
Ms. Rossner's vivid imagination is suggested by the circumstances of the young analysand: Dawn Henley was raised by a lesbian aunt and her lover after Dawn's mother killed herself and her homosexual father drowned in a boating accident.
Her father was a textile merchant and her mother a schoolteacher who nurtured her daughter's early interest in writing.
She had a tough childhood -- her family was invariably short of money, and her father was an alcoholic.
Her father worked as a chef for various Yale University student organizations, including Skull and Bones.
Her father was a civil engineer in charge of worker safety at coal mines.
The family moved wherever her father's job took them, settling in St. Louis when she was a teenager.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
At her birth, one of her father's male friends presented him with a beautiful brass bowl.
''I asked my father what was going on, and he said it was a young girl whose feet are bound,'' Ms. Yard told The Post in 1987.
''
        The Yards lived in China until Ms. Yard was about 13, when her father angered church superiors by proposing that their missions in China be turned over to the Chinese.
''
        Mrs. Groszmann's husband and Lore's father was Ignatz, the chief accountant of a Vienna bank, who was fired after Hitler took over Austria.
In later years, when Lore thought of boarding the train, she had ''no clear recollection'' of her father's being there.
''
        On the instructions her father gave her before leaving, Lore wrote the Jewish refugee committee asking it to get her parents out of Austria, as well as her grandparents, aunt and twin cousins.
For a time, her father was interned on the Isle of Man as a German-speaking alien.
As a child, she was placed in an orphanage by her father after her mother and sisters died in an epidemic during World War I.
In 1994, Father Prokes was removed as the community's spiritual adviser.
'' One of her first jobs was at The Philadelphia Inquirer, part of her father's publishing empire.
Because her father refused to accept pay for his pastor posts, Mrs. Tucker's mother became an entrepreneur to feed the family.
Her father was a civil engineer; according to an article in The New York World-Telegram in 1934, it was her mother who steered her daughter, at first reluctant, onto the stage.
Dorothy's father died when she was 14, and she left high school to support her mother and younger brother by sketching clothes for a coat and suit manufacturer.
Her father, George, was a bishop of the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church.
Her father was a butcher and not involved in politics.
She grew up in Greenwich, Conn., and in Hong Kong, where her father was an executive with the Exxon Chemical Company.
In a favorite story, she talked about how she wore pants to ride horses, unheard of in her time, and about how her father permitted her to drive the family car.
