Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman is a memorial established by Mrs. Martin and her husband, Clarence D. (Dan) Martin Jr., in honor of his father, Clarence Martin, who was Governor of Washington from 1933 to 1941.
When she was 19, she moved with her family to New York City, where her father was an engineer engaged in import-export trade.
''
        She was born in New York and reared in Paris, where her father was a correspondent for The Associated Press.
Miss Cahill is survived by her father, who was Governor from 1970 to 1974, and mother, Elizabeth, of Haddonfield; two brothers, John and William T. Jr., both of Collingswood; and five sisters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary Cahill of Washington, Regina Keeley of Potomac, Md., Eileen Campbell of Merchantville and Teresa Cahill of Boston.
      
Born in London the daughter of a Viennese father and a French mother, Miss Handl took up acting when she was 36 and over the years appeared in stage plays, films and television comedies as well as becoming an accomplished writer.
The philanthropy, established by her father after World War I, specialized in aiding education.
''
        Born in Brussels of a French father and Belgian mother, Miss Yourcenar grew up in France and traveled widely.
Her mother died when Marguerite was less than a month old, and she was educated, largely by tutors, under the direction of her father.
''I grew up in awe of Alfred and Margaret,'' said Anne d'Harnoncourt, the director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, whose father, Rene d'Harnoncourt, was director of the Museum of Modern Art from 1949 to 1968.
Her father, Virgilio Scolari, was an Italian antiques dealer.
Mrs. Manley was born Edna Swithenbank, in Hampshire, England, of a Jamaican mother and a British father.
Mrs. Manley is survived by two sons: Michael, leader of the party his father founded and Jamaica's Prime Minister from 1972 to 1980, and Douglas, a social scientist who served in his brother's Cabinet.
      
The books and films offered amusing accounts about the father's attempts to use modern management techniques on the 12 children.
Born in New York City, and named after the heroine of ''A Doll's House,'' Miss Kaye was exposed at an early age to Stanislavskian acting by her father, Gregory Koreff, a former actor with the Moscow Art Theater.
She was elected to the House in 1974, following her father, Axel Olson, to the Legislature.
Her mother and father, and her five sisters and two brothers have been singing for many years as the Simpson Family Singers.
One of her frequent co-stars was Sir Alec Guinness, with whom she made ''Kind Hearts and Coronets,'' ''The Man in the White Suit'' and ''The Detective,'' a movie based on G. K. Chesterton's Father Brown books.
Her father, William Green, served as a United States Representative, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and, later, as a Federal judge.
; her father, Kenneth Burke, the poet and critic, of Andover, N.J.; two sisters, Elspeth Hart, of Brooklyn, and France Burke, of Manhattan; two brothers, Michael Burke of Manhattan, and Anthony Burke of Victoria, British Columbia, and six grandchildren.
      
Her father was a surgeon who later took the family to Columbus, and her mother was a diplomat who had been the first woman to be a field officer in the Foreign Service, holding posts with American legations in Switzerland, Panama and Haiti.
Born in Warsaw
        She was born in Warsaw, where she studied art until the age of 19, when her father died.
Her father, Eduardo Cansino, was a Spanish-born dancer and her mother, the former Volga Haworth, had been a Ziegfeld Follies showgirl.
Then she joined her father's act and performed in clubs in Tijuana and Agua Caliente, Mexico, where, when she was 16 years old, she was spotted by a Fox Film Company producer, who signed her to a contract.
''
        Hermione Ferdinanda Gingold was born in London to an English mother and an Austrian father.
Her father, Pietro Gigliotti, was a violinist with the Cairo Opera.
      
Ms. Auerbach is survived by her father, Percy, now living in Florida, and by two sisters, Ronnie and Lynn, of the New York area.
''
        Miss Caspary, the youngest of three children, was born and raised in Chicago, where her father was a buyer in a department store.
Her father, Peter W. Mould, a pilot in the Royal Air Force, was killed in World War II.
She studied labor relations in Geneva for a year, then decided to become a lawyer on the advice of her father.
) Her mother was the former Eleanora de Kielczeska, from a family of impoverished nobility; her father was Jerzy Mathias-Chalupec, a Slovak immigrant.
Her father was arrested by Czarist troops in 1905 for revolutionary activity in what was then Russian Poland.
Her family moved to Brooklyn when she was 7 years old, and her mother and father opened the Mason Dining Room at the corner of Fulton Street and Albany Avenue.
After her father died, her mother operated the 12-table restaurant by herself.
She inherited the Windmill Theater from her father when he died in 1960.
Mr. Ryan's father, Alfred, died of cancer two years ago.
      
She was also a member of the women's committee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, of which her father was a founder.
Miss Lonergan, whose grandfather, father and brother also were actors, made her stage debut at the age of 6, in ''Mother Lode,'' starring Melvyn Douglas.
She was also a member of the women's committee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, of which her father was a founder.
She said that ''from 1920 to 1930, I gave my father $461,000'' while she kept only $24,000.
Miss Remsen's father, Dr. Charles Remsen, founded the town near Speonk in Suffolk County in the 1890's, when he decided to build a red brick Presbyterian church to commemorate a young son who had died.
Miss Remsen's father, Dr. Charles Remsen, founded the town near Speonk in Suffolk County in the 1890's, when he decided to build a red brick Presbyterian church to commemorate a young son who had died.
After returning to New York, she worked with her father, Gino Baranzelli, on designs for the exterior of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel.
Her father, Bohumir Kryl, a bank president, art collector, composer and bandmaster, so wanted his daughters, Marie and Josephine, to become musicians that, in 1921, he promised them each $100,000 if they would not marry before reaching age 30.
She spent the first 10 years of her life in Tientsin, China, where her father, Sheridan Pitt Read, was the American consul general.
