Her father remarried, and she said the harsh discipline of her stepmother impelled her to run away when she was in the ninth grade.
Her father was a textile manufacturer, her mother an amateur dancer.
Here her father had been a sixth-generation farmer, and here she had worked to grow beets and potatoes until she was 23.
Her father, like many immigrants in the early 20th century, came to the United States in steerage.
When her father went to Sing Sing for arson (he was exonerated later), 9-year-old Shirley retreated into a fantasy world that, Ms. Winters wrote, ''has been a powerful tool in my acting'' but ''used to play hell with my real life.
Her father, John Cooper, a ventriloquist, and mother, the former Julia St. Bernard, told her stories about the oppression of blacks.
Andrea Brett Morrison, known as Andy, was born in London on May 30, 1945, the daughter of an American mother, Doris, and a Scottish father, Hyam, who ran a women's clothing business.
She grew up in a two-room house that her father had built on land that had been owned by the family for three generations.
She stunned Dr. King's father, who presided over the wedding, by demanding that the promise to obey her husband be removed from the wedding vows.
In 1960, the family moved back to Atlanta, where Dr. King shared the pulpit of the historic Ebenezer Baptist Church with his father.
She never knew her father; her mother, an esteemed rural midwife, sometimes took in local prostitutes as boarders to make ends meet.
''He was the John Adams of his country; its founding father with Kwame Nkrumah.
On her father's side she could trace her lineage back to William the Conqueror.
She was reared at a rambling country house, Goodfellows, and spent much of World War II in Moscow, where her father served as ambassador.
''When my father died 15 years ago, people asked her, 'When are you going home?
Her mother and father were separated, and after her father died, when she was 10, she lived with her mother in Italy.
Her mother and father were separated, and after her father died, when she was 10, she lived with her mother in Italy.
Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store.
Her father, Harry, was an immigrant from Russia who parlayed a street-corner collar-button business into a prosperous downtown jewelry store.
) Her father, a shoeshine man, died when she was very young, and her mother reared her alone.
Her girlhood was rootless: her father was a probation officer, and the family moved wherever his job took him.
In addition to her son and her father, Ms. Reeve is survived by her sisters, Deborah Morosini and Adrienne Morosini Heilman, and two stepchildren, Matthew and Alexandra.
The Russian revolution was raging and her father was shot by a Bolshevik firing squad.
Lois Maureen Stapleton was born on June 21, 1925, in Troy, N.Y. She remembered her father, John, as ''a prodigious drinker'' who had endless battles with her mother, Irene, until they separated when Maureen was a child.
Her father was a feed salesman, and Anne grew up in Anniston, Ala., where his job took the family.
Her father died when she was an adolescent, and afterward the family moved to New York.
According to the local-history Web site www.istrianet.org, she was born Alida Maria Laura von Altenburger, baroness of Marckenstein and Freuenberg, on May 3, 1921; her father was an Austrian journalist.
Her father was a physician and her mother a schoolteacher.
Her father, Charles Hobbs, was later elected Kansas insurance commissioner, and her mother, Emma Swisher, taught piano.
Her father was descended from early New York settlers; her mother, from colonizers of Martha's Vineyard and Newport, R.I. One of her grandfathers became a parks commissioner in New York; another held a patent on the term ''tomatoketchup.
Spark, who considered herself only half-Jewish, maintained that though her father was Jewish, her mother was not.
At 22, she began attending local African National Congress conferences with her father.
During World War I, her family moved to the capital, Vilnius, where her father, Leib Kadison, became a founder and the director of the Vilna Troupe.
Ruth Slotkin was born in the Bronx on Oct. 19, 1922; her father was a milkman who later opened a delicatessen.
Her father, Albert Millard Dunham, was a descendant of slaves from Madagascar and West Africa.
Her father then married Annette Poindexter, a schoolteacher from Iowa, and moved his family to predominantly white Joliet, Ill., where he ran a dry-cleaning business.
Her father, a lawyer, was obese, her mother slender.
Her father was a noted journalist and founder of Il Convegno, a magazine, bookstore, theater and intellectual salon of the 1920's, which attracted international intellectuals and theater personalities, including James Joyce, Thomas Mann and Luigi Pirandello.
With the success of Kartell, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri and her husband helped fuel the explosion of Italian modern design in the 60's, 70's and 80's, much as her father had galvanized the cultural scene in his day.
Growing up, she did not have a dollhouse, but the girl next door did -- a magnificent one that her father, a soldier in World War I, had brought back from Germany.
Her father sold textiles and her mother was a homemaker.
She said it was no surprise that she became active in labor and politics because her father, a carpenter, was a union man and Socialist émigré from Belarus while an older sister was once arrested in a suffragists' protest in front of the White House.
Her taskmaster father was single-minded in his desire to develop her musical gifts, arranging first for her to study the piano and then the violin, she said in the New Yorker profile.
Normally Mrs. Truscott would watch her mother play, but if her father was pouring some drinks, she would bid and play his hand.
Ms. Darden, who was 18 when she met Ms. Church at a benefit show organized by her father for the N.A.A.C.P.
Her father died when she was 4, and her mother raised the family.
Her father died when she was young, and she was reared mostly by her mother.
Her alcoholic father skipped out when she was 6 months old.
Friedrich Schwarzkopf, her father, a classics schoolmaster, was an easygoing intellectual.
Her father, John Yarde-Buller, the third Baron Churston, was a military officer who served in the Boer War.
Her father, William Edgar Tharp, was a soil surveyor for the United States Department of Agriculture, and the Tharps moved wherever his work took him.
The cause was cancer, said her father, Donald Kaul of Bethesda, Md.
She is survived by her father; her brother, Lukas Weber of Portland, Me.
Her mother was a designer of clothing and typefaces, and her father was an industrial chemist with a keen interest in Goethe's theory of color.
Her father, André, was an aviator and airplane mechanic.
In 1920 Ms. Ruellan's father was killed in an airfield accident, and she began selling her work to support herself and her mother, Lucette.
Her father, Donald Crawford Stone, was an educator and federal planner in the Roosevelt and Truman administrations.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
'' Among her subjects were Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of the Iranian revolution; Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader; Golda Meir, the Israeli prime minister; Indira Gandhi, the longstanding Indian prime minister; Nguyen Van Thieu, the South Vietnamese president during the war years; and Henry Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon's secretary of state.
''
        Born June 29, 1929, in Florence, she was made a lookout for the Italian Resistance at the age of 10 by her antifascist father, Edoardo, a cabinet maker.
Poised as a princess, athletic and lithe, Mrs. Lawford is widely remembered as the Roman Catholic schoolgirl who dismayed her domineering father, Joseph P. Kennedy, the former Ambassador to Britain, by marrying Mr. Lawford, a debonair British actor.
Mrs. Boegner's mother died in 1957, and her father died in 1958.
Athletic, lithe and as poised as a princess, Mrs. Lawford is widely remembered as the Roman Catholic schoolgirl who dismayed her domineering father, Joseph P. Kennedy, the former ambassador to Britain, by marrying Mr. Lawford, a debonair British actor.
In the 1930's, while her father was ambassador to Britain, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart at Roehampton, a boarding school for girls on the outskirts of London.
''
        But Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher Lawford, wrote in his best-selling memoir, ''Symptoms of Withdrawal,'' published last year, that his mother had been resentful of her father for ''not being allowed fully to live up to her potential.
And my father dealt with horses and cows, so I knew about leather.
Karyn, a baby at the time of her father's death, said her mother told her she never met a man as good as the one she lost.
Her father, a general in the French colonial army, retired to Aix-en-Provence, in the south of France, in the late 1930's.
The advice of her mentor, a French colonel who had been a friend of her father's, was to ''join the Red Cross or something,'' not the underground.
At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
Her father, who was working as a director at the Manhattan Opera House, died suddenly in 1924.
Her father, George Holmes, worked in public relations; her mother, Emma Auer Holmes, was a voice coach.
Her father, Herman Berg, owned a grain company and played golf at Interlachen Country Club in suburban Edina.
The family moved to Brooklyn when she was a baby and, after her father died when she was an adolescent, their existence was threadbare.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the Democratic convention in 1988, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
Michelle Dorothy Kaplan was born on Dec. 28, 1939, in Winnipeg, Manitoba, where her father was a clothing manufacturer.
For three generations every male on her father's side served in the British Army.
Her father, Prince Boris Galitzine, was an official of the imperial guard, and her mother was Princess Nina Lazareff.
Her father was an investment banker, her mother a writer for Commonweal and other publications.
In 1977 she returned to the role, this time as a grandmother, in two made-for-television movies, ''The Father Knows Best Reunion'' and ''Father Knows Best: Home for Christmas.
Her father was a bond trader ruined by the Depression, and college was not an option.
Her father was Harold Adamson, a lyricist who helped write songs for movies like ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes'' and ''An Affair to Remember.
Her father was a government minister and a diplomat; her mother was an educator.
She made her debut when she was 4, and her father, the choir director at the local Emmanuel African Methodist Episcopal Church, lifted her onto the church piano.
Her father, Leo, was a lawyer, her mother, Rebecca, a teacher.
She spent summers in North Carolina with her father, who had been paralyzed in an automobile accident.
Her father was a country doctor, and she often accompanied him on rounds.
Given their father's penchant for order, ''nothing was considered more of a sin in our house than wasted time and motions,'' the authors wrote.
''
        Ellen Jane Willis was born in Manhattan on Dec. 14, 1941; her father was a lieutenant in the New York Police Department.
In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration.
Her father, Kunio Kishida, was an important prewar playwright who helped develop modern Japanese theater.
Her father was an oil wildcatter who moved from town to town searching for a gusher that he never hit.
Her father died when she was very young, and she spent much of her childhood in an orphanage.
In 1922, they moved to Los Angeles, where her father was a banker.
Her parents, Lucian and Gertrud, divorced when she was 2, and her father brought her up with the help of two teachers, both women, in their 40s.
A graphic designer and typographer, her father was known for designing the font Bernhard, which is still in use.
Ms. Bernhard followed her father to New York in 1927 after she completed two years at the Academy of Fine Arts in Berlin.
