In addition to her husband, Mrs. Rose is survived by her father, Nathan Kupin of Great Neck, L.I.
)
        Miss Maynor was born in Norfolk, Va., and as a child she sang in the choir of her father's church.

        Anna Mikhailovna Larina, the widow of Nikolai I. Bukharin, a father of the Bolshevik Revolution who was executed under Stalin, and herself a survivor of the Soviet gulag, died of lung cancer here on Saturday, her daughter, Nadezhda Fadeyeva, said.
She had known Bukharin, who was 25 years older than she and a friend of her father's, all her  life.
He only learned who his father  was in 1956, when he was allowed to visit his mother in exile.
She was born in 1922 in China, where her father, Francis James Meadows Cotter, was an Episcopal minister.
Miss Douglas first burst into the news as a teen-ager when her father, Lewis W. Douglas, was appointed Ambassador to the Court of St. James in 1947.
Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona.
Maria Lucila Beltran was born in the northwestern Mexican state of Sinaloa, where her father, Pedro Beltran, was a mine manager.
She was only a child when her father died, and her first memories were of economic hardship, above all after her mother invested the family's savings in a disastrous rice-farming venture.
"
        When her father died, Miss Pearl settled in Centerville to take care of her ailing mother.
"
        When her father died, Miss Pearl settled in Centerville to take care of her ailing mother.
When she was 9, her father, a crane operator named Cassius Fiste, died of a heart attack at 42.
Growing up in a grand home in County Wexford, where her Protestant English father was a noted fox hunter and her Irish mother was a lapsed poet and Italian literary scholar who wrote occasional reviews, was not entirely pleasant for Mrs. Kean.
Her father was a sugar planter, and Miss Travers recalled growing up near  the Great Barrier Reef in a tropical world of sugar cane, shells and mangoes.
Miss Travers's Irish father and her mother, an Australian of Scottish and Irish  descent, infused the household with the mystery and melancholy of the literary traditions of the British Isles.
A formative event in Miss Travers's childhood was the death of her father when she was 7.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
Her father, George Garson, a businessman, died soon after, and she and her mother, Nina, moved to London.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
Her father was Arthur Lehman of the investment banking family.
She was named Elizabeth Pintye (pronounced PEN-tya), and because her dour father beat his children frequently, Elizabeth grew up being shuttled between foster homes and her parents' home, being deprived of food, being beaten again,  sometimes running away, knowing bleak Christmases and using alcohol and marijuana.
"
        Besides her brother, of Toronto, she is survived by her father, Jules Gross,  and another brother, Adam, both of whom also live in Toronto.
      
Her father, Dr. Eliot  R. Clark, was later a professor of anatomy at the University of Pennsylvania.
Her father was a political reporter for The Chicago  Tribune.
She had suffered kidney  failure five years ago and had been on dialysis, said Gerald Nicosia, her father's biographer.
Ms. Kerouac, who had met her father only twice -- when she was 9 and when she was 15 -- had fought in recent years to gain control of his archives.
Ms. Kerouac had also tried to have her father's remains moved from Lowell, Mass., where he was born and reared, to Nashua, N.H., where the Kerouacs have a  family plot.
The author denied being her father until she was 9, when he took a blood test and then acknowledged her as his daughter.
      
Her father, Arnold Louis van Ameringen, who was born in Holland, founded the International Flavors  and Fragrances Company.
Her father was master of the local Myopia Hunt, and she was fox hunting long before she saw Virginia.
Her father, Charles Ayer, was a member of the family that settled Ayer, Mass., and made a considerable fortune dealing in woolens and patent medicines,  including the 19th-century tonic rage, sarsaparilla.
Because she eloped, she was cut out of her father's will.
Her father died before the war, and she lost her mother, a sister, a brother  and two nephews in the Holocaust.
They then  moved to San Francisco, where her father worked as a stockbroker.
Her father was a mill owner and was also in the movie business.
They then  moved to San Francisco, where her father was a stockbroker.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her father and stepmother.
      
After working as an editor at The Southern Pharmaceutical Journal, in Dallas, a trade magazine published by her father, she moved in 1937 to New York City.
She was sent to Roedean, a fashionable girls' boarding school, but was forced to leave at age 14 when her father went bankrupt and fled to the United States.
Returning to London and enlisting the help of her father's draftsman, Mrs. Pearsall founded the Geographer's A-Z Map Company and went to work.
Her father, Frederick C. Miller, who had been captain of Notre Dame's 1928 football team, was the company chairman.
Too young to obtain a teacher's license, she joined her father and uncle on a long trip to Germany, where she had an experience that would change her life.
Indeed, after her father was transferred to Baltimore in 1915, she began haunting Pimlico, becoming such a familiar and cherished figure that by the time of the 1920 Preakness she watched Man 'o War win from the owner's box.
Born Martha Rollins in Brooklyn, where her father had a shop called the Star that specialized in hand-tailored clothes and riding clothes, she asked to help in the business one day when she was 8.
Her father got a crate, placed it behind the counter and she stood there after school, selling lace blouses.
Her father, a stone mason, taught her how to fly-fish on the shores of the River Tweed by day, and how to tie flies at the kitchen table by night.
When her father died, she moved to New York with her mother and found work as a model for the Powers agency while still a teen-ager, changing her last name from LaCock to Marshall.
Juliet Prowse, whose father was a British manager for Westinghouse who died when she was 3, was born in Bombay, India, and grew up in South Africa, where she emerged as such a skilled dancer that at 14 she was the ''baby ballerina'' star of the Festival Ballet in Johannesburg.
Juliet Prowse, whose father was a British manager for Westinghouse who died when she was 3, was born in Bombay, India, and grew up in South Africa, where she emerged as such a skilled dancer that at 14 she was the ''baby ballerina'' star of the Festival Ballet in Johannesburg.
Her father was a waiter.
Her mother, who soon divorced her father, worked as a waitress.
Her father was a waiter.
Her mother, who soon divorced her father, worked as a waitress.
Born in Riga, Latvia, of a Russian father and a Polish mother, Mme.
Born in Hoboken, N.J., in 1906, the former Martha Schneider was a 19-year-old saleswoman in a Bay Shore bakery in 1925 when she married her boss, William Entenmann Jr., whose father had founded the business in Brooklyn in 1898.
Ms. Lear was born on July 14, 1923, at the Vanderheusen Home for Wayward Girls in Hudson, N.Y., the child of an unwed mother and an unknown father.
She was given the name Evelyn, but she was renamed Frances when she was adopted after 14 months in an orphanage by Aline and Herbert Loeb of Larchmont, N.Y.
        ''Aline was outwardly affectionate with me for my father's sake, but she did not like me,'' Ms. Lear wrote in ''The Second Seduction,'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1992) an autobiography that pulled no punches.
''It blew the top of her head off,'' Mr. Wesley said, noting that for the last 25 years his wife had been writing -- and rewriting -- a book about the martyred 12-year-old girl who was betrayed by her father, refused to renounce her faith and put to death, inspiring a cult that continues in France.
Mrs. Trocme, whose paternal grandfather was a refugee from Czarist Russia and whose father was an engineer who had been a colonel in the Italian cavalry, was born in Florence, where she had an unconventional reaction to a conventional Catholic upbringing.
''Community living and sharing, that was my mother; intellectual pursuits, that was my father,'' Mrs. Farkas once said.
Their families lived in the same apartment house, at 107th Street and Fifth Avenue, where George, whose father had died, kept a close eye on his little sister, who was Ruth Lewis's best friend.
The couple's daughter, Liz Kahlenberg Bordow, said her mother had died of lung cancer and her father of complications of kidney failure.
Mr. Kahlenberg, who was born in Berlin, where his father was a founder of the U.F.A.
Her early advocacy of racial equality was inspired by her father, Earl B. Dickerson, a prominent Chicago civil-rights lawyer and 30-year board member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Later, barred from the dining room of a major Chicago hotel, she asked her father's advice.
''
        Never mind that Mr. Knutson, who had once worked on her father's farm in North Dakota, had not shared a bedroom with his wife for years or that he had regularly beaten her so badly during her visits to Minnesota, as their son later recalled it, that she had to wear dark glasses to hide her black eyes from her fellow members of Congress.
According to her son, who was adopted when he was 8 over the objections of his father, Mrs. Knutson, a deeply religious woman who frequently cited the biblical passage, ''Vengeance is Mine, sayeth the Lord,'' never expressed bitterness toward her husband.
''
        Mrs. Kerr also compiled ''A Bully Father: Theodore Roosevelt's Letters to His Children'' (1995), for which she wrote the biographical essay and notes.
The cause was cancer, her family said
        Ms. Anthony was born in New York City, where her father, Jack Murray Anthony, was a cartoonist for The New Yorker and art director at Young & Rubicam.
Dr. Steimer is survived by her husband, Prof. Martin Wilson; a daughter, Acacia, also of Benicia; and her father, Harry Steimer of Sacramento, Calif.
      
An autopsy will be held to determine the cause of death, said her father, William Lankton of Park Forest, Ill.
        Ms. Lankton, who had a sex-change operation in 1979, was born in Flint, Mich., in 1958 and was originally named Greg Robert Lankton.
In addition to her father, Ms. Lankton is survived by her mother, Lynn, also of Park Forest; a brother, Mark Alan, of Saugatuck, Mich., and a sister, Cathy, of Bellingham, Wash.
      
Her father was an investment banker.
Young Madga was 5 in 1939 when her father, Gyula Denes, a wealthy publisher, fled Budapest, abandoning his daughter, son and wife, who sought refuge in houses protected by Swiss diplomats.
She was 12 before she re-encountered her father, who pronounced her a rather unpleasant child.
Her father, Erskine Nicol, was a prolific and fairly successful landscape painter, as was his father before him.
Her father, Erskine Nicol, was a prolific and fairly successful landscape painter, as was his father before him.
After World War I, the family spent months each year in Switzerland, France or Italy, where the father painted and took Mary to archeological ruins and the caves painted by Cro-Magnon hunters.
Her father, Benjamin, a Baptist minister, moonlighted as a warehouse clerk to help her pay for college, where her scholarship and assertiveness were honed.
"
        When Miss Jordan was 11, she quit her piano lessons -- a defiant act that angered her father.
Her father, Joseph Medill Patterson, founded The Daily News in New York and helped found The Chicago Tribune.
Like Alicia, who was seven years her senior, Josephine was told by her father that journalism was not for women.
When Josephine earned her spurs in Chicago in the early 1930's, interviewing  killers like George (Baby Face) Nelson and covering murders and the criminal courts, she worked not for her father's newspaper but for a rival paper, The Chicago Daily News, whose staff members served as models for the characters in the classic Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur comedy "The Front Page.
Although her father disapproved of women in journalism, he did approve of women as pilots, and she got her pilot's license at the age of 16.
In various biographical accounts, she refrained from giving her father's name.
In 1941, her family moved to the United States, where, she once said, they were considered "enemy aliens" and her father, a dentist, was unable to pursue his profession.
Miss Fini, whose father was Argentine and mother was Italian, was born in Buenos Aires on Aug. 30, 1908.
Mrs. Fisk was one of the heirs who sued Pamela C. Harriman, now the Ambassador to France, whom her father married in 1971.
In addition to Ms. Parsons, of Harwinton, Conn., Ms. LaBrecque is survived by her father, Maurice, of San Diego, and four other sisters: Natalie Marghuardt of San Diego, Mary Louise Cassidy of Naugatuck, Conn., Penny Kindt of Seattle and Florence Fancett of Michigan.
      
Miss Chukovskaya's "To the Memory of Childhood," also published in 1988, was  a tribute to her father, Kornei Chukovsky, a Russian critic, translator and popular author of children's verse and fairy tales.
She served as her father's amanuensis, and in "To the Memory of Childhood" she described him as a humorous, fun-loving man who was passionate about language and fanatical about poetry.
The smallest branch of Judaism, Reconstructionism views Judaism as what Dr. Eisenstein's father, Rabbi Kaplan, called the "evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people," emphasizing the cultural and moral heritage of the Jewish people but not traditional supernatural and theistic beliefs.
An early marriage ended in divorce and in 1934 she married Rabbi Eisenstein, the assistant rabbi at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the Manhattan synagogue that her father headed.
She was descended on her father's side from the great 18th-century dramatist Richard Brinsley Sheridan and was a Guinness on her mother's side.
Her father, Basil, the Marquess, was a friend of Evelyn Waugh and part of the circle described in "Brideshead Revisited.

        Eva Hart was 7 years old and bound for a new life in Canada when her father woke her in the middle of the night, carried her outside in a blanket and told her, "Hold Mummy's hand and be a good girl.
Later that night, wide awake and clinging to her mother in a lifeboat, the little girl watched as the Titanic rose straight up on her bow and plunged to the bottom of  the sea, carrying her father and more than 1,500 other passengers and crew members to their deaths in the North Atlantic.
She is survived by her father, Jack; her stepmother, Christine; two brothers, Michael and Jack; a sister, Darlene, and a stepsister, Ashley, all of Memphis.
      
Her father was a mining engineer, and she seems to have inherited her  literary and scholarly bent from her mother, a Vassar graduate steeped in comparative literature.
