And she had never studied acting with her father.
''
        Ms. Strasberg's father was among those surprised by her performance.
'' In the book, she criticized her father for being preoccupied with his acting classes and she criticized her mother for being overly supervisory about her daughter's work.
She was also close to some of her father's students, especially Marilyn Monroe, whom she wrote about in ''Bittersweet'' and in her 1992 book, ''Marilyn and Me, Sisters, Rivals and Friends.
At the age of 5 months she appeared in her mother's vaudeville act, and at 3 she made her first public singing appearance when Paul Whiteman, in whose band her father used to play, stood her on a piano while she sang ''I Never Knew I Could Love Anybody'' at the Palais Royale in Times Square.
The play followed the sisters in virtually nonstop conversation while they prepared an annual meal celebrating their father's birthday in the home they owned on a dead-end street in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
Henry Beard Delany, their gentle, scholarly father, was born into slavery in 1858.
Sarah Louise Delany, their second child, was  born Sept. 19, 1889, at an aunt's home in Lynch's Station, Va. She grew up with two sisters and six brothers on  the campus of St. Augustine's, where their father was vice principal.
Their father agreed to let them move to New York to attend college.
Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan on Dec. 26, 1906, 10 years to the day after her oldest brother, Ira, Mrs. Godowsky had a peripatetic childhood as her father, Morris, a man with an eclectic personnel file, repeatedly moved the family to be near his latest job.
Ms. Elion decided to go into medical research as a teen-ager after her grandfather died of cancer and her father, a dentist and Lithuanian immigrant, encouraged her to develop a career.
Hearings were held, and by the end of 1911, the city of New York had established a Bureau of Fire Investigation, headed by the future Senator, Robert F. Wagner, who was later the father of the Wagner Labor Act.
When she was a year old her family moved to London, where her father, Wills John Hughes Murdoch, joined the civil service.
''
        Her father began discussing books with her early on and encouraged her to read widely.

        Dorothea Zack Hanle, a longtime editor at Bon Appetit, a cookbook writer and one of the founders of Les Dames d'Escoffier, an international women's organization that promotes fine dining and wine, died Tuesday at the home of her son, Alan, in North Brunswick, N.J. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan and Ship Bottom, N.J.
        Ms. Hanle was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Ship Bottom, where her father, Richard A. Zachariae, was a real estate agent.
''Everyone was there except my father, who stayed outside with the bail money,'' said Patrick Hallinan of Kentfield, Calif.
The women own a two-family house and share responsibility for their elderly father, who is blind.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
As the the daughter of a womanizing father, Miss Bloch made clear, she had no designs on Kahlo's womanizing husband, a pledge that laid the groundwork for a remarkable friendship.
Correction:  April 6, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary of the muralist Lucienne Bloch on March 28 misspelled the given name of her father.
''My father was in the heating business and my mother worked in a store.
Her father died when she was  young, and at 16, after working as a dancer, she discovered she could earn more on the burlesque circuit.
''
        To his granddaughter, who grew up on a nearby estate with her mother, Sophia, and father, Ilya, the author's second son, he was simply her beloved bushy-faced dedushka, the jolly man in a peasant shirt who bounced her on his knee and tickled her cheek with his whiskers.
For Miss Tolstoy, who was 7 when her grandfather died in 1910 and 10 when the outbreak of World War I gave her father an excuse to desert his family (he eventually settled in the United States and remarried), the aristocratic life was short-lived.
Miss Tolstoy, whose son had been kidnapped by his father then rekidnapped by her, had to settle for a divorce, but her son, her only immediate survivor, who now lives in Washington, is known as Serge Tolstoy.
Her father was an eye surgeon, who was a pioneer in laser retinal detachment surgery and in developing soft contact lenses in the 1960's.

        Felicia Gizycka Magruder, an American heiress who was kidnapped as a child by her father, a continental count, died on Feb. 26 at the Regency retirement community in Laramie, Wyo.
Her father was a manufacturer of women's clothes and frequently traveled to Europe to buy designs that he would copy.
After years of denying Miss Sapir's claims that Credit Suisse, a major Swiss bank, was holding a fortune deposited by her father shortly before he died in a concentration camp, last year the bank joined Miss Sapir in announcing that her case had been settled.
The Sapir family fortune, the precise amount of which has never been determined, was deposited in several banks before the war by Miss Sapir's father, Jozef Sapir, a Jewish businessman from Poland.
After the war, during which Miss Sapir worked for the French underground, she visited a number of banks in England and France where her father had told her he had left part of his money.
When Miss Sapir asked to collect the money in 1946, the bank manager demanded that she provide her father's death certificate and records of his deposits.
Miss Sapir said that her father's financial records had been lost in the chaos of the war and that there was no death certificate.
''I felt that my father was always behind me and with me,'' she said after her lawsuit was settled last year.
' ''
        Recently, Credit Suisse found a record of a depositor named J. Sapir, which seemed to confirm that Miss Sapir's father had held an account at the bank.
The Federal Wagner Act was named for the Mayor's father, Senator Robert F. Wagner.
''She is one of the pioneers and champions of bringing law and order into labor relations,'' said Robert S. Rifkind, a lawyer and longtime friend whose father, Simon H. Rifkind, was a law clerk for Ms. Klaus.
Her father was a Spanish professor at the University of North Carolina, her mother a frustrated writer full of unfulfilled literary aspirations.
''
        Mary Ellen Greenfield -- she derived Meg from her initials -- was born on Dec. 27, 1930, in Seattle, where her father, Lewis Greenfield, ran an antiques business.
That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
In 1984, to keep the company financially as well as technologically fit, Ms. Danieli took the unusual step for Italian family-run companies, and against the opposition of her more traditional father, of listing Danieli on the stock exchange.
Both she and my father, who died in 1985, were born in Russia before the Revolution.
Her father, Isaac Marron, was an early member of the House Painters Union and a Socialist.
Her mother, Helen, was a housewife, and her father, Leonard, was a designer of gravestones and mausoleums, but the only effect her father's choice of career had on her, she said last year, was that she learned to drive in a cemetery.
Her mother, Helen, was a housewife, and her father, Leonard, was a designer of gravestones and mausoleums, but the only effect her father's choice of career had on her, she said last year, was that she learned to drive in a cemetery.
On television she appeared on ''The Abbott and Costello Show'' in the early 1950's, and played Roberta Townsend, the love interest of Charles Farrell, as Gale Storm's widowed father, in ''My Little Margie,'' which ran from 1952 to 1955.
The company W. & G. Foyle Ltd.  was begun in 1904 by her father, William, and her uncle Gilbert after they failed their Civil Service exams and advertised their preparation books for sale.
Miss Foyle, as she always preferred to be called, went to work there when she was 17 and became the managing director when her father died in 1963.
''A man in front of my father fell asleep so he hit the chap with the toastmaster's gavel.
' ''
        Christina Agnes Lilian Foyle was born in London on Jan. 30, 1911, and went to boarding school in Hertfordshire and a finishing school at Wilderswil in Switzerland before beginning work in her father's shop.
Analyzing Ms. Zipprodt's talent, the actor Joel Grey, who worked with her in ''Cabaret'' in 1966, said: ''Her hands were all over the work, whether or not it had to do with making a diaper for Father Time or this very tattered but elegant master-of-ceremonies tail coat.
''
        Born Arline Shandling in Long Beach, Calif., to parents who had emigrated from Latvia and Lithuania, Ms. Berriault spent much of her childhood in Los Angeles, where her father wrote and edited trade magazines.
''
        Among the hits that the Cullmans helped bring to the stage were ''Life With Father,'' ''Oklahoma!,'' ''Carousel,'' ''Brigadoon,'' ''South Pacific,'' ''Annie Get Your Gun,'' ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' ''Teahouse of the August Moon,'' ''Death of Salesman'' and ''A Streetcar Named Desire.
She was president of Brandon Petroleum Properties, an oil and gas exploration company, and of the Chisholm Foundation, an educational foundation established by her father in 1960.
She worked in Washington in public relations and as a fund raiser for education and the arts before returning to Laurel after her father died in 1974.
Her father died when she was 8, her mother when she was 16.
Her father, William Bessette, an architectural engineer, lives in White Plains.
Besides her husband, Ms. O'Leary is survived by two daughters, Glynis O'Leary and Abigail O'Leary, both of McLean; her father, Boniface Brazaitis, and a sister, C. B. Lovell, both of Columbia, Md.
      
Her father, Boris Schatz, founded the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design in Jerusalem.
Her father, Abraham Kohnfelder, was a newspaper advertising manager.
Her mother, Rose Heiman Halpern, helped Margaret Sanger open a birth control clinic in Brooklyn in 1916; her father, William Halpern, was defeated as a candidate for the New York State Assembly.
Ms. Webster, born Kathryn Jewel Thorne, was reared by musicians: her father was a ragtime pianist who turned to gospel music when he became a minister in the Sanctified Church of God in Christ, in Houston, and her mother, who played spirituals and classical music, was responsible for her keyboard training.
Her father, Anthony Roman, a carnival barker, died when she was a child, forcing her mother to work as a waitress, cleaning woman and laundress.
After being educated at a local convent, she was working as a lawyer's secretary when she was invited  to an audition by the film director Sir Carol Reed, who knew her father.
Ms. Heskes also wrote extensively about Jewish music for academic publications and Jewish newspapers and magazines, and she wrote several books that covered the expanse of Jewish composition, including ''The Cantorial Art'' (1966); ''Ernest Bloch: Creative Spirit,'' with Suzanne Bloch, the composer's daughter (1976); ''The Resource Book of Jewish Music'' (1985); ''The Music of Abraham Goldfaden: Father of the Yiddish Theater'' (1990); ''Yiddish American Popular Songs, 1895 to 1950'' (1992), and ''Passport to Jewish Music: Its History, Traditions and Culture'' (1994).
Her father, Elie, a chemist, and her mother, Pauline, a writer, separated when she was 2 and remarried,  and she was painfully shuttled back and forth between two countries and two sets of parents.
She went to Paris with her mother in 1902, moved to St. Petersburg in 1905 and then returned to Paris in 1908, where she was then brought up by her father and his new wife, Vera.
Her father was a movie executive who worked with Charlie Chaplin and other early movie stars; her mother, late in life, decided to get an education and graduated from college at 80.
Her father, George Morse, a drummer from England, led a small dance band and her mother, Ann, a native Texan, played ragtime and Dixieland piano.
By age 9, Ms. Morse was singing with her father's band in nightclubs.
After she had heard rumors, her father told her the truth in simple and straightforward terms.
She dropped out of high school to dance in a chorus line, much to the delight of her father, a frustrated vaudevillian.
Ms. Raileanu is survived by her mother, Sylvia, of Brooklyn; a brother, Val, of Manhattan; and her father, Nicolau, who lives in Romania.
      

        Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.
But it gradually became apparent that she did not have the voice to follow her father.
Her father, Park Benjamin, a wealthy patent lawyer and New York society figure, fiercely opposed the match between his daughter, then 25, to Caruso, who was 45.
Andrew Farkas, co-author with Enrico Caruso Jr. of ''Enrico Caruso: My Father and My Family'' (Amadeus Press, 1990), said that Ms. Murray's paintings were ''of good quality, although she sold very few.
''
        ''She became rather reclusive,'' Mr. Farkas said, adding, ''She had been answering questions about her father for a long time.
In 1928, a court in Trenton had ruled that Gloria Caruso was entitled to two-thirds of the royalties on her father's phonograph records, sold by the Victor Talking Machine Company.
Ms. Craigie was born in Derbyshire to a Scottish father and a Russian emigre mother and had, by her own estimation, a wretched childhood.
Her father was killed in World War I and her mother lived mostly abroad.
''Dorothy couldn't locate Patty,'' Randolph Hearst, Patricia's father, said in a Newsweek interview.
Among Ms. Allison's correct predictions were double letters in the names of the suspect and a street that figured in the case, the occupation of the suspect's father, and the facts that the suspect lived in a garden apartment next to a yellow house and that one of his car's headlights was out.
She attended schools in London in the late 1950's when her father was cultural attache at the American Embassy there.
Her parents separated in 1941, and her father died soon after.
