By her own account, Miss Karff was 9 when she learned chess from her father, Aviv Ratner, a Zionist who acquired a vast amount of property in Tel Aviv and later became one of the richest men in Israel.
Although she was soon defeating her father and others with ease, Miss Karff was at first so diffident about her skills that friends had to coax her to enter her first tournament.
Her father was Henry A. Ingraham, a lawyer and one of the founders of Long Island College of Medicine.
Born in Centerville, Calif., on Oct. 6, 1905, Wills spent her childhood in Berkeley and received her initial tennis tutelage from her father, Dr. Clarence Wills.
Mr. Hearst, who had difficulty working with his powerful father, began drinking heavily.
My father was a professor of philosophy.
Besides Mr. Osmundsen, she is survived by twin children, Jonathan Eric, of Washington, and Mirjana Erika Dougherty of Baltimore; her father, Irvin Binns of the Bronx; a sister, Heather Habeger of New City, N.Y.; a brother, Roger Binns of Wayne, Pa., and one granddaughter.
      
She declined to settle for the future of a high school teacher, as other  girls with similar interests might have, or a lawyer, as her father wanted, she said.
Her father was a carpenter, and Mary Lou never forgot what nice things he made for the house, even a swing for the back yard.
Her father was a very nice man, but he gave Mary Lou a whipping one time.
Ms. Gellhorn's father was a doctor in St. Louis with progressive notions and her mother, whom she adored, was a suffragist and social reformer who sometimes took her daughter  with her to rallies and protests.
Her father pulled her out of a convent school when he discovered the nuns were teaching female anatomy with a textbook that had its pictures covered and transferred the girl to a progressive coeducational school of which her mother was a co-founder.
''
        She was born in 1914 in Sommerfield, Fla., where her father, Paul O. Blackwell, was in business as a  farmer.
When she was 4, she and her mother moved to Baltimore while her father remained in Florida to run his business, commuting back and forth to Baltimore to visit his family.
Her father, Jack Trepel, a Rockefeller Center florist, was an accomplished magician with the gift of patter, and to hear Mrs. Kampen tell it, her mother, Mary, always had something funny to say and never held her tongue.
Her father was the first minister from Hungary to the United States and later served at the Court of St. James.
Her father was an Austrian baron.
Her father was Dr. Harvey Cushing, a neurosurgeon who was a professor of surgery at various times at Johns Hopkins, Harvard and Yale Universities.
Dr. Cushing was a stern father, and Mrs. Whitney later recalled that ''perfectionism was drummed into us.
After his father became President of the United States and chose him as an aide, the couple lived in Georgetown.
Mrs. Harrington was born in the Germantown section of Philadelphia, and her father abandoned her when she was 6 years old, family members and a friend said.
''
        Ms. Rysanek was born in Vienna on Nov. 14, 1926, one of six children of a Czech father, a stonecutter, later a chauffeur, and an Austrian mother.
A native of St. Charles, Ill., where her father, Oscar Johnson, was a newspaper editor, she moved to nearby Elgin, working for a while at the Elgin Watch Company before becoming a telephone operator until she retired in 1962.
She, her mother and her 4-year-old brother, Harold, had gone to Finland to visit her mother's dying father and other relatives and were on their way back to the United States when they stopped over in England and discovered that their passage on another ship had been canceled because of a coal miners' strike.
Her father, Emanuel Savitzky, whom Ms. Abzug later described as ''this humanist butcher,'' ran (and named) the Live and Let Live Meat Market on Ninth Avenue in Manhattan.
Her mother, Esther, had been a machinist in a textile factory in East London who, as a teen-ager, became a shop steward for the garment workers' union; her father, Charles, a journalist and actor, was a leading member of the Canadian Socialist Party and later, when the family returned to England, of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.
Disillusioned by what she considered the extremism of her father's party, she joined Labor at the age of 24, won several local elections and was elected to Parliament in 1966.
Miss Cisyk, whose father maintained a studio on the Lower East Side, learned the instrument when she was 5 (she also studied ballet), and after graduating from the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan, she dutifully accepted a violin scholarship to Mannes.
For all her promise, Miss Cisyk, whose father died when she was 17, was drawn away from opera and into the world of jingles by the pressing need to make a living.
Her father, Lee Eastman, was a prominent show business lawyer in New York and one of his clients, Jack Lawrence, wrote ''Linda'' for her in 1947 when she was 6.
In fact, her father had changed his name from Epstein.
She described growing up in artistic and materialistic surroundings, with a status-conscious mother and a father whose friends and clients included the artist Willem de Kooning and the songwriters Hoagy Carmichael and Harold Arlen.
Ms. Torok's vision of psychoanalysis was liberated from the Freudian framework, including the Oedipus complex -- in which a male child may see the father as a rival for the mother's love.
Besides Mr. Pringle, she is survived by her father, William Wolsky of Brooklyn; her mother and stepfather, Joyce and Lloyd Greenidge of Brant Lake, N.Y.; a brother, William Jr., of Spring Hill, Fla., and a sister, Leanne Wolsky of Queens.
      
Her father was a judge who became the first editor of the paper that eventually became The Miami Herald; her mother was a concert violinist.
Two years later she married a newspaperman named Kenneth Douglas, but realizing her marriage was a mistake she went to Miami, where she became a reporter at her father's newspaper.
Back in Miami after the war, she obtained a divorce and was reunited with her father at The Herald, becoming assistant editor, writing editorials and editing a literary column called ''The Galley.
She was one of nine children of a couple who had emigrated from Eastern Europe to New York, where her father worked in a shoe factory.
After her father's death, while she was still a teen-ager, she and her mother went  to Ireland, where her only formal education was two years in a convent school.
There's not much to be said for growing up coal poor in Tyneside, the industrial banks of the Tyne in northeastern England, even less for being shamed by an alcoholic mother and never knowing your father.
It was a belief, she said, that was fired when an aunt mentioned that her father, a topic she could never discuss with her imperious mother, had been a gentleman.
'' (Dame Catherine later speculated that her father had been a gentleman's footman.
Her mother was a beautician, her father a building superintendent who became a lawyer.
Raised in an austere household headed by her father, a Protestant minister, she was a brilliant student in secondary school, becoming a disciple of Simone Weil, the ascetic philosopher and mystic.
By her own account Miss Mathiot  garnered a total of seven marriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors on religious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiot considered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn't and bowed to her family's wishes.
If it was a father's stern will that forced her to become a home economics teacher, it was another man's inspired whim -- and a bit of luck -- that led her from the backwaters of education to the front burner of French cuisine.

        Dorothy Stickney, who created the role of the mother in ''Life with Father'' and also appeared in many other Broadway hits during a career that spanned more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
''Life with Father,'' by Howard Lindsay (Miss Stickney's husband) and Russel Crouse, opened at the Empire Theater on Nov. 8, 1939.
Based on Clarence Day's reminiscences about his youth in New York in the 1880's, the play told the story of a large family, led by a frequently exasperated father tempered by his charming wife who put up with all his crotchets.
''
        Mr. Lindsay attributed the phenomenal success to the fact that the play was not just a comedy but also had a tender, familial side: ''People who see 'Life with Father' are emotionally moved as well as amused.
Her father, Victor Hugo Stickney, a doctor who made calls on horseback, was one of the first 10 members elected to the National Cowboy Hall of Fame.
After ''Life with Father,'' Miss Stickney was in, among other plays, ''The Small Hours,'' ''To Be Continued,'' ''Kind Sir'' and ''The Honeys.
'' Her films included ''The Little Minister'' and ''I Never Sang for My Father.
As with ''Life with Father,'' she tried it out in summer stock before bringing it to Broadway in 1960, in a production directed by her husband.
In 1967, she did a revival of ''Life with Father'' at City Center, with Leon Ames as co-star.
A hard-drinking member of the Soviet elite who liked to race her father's Mercedes, Ms. Brezhnev had her first brush with scandal when she was just 22 and ran away with a circus acrobat.
A native of New York who grew up in Washington, where her father was chief of protocol for the Roosevelt White House, Miss Southgate, a 1950 Smith College graduate, was a perennial pioneer.
For Ms. Timoner, a New Haven native whose father was a railroad carpenter, religion, the military and pushing limits were all family traditions.
When she refused to bend the rules to perform a bar mitzvah for a youth with a Jewish father and a gentile mother without the required religious circumcision ritual, she was forced to step down.
Her father, born a slave, built a fruit and vegetable business that lifted the family into the slim ranks of Boston's black upper middle class.
The film was never made, but Miss West remained in the Soviet Union with Hughes for a year, returning to the United States only when she learned of her father's death.
In the summer of 1947, she left New York for good, moving to Martha's Vineyard and the two-bedroom cedar-shingled cottage in Oak Bluffs that her father had bought.
Like her business acumen and her boundless good humor, her religious commitment seems to have come from her father, Frank, a Pennsylvania Railroad executive with a weakness for practical jokes and such a spiritual bent, his daughter later recalled, that ''he would pray all the way to work, and when I went with him, I would pray, too.
Her career started in 1948 when she appeared in a local NBC show in New York and pulled a rabbit out of a hat (her father had taught her the trick only the day before).
When she was a girl, her father thought he heard a voice coming out of a closet in the Hurwitz's apartment.
For all her devotion to education, Miss Mitchell, whose father was an engineer, came close to pursuing a music career.
Her father was a rabbi, and her mother ran a grocery store to support the struggling family, which lived in a two-room log cabin and slept on straw mattresses.
Her father also encouraged her independence.
Besides her mother, Ms. Hochberg is survived by her father, Herbert Hochberg, and two sisters, Brenda Hochberg of Boston and Judith Hochberg of Los Alamos, N.M.
      
Her father was an electrical technician and her mother was a teacher.
Ms. Ferragamo prided herself on the comfort and elegance of the Ferragamo shoe, values she inherited from her father, Salvatore, who founded the firm in 1927.
She began working for the company at 16 when her father had already established it as one of the most prestigious names in shoes.
In 1967 she received the Neiman Marcus Award for Distinguished Service in the Field of Fashion, 20 years after her father was similarly honored.
Antoinette Aiello House -- she used the name Toni all her life -- was born on Jan. 5, 1943, in Washington, where her father was a doctor.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rice is survived by her son, Andrew; her father, John H. Rice of St. Louis, and two brothers, John Rice 2d of Charlotte, N.C. and James Rice of Oakhurst, Calif.
      
When her parents divorced, Mary, then 10, chose to live with her father.
A native of Havana, where her father was a prominent doctor, she attended a convent school in Key West, Fla., then moved to New York with her mother during a period of political instability in Cuba in the 1920's.
Fortunately, as she pointed out in a 1995 interview with John Dorschner of The Miami Herald, her father, a man so strict that he would never have countenanced dancing as a career, stayed behind in Havana.
Her father had other ideas, insisting that his daughter obtain a measure of self-sufficiency by learning to type, ''until a millionaire comes along, as he put it.
She got her chance in 1931 after she began working as a 17-year-old cigarette girl at a Greenwich Village nightclub, a job she was able to take over her mother's objections only after promising never to let her father know, agreeing to let her mother serve as on-the-job chaperone and threatening suicide, something Miss Parla did with alarming regularity throughout her life.
'' Finally bowing to her father's wishes, she returned to Havana at the end of 1934 and married a few months later.
To make ends meet the former Queen of the Rumba, her father's daughter to the end, spent 20 years working as a typist.
Ms. Baer is survived by her father, Alan Van Norman of San Diego, and her husband, Alan Baer of San Francisco.
      
Miss Nijinsky identified artistically with her celebrated father, whose career was curtailed by mental illness.
She impersonated her father in ''Le Spectre de la Rose,'' one of his greatest roles, in ''Streamline'' a sophisticated revue of 1934.
She then went into the Ballet Rambert, where her parts included that of a nymph in a revival of her father's ''Apres-Midi d'un Faune.
Miss Nijinsky identified artistically with her celebrated father, whose career was curtailed by mental illness.
She impersonated her father in ''Le Spectre de la Rose,'' one of his greatest roles, in ''Streamline'' a sophisticated revue of 1934.
She then went into the Ballet Rambert, where her parts included that of a nymph in a revival of her father's ''Apres-Midi d'un Faune.
Ms. Main was born to British parents in Buenos Aires, where her father was general manager of the Buenos Aires Western Railway.
Dr. Henry Kissinger told his biographer, Walter Isaacson, that his father was reluctant to recognize the growing evil around him.
''My father was lucky he had an earthy wife who made all the decisions,'' he said.
As students at Purdue, her Irish-born father, Miles O'Brien, and his identical twin brother, Richard, had invented the South Bend lathe, an ingenious device that proved so useful for grinding automobile gears and the like that the brothers made a fortune turning them out in a factory in South Bend.
Mrs. Donovan also benefited directly from her father's ingenuity.
At college, she majored in English literature, a parallel interest that had no doubt been sharpened when her father and uncle produced a little book, ''How to Operate a Lathe,'' in 1930 that sold 1.5 million copies in 78 countries.
She was the 10th of 18 children and her father was a farmer.
Her father was Italian and, because he was drafted by the Italian army in World War I, Edwige spent much of her childhood in Italy.
''
        ''My mother had always listened carefully to children,'' Mr. Malsed said, ''so she immediately got father to go to the basement, take the wheels off another toy and try to solder them on a Slinky spring.
Her father, Fred Herrick, had lumber operations in seven states from Washington to Florida, Mr. Malsed said, and traveled to the sites in his private railroad car.
)
        Her stepmother encouraged her to learn to read and write, and urged her to attend public school, and her father led her to creative writing by teaching her to type.
Her father was a steamship agent and her childhood was spent in remote river towns throughout the British-ruled subcontinent.
Among her other work was ''Mooltiki: Stories and Poems from India'' (1957); ''A House with Four Rooms'' (1989), which takes up where ''A Time to Dance'' ended, and ''The Peacock Spring'' (1975), a novel about a British father and daughter in India who fall in love with Asians.
''
        Ms. Beriosova was born in Kaunas, Lithuania, where her father, the dancer and ballet master Nicholas Beriozoff, worked at the Lithuanian State Opera.
Ms. Beriosova was a very young witness to the development of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, where her father danced in the 1930's and where she saw the work of some of the great emigre Russian dancers and choreographers of the time.
''
        As a daughter of Walter R. Benjamin, a onetime New York Sun reporter who founded what is now the nation's oldest autograph dealership in Manhattan in 1887, Miss Benjamin, a native of Yonkers who graduated from Barnard, did not so much inherit her expertise as absorb it by osmosis during a 13-year apprenticeship at her father's elbow.
Born Margaret Abigail Walker in 1915 in Birmingham, Ala., to a minister who was educated at Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill., she followed in her father's footsteps.
(She got off easy: he once tried to teach her father to bullfight.
Besides her mother and her father, Dennis Thomas, a saxophonist who is the musical director of the band Kool and the Gang, she is survived by her grandfather, Cecil Saunders, and a brother, David, all of Weehawken.
      
Miss Fujikawa's father borrowed her first name from a Chinese emperor (the name rhymes with Leo).
Her father ran a dozen successful enterprises, including numerous stores on Washington Street, the main concourse of Hoboken.
