Her father was Morris Abrams, a manufacturer and philanthropist.
Ms. Pettit was born on Aug. 6, 1966, in Amsterdam, where her father, Frederick Pettit, was a banker.
Besides her father, of Hillsborough, Calif., Ms. Pettit is survived by her mother, Jane Pettit of Washington, and two brothers, Benjamin Pettit of Washington and Baer Pettit of London.
      
In 1944 she met Allan Roberts in an elevator in the Brill Building in New York, where Roberts and Ms. Fisher's father had offices.
Her father, who had arrived from Germany with only a few coins in his pocket, eventually became president of Consolidated Paper Mills.
Soon the station was so successful that her father quit his job with the phone company to help her run the business.
The cause was chronic rejection of a lung transplant, complicated by infection, said her father, Jon.
''
        While attending Chapin School in Manhattan as a teenager, Ms. Rothenberg got her classmates interested in raising money for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation through its annual Great Strides Walk, her father said.
She went through many bronchoscopies, either to check for possible rejection or infection or to open up her airways, her father said, and scheduling the procedures was often tricky because space had to be found in an operating room.
Peggy Conklin was born on Nov. 2, 1902, in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. She spoke little of her childhood, her son, Michael Thompson, said yesterday, except to say that it had been marked by poverty and her father's absence.
Her father, Dr. James Davis, who was piloting the plane, a Cessna 177 Cardinal, and her mother, Francie Davis, both of Setauket, N.Y., were also killed.
Her father, who was 63, was chairman of the neurology department at Stony Brook University Medical School in Stony Brook, N.Y.
Her mother, a Norwegian, and her father, a German, were both professional singers.
Her father later opened a garage in Gallatin, Mo., and went on to become an engineer for a paint firm in Kansas City.
Her father, Grover Jones, a well-known screenwriter, and her mother, Susan Avery, a former ballerina, wasted no time introducing her to the sport.
Her father died at about that time, and her mother later married Richard Talmadge, a motion-picture stuntman and actor.
His work and business was carried on by his son, Marc, her father.
She originally planned a career in theater decoration but in the 1960's her overworked father asked her to help out in his studio.
She stayed on as a partner and took over the business upon her father's death, in 1977.
Her father, Gustave Gerber, a chemical engineer, became a lawyer in his 40's and was considering studying medicine in his 60's.
She first lived in Maces Spring, Va., the hometown of her father, Ezra Carter, a farmer.
Correction:  May 17, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the country music singer and songwriter June Carter Cash yesterday misidentified the father of one of her children, Rozanna Cash.
Her father, Frank Watkin Hiller, a cotton-cloth manufacturer, and her mother, the former Marie Elizabeth Stone, also had three sons, René, Michael and John.
Tracy was unhappily married and the father of two when they met, and he remained married until the end of his life.
Her father, Dr. Thomas Norval Hepburn, was a Hartford surgeon and a pioneer in fighting venereal disease.
Miss Japp's father was Sir Henry Japp, a British engineer who built the rail tunnels under the East River.
Her father moved from job to job, including jukebox and real estate sales.
Her father, George Z. Medalie, was a New York lawyer and judge.
Years later, Cuba refused permission for her to attend her father's funeral.
Her father was an English professor who adhered to Brahmo Samaj, a religious movement that rejected caste.
Her father, who descended from Africans and American Indians, was a coachman and later a gardener on an estate in Englewood, N.J.
        She grew up in the area where Lincoln Center is now, which was then predominantly Irish.
Her father, a strict Baptist, frowned upon girls who whistled, telling her, according to a 1987 interview in The Times of London, that ''whistling girls and crowing hens never come to good ends.
Her father drew the line when he learned that she was appearing in a Broadway show called ''Runnin' Wild'' in 1923.
In an interview in Success magazine in 1998, she said her father lost a son in the war.
Carol Grace Marcus Matthau was born in Manhattan and never knew her father; she grew up in foster homes until she was 8, when her mother married Charles Marcus, an executive with the Bendix Aircraft Corporation, who adopted her.
At the time, Henri's father headed what many French monarchists still considered the royal house of France.
She discovered from a photo inscription that her father was an Italian sailor.
As if still presiding over everything, a large print of Mrs. Lezama-Clark's father, Carlos Lezama, the founder of the parade, who stepped down from the association presidency two years ago, looked down from the wall.
Their father was Lord Redesdale, a blustery country aristocrat with little money and old-fashioned views, fond of outdoor pursuits and famously bad-tempered about the outside society for which his daughters longed.
Her father was a lawyer, and her mother was so genteel that she refused to go to the grocer's without gloves and a hat.
''
        Gibson would come home late (sometimes the next day) and her father, a garage attendant, would beat her.
But Gibson saw her father as merely a stern disciplinarian, not abusive.
Finally, to escape her father's wrath, she sought refuge in a Catholic home for girls and eventually received a welfare grant to get her own apartment while she worked at menial jobs.
Ms. Arango, whose maiden name was Wolpert, was born on July 1, 1928, in Miami, where her father owned a conventional furniture store.
Her father, a doctor who played the violin, and her mother, who sang and played the organ, encouraged her musical talent.
In 1951, when she began to sing in the United States, she took her father's middle name, MacKenzie, as her last name.
Her mother encouraged her artistic flair, and although her father, a businessman, was opposed to her working on the stage, she began dancing in an Isadora Duncan-like free style at age 16 and soon found work -- and considerable recognition -- in Berlin theaters.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
She had one reunion with her father, months before he died of cancer in 1981.
Mr. Loring of Tiffany attributed her ''promotional know-how and her love of events'' to her father, Clay Lambert, a circus advance man.
Her father, Reginald George Gale Warwick, was an ironmonger.
''
        Published in 1962 and still in print, the book describes the winter night when she was 14 and Fairbanks caught fire, prompting her father and other men to burn the town's bacon supply as fuel to keep the steam-powered water pump running; her late-winter dogsled trips over thawing rivers; how in 1924 she became the first woman to graduate from the University of Alaska; and her marriage later that year, in a 3 a.m. sunrise ceremony, to Olaus Murie, a biologist for the Biological Survey, the forerunner of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service.
The Soong family's saga, cutting across many strands of modern Chinese history, began when Madame Chiang's father, Charlie Soong, sailed to the United States at the age of 12.
''
        Julia Marlene Bedra was born on June 27, 1924, in Old Forge, Pa. She was one of 12 children and her father was a chiropractor, according to The Comprehensive Country Music Encyclopedia.
In addition to Mr. Ellington, of San Francisco, and Jeffrey Marx, who lives in Washington, D.C., she is survived by her mother, Peggy Marx of Lake Worth, Fla.; her father, Richard, of Bedford, N.Y., and another brother, James, of White Plains, N.Y.
      
Her father ran a hardware store, and she grew up in the Pimlico section of Baltimore.
Her father, a plumber, and her mother were elegant ballroom dancers and had a player piano in the house with rolls by the likes of Waller.
Her mother died when Mrs. Hicks was 14, and she was especially close to her father, a lawyer, judge and businessman, whom she cited as her inspiration to become a lawyer.
Through Mr. Kallman, who was about her age, Ms. Farnan met his father, Eddie, whom she eventually married.
Ms. Farnan fell in love with Mr. Kallman's father, Eddie, and married him -- ''somewhat illegally,'' she wrote in her book -- in 1948.
Ms. Ruderman is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan; her father, Robert, of Manhattan; her stepmother, Vicki Fian of Manhattan; her sister, Leigh Roumila of Ridgewood, N.J.; and her brothers, Jamie, of Maplewood, N.J., and Adam, of Manhattan.
Le Corbeiller was born of American parents in 1931 in Cambridge, England, where her father was studying history.
Her father died when she was 6.
Her father died when she was 6.
In addition to her brother, Michael, Ms. Quinn is survived by her father, E. John Quinn, of Amenia, N.Y.
      
Lieselotte Heymansohn was born to a well-to-do father in Cologne -- her mother died when she was a child -- and studied modern dance with Mary Wigman in Cologne, against her father's wishes.
Lieselotte Heymansohn was born to a well-to-do father in Cologne -- her mother died when she was a child -- and studied modern dance with Mary Wigman in Cologne, against her father's wishes.
Her father owned a summer cottage in Highlands, N.J., and she learned to swim on the Jersey Shore.
She vowed to try it again and told her father and everyone else involved that no matter how she looked in the water, she did not want to be touched.
''
        Ms. Lange was born in November 1933 in Connecticut to show business parents -- her father was a composer and arranger, and her mother was an actress.
The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own.
