Her father was a partner in Lehman Brothers.
Her other works include a 1980 memoir about her father and "William III and the Defense of Holland, 1672-73 (1930).
Her father, a doctor, remained in the Soviet Union and was later executed.
In "Un-American Activities" she wrote, "My mother was a mere English eccentric, but my father was a Red and so in trouble all the time.
Besides her husband she is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Karen, both of San Jose, and her father, William R. Yeack of Gainesville, Fla.
      
The cause was cancer, said her father, Norris Konheim.
Her father was German and her mother was of Hungarian and Austrian parentage.
She is survived by her husband and sons, Daniel and David, all of Manhattan; her father, James O. Dungan of Rochester; two sisters, Laura Dungan of Pompano Beach, Fla., and Dr. Bonnie Dungan of Philadelphia, and two brothers, James Dungan of Binghamton, N.Y., and Kelly Dungan of Rochester.
"You bring up your boys and suggest that to be a man like their father they should kill everything that moves, right?
Ms. Ichiyasu is survived by her husband, Michael Clancey; her father, Harry T. Ichiyasu, and a brother, Alan, both of Chicago.
      
It was the Depression, and her father had advised her to learn "something useful.
" She got summer jobs with the John Robert Powers Modeling Agency, but to her father's dismay earned only $80 in two summers of work.
' "
        Her son Alan recalled yesterday that the ad campaign was hatched by his father, who convinced his wife, who was at first reluctant, to do it.
She earned undergraduate and doctoral degrees at the University of Philadelphia, where her father, the biochemist Dr. George W. Raiziss, was a professor.
Her father was a rare-book dealer who enjoyed taking his daughter to museums.
The cause was arrhythmia, said her father, Ernest Dunbar, a West Side resident.
Besides her father, Ms. Dunbar is survived by her sister, Dr. Adrienne Dunbar of Coral Springs, Fla., and a brother, Dean, of Montclair, N.J.
      
After the divorce, Jacqueline remained in touch with her father, but later she also spent a great deal of time with the Auchinclosses, who had a large estate in Virginia called Merrywood and another in Newport, R.I., called Hammersmith Farm.
She later wrote a long letter to her father, forgiving him, but he became withdrawn in the years that followed.
Her father was the film director Sam Wood.
Mrs. Hong was born in Boston but spent much of her childhood in southern China, where her father moved when she was 8 years old to help develop the mining industry.
Ms. Richmond is survived by her father, Richard, and a brother, Barry, both of Stonington, Conn.
      
When Ms. Shorell entered her 30's and began to notice signs of aging in her own complexion, her father, Dr.
An Intense Athlete
        Ms. Henrich, whose father, Paul, was a bowler in past years, was intense about exercise and fitness from an early age.
Professor Hodgkin was born Dorothy Mary Crowfoot in Cairo, where her father worked for the Egyptian Government.
Miss Harrison was born in Guildford, Surrey, England, where her father published two local newspapers.
'Small Poems' by the Volume
        She was born in Philadelphia and lived in Swarthmore, Pa., Tampa, Fla., and Bangalore, India, when her father, a biologist at Swarthmore College, was asked to go to India to study malaria.
Mrs. Cliburn's mother was an actress and her father was a judge and adviser to state officials.
At her death, Miss Sumner was the president of Sumner National Bank, in Sheldon, Ill., which was founded by her father, Aaron Taylor Sumner.
"
        She was born in Hamburg, Germany, the daughter of a German mother and an English father.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, Max; a stepson, Lem Dobbs of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Dominie Kitaj of London; her father, Gene, of Tucson, Ariz.; her mother, Ethel, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Margaret, of Emeryville, Calif., and a stepgrandson, Joe Kitaj of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Klapthor also wrote "First Ladies" (sixth edition 1990, White House Historical Society) and was a co-author, with her father, Paul D. Brown, of "The History of Charles County, Maryland," in 1958.
" Father Collected Antiques
        Mrs. Parish's own girlhood was, if not regal, at least baronial.
Mrs. Parish's father was a collector of antiques (as was a cousin, Dorothy Draper, who also became a renowned decorator).
Much later she would recall the distaste she felt as a child for the furniture her father collected, "that awful English brown," as she put it.
Hard times were coming upon her husband and her father, both blue-blooded stockbrokers.
Her father died when she was 12 and her mother took clerical and teaching jobs at night to supplement her regular income as headmistress of a school for retarded children.
Her father and mother, Pete Reed and the former Peggy Hooper, were Irish immigrants whose song-and-dance routine, under the name Reed and Hooper, took them to carnivals and vaudeville houses around the United States.
"Our home was in an old, broken down Pierce Arrow auto which my father drove," Miss Raye remembered.
Mrs. Roebling's father and father-in-law then urged her to try her hand at running the bank.
"My father pushed me to become competitive," she wrote in a 1978 autobiography, "Wilma.
Her father died in 1961 and her mother died in May.
Her grandfather, William Filene, was the founder of the Filene's department-store chain, and her father, Lincoln Filene, founded Federated Department Stores.
The daughter of a pioneer in the civil rights movement, Dr. Robert Russa Moton, she grew up on the campus of Tuskegee Institute, where her father had succeeded its founder, Booker T. Washington, as president.
Ms. Mahon is survived by two daughters, Rebecca and Shana, and two sons, Joshua and Michael, all of Syosset; her father, John Mahon of Amityville, L.I.
