Her father, an accomplished polo player, was co-owner of Brokaw Brothers Clothing, a retail store on Fifth Avenue near the New York Public Library.
She ventured to China at the age of 24 in 1931 with the promise of a mining company secretarial job secured through her father, a Utah lawyer with connections to the state's mining industry.
Although her eclectic literary output reflected an extraordinary range of interests, Mrs. Huxley was perhaps best known for a 1959 work of autobiographical fiction, ''The Flame Trees of Thika,'' which was based on her early life among white settlers on her father's coffee plantation.
Her father, whose failed business schemes included a plan to develop a new kind of motorcar, was a ''gentle, humorous, dreamy person whose dreams never came true,'' she once said.
Dime store fiction could undoubtedly have accommodated her cliche origins as the daughter of a patrician, Harvard-trained lawyer and a distinctly declasse Irish girl, who died in childbirth, setting up her father's marriage to a disapproving, if not quite wicked, stepmother.
And a Dickens could even have contrived for her father's second wife to be the stepdaughter of Clarence Barron, the short, rotund powerhouse owner of The Wall Street Journal who encouraged his step-granddaughter to meet and study people of all walks of life, ''even gamblers and crooks,'' and who gave her what became her credo as a sometime journalist and spy: ''Facts are not the truth but only indicate where the truth may lie.
Ms. Pierre, whose father was Richard W. Bock, a sculptor, was born in Chicago.
In 1991 she edited ''Memoirs of an American Artist: The Sculptor Richard W. Bock,'' a book about her father.
In 1995 she took part in the opening of a memorial garden at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London, with a granite monument commemorating the victims, and in 1993 she appeared in public in Southampton to receive a gold watch thought to be her father's from the head of the American company that had salvaged it from the wreckage.
She had last seen the watch protruding from the waistcoat pocket of her father, Thomas William Solomon Brown, 60, a hotel owner from Worcester, a suburb of Cape Town, South Africa.
Mrs. Haisman said she remembered that her father was dressed in an Edwardian dinner jacket, stabbing the cold night air with his cigar and sipping from a snifter of brandy on the deck of the listing ship as she and her mother were being winched 70 feet down into a lifeboat.
Mrs. Haisman said that she never forgot the horror of that night and the loss of her father and that even in her later years she suffered nightmares in which she heard the screaming of the drowning victims in the Atlantic.
I kept wondering if my father had got off the ship -- that's all I could think of.
Ms. Kamuda, of the Titanic Historical Society, said Mrs. Haisman had ''elaborated'' her story over the years, adding details about what her father was wearing, for example.
The 18-carat pocket watch that she said was her father's had been found in a purser's black leather portmanteau during a dive in 1987.
R. M. S. Titanic of Southport, Conn., the company that exhibits artifacts from the ship and that has drawn charges of exploiting the disaster from Ms. Kamuda and others, had the watch attached to a sterling silver plate inscribed with the words, ''What better use for scientific technology than to reunite a father with his child.
By her bed in the nursing home stood a photograph of her father in a straw boater, stiff collar and bowtie.
''
        Her father, Jose Celso Barbosa, was the founder of the Puerto Rican statehood movement and the precursor of the New Progressive Party, which has continued to embrace his ideals -- as modified over the years, to be sure, by his daughter, who insisted that the party of statehood also commit itself to social justice.
This, too, was a tribute to the legacy of her father.
As one of his 12 children, Dr. Barbosa, whose mother died when she was a toddler, inherited her father's intelligence and his ideals.
Over the next decades Dr. Barbosa researched and wrote numerous books, pamphlets and papers on Puerto Rican political history, some based on her father's papers.
In addition to her husband, who is chief counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration, she is survived by two sons, James Anthony and Matthew George, and her father, Joseph Prescott, all of Bayside.
      
Emily Hahn was born in St. Louis,  where her father, Isaac Newton Hahn, was a salesman.
He was his own worst enemy and very difficult to be his father's son and all that, but he had many, many admirable qualities.
The children loved their mother and their first stepmother, but not their father's new wife.
Whatever her father's influence,  Dr. Fosdick, who was born in Montclair, N.J., and grew up in the faculty housing at the Union Theological Seminary, took as her mentor the family's friend and neighbor, Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian whose belief that evil is a palpable world force that must be resisted and overcome became the geopolitical creed of a generation of cold war theorists.
Dr. Fosdick's career was also influenced by her beloved Uncle Raymond, her father's brother, Raymond B. Fosdick, an international lawyer whose appointment as Under Secretary of the League of Nations came to naught after the Senate failed to ratify the founding treaty.
A native of Liverpool, England, whose father came to the United States when she was 2, Mrs. Gibson, grew up in New Dorp, S. I., in a house whose spacious, English-style garden appealed to her mother and gave Mrs. Gibson a lifelong love of flowers.
After graduating from Bryn Mawr with a degree in fine arts in 1924, she was so disappointed that her father would not let her continue her studies abroad that when she saw an advertisement in The New York Times seeking a French-speaking woman with a size 4B foot, she answered it.
Her father was scandalized, but with the approval of her mother, Mrs. Gibson, who took such pride in her shapely feet that she had her toenails painted even in her 90's, became a foot model in Paris, where she also studied at the Sorbonne and met a self-effacing American Army captain from Poultney, Vt., named Herbert Daskum Gibson.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
Her father was a jazz trumpeter who practiced for hours at home.
She grew up in a theater-mad household (during the Depression, her father, a shirt salesman, took the family to the theater every week by slipping shirts to the box-office men in exchange for tickets), and all she ever wanted to be was a playwright.
A native of Old Saybrook, where her father, Peter Lane, had opened a pharmacy in 1902, she grew up in one of the few black families in the white resort.
Several members of her mother's family were pharmacists, too, and in time Mrs. Petry graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Connecticut and went to work at her father's store.
The youth and his 38-year-old father, who was in the front passenger seat, received minor injuries.
Ms. Kravis, whose father, Bernard Shulman, was a psychiatrist, was born and reared in Brooklyn.
Mrs. Gleason's father, William T. Dewart, bought The Sun from the estate of Frank A. Munsey, and served as its president and publisher until his death in 1944.
The daughter of a Russian mother and an Italian father, Mrs. Youskevitch, whose original name was Anna Scarpa, was born in Urbino, Italy.
''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates.
Within months, she was in the field with the man she and a generation of other young female protegees called Papa Franz and the world knew as Franz Boas, the German-born social scientist widely recognized as the father of American anthropology and the mentor of such giants as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict.
Dr. Piers, whose father was the composer Karl Weigl, trained as a kindergarten teacher in Vienna and received a doctorate at the University of Vienna.
Her father, Thomas Coffin, a tea taster, left home when she was 3 and never returned, forcing her mother first to open a boardinghouse in Edgartown and later to leave her daughter with her parents to pursue teaching jobs in Pennsylvania and Brooklyn.
Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Neuberger majored in economics at Bryn Mawr on the advice of her father, Aaron B. Salant.
Ms. Finkel is survived by her father, Abraham Milton Finkel, and a brother, Robert, both of Los Angeles.
      
Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
The girl who won had a collection from her father's garden, neatly pressed.
''
        Miss Dimitri, born in Nice, France, to a Greek father and French mother, moved to Greece at an early age and grew up bilingual.
In the mid-1930's after the Nazis came to power, her father sent her to Paris, where she became fluent in French.
But for years she avoided following her father, grandfather and 22 other relatives into the ring.
Rachel Gillett was born in London and grew up wherever her father's profession as a botanist would take him.
''My father-in-law started a paperback book company; my father started two businesses on Wall Street, and my grandfather started two businesses in Hoboken.
When her father died in 1943, she moved to the town, where she worked as a seamstress, cook and waitress.
''
        Rosina Lawrence was born in Westboro, Ontario, and as a child  moved to Hollywood, where her father was a set builder.
Her father and uncle opened a dry-goods store in Long Beach that eventually grew into the chain of Buffum's department stores, a fixture of Southern California until the 1980's.
''
        Otis Chandler succeeded his father as the paper's publisher in 1960 and held that post for 20 years, though Norman Chandler remained an executive with the company until his death in 1974.
Longevity ran in the family; Mrs. Calment's mother lived until she was 86 and her father until he was 93.
A native of Waco whose restless father kept the family on the move, including three years homesteading in the New Mexico Territory, she was 13 when she hitched up a four-horse team, gathered the reins and led a Conestoga convoy that took her family to the dusty little town of Alpine in the Big Bend region of southwestern Texas.
When her father accused her of going off on a wild goose chase, she stood her ground.
Her father was relieved, until she decided to marry Roy Stillwell.
''
        Assuring her father that ''I'd rather be an old man's darlin' than a young man's slave,'' she married Mr. Stillwell in 1918.
In a child custody case in 1994 involving a couple who were both lawyers, she ruled for the father.
Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations.
A product of a fairy-tale union between a wealthy German-Jewish merchant and an Irish-Catholic working girl, Miss Halle, whose father was a founder of the old Halle Brothers department store in Cleveland, grew up in an ecumenical, intellectually charged atmosphere that left her without prejudice or pretension and with an eclectic range of interests, especially in people.
Although Miss Halle, who was eight years older than he was, kept him at bay, she became a frequent visitor to Chartwell, the Churchill country home in England, and a favorite of his father, Sir Winston Churchill.
Their son, Haskel, succeeded his father in the rabbinate in Kehilath Jeshrun.
Born in Istanbul, where her father was a doctor to the Sultan of Turkey, Ms. Margolis came to the United States with her family in 1907.
Accounts have differed as to the profession of her father.
''
        Ms. Dunnigan also translated Tolstoy's ''War and Peace'' (1968) as well as Ilya Tolstoy's reminiscence, ''Tolstoy, My Father'' (1971), and Dostoyevsky's ''Netochka Nezvanova'' (1970).
She also continued a tradition of charitable work begun by her father, Andrew Miller, founder of Boys Town of Jerusalem.
After her father's death in the 1940's, Mrs. Slewett became a major figure in the institution.
The couple's financial support of Yeshiva University resulted in the establishment of the Mendel Gottesman Library, named after Mr. Gottesman's father, the endowment of a chair in Library Sciences and creation of the Benjamin Gottesman Presidential Lecture Series.
Her father, Walter J. Kingsley, was a writer and Broadway press agent, and her mother, Alma Hanlon, was an actress in silent movies.
It was just that she decided to follow in the footsteps of her father, Delos Lovelace, a Minnesota-born journalist who was once city editor of the old New York Sun.
Annie Dodge was born in Deer Springs, Ariz., and learned of public service from her father, Henry Chee Dodge, a chief and first president of the Navajo Nation's legislative Tribal Council.
One of those was her husband, George L. Wauneka, with whom she ran a ranch owned by her father in Arizona.
Her formal education ended in the 11th grade, when she began tending to the needs of her tribe at the side of her father, who had become head of the Tribal Council and her political mentor.
Her father was an engineer who worked on Route 66.
''I wanted to be an engineer, build bridges, but my father nixed that,'' she said.
The former Marguerite Breithaupt of Milwaukee  caught a whiff of printer's ink in her father's shop, honed her sense of drama in college and discovered the outdoors when she and her husband, Sidney Crocker Henry, a sales manager, moved to a farm in Wayne, Ill.
Her father owned a printing shop and piqued her interest one rainy Sunday by letting her read proofs.
Her father, who founded the law firm that became Debevoise & Plimpton, was president of Oberlin College in Ohio after the war and Ambassador to the Philippines from 1961 to 1964.
Her father, Irving, a retired house painter, later joined her.
''
        Aside from her father and aunt, Miss Katzenbogen, who never married, is survived only by her cats, all of whom, her animal adoption friends vowed, would be placed in loving homes, although none perhaps as loving and certainly not as luxurious as the one they have been accustomed to.
      
'' She had roles in ''You Can't Take It With You'' (1936); ''Macbeth'' (1941),; ''The Chase'' (1952); ''Howie'' (1958), and the 1967 revival of ''Life With Father.
He was a wonderful husband to me and a wonderful and loyal father and grandfather.
Her father worked for the Government as a blacksmith and Federal marshal.
Her father, Nat, was a zipper salesman to the military who had a nervous breakdown when she was a child; her mother, Lillian, was a formidable businesswoman compelled to work to support the family.
(The family's name was originally Spielberg, but her father changed it to Steel to reflect his prowess as a semiprofessional weight lifter).
At a party marking Mrs. Peterson's 90th birthday last year, Lynda Johnson Robb recalled the help that her father, President Johnson, got from Mrs. Peterson, and said, ''She had a velvet hammer and talked people into doing what was right, even if we didn't know it at the time.
Her father was Paul Philip Levertoff, a Russian Jew who converted to Christianity and became an Anglican priest.
Her father's conversations about the family background in Hasidism and her mother's knowledge of Welsh and English folklore proved influential.
In 1949 Mrs. Hoffman became a director of the Bank of America, succeeding her father, A.P.
Her father is retired from the family consortium.
Her father was a career Army officer.
''
        Mrs. Simmons, whose maiden name was Grenier, was born in Shelton, Vt., where her father, a French-Canadian, was a cabinetmaker.
''
        Mrs. Duvalier's influence probably reached its peak after the death of her husband in 1971, when her son, still a teen-ager, succeeded his father as Haiti's ''President for Life.
Although her father was a freethinker, his parents had been raised as Muslims, and they disapproved of the woman he loved.
