Her mother, Edith Whittemore, was American, and her father, Jacques Le Clercq, was a French poet and writer.
Her father was a lawyer whose family owned a large sugar mill in Cali, Colombia, where she spent part of her youth.
She made a bargain with her father that she would attend Skidmore College for one year if she could then leave school to become an actress.
She became part of the company of Walter Hampton, a prominent Shakespearean actor, and also had a small part in the Broadway production of ''Cynara,'' which opened in 1931, before her father strongly discouraged her from acting because she might be taking jobs from poor people.
Her father, a physician like his own father, sought to protect her afterward by pinning a piece of paper to her clothing saying, ''Fatally allergic to tetanus antitoxin.
Her father, a physician like his own father, sought to protect her afterward by pinning a piece of paper to her clothing saying, ''Fatally allergic to tetanus antitoxin.
''
        As Linda approached college, she tired of the safety pins and hotly rejected her father's suggestion that a tattoo might fit the bill.
Mrs. Lorentz's father, Eugene Meyer, bought The Post in 1933.
The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria José in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, whose father, King Vittorio Emanuele III, cooperated with Mussolini before and during World War II.

        Helen Coley Nauts, who devoted her life to championing the once-neglected cancer-treatment discoveries of her father and founded a cancer institute, died at home last Tuesday in Manhattan.
After her father died in 1936, Mrs. Nauts, who was at home raising two daughters, decided to go through his papers to write his biography.
Convinced that medicine was overlooking a powerful tool -- and, perhaps more important, her associates say, incensed at the aspersions the medical establishment had cast on her father and his work -- Mrs. Nauts embarked on a crusade.
She eventually succeeded in returning her father's work to the attention of oncologists.
All that changed after her father's death, when she began poring over 15,000 letters and other records stored in a barn in Sharon.
About two years later, Mrs. Nauts went to the medical director of Dr. Coley's hospital and said she thought that her father's work deserved reappraisal.
In an interview with Science, Mrs. Nauts described a meeting with a Mount Sinai Hospital bacteriologist, Dr. Gregory Shwartzman, with whom her father had corresponded.

        Dr. Alexandra Adler, a New York neurologist and psychiatrist who carried on the tradition of her father, Alfred Adler, one of the pioneers of psychoanalytic theory, died Jan. 4 at New York University Hospital.
At the time, she also started editing the International Journal of Individual Psychology, the branch of psychology her father pioneered after he broke with Sigmund Freud and his psychoanalytical emphasis on sex as the root of neurosis.
Her father, Harry Scharaga, headed the Sanitation Department in Queens.
Ms. Lawrence, who was also known by her married name, Eleanor Steindler, was born in Boston and grew up in Athens, Ohio, where her father, John C. Baker, was president of Ohio University.
Her father opened a rooming house for summer tourists, which later became the Capitol Hotel.
Ms. Nelson was linked to the company's founder, Madame C. J. Walker, who was her father's boss.
A'Lelia Nelson's father, Freeman B.
She is survived by her mother, Ruth Jaffe, who married Rona Jaffe's father, and a sister, Susan Chapin of Washington.
      
Her father sold his stamp collection to pay for her Parisian classes.
She never saw her father again but was eventually reunited with her mother and sister.
''When I came in the street, here comes my father,'' she recalled.
After her father visited New York and fell in love with it, the family began spending more and more time in the United States, finally emigrating in 1909.
With Mrs. Freedman's father devoting most of his time to Jewish studies, the business was run by her mother.
' ''
        Ms. Fisher was 2 when her father died.
Her father worked as a gardener.
Her father manufactured Venetian blinds.
She graduated from Hunter College in 1936 and went to work in the office of her father's attorney as a receptionist.
The first experience came in 1927 when Anne Morrow, then a 21-year-old senior at Smith College, arrived for the Christmas holidays in Mexico City, where her well-to-do father, Dwight W. Morrow, was the American ambassador.
Her father became a multimillionaire partner in the banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company, who went on to become a Republican Senator from New Jersey.
Her father, Samuel Koner, a lawyer, had devised a medical plan for the Workmen's Circle, a Jewish socialist and benevolent organization; the result is considered a pioneering group medical plan.
Her family considered his fees exorbitant, so her father offered his legal services free to Fokine in exchange for ballet lessons for young Pauline.
''
        A writer of light verse and memoirs that plumbed her own life, Mrs. Bevington wrote about her world travels, her romance and marriage to her husband, Merle M. Bevington, and even the small-town love affairs of her Methodist minister father.
And to interviewers, Mrs. Bevington professed delight with the censure of her book, which described how her mother divorced her father for carrying on with younger female parishioners.
''
        Ms. Rutherford was born in Texas to a black mother, Margaret Lee, and a white father, William McCann.
Her father, Geronimo, or White Flower, was mainly concerned with raising food for the family, but he was also the main marketer of his wife's pottery.
Of Danish stock, she was raised in Minnesota by her mother and grandmother after her father, a meat salesman and womanizer, deserted the family when she was 5.
She spent most of her life in New York, but in an essay in the ''Something About the Author Autobiography Series'' in 1994, she fondly recalled how she explored the land around her family's tarpaper-covered summer home in New Jersey, and how disappointed she was when her parents had to give up plans to live there permanently because her father could not find a job.
Ms. Sigler is survived by her companion, Patricia Locke of Highland Park, Ill.; her father, Philip Sigler of North Carolina; and a brother, Andrew Sigler of Chicago.
      
Her father, Karl von Spreti, was a founding member of the Christian Democratic party in Germany after World War II.
Her father, Willard Dickerman Straight, was a banker and former official in the State Department.
' ''
        Ms. Hunter was born June 2, 1922, in Bethany, W.Va., and grew up on the campus of Elon College in North Carolina, where her father, Joshua A.
Born in Berkeley, Calif., on Jan. 4, 1946, Ms. McCorkle had a peripatetic  childhood because her father, an anthropologist, took teaching positions at colleges around the country.
Born in Berkeley, Calif., on Jan. 4, 1946, Ms. McCorkle had a peripatetic childhood because her father, an anthropologist, took teaching positions at colleges around the country.
Rita Nellie Hunter was born on Aug. 15, 1933, in Wallasey, England, where her father was a boilermaker.
Her father, an international businessman, was imprisoned by the Bolsheviks but later freed by his own workers.
Her experience writing advertising copy for a store her father managed in Utica, N.Y., paved the way for a job in the advertising department at Bonwit Teller, then a fashionable Fifth Avenue store.
Her father died when she was 1.
One of their philanthropic vehicles was the DJB Foundation, which Mr. Bernstein created in 1948 to hold his father's inheritance.
Her mother was a Jehovah's Witness who worked as a waitress, and her father, who died in 1999, was a factory worker.
It is Father's Day, and a candle is to be lit by her daughter in remembrance.
Her father, John J. O'Reilly Sr., was a New York State highway patrolman who did ''everything to keep me from becoming a police officer,'' Sergeant O'Reilly recalled, adding, ''I'm sure he saw his share of things he didn't want his daughter to see.
Ms. O'Reilly is survived by her father, who lives in Jackson, Miss.
''
        The first inkling of their profit potential came shortly after their birth when their father, Oliva, signed a contract to display them at the Chicago World's Fair.
After a custody battle, their father regained custody of them from the state when they were nearly 10 years old.
The queen, a spokesman said, is both a secular and religious leader, and is ''mother, father and child -- three persons in one.
Her father was Hugo Blumenthal, a banker and philanthropist who was president of the Mount Sinai School of Nursing for many years.
Her father was Hugo Blumenthal, a banker and philanthropist who was president of the Mount Sinai School of Nursing for many years.
Her father was a carpenter.
In 1938, her father, David B. Findlay Sr., moved his family to New Canaan, Conn., and opened the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan.
In 1958, she went to work in her father's gallery, and became its president at his death in 1989.
His family, including Ms. Chabot's father, fled Mexico City, traveling by horse-drawn wagon.
It was only after she succeeded her father and her husband as president and later publisher of The Washington Post, a newspaper with a modest circulation and more modest reputation, that it moved into the front rank of American newspapers, reaching new heights when its unrelenting reporting of the Watergate scandal contributed to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974.
Her father had given Mr. Graham control of The Post and when the latter died, his widow found herself in a mysterious thicket of corporate politics dominated by men unaccustomed to a woman in the boardroom and highly skeptical of her ability to run a newspaper.
Her father, Eugene Meyer, made his fortune on Wall Street, became a governor of the Federal Reserve Bank, went on to organize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and was appointed the first president of the World Bank.
Her father was often away working, her mother traveling and writing  letters home about her social conquests.
When Katharine was 16, no one thought to tell her that her father had bid $825,000 at public auction to buy the bankrupt Washington Post, a paper with a circulation of 50,000 that was losing a million dollars a year, the fifth newspaper in a five-newspaper town.
''If it doesn't work, we'll get rid of her,'' her father said.
The heiress agreed to his terms -- that they return to Florida and his father's dairy business, provided, she remembered, that ''I could live with only two dresses because I had to understand that he would never take anything from my father or be involved with him and we would live on what he made.
The heiress agreed to his terms -- that they return to Florida and his father's dairy business, provided, she remembered, that ''I could live with only two dresses because I had to understand that he would never take anything from my father or be involved with him and we would live on what he made.
'' Mrs. Graham did not object because she knew how important it was to her father to keep The Post in the family, and, she wrote, ''in those days, of course, the only possible heir would have been a male.
But there was an added blow: she discovered he had a scheme to pay her off and take ownership of The Post, in which he already had controlling interest because her father had given him the majority of Class A shares.
Although she had absorbed a great deal over the years from both her father and her husband, she did not feel up to the job as she tried to learn from the top.
She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement.
After college Miss Welty told her parents that she wanted to be a writer, but she said that her father insisted that she ''learn something to fall back on'' to support herself, so she took advertising courses at the Columbia University School of Business.
That letter was hung near her wooden desk in an upstairs room in the Tudor-style house that her father built on Pinehurst Street in 1925, when she was 16.
Her father, Viktor, was a sculptor, and her mother, Signe Hammarsten-Jansson, was a versatile designer.
But, Mr. Milstein's father, a Russian immigrant who began wholesaling coats in 1924, urged him to avoid retail and refused to give them money to buy it.
Correction:  August 27, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the actress Kim Stanley on Tuesday misstated the surname of her son and misidentified his father.
His father was William Brooks Clift Jr., not Ms. Stanley's second husband, Curt Conway.
She is survived by her father, Willie Hearne; her husband, Robert Tragesser; a daughter from a previous marriage, Colleen Mendelsohn; and a brother, James Hearne.
      
They were also the years in which the museum came to be ranked as the father and grandfather of modern-art museums the world over.
She was one of three children raised by her mother after her father, a military officer, was killed in World War I.
As a young woman, she studied music, but was unsure about a career until her father suggested that she apply to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.

        Maureen Reagan, the outspoken daughter of former President Ronald Reagan who was often at odds with her father's policies, died yesterday at her home in Sacramento.
She had a distant relationship with her father for decades after he and  her mother, the actress Jane Wyman, divorced in 1948.
Although Ms. Reagan volunteered her services in 1966 when her father  ran for governor of California, his consultants rejected her offer on the ground that her participation would again bring Mr. Reagan's divorce to the attention of the public.
A thaw between father and daughter began when Mr. Reagan ran for president in 1980.
''When he was elected president, she had more communication and involvement with her father than she had had for the rest of her life,'' her friend Judy Carter, the daughter-in-law of former President Jimmy Carter, said in 1989.
Her first campaign was undermined by reports that her father, then president, did not want her involved in the race, but a decade later he endorsed her Congressional run.
''
        When she left school, her father  told her, ''Well, write if you get work.
'' In her 1989 book, ''First Father, First Daughter,'' (Little, Brown & Company), Ms. Reagan recalled, ''I went out on so many auditions I began to think of changing my middle name to Rejection.
In addition to her father, stepmother and siblings, she is also survived by her mother.
When asked if she had been happy with her father's record on women's issues , she said: ''No, I haven't.
Ms. Reagan said she first recognized the symptoms of Alzheimer's in her father in 1994 when he was unable to recall the part he had played in a movie.
Her father ran a Greek restaurant.
Her father, Ben Redner, owned a taxicab company, and she led a privileged life.
When her father retired, he gave shares in the business to his three sons-in-law.
By that time the couple lived in a house in Great Neck, N.Y., bought for them by Mrs. Scull's father.

        Ida Russ Schwartz, one of three sisters who with their father, Joel Russ, sliced smoked salmon, pickled herrings and weighed out caviar at Russ & Daughters, their renowned appetizer store on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 24 in Pembroke Pines, Fla. She was 86.
With her older sister, Hattie Gold, and her younger sister, Anne Federman, Mrs. Schwartz grew up working in the business begun as a pushcart in 1914 by their father.
Mrs. Federman said that their father, an immigrant from Russia, was a demanding taskmaster, and the entire family worked in the store, often after school and always on the busiest holidays and crowded Sundays.
The feistiest of the sisters, Mrs. Schwartz was often at odds with her father as to how the business should be run, and finally left to open her own successful store, popularly known as Ida's, in Massapequa, N.Y.
As a child growing up on Grant's Farm, once the home of Ulysses S. Grant, Sallie rode horses, and when her father died in 1946, August Busch helped rear her.
She described her father as a gentleman farmer and a moviegoer, and her own trips to see films began early.
On her father's side, she was distantly related to Bernard Berenson, the art critic and collector.
''
        Ms. Raines is survived by her husband, Stephen Push, a former vice president for corporate communications at Genzyme; her father, Arthur Raines of Lovettsville, Va.; her mother, Marilyn Raines of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas Raines, of Wayland, Mass.
      
Her parents' marriage failed, and after her father's death when she was 14, she was sent to a convent school in Indianapolis, where she pursued her interest in acting and played the role of the Virgin Mary in one production.
Her father moved off the farm to become the sheriff of Hidalgo County, Tex., where he made his wife and only child deputies so they could travel with him over the vast territory on official business.
Her father was a florist, and her mother was a painter who frequently took her daughter to museums.
She grew up in Manhattan and Monhegan Island, Me., surrounded by her father's artist friends, including George Bellows, Robert Henri, Edward Hopper and Rockwell Kent.
Through the years, she amassed a vast collection of paintings by Bellows, Henri, her father and others, which she gave to the Monhegan Museum as a memorial to her family.
She was born in Philadelphia in 1908 and had her first indoctrination into theater from her father, Philip Goodman, a theatrical producer.
Their next, ''One-Man Show,'' which had a brief run on Broadway in 1945, was set in the world of art dealers and was about the relationship between a father and daughter.
Searching for a subject, Mrs. Goetz suggested to her husband that they dramatize ''Washington Square,'' about a domineering father and his painfully shy daughter.
With Jed Harris as the director, the play was recast with Basil Rathbone as the father and Wendy Hiller as the daughter.
Her father, the 12th Earl of Stair, owned a 75,000-acre estate.
Lord Stair was unwilling to bless the union because Mr. Rankin had never met his own father, due to his parents' separation.
So Mr. Rankin finally made the acquaintance of his father, Sir Reginald Rankin.
A child of international origin -- she was born in Toronto to a Scottish mother and a Dutch father -- Ms. van der Vlis studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London and acted in Canada before moving to New York in the spring of 1956.
Her father died when she was 9, and she did not get along well with her mother.
''
        She is survived by her father, Francis Coleman; her mother, Ann Beach; and her sister, Lisa.
      
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years
        She was married at 17.
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years.
She was born in Eton, where her father was a housemaster at the school and where she was raised among the all-male student body.
Marian Rita Weinbaum was born in Queens on Oct. 13, 1939, and grew up in an apartment above her father's drugstore.
She and her sister, Joan Donovan, saw nothing of their father, who left the family early, and the girls did not live regularly with their mother until 1942, when the independent-minded Margaret was working for a war production factory in Brooklyn.
Her father was an electrician and her mother a catering manager.
But her father vetoed a dancing career.
She was fascinated with the way her father, Joseph, a professional photographer, could condense three-dimensional reality into two-dimensional images, but she was not initially interested in art.
Mrs. Campanelli, who is survived by her husband and father, painted standing on crutches in an 8-by-10-foot studio that used to be a bedroom.
Her father was French, her mother English.
Her father, Ilya, was a painter, goldsmith and artist of Judaica.
They are her father, Robert C. Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; her brother Robert C. Hoover II of Alameda, Calif.; her half-sister, Whitney Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; and her half-brothers, John S. Hoover of Los Angeles and Samuel S. Slater of Ketchum, Idaho.
      
Her father, the American modernist Arthur B. Carles, had studied with Matisse.
She began painting under her father's supervision at age 6, and studied art at Bennett College in Millbrook, N.Y., and then in New York City with Maurice Sterne, Alexander Archipenko and Hans Hofmann.
In 1918, her father took a job as a riverkeeper, or private game warden, on an estate in Sutherland County in the Scottish Highlands.
