Her father, John Alfred Collier, was a successful criminal lawyer who counted among his clients Clyde Barrow, Bonnie Parker and Baby Face Nelson.
Dr. Ladyzhenskaya's reputation as an independent spirit was furthered by her friendship with Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn, the author and dissident, and by reports that her father had been killed by Soviet officials, Dr. Lax said.
''
        She was born on a 62-acre farm outside the Dutch village of Baarn, the only daughter of a well-off father who became a government inspector.
Her father was a railroad engineer.
Her father named her after a 13th-century statue he saw in a Nuremburg cathedral.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
After singing in the choir of her father's church in Harlem, she began working as a backup singer for Solomon Burke, the Drifters, Chuck Jackson and others.
Her father, a doctor, ran his practice out of the family's home near Crotona Park, in the heart of the South Bronx.
Miss Lowenthal graduated from Walton High School, earned degrees from Queens College and New York University and worked for her father as an X-ray technician.
The first singers to record at the studio were Rufus Thomas and Carla Thomas, father and daughter, and their rhythm-and-blues song ''Cause I Love You'' became the label's first regional hit, followed by Carla Thomas's ''Gee Whiz.
Her father, Sir Cecil Kaye, was titular head of an Indian state, Rajputana.
Her husband, Maj. Gen. Goff Hamilton, served with Queen Victoria's Own Corps of Guides, as had his father.
Her father was William Cecil Marshall, an architect, the runner-up in the first Wimbledon final in 1877 and a friend of Darwin.
Born in Paris on Oct. 10, 1924, of a Georgian father and a French mother, Monika Tchemerzine, as Ms. Tcherina was baptized, began dancing as a child.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, William Lopatin of Sanibel; a daughter, Laurie, of San Jose, Calif.; and a grandson.
      
Jane Pinto-Reis Brian was born on Aug. 12, 1917, in Qingdao, China, where her father was serving as Brazil's ambassador.
Newsweek noted in 1990 that she gave as much space to quotations from her father as to those from Herodotus and Thucydides.
''My father was Achtung-German,'' Mrs. Schott recalled in 1992.
Her father, Randolph Carter Harrison, was a senior vice president of Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company.
In 1949 she opened a small nightclub, Chez Geneviève with $4,000 from her father.

        Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of persuading her teenage son to kill her wealthy father in Utah because of what she considered his stinginess, died on Tuesday at a hospice in San Diego.
Mr. Coleman, the author, said in an interview that Frances Schreuder was skilled at manipulating her mother to get money, even as her father tired of supporting her extravagant life in New York.
Correction:  April 10, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on April 1 about Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of having arranged the murder of her father in Utah, misstated the time elapsed before the murder weapon was found and referred incorrectly to the college work she completed in prison.
The Mentzers were hard-working immigrants and Esther, destined to become known to the world by the diminutive of Estée, recalled well the Christmastime wrapping of gifts of hammers and nails, her father's gifts to his customers.
In her 1985 autobiography, ''Estée, A Success Story,'' Mrs. Lauder recalled her mother as ''a Hungarian beauty whose mother was a French Catholic and whose father was a Hungarian Jew.
'' She described her father as ''an elegant, dapper monarchist in Europe, who, when transported to a new country, still carried a cane and gloves on Sundays.
Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents.
Her father was a real estate manager and at one time managed a movie theater.
Her father was an engineer who worked for the federal government and liked to photograph the dams and other large projects on which he worked.
Mrs. Hudson was 8 when her mother died, and she and her siblings were raised by her father on a 105-acre farm until the land was seized by a white doctor to whom the family owed money.
A more sinister family memory, mentioned in an oral history by the Southern Regional Council, was her father's mentally ill brother being lynched by a white mob.
She graduated from Smith College in 1937, a year before her marriage to Daniel Fraad Jr. Mr. Fraad had just joined the Allied Maintenance Corporation, a modest building service founded by his father in 1888.
In the 1990's, Ms. Breslin and her father, Jimmy Breslin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper columnist, both published books about their life-threatening illnesses and gave joint interviews about them.
In addition to her husband, father and stepmother, Ronnie M. Eldridge, a former City Councilwoman, she is survived by her sister, Kelly, and her brothers, James, Kevin, Patrick and Christopher.
      
As was the custom among German families in the area, Emma and her sister Anna, who died in 1992, worked side by side with their father, Fred, who died in 1966.
Her father, Samuel Charney, also known as Shmuel Niger, was the literary critic for The Day, a Yiddish newspaper, and he and his wife ran a literary salon in their home in New York.
Their father, Michael, a dentist, helped oversee their training, and their mother, Clarice, designed their costumes.
Peter Kennedy attributed much of the team's success to his father having taught them perseverance.
Brand was born in 1907 in Syracuse and grew up in nearby Ilion, N.Y., where her father was chief mechanical engineer for Remington typewriters.
Her father, a surgeon, moved the family to Denver when she was an infant.
In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her heavy makeup made her a symbolic image in Turkish culture, she was known internationally for her paintings, which often depicted a little girl, a personification of herself
        She was born in 1910 in Istanbul, where her father was an accountant who wrote poetry and her mother was a painter.
But her father angrily opposed the plan, telling her she could resign herself to being his secretary in the office supply business that he managed or spend the rest of her life as a maid.
She began working as a secretary for Mr. Copley, who had become chief executive of Copley Press after the death of his father, Ira C. Copley, who started the company in 1905.
Her father, Ray Grey, acted in Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies and later worked as an assistant director.
Her father and two brothers had gone ahead.
Hence that furrow in the brow of the otherwise self-possessed president of the New-York Historical Society, who is inaugurating her tenure with a $5 million blockbuster exhibition on Alexander Hamilton, a founding father hitherto best known for decorating $10 bills with his somber visage.
She grew up in Great Neck, on Long Island, where her father was an internist and her mother a historian and educator.
Her father was a wealthy farm consultant and investor; her mother was a housewife with a cook and maid who could make not much more than baking powder biscuits, codfish balls and Welsh rarebit.
She married William S. Patten, who, like her father, was a diplomat.
She was born in 1921 in Larchmont, N.Y., where her father, Francis Coffin, was an Episcopal minister.
Ms. Sagan had an enormous international success with ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' about an amoral teenager who sets out to keep her philandering widowed father from marrying again.
''
        Furthermore, she added, people couldn't accept that this girl ''should know about her father's love affairs, discuss them with him, and thereby reach a kind of complicity with him on subjects that had until then been taboo between parents and children.
Her father was an Iraqi diplomat who served as the country's ambassador to Iran and India until the monarchy was overthrown in 1958.
''She became a journalist, although that was an almost recklessly brave thing to do in the chilliest days of the cold war, because she wanted to be with my father,'' Kati Marton said in a telephone interview.
Her father, Robert Browning Hamilton, was a serious amateur poet, and one of her earliest memories was of him reading Alexander Pope's ''Iliad'' to her in her crib.
The first of these structures to be built in marble was dedicated by Alexander's father, Philip II.
In ''Spring Sonata'' (1979), a fetus decides against being born after listening to its parents' high expectations, while ''Brothers'' (1983) follows four generations of a Jewish family that flees Russia for Europe, as Ms. Rubens's father did.
Mrs. Meyerhoff first entered the art world after her father, Harry A. Bernstein, died in 1958.
Besides Mr. Halperin, the director of policy planning at the State Department under President Bill Clinton, Ms. Pitchersky is survived by her father, Arthur, of Rockville, Md.
Much to the dismay of her parents -- her father was a furniture maker, while her mother made costume jewelry -- she stayed in Europe to pursue a modeling career.
Her father, Peter Wimmer, had trained in Europe as a church decorator.
Her father, Peter Wimmer, had trained in Europe as a church decorator.
Sharifa Ahmad was born on June 6, 1946, to a Yemeni father and a Czech mother.
''
        Iris Shun-Ru Chang was born on March 28, 1968, in Princeton, N.J. She grew up in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., where her father, a physicist, and her mother, a microbiologist, taught at the University of Illinois.
Her father, Teobaldo Tebaldi, was a wounded soldier from the First World War when he met and married Giuseppina Barbieri, a gifted singer who had wanted a musical career but became a nurse.
(Despite periodic meetings over the years with her father, they never fully reconciled.
Her father was a fur trader in China, and her mother joined him there for long periods, leaving Susan and her younger sister in the care of relatives.
When Susan was 5, her father died in China of tuberculosis.
Between ''Valentines'' and ''Selected Poems,'' she also published, among others, ''A Time of Bees'' (1964); ''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems'' (1982); ''If It Be Not I: Collected Poems 1959-1982'' (1992), which included much of her earlier work; and ''Firefall'' (1992), which remains in print at Knopf.
(''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems.
'' The sonnet was first published in book form in ''Near Changes'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1990), not in ''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems'' (Atheneum, 1982).
      
From her family, she inherited both an interest in writing (her father owned The Athens Morning Journal) and the progressive social conscience that informed much of her work (her maternal grandfather's home had been a stop on the underground railroad).
Her father, a wheat farmer, died when she was 2; her mother supported the family by selling real estate.
