Ms. Fosburgh's books were the nonfiction "Closing Time" (1977) and the novels "Old Money" (1983), about a woman photographer's painful relationship with her father, and "India Gate" (1991), a sprawling, passionate novel set in India.
Ms. Fosburgh's books were the nonfiction "Closing Time" (1977) and the novels "Old Money" (1983), about a photographer's painful relationship with her father, and "India Gate" (1991), a sprawling, passionate novel set in India.
Her translations included Umberto Eco's "Open Work and Other Essays" (1989), Annie Cohen-Solal's "Sartre" (1987), Raymond Radiguet's "Count d'Orgel's Ball" (1989), Francesca Duranti's "Happy Ending" (1990) and Annette Kahn's "Why My Father Died: The Trial of Klaus Barbie" (1991).
Miss Hepburn, whose name originally was Edda van Heemstra Hepburn-Ruston, was born on May 4, 1929, near Brussels, to a Dutch mother and an English father, and was educated largely in London.
Ms. Wood grew up on a working ranch in the Simi Valley, where her father, Adrian Gordon (Buddy) Wood, was a rancher, philanthropist, cultural leader and powerful figure in county politics.
Alexandra was born into Greek royalty -- and tragedy -- on March 25, 1921, five months after her father, Alexander, King of the Hellenes, died of blood poisoning after being bitten by a pet monkey.
Mrs. Vaill was the former president of Seaman Schepps, the Park Avenue jewelry design firm founded by her father in 1921.
She took over after her father's death in 1972, retiring in 1988.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Richard L. Simmons; two daughters, Nicole Simmons of Bethesda, Md., and Janine Simmons of Los Angeles, and her father, Dr. Burton C. Grodberg of Saugus, Mass.
      
Her father, John W. Davis, subsequently ran for President on the Democratic ticket, losing to Calvin Coolidge in 1924.
In 1936 she played Ophelia to John Gielgud's Hamlet and Judith Anderson's Queen Gertrude, and in 1941 she began a record-breaking 66-week run in "Life With Father" in Chicago.
"
        Correction:  March 2, 1993, Tuesday
        A picture in some copies yesterday with an obituary of Lillian Gish, showing a scene from "Life With Father," was published in error.
Her marriage to Ethan Gologor ended in a divorce that drew publicity for a custody accord in which the children shuttled between the mother's and father's homes on alternating days.
Ms. Mills was born in England and later moved with her family to Brazil, where she studied animal husbandry and managed her father's cattle farm and eucalyptus plantation in a mountain town above Rio de Janeiro.
Her mother, Lilian Braithwaite, was a star on the London stage, and her father, Gerald Lawrence, was a matinee idol who began his acting career as a juvenile in the company of Sir Henry Irving.
Her father, Herbert, owned a furniture manufacturing company.
Mrs. Everson's husband, an engineer and executive in her father's Higgins Ink Company, died in 1969.
Her father, a military officer, fought with the White Army, as did her three brothers, who were subsequently captured, tortured and killed by the Bolsheviks.
Her father was a merchant of tobacco, cigars and cigarettes.
Her father died when she was a child, and her mother took in laundry to support the family.
She was born in Paris, where her father, H. R. Knickerbocker, was a correspondent for United Press.
Her parents met when her father visited Ireland to buy race horses.
Her father, a barrister and later a judge, worked as a director of the BBC.
Her father, William, an itinerant miner of Irish-American ancestry, gave her the nickname Pat because of her birth on the eve of St. Patrick's Day.
"
        Five years after her mother's death, Pat's jolly, blue-eyed father, whom she adored, died of the miner's disease, silicosis.
A short story, "Father Delacroix," was included in a collection, "The Best American Short Stories.
"
        She was born in Newport News, Va., where her father was the president of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock Company.
Her father, also named Ariel, was a Russian-born pianist, the director of the Portland School of Music and a founder of the Portland Opera.
She is survived by her father, of Portland; a brother, Peter, of Manhattan, and a sister, Victoria Pierson of Portland.
      
Role in Seberg Case
        The Seberg episode started in 1970 when Miss Haber wrote about "the baby Miss A is expecting and its father.
Her mother was German and her father Greek, and though she admittedly neither spoke Greek nor cared for Greek food, she identified closely with her father's homeland and described herself as Greek-American.
Her mother was German and her father Greek, and though she admittedly neither spoke Greek nor cared for Greek food, she identified closely with her father's homeland and described herself as Greek-American.
Ms. Martelli is survived by her father, Fred L. Martelli of Ridley Park, Pa.; and a brother, Fred J. Martelli of West Chester, Pa.
      
As a girl, she became fascinated with detective stories in her father's library.
As a girl, she became fascinated with detective stories in her father's library.
Miss Berberova (pronounced bur-BEAR-uh-vuh) was born in 1901 in St. Petersburg; her father was an Armenian civil servant; her mother was Russian.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her husband, Phillip J. Smith; her father, Clifford Nolte of St. Louis, and a brother, Douglas, of St. Louis.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barton L. Goldberg of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sisters, Elizabeth Welles of Boca Raton, and Lori Yarum of New York; and a brother, Brad J. Goldberg, of New York City.
      
Beyond the two divorces, there was the death of her father, the multimillionaire James Buchanan Duke, in 1925, when she was 12 years old.
Fenced with barbed wire and guarded, Rough Point was part of her inheritance from her father, known as Buck, who was president of the American Tobacco Company and had other extensive business interests.
A Father's Fortune And a Young Heir
        What made Miss Duke so enormously rich was the fact that she was his only child.
Miss Duke, a shy, golden-haired child, had private tutors and for a time attended the Brearley School in Manhattan, where her father had built a three-story, 54-room mansion on the northeast corner of 78th Street and Fifth Avenue.
As stipulated in her father's will, Miss Duke acquired control over additional large parts of her inheritance on her 25th and 30th birthdays.
The choreographer treated the darker side of American history in "The Four Marys," a poignant tale of miscegenation in the days of slavery, and in "Fall River Legend," which was based on the 19th-century murder trial of Lizzie Borden, the shy Massachusetts woman accused of murdering her father and stepmother.
Her father's younger brother was the film director and producer Cecil B. DeMille, who spelled his family name differently.
Miss de Mille's childhood was spent partly in New York City, where her father wrote plays for the Broadway producer David Belasco, and partly in a summer colony called Merriewold in Sullivan County, N.Y. Miss de Mille described life at this vacation site for writers and theater people in her memoir "Where the Wings Grow," in which she recalled how, as a girl, she danced by herself in the woods and felt that she was destined to be an artist.
But her father was not sympathetic to her desire to make dancing her professional career,and she became an English major at the University of California at Los Angeles, graduating cum laude.
It was an unusually young age to begin lessons, but Farr's father, Gerald, convinced Day that Heather was ready.
She is survived by her husband; her father, Gerald; her mother, Sharon, and her sister, Missy Farr-Kay, all of Phoenix.
      
Miss Hall was born in Brooklyn and studied at Pratt Institute, where her father was a music teacher.
She is survived by her husband, the tenor Peter Sieffert, and her father.
      
Her father died in 1974 at his home in Hawaii.
"
        Of Welsh descent, the actress was born Myrna Williams on Aug. 2, 1905, on her father's cattle ranch near Helena, Mont.
Her father, David Williams, called her Myrna, after the name of a railroad water stop that caught his fancy.
Started in a Chorus Line
        From her father, a state legislator who was an advocate of President Woodrow Wilson's crusade to establish the League of Nations, she gained a sense of public service that lasted a lifetime.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
"
        Of Welsh descent, the actress was born Myrna Williams on Aug. 2, 1905, on her father's cattle ranch near Helena, Mont.
Her father, David Williams, called her Myrna, after the name of a railroad water stop that caught his fancy.
Started in a Chorus Line
        From her father, a state legislator who was an advocate of President Woodrow Wilson's crusade to establish the League of Nations, she gained a sense of public service that lasted a lifetime.
Her father died in the influenza epidemic of 1918, and Mrs. Williams moved her daughter and son, David, to Los Angeles, where Myrna attended Venice High School and occasionally taught dancing.
Her father, Batya Bat, was a journalist and writer who used the pen name Stanislav Budin.
Her father, William J. Tully, was a lawyer and a two-term New York State senator.
