Her father, John Chipman Farrar, was editor of The Bookman in the 1920's and a founder in 1946 with Roger Straus Jr. of the publishing house Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
Her father, Leo Herbert Heckart, took her younger brother to live with him, she said, but she remained with her mother, Esther, who was married five times.
Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942.
Her father was a railroad station agent who drank too much.
Her mother died when she was 4 and her father remarried.
She sold the watch her father had given her at her high school graduation for $30, bought a train ticket and arrived in Hollywood with $18.
He was the father of her only child, Nicki Lee Foster, of Sun Valley, Idaho.
''
        Her father was Phelan Beale, a Wall Street lawyer, who raised three children at Grey Gardens on Lily Pond Lane.
Edith, the mother, also incurred the wrath of her father, Major Bouvier, by showing up at the wedding of her son dressed like an opera star, just as the ceremony ended.
Two days later, her father cut her out of his will.
''She had no mother and no father, and that was of course very nice because there was no one to tell her to go to bed just when she was having the most fun, and no one who could make her take cod liver oil when she much preferred caramel candy,'' the book begins.
I could say to Father, '' 'You don't do that!
Her father was a tenant farmer, and Mrs. Lindgren grew up outside Vimmerby at Nas, a 500-year-old farm, in an old red house surrounded by apple orchards.
Her mother was long dead; her sailor father had been lost at sea, though Pippi was confident he had come ashore on a South Sea island where ''he had become king of all the cannibals.
In 1995 she wrote ''Driving Under the Affluence,'' a sometimes surreal personal examination of her problems with the Internal Revenue Service, the 1992 Los Angeles riots and 1994 earthquake, the impact of AIDS and the death of her father.
Her father, Adolph Miller, was a chemical engineer.
One day in Warsaw, her father took her backstage to meet Rubinstein after a concert.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
She is survived by her father, Robert, of Newport News, Va., and a brother, Von, of Lawrenceville, Va.
      

        Suzanne Bloch, a musician and teacher who spurred interest in early music through her performances on the lute and other instruments, and who promoted the music of her father, Ernest Bloch, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan, where she lived.
Ms. Bloch was born in Geneva in 1907 and moved with her family to New York in 1916, when her father began a series of conducting and teaching posts in American cities.
She was largely self-taught in ancient instruments, and she pursued the field with a determination that was partly due to a rivalry with her father, said her son Anthony Smith.
''She wanted to be a composer, but her father put her down,'' he said.
''She wanted a career where her father couldn't criticize her.
She was the leading authority on  her father's music, and promoted it  worldwide.
Peter Townsend of the Royal Air Force, a Battle of Britain hero with whom she fell in love when he served as an equerry to her father, King George VI.
''
        Princess Margaret Rose was born on Aug. 21, 1930, at Glamis, Scotland, the second daughter of the Duke and Duchess of York, six years before her father became King George VI with the abdication of his brother, Edward VIII.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
As a young woman, she preferred taking part in amateur theatrical productions and even thought of becoming a surgeon, an ambition nipped by her father before it was even a bud.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
As a young woman, she preferred taking part in amateur theatrical productions and even thought of becoming a surgeon, an ambition nipped by her father before it was even a bud.
Her father was a textile manufacturer and her mother an accomplished pianist.
When her family relented on the marriage plans, she returned home and divided her time between learning from her father how to be a chieftain and religious studies.
In 1958, Ani Pachen sat at her father's side in the war councils as the clan decided to fight back.
Later that year, her father fell ill and died.
Her father was Hungarian and her mother Austrian.
Her mother, Jean Schick Grossman, was a parent educator, and her father, Max Grossman, was a lawyer and president of the Ethical Culture Society of New York.
Her paternal grandfather played the organ for five churches in the West Indies, and her father was one of the first black plumbers and electricians licensed by New York State.
Mr. Robinson, a member of the Elks Club with her father, volunteered to become godfather of the girl he called Brown Sugar.
''
        Father Was an Eccentric
        Elizabeth Angela Marguerite Bowes-Lyon was born in London on Aug. 4, 1900, in the waning days of the reign of Queen Victoria, a golden time for the British monarchy and its empire.
When his father died four years later, Lord Glamis inherited a considerable fortune and an even more impressive title, becoming the 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne, Viscount Lyon and Baron Glamis.
When he asked his parents' permission to pursue Elizabeth, his father murmured, ''You'll be a lucky fellow if she accepts you.
''
        Another duty was bucking up the flagging spirits of her husband, who hated the spotlight but who was required to make many public appearances, particularly as his father's health waned and his older brother proved more interested in a racy social life than in boring regal duties.
Her father was Hungarian and her mother Austrian.
Ms. Holland was born on June 16, 1920, in Basel, Switzerland, where her father was the American consul.
(Sissy Spacek played her, while Jack Lemmon played Mr. Horman's father and John Shea played Mr.
Her father was a police officer, and her mother held Tupperware parties.
Her father, a printer, and her brother, Richard, did not become Jehovah's Witnesses, creating a deep fault line in the household.
She wrote of an extremely disorganized family, and of a father who sexually abused her and once tried to kill her.
Her father was a Swedish bank director, and her mother was a Russian noblewoman.
Her father, Bernardo Félix, was a merchant turned civil servant and an imperious dictator over his middle-class household.
Her father, Dr. John Rock, was a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the first birth control pill.
Correction:  May 4, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about A. J. Levinson, an advocate for living wills, included a family member's erroneous reference to the work of her father, Dr. John Rock, in the field of birth control.
Miles still managed a full life in her hometown, Black River Falls, Wis., where she lived with her son, Cole, 9, and his father, Larry Schultz.
''
        In addition to her son, his father and Ms. Hoff, Ms.
Her father was in publishing and became general manager of Hearst magazines.
She dated the athletic Ned and basked in the attentions of her doting, widowed father, the distinguished lawyer Carson Drew.
Her father, Edward J. Regensburg Jr., a debonair cigar manufacturer, left the family, ''whistling,'' she would write, when Lois was 3.
Her father had wanted a boy and referred to her as ''he.
' '' Yet her father helped forge her identity as a writer, she said, giving her books by Paul Lawrence Dunbar and forcing her to memorize Shakespeare.
In a radio interview two years ago, Ms. Jordan appeared to have come to terms with her father.
Ms. Wojciechowska wrote 19 books, the best-known of which is ''Shadow of a Bull'' (1964), about a young boy in Spain who finds his identity after his father, a bullfighter, dies in the ring.
When the Nazis invaded Poland at the outbreak of World War II, the family escaped to southern France and later joined her father, a colonel and chief of staff of the Polish Air Force, in England.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
'' Once a Miss Icarus wrote saying she wanted to marry her fiancé's father.
The girls' father was an immigrant from Vladivostok, Russia, who made his start in America selling chickens from a wagon and, in the classic New World success story, wound up owning movie theaters in three states.
'' Once a Miss Icarus wrote saying she wanted to marry her fiancé's father.
Her parents divorced when she was 2, and her father died five years later.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
Her father read water meters for the city of Los Angeles.
Ms. Solomon was born Hollis Dworken in Bridgeport, Conn., where her Russian-born father ran a grocery and liquor store.
She soon met and married Mr. Solomon, a Yale graduate working for his wealthy father, a hairnet and bobby-pin manufacturer.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
That same year her paternal grandmother died, sending her father into an intensified period of drinking.
In the early 1960's she and Mr. Ferrer became estranged, she had an affair with the arranger Nelson Riddle that went nowhere (he was married and the father of six children) and she slowly became addicted to sleeping pills.
Her father's job was polishing the silver at the Biltmore Hotel in Manhattan.
Her father, Gordon McLean, a mining engineer, died when she was 7.
''Oh, Father, they are playing to very large audiences,'' Miss Lynn said.
She fled Hitler's forces and traveled to New York City with Mr. Lindenbaum and four children in 1940 from Antwerp, where her father, Moshe Avigdor Amiel, was chief rabbi before he became chief rabbi of Tel Aviv.
Her father, who worked for the federal government in charge of Medicare and Medicaid in the Northeast, and her mother, an antiques dealer, hoped for the best: that she would perhaps snare a job as a secretary in an insurance office.
She left the Joffrey School in 1984 to care for her father in Los Angeles.
Emily Genauer was born July 19, 1911, in Staten Island, where her father owned several delicatessens and was an amateur sculptor.
Emily Genauer was born July 19, 1911, in Staten Island, where her father owned several delicatessens and was an amateur sculptor.
Her father was a fruit wholesaler and her mother a columnist for a local newspaper, The Spokane Register.
According to family lore, Quail became a storyteller because she spent so much time caring for her younger brothers, especially after her father's death at an early age.
Over the strong objections of her father, she had her jazz debut at a cabaret called Le Ruban Bleu, at 56th Street and Fifth Avenue.
Her father, who sold hay and grain, and his six children then moved to Westchester County.
In that ensemble play, she acted opposite Mr. McBurney as a woman searching the world for a father she never knew.
''
        Ms. Hunter was born in Detroit, and her father died four years later.
Her father used to call her Mariequita -- Little Marie -- hence her nickname.
A 1975 graduate of California State University at Sacramento, she worked for the United States Forestry Service until 1980, when she decided to follow in her father's footsteps and join the Air Force.
Her father, Harry, was a professional flutist.
Ms. Nelsova began lessons at 5, studying with her father and playing a converted viola.
Her father died before she was a year old, and her mother married John Gallagher.
Her father was a Navy paymaster, and she traveled extensively with her parents.
By the time she was 2, her father, unable to care for her, sent Eileen and her younger sister, Marie, to live in a convent in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.
Her father worked there and had joined in protests in 1970 that led to army shootings in which dozens of workers were killed.
Her volunteer work was encouraged by her parents in Ann Arbor, where her father, Dr. Robert Gesell, headed the physiology department of the University of Michigan.
She is survived by her husband; her 13-year-old daughter, Jessica Smith; her mother, Barbara of Philadelphia; and her father, John of Benson, Ariz.
        She summed up her career by saying: ''I needed to run for all the wrong reasons.
Born Hadda Hapgood in Los Angeles in 1916, she begged her father for piano lessons at the age of 4, and stretched her tiny hands on a board for a week until they could reach across an octave.
Her father, however, who was a dentist, had medical plans for her.
Her father, Samuel Chotzinoff, was a pianist, critic, general music director of NBC and founder of the NBC Opera Theater (1949-52).
After graduating from the Katharine Gibbs School in 1948, Mrs. Grossman worked as an associate producer for her father's television opera venture and as a translator for NBC.
Actually, she is a second-generation exhibit designer: her father, Richard, created industrial exhibits for trade shows, building them in his garage in Glen Rock, N.J., where the family had moved.
''I think I was destined for the museum field,'' Ms. Enseki said, recalling that her father built ''this eyeball in the garage, for some drug company.
He had learned to play the piccolo from his Scottish father, and, having fled from Virginia, played it in a Union Army band during the Civil War.
When her father, a mining engineer, went to Moscow in 1930, she was an aviation correspondent.
Both her parents were Italian immigrants and her father ran a restaurant, among other jobs.
They had been well-known journalists in Ireland -- her father had helped found RTE, Ireland's national broadcasting organization -- and then they felt stuck in the suburbs.
