She grew up in Argentina but moved to Paris with her family when her father, Miguel Angel Carcano, was appointed Argentine Ambassador to France.
Surviving are her husband, Milton; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Eve, both of White Plains; her father, Abraham Letich of Queens; two sisters, Davida Luttenberg of New Hyde Park, L.I., and Judith Kaplan of Ocala, Fla., and a brother, Larry Letich of Verona, N.J.
      
Her father was the publisher Moses Annenberg, founder of the precursor of Triangle Publications, which publishes TV Guide.
As a teen-ager she moved with her family to Tokyo, where her father, Walter Edmund Lutz, worked in international trade.
As a teen-ager she moved with her family to Tokyo, where her father, Walter Edmund Lutz, worked in international trade.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her father, George, and a sister, Natalie Fewsmith, all of New York City.
      
Her mother was a physicist; her father, Eugene, worked for the Socony Oil Company, and the family followed him around the world to England, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Texas, Europe and Morocco.
"
        Her fiery portrait of a barbarian woman who takes revenge on Jason, the unfaithful father of her two sons, by murdering them won the actress an honored niche in theater history.
Taught School for a Time
        Mrs. Everett was born in Fayetteville, N.C., where her father was a lawyer.
She worked in her father's firm, then married Reuben Oscar Everett and worked with him.
Their father, a cotton broker, played the piano and their mother sang.
Their father, a cotton broker, played the piano and their mother sang.
Her father, a dentist who also painted, changed the family name from Anderson, which he considered too commonplace, to Bernstone.
Her father, Alrick H. Man, a Wall Street lawyer, developed the community of Kew Gardens in Queens, on property that had been bought by her grandfather, Alban P. Man.
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Peter Wedeen; two sons, Dr. Van Wedeen of Boston, and Dr. Glenn Wedeen of Manhattan, and her father, Hugo Ullman of Brooklyn.
      
Her father, who was an acrobat, asked his agent to send her to see the producer George Abbott, who was auditioning actors for a new comedy, "Best Foot Forward.
Her father changed his name to Dewey Barto when he joined a vaudeville act called the Three Bartos.
Her father, who was an acrobat, asked his agent to send her to see the producer George Abbott, who was auditioning actors for a new comedy, "Best Foot Forward.
Her father changed his name to Dewey Barto when he joined a vaudeville act called the Three Bartos.

        Holly Stevens, an editor who devoted much of her career to writing about and editing the work of her father, the poet Wallace Stevens, died on Wednesday at her home in Guilford, Conn. She was 67 years old.
Her selection of work from her father's journals in a 1977 book called "Souvenirs and Prophecies: The Young Wallace Stevens" became controversial.
"
        Miss MacGrath's final London appearances were in "Voyage Round My Father," opposite Alec Guinness, in 1966, and in "A Bequest to the Nation," with Zoe Caldwell, in 1970.
She began playing the ukulele when she was 4 and at 10 she joined a string band led by her father in which she played banjo.
Her father, Jose Camprubi, founded the publication as a general interest daily paper in 1913, and she took over after he died.
Miss Barker was born in Baltimore, where her father was a prominent doctor.

        Ruth Hammond, an actress whose career on Broadway spanned half a century, died in her sleep on Thursday, her 96th birthday, at the Actor's Fund Home in Englewood, N.J.
        Miss Hammond created the role of Cora in the 1939 hit play "Life With Father" and remained in the cast for the entire run of the show, missing only one performance in seven and a half years.
Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today.
She is survived by her father, Ellis Dryer of Toronto; a brother, Matthew, of Buffalo; a sister, Dr. Dagny Dryer Murray, of Prince Edward Island, Canada, and a grandfather, John L. Synge of Dublin.
      
Her father, Louis Erich Otto Dietrich, who was a police lieutenant and a former cavalry major, died when she was 9 years old.
Mrs. Nathanson and her siblings gave the Mazer Building in memory of their father, Abraham Mazer, who died in 1952.
Her father, George Towns, was a professor at Clark Atlanta University.
Before she entered kindergarten, Mrs. Fisher's father purchased The Whittier News, a newspaper in Whittier, a predominently Quaker town near Los Angeles, where the Kennedy clan grew up "on the outside looking in," she said.
Before she entered kindergarten, Mrs. Fisher's father purchased The Whittier News, a newspaper in Whittier, a predominantly Quaker town near Los Angeles, where the Kennedy clan grew up "on the outside looking in," she said.
Her father, Frederick H. Knubel, was president of the United Church in America, from its founding in 1918 to 1944.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her father, Henry.
"
        Her father, George Laubenstein, said yesterday, "She told us from the very beginning that this is going to be a terrible epidemic.
" Reluctant Beginnings
        She said one of her earliest influences was her father's suggestion that his 5-year-old daughter "think of everything in the world as dancing atoms.
Mrs. Somerville is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Kelley; a son, Chad; a twin sister, Tamara Westover, all of Rye, and her father, Paul Buiar of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      
Her father, the grandson of a founder of Gertz department stores, is a real-estate investor.
While still a teen-ager, she went to work as a stenographer in the gallery that her uncle, Charles W. Kraushaar, founded in 1885 and that her father, John Kraushaar, inherited at his brother's death in 1917.
Under Miss Kraushaar's father, it became known for its close association with American artists.
"
        Miss Kraushaar took over the running of the gallery when her father became ill in the 1930's and became its owner at his death in 1946.
The sisters' interest in supporting medical research stemmed from the ear infections that Mary Lasker endured and from both their mother and father's suffering from hypertension.
Her father, Ogden H. Hammond, was a financier and state legislator.
Scandalized Her Family
        Mrs. Fenwick attended the Foxcroft School in Virginia but left to accompany her father to Spain when he served as the American ambassador under President Calvin Coolidge.
She inherited a fortune when her father died in 1956 but remained frugal, counting her change from coffee, using one lamp to work by and driving a Chevrolet that stood out in a community of luxury automobiles.
When the little girl was reunited with her father, her first words were, "Daddy, I've been waiting for you.
Her father, Loren G. Disney, was a lawyer and a local political figure.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Jeremy Swan, and stepmother, Rona Swan, both of Beverly Hills, Calif.; her mother, Pamela Swan of Long Beach, Calif.; four sisters, Elizabeth Condit of Gainesville, Fla., Caroline Swan of Los Angeles and Eleanor Donohue and Geraldine Swan, both of Long Beach; two brothers, Jeremy Swan of Studio City, Calif., and Gordon Swan of Los Angeles.
      
The young Thelma Booth Ford attended public schools in Brooklyn and Hartford, and dropped out at 14 to seek a stage career, despite angry opposition by her father.
With her father, she wrote a book on Luca Cambiaso, a 16th- century Genoese painter.
From her father, Mrs. Manning inherited thousands of Italian and French paintings and drawings, to which she and her husband added major works.
Hostess to Ambassadors
        From her father she inherited, among other properties, a building on Central Park South, and with it a palatial 20th-floor, 18-room apartment.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barney Gelfan, and a brother, Carl Gelfan, both of Los Angeles.
      
Her father was an engineer who became president of the Hooker Electro-Chemical Company.
Her father was murdered when she was a child, and her mother took in boarders and ran a lunchroom for longshoremen.
Accompanied by her sister, Margie, who was sent by their father to keep an eye on her, she broke in with the expansion Minneapolis Millerettes in 1944 and was an immediate star.
