They found that by the time paralysis developed, antibodies had eliminated the polio virus from the blood.
When Mr. Jaffe sold the agency in 1961, Ms. Donadio found a new home at Russell & Volkening.
Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C.

        Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island.
A tiny office was found.
''
        On March 11, 1946, Ms. Lawry assembled 20 prominent research scientists to found the Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis, which was renamed the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in 1947.
She helped found the United Service Organizations and was a former board member of the United States Committee for Unicef.
The man I was to marry believed in me and what I could do, and consequently I found I could do more than I realized, even in that mysterious outer world that fascinated me but seemed unattainable.
He was put on trial in Flemington, N.J., and Mrs. Lindbergh went on the witness stand for the prosecution to identify a flannel shirt -- made from an old petticoat of hers -- that had been found on the murdered baby.
'' And then she, ''most unexpectedly, found inspiration, and even more, as she fell in love with another man.
Humphrey praised the program, yet added criticism that Miss Koner found so perceptive that she sought out Humphrey and asked her to be her adviser, her ''outside eye,'' as she called her.
''
        Then they found out that Ms. Converse was 85.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
Mr. Pike, who went to South Vietnam in 1960 as a Foreign Service officer, said Dr. Hammer wrote one of the few books that people arriving in that era found valuable: ''The Struggle for Indochina'' (1954), which examined the struggle for freedom from France.
Her works were seen on Swedish television, and her pure-dance aesthetic found favor with a new generation of viewers.
'' She also found the time to work as vocal coach for stars like Jane Russell and Rock Hudson.
''I found a much smaller house in Hollywood,'' she recalled.

        Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early yesterday morning.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.

        Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early Saturday.
Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem.
The figurines were traded freely and could be found in almost any Greek household.
She found herself back in London when the Carl Rosa and Sadler's Wells companies merged in 1959, but before resuming her career, she won a scholarship that allowed her to study for six months with the great soprano Eva Turner.
She was a co-founder of the English Department at Hebrew University, helped found a self-help organization for Arab women and traveled around the world marshaling support for the Jewish state.
In one report she found that opinion researchers must sometimes resort to biased questions to detect bias on the respondent's part.
Her investigation of conformity in America in the 1950's found the issue to be oversimplified.
Running to see what was wrong, she found Dr. Anastasi trying to pry a plug out of an electrical outlet by using a metal letter opener.
But by 1934 she moved to Chicago and found work writing about and helping to produce jazz concerts.
Anthropological texts say the line of Modjadjis started in 1800, when Mugodo, a chief of the Dzugudini tribe, had a vision that he must marry his daughter and found a female dynasty.
She owned a leopard-skin cloak that had been in the family for five generations but could be found sitting barefoot on the mud stoop of her thatched reception hut.
Last year, like a long-delayed punch line, the staff of the City Center in Manhattan found 47 dusty boxes of long-lost scripts and other memorabilia (but no kinescopes) from ''Your Show of Shows,'' the ''Admiral Broadway Revue'' and other pioneering television productions.

        Lindsay Findlay, president of the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan, was found dead on July 5 at her home in Manhattan.
''I had never found anything as romantic as this beat-up building, a ruin really,'' Ms. Chabot said in an interview with The Albuquerque Journal in 1999 when the house was dedicated as a national landmark.
Her father had given Mr. Graham control of The Post and when the latter died, his widow found herself in a mysterious thicket of corporate politics dominated by men unaccustomed to a woman in the boardroom and highly skeptical of her ability to run a newspaper.
Over the years, she found a little time for a personal life.

        Aveline Kushi, who taught and promoted macrobiotic cooking and helped found one of the nation's first natural food stores, died of cancer on July 3 in Brookline, Mass.
As a young artist in Manhattan, she found that the bathroom of her apartment was the ideal size for a studio.
After she earned bachelor's and master's degrees from New York University, she worked with Dr. George Blinick to found the midwifery program at Beth Israel.
She worked for large Madison Avenue shops and founded or helped found several agencies that specialized in advertising aimed at blacks and other minorities.
She helped found the Black Creative Group and Mingo, Jones, Guilmenot, later Mingo-Jones Advertising and now the Chisholm-Mingo Group.
Intrigued by the inscription, she painstakingly researched his life and found how he, a complex man with a deep sense of honor, bought his freedom and built a home, a family and his own successful business as a skilled weaver and tanner.
Not surprisingly, the new instruments found their most welcome home in movie soundtracks, including those for ''King Kong,'' ''The Lost Weekend'' and ''Spellbound.
Virtually everywhere ''Turangalila'' was performed, Jeanne Loriod was to be found, her sister often playing the virtuoso piano part.
She met other promising newcomers, among them Gene Saks, Sidney Lumet and Michael V. Gazzo (later to write ''A Hatful of Rain'') and soon found herself in a new group called Off Broadway Inc.
        She joined the Actors Studio, where she met and worked with the Studio's guru, Lee Strasberg, and later described him as the person ''who made it possible for the whole world to open up for me.
Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career.
In 1959 she played a middle-aged woman in love with a handsome 19-year-old (Horst Buchholz) in ''Cherie,'' adapted by Anita Loos from two novels by Colette and set in France in the years just before and after World War I. Atkinson found her performance ''magnetic and illuminating.
Instead of a savage beast, she found a genteel nature she described as ''terribly black tie.
''I found him rather endearing, like a child,''Miss Greer said of Hughes in one interview.
He found it anyhow, and proposed after a whirlwind courtship.
Mr. Dubé, the executive director of Career Transition for Dancers, bounds into the room, jiggling coins that he found on the floor.
At Mrs. Scull's prompting, they found it in Manhattan, where, with the rise of Abstract Expressionism, the art world was beginning to generate glamor and profits.
Within a year, she reported, she had found clear evidence of a herpes link.
Later studies by others found that cytomegalovirus, a herpes-related virus, is found in the fatty plaque of heart disease patients.
Later studies by others found that cytomegalovirus, a herpes-related virus, is found in the fatty plaque of heart disease patients.
Other studies have found similar links.
Medical care, she found, is strongly influenced by cultural norms and values ingrained over hundreds of years.
The body uses only so much and eliminates the rest, she found.
She soon found herself onstage at the Sheridan Square Theater in Greenwich Village, portraying no fewer than 27 characters.
Mr. Stans had invited Ms. Shanahan to a reporters' lunch and, when she arrived, she found that the men who worked her beat were not there and that all the other reporters at the lunch were women.
Ms. Shanahan left The Times in anger in 1977 after she found that, although she was regarded as one of the leading reporters in the Washington bureau, her salary ranked halfway down the list, according to an account by a Times colleague, Nan Robertson.

        Edith Schwartz Capa, who helped found the International Center of Photography in Manhattan in 1974, died Wednesday at her Midtown home.
Her mother was a concert pianist, and Ms. Gurney soon found herself drawn to the arts, taking classes at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art and later gravitating to London's West End.
For years before ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' Ms. Gurney found steady work in the theater, playing modern and classical roles, including a 1955 turn as Portia in ''The Merchant of Venice'' and a 1965 run of ''A Winter's Tale,'' in which she played Hermione alongside John Gielgud.
The boy was soon reading at grade level, and Mrs. Rawson had found her niche.
The odd experiences she described -- which included shopping with Liszt (he was interested in the price of bananas) and watching television with Chopin (he was appalled) -- found a resonant audience in the era of the Beatles and flower power.
Dr. Schor found many ways that women in Sand's novels used fetishes, which are usually considered a male preoccupation.
''
        She relentlessly challenged conventional understanding in her teaching and writing as well as in a feminist journal she helped found in 1989 at the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University.
