Since she was found to be H.I.V-positive at the age of 30, Ms. Dent published three volumes of her poetry.
Her first play, ''Any Woman Can't,'' found its way to Playwrights Horizons, then a small Off Broadway company, and was produced in 1973, shortly before she began to study playwriting in earnest at the Yale University School of Drama.
A decade ago an interviewer for The Times found her there: happy, serene and as unpretentious as ever.
During the 1960's Ms. Winters found her métier as a character actress.
'' She played a former swimming champion who sacrifices her life to help save fellow passengers on a doomed ship, although reviewers found it hard to accept the stout Ms. Winters in the part.
A historian leading a workshop at Pratt Institute, James Hurley, had seen references to the community in archives, but in many walks he had found no sign of it.
In 1969, college students and students from a nearby public school did an archaeological dig nearby and found artifacts that included a slave's shackles.
One of the items found in the archaeological digs at Weeksville was a tintype of a dignified woman, elegantly dressed in tidy hat, fitted bodice and spectacles.
She went on to lead the effort for a national holiday in his honor and to found the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Non-Violent Social Change in Atlanta, dedicated both to scholarship and to activism.
The King Center was criticized as competing for funds and siphoning energy from the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, which Dr. King had helped found.
Joseph Lowery, who helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference with Dr. King and then served as its president for 20 years.
Then, like riders on a runaway freight train, the minister and his young wife found themselves in the middle of a movement that would transform the South and ripple through the nation.
An acquaintance found her a job in a laundry in Brooklyn, where she was assigned to an ironing board.
Critics sometimes found them lacking in character development and said that her plots seemed elitist and outdated.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
The First Women's Bank and Trust Company, which she helped found in 1973, is no longer in business.
''The only black people you found were occasional characters or characters who were so feeble-witted that they couldn't manage anything, anyway.
They eventually found their way to Menton, on the French Riviera, where Russian émigrés established an intellectual and artistic community that Vladimir Nabokov described in early novels.
As a scholar of medieval medicine, she found that early medical treatises often included descriptions of food thought to be curative.
Because she liked the sound of Christopher Street, she got off there and found an apartment in Greenwich Village and soon after, a job as a secretary in a candy manufacturing company.
In June 2005, Miss Mars was in the courtroom in Philadelphia when Edgar Ray Killen, by then 80, mastermind of the ambush of the civil rights workers, was found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 60 years in prison.

        Doris W. Jones, who found the doors shut to her when she tried to learn ballet as an aspiring black dancer but who went on to open them for succeeding generations, running ballet schools for black youngsters and training a roster of notable dancers and choreographers, died on March 21 in Washington.
''He became a borderline case, and I didn't like what I found on either side of the border,'' she wrote in her 1992 autobiography, ''Curriculum Vitae.
Spark's books cover a broad territory of plot and character, some central similarities can be found in many of the novels and short stories.
It was after reading Proust that I found I rather liked writing prose.
''
        On a Wisconsin farm in childhood where Jews were spoken of in whispers, in her parochial school catechisms and other religious texts that portrayed Jews as Christ-killers, Rose Thering learned the coded messages of intolerance early in life and found them unsettling.
Later, as a teacher, she examined the Catholic textbooks of her students more critically and was shocked by what she found.
In East St. Louis, she found talented young people living in one of the nation's most destitute areas and turned them into dancers.
''
        In later research, Dr. Roberts and others found that T.G.F.-beta inhibits the growth of some cancers while stimulating growth in advanced cancers, including cancers of the breast and lung.
The critic John Martin of The Times found it ''imaginative and formally interesting chiefly in the two boxing sequences, but in its more dramatic scenes it relies on fairly obvious dumb-show.
Mr. Rosenbaum, 63, a longtime reporter in the Times's Washington bureau, died two days after he was found semiconscious on a sidewalk near his home.
Last week, an official inquiry found multiple failures in the emergency response.
      
She then found jobs on the West Coast in fashion shows and magazines that catered to black audiences, and a husband, a much older dentist who spoiled her.
Ms. Church found that she liked Paris so much that she informed her husband she was staying.
''
        Returning to Jamaica in 1947, she found it hard to earn a living.
In 1950 she went back to England, where she again found work with the BBC, as host of another Caribbean show, ''West Indian Night.
But her music found an audience in Germany, and in 1994 she was awarded the Heidelberg International Composition Prize for Women Composers.
She helped found the association's Corporate Counsel Conference, an annual meeting sponsored by its commercial law section.
In 1947, when Ms. Walker was admitted to the New York bar, she found the doors of the city's law firms tightly shut.
But others found her interpretations calculated, mannered and arch (the ''Prussian perfectionist,'' one critic called her), and complained that in trying to add textual vitality, Miss Schwarzkopf resorted to crooning and half-spoken dramatic effects.
''We had women, men, African-Americans, whites,'' Mrs. Gray Adams said of the party in a 2004 interview for the Virginia Organizing Project, a grass-roots political group she helped found.
Of all the waters Ms. Tharp plotted, she found the Atlantic the most congenial.
She was found to have acute leukemia in December 2005, and was treated with chemotherapy.
Although Balanchine had gone out of his way to recruit her, Ms. Hayden found her path anything but smooth in the first few years.
Circular rose gardens, a rainbow of blossoms surrounding a thatched cottage and an Italianate walled garden with trees trained to grow in the shape of candelabras are found near the main house.
In 1968, the Ortners helped found the Brownstone Revival Committee, now known as the Brownstone Revival Coalition, a citywide preservation organization.
He went on to found magazines called Old House Journal, Traditional Building and Period Homes.
In the 1930's, she moved to Manhattan and found work as a shoe model (her feet were size 4B), then worked her way up from a stylist to head designer for I. Miller.
Her youthful looks, insouciance and an accent German soldiers found delightful helped provide cover.
At Illinois, she helped found a laboratory to test for compatibility between organ donors and potential recipients.
A petite, attractive brunette, Ms. Wyatt found it hard to avoid being typecast and wound up playing quite a few of what she described as ''good wives of good men,'' though she confessed she would have been happier ''playing the murderer or the heavy.
Back in New York she found work as an understudy in a Broadway show, and her name was removed from the New York Social Register.

        Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village.
Dr. Donald E. Melnick, an internist and the current president of the board, said that Dr. Levit had found earlier clinical exams to be ''not scientifically valid'' and made changes that ''were instrumental in setting a course that guided the board for the next 30 years.
''
        The charming havoc of ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' found a wide audience just after World War II.
In the 1980s, she helped found No More Nice Girls, a street theater and protest group that focused on abortion rights.

        Galina Ustvolskaya, a Russian composer of expressive and often forceful works who studied with Shostakovich, and whose music has found an enthusiastic audience in the West since the early 1990s, died on Dec. 22 in St. Petersburg, Russia.

        Rosie Lee Tompkins, a renowned African-American quiltmaker whose use of dazzling color and vivid geometric forms made her work internationally acclaimed despite her vehement efforts to remain completely unknown, was found dead on Friday at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 70.
She found that the virus, which she named the lambda phage, was being transmitted through bacterial matings and ordinary genetic material.
The foreign ministers found her position convincing and their resolve against the war faded, Mr. Gerson said.
She had something Mr. Haig found that he lacked: the president's ear.
An agent heard her and found her work singing for money at larger stations.
Then there were those who found notoriety through marriage, including Tammy Faye Messner (better known as Tammy Faye Bakker, who was married to the television evangelist Jim Bakker) and John Wayne Bobbitt (whose wife, Lorena, cut off his penis with a kitchen knife).
