Dame Miriam's father was the banker Nathaniel Charles Rothschild, who found more than 500 new species of fleas.
After determining that butterflies' bright colors were warning signals of their toxicity, she found that other species evolved to mimic the danger-sign coloration.
She found that odors emitted by toxic butterflies were mimicked by other species, vindicating 19th-century naturalists' speculations.
''During the first day of dissecting the bivalve,'' she wrote in Scientific American, ''I found a specimen infested with larval trematodes,'' which are parasitic flatworms known as flukes.
She was stricken at the office of Nos Quedamos/We Stay, the community group she helped found in the early 1990's to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people who lived and worked in the neighborhood.
In a story she would recount often, proudly and with a wry smile, they found out about the plan by accident in 1992, when a resident noticed a city worker outside her house jotting down notes.
In 1995, a jury in a negligence suit brought by the Zions against the hospital and the doctors who treated their daughter found that an intern and two other doctors had contributed to her death.
When she got home to San Angelo, Ms. Kauffman called the institution closest to her home -- the San Angelo State School, in Carlsbad -- and found that Ms.
In 1989, the jury found the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation guilty of negligence and awarded Ms.
''
        After Ms. Kauffman found her, Ms.
Donald A. Wollheim, editor of the paperback house Ace Books, saw her potential in an adult market, acquired the rights to ''Starman's Son,'' published it under the title ''Daybreak -- 2250 A.D.,'' eliminating all references to the story and its author as being for young readers, and found himself with a steady seller.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
After the Fittkos found each other again, they made their way to Marseille, dodging the French authorities who were collaborating with the Germans.
She returned to Spain several times to look for Mr. Benjamin's lost briefcase, but never found it.
Barnard'' in a correspondence between Alcott and a publisher, they knew they had found what -- or whom -- they had been looking for.
Dr. Harper's team also found technetium was less radioactive and had a shorter half-life than many other isotopes, and was therefore less dangerous to patients.
She dropped her first named in her early 20's when she found another Muriel Wright was already registered with Actors' Equity.
When she found herself perplexed by theological questions, Riverside's founding minister, Harry Emerson Fosdick, encouraged her to enroll at the Union Theological Seminary, where she received her Bachelor of Divinity degree in 1959.
''
        Mrs. Knippers is survived by her husband; her parents, Clarence E. and Vera LeMasters of Lakeland, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas LeMasters, of Fairfax, Va.
        She was found to have cancer in 2003 but kept a demanding schedule until recently.
She found time for romance with her mystery man, Basil St. John, a lean, square-jawed hunk who wore an eye patch and whose only other defect was that he was dying of an exotic disease.
She moved to New York to be closer to the theater and found work as a fashion editor for movie magazines, and in 1947 was hired as an associate fashion editor for Glamour magazine, where she covered shoes.
Robert Rufino, the vice president of creative services at Tiffany & Co., is one of the many retail executives who found their start with Ms. Stutz.
Reviewing ''Heartbreak'' in The New York Times Book Review, Laura Miller wrote: ''Dworkin is one of the few remaining specimens of pure countercultural Romanticism: fierce, melodramatic and utterly convinced that all truth can be found in her own roiling, untempered emotions.
After her first cookbook appeared, The New York Times asked Mrs. Talmadge how she had found the nerve to slaughter her first pig.
''I had to learn the many, many Rachmaninoff pieces that no one plays, and I found out why no one does,'' she said.
She was among the few who found steady work, appearing in more than a dozen grade-C features with titles like ''Treasure of the Golden Condor,'' ''Gorilla at Large'' -- ''I played the title role'' -- and ''Demetrius and the Gladiators.
Two years later she found work in television where, as Anne Marno, she appeared in scores of dramatic shows.
In the 1950's, the Bursteins went to Israel but found it difficult for Yiddish theater to take root there.
She helped found the Metropolitan Council in 1958 and was its chairwoman for many years.
A study by the National Association of Black Accountants found that in 1943 Ms. Washington became the first black woman to become a C.P.A.
When detectives show up to investigate the death, the murder weapon is nowhere to be found.
Ms. Rossner, who was recovering from a car accident, found herself pondering the extent to which people are to blame for their own misfortunes.
In 1987, Dr. Mondy's research created a public stir when she and a graduate student, Barry Gosselin, released a study suggesting that a naturally occurring toxic compound found in potatoes could be hazardous to human health.
Dr. Mondy and others found that chemicals sprayed on potatoes to prevent sprouting in storage often arrived at the grocery store in significantly higher levels than federal guidelines recommended.
But they found work as domestic servants and could not have children living with them.
Hoping to be an artist, she studied at the Art Students League and later found work hand-painting linen neckties for John Wise, a textile dealer and collector.
Mother Benedict Duss, who in the late 1940's helped found the first monastery for cloistered Benedictine nuns in the United States but stepped down as its abbess in 1995 amid a Vatican investigation into charges that it was being run in an authoritarian, cultlike manner, died Oct. 2 at the Abbey of Regina Laudis in Bethlehem, Conn. She was 94.
An American who trained as a surgeon in France before World War II, Mother Benedict helped found the abbey in 1947.
She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women.
In her zeal to fight gangsta rap, the fiercely partisan Democrat found herself allied with William J. Bennett, the conservative Republican who held top posts in the presidential administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.
In 1954, Ms. Pessino helped found the museum's first natural science center for children, directing it through several incarnations.
They found no terns nesting on the island, though a number visited each day to feed.
In 1954, Mrs. Nolte, who wrote a weekly column on family matters for The Torrance Herald, a local newspaper, found herself on deadline and strapped for material.
Christopher Lehmann-Haupt of The Times deemed it overly sentimental and ''not worth doing,'' though other reviewers found it a stark and compelling novel and stylistically an improvement over her first.
In a career that began nearly 80 years ago and lasted until late in life, Ms. Arango produced countless works that often depicted the hurdles and indignities she found in being a woman in a strict Roman Catholic country.
''
        As Colombia opened itself up to the world and produced celebrated artists like Mr. Botero and writers like Gabriel García Márquez, Ms. Arango's work eventually found acceptance and critical acclaim.
In the 1980's she helped found the American Nurses Credentialing Center, which now administers testing for more than 20 medical specialties and, said Catherine L. Gilliss, dean of the Duke University School of Nursing, ''helped to standardize across the nation just what to expect from your nurse.
Her ability to interpret evidence found by others became legendary.
In a paper on the Roman use of horses, Judith A. Walker, an archaeologist, mentioned a chariot and harness found in an ancient tomb.
Mrs. Littauer embodied skepticism, as when what appeared to be wheels of chariots were found on the Russian steppes.
Eclectic scholarly interests had prompted Ms. Cohen, A. J.Pischl and Sheppard Black in 1959 to found Dance Perspectives, a journal dedicated to monographs on various aspects of world dance.
