
       Era Bell Thompson, an author and longtime editor at Ebony magazine, was found dead in her home here Tuesday, said Herbert Nipson, executive editor of the magazine.
Era Bell Thompson, an author and longtime editor at Ebony magazine, was found dead in her home here Tuesday, said Herbert Nipson, executive editor of the magazine.
After serving in the fund-raising arm of Polish War Relief, she helped to found Unicef and in 1953 became head of its United States Committee, a post she held until her retirement in 1978.
William T. Cahill was found dead in her apartment here after drowning in a bathtub, the woman's family and law-enforcement authorities said Friday.
William T. Cahill was found dead in her apartment here after drowning in a bathtub, the woman's family and law-enforcement authorities said Friday.
Her body was then found by a relative, Mr. Cahill said.
Born in Buffalo, she helped found Westons Shopper City in Olean, N.Y., a self-service department store that grew into a chain of 15 stores in New York, Pennsylvania and Maryland.
She helped found Forum, a magazine in which young Caribbean poets and writers were often first published, and helped found the Jamaica Art School.
She helped found Forum, a magazine in which young Caribbean poets and writers were often first published, and helped found the Jamaica Art School.
The answers I have found, sometimes right and sometimes wrong, constitute my contribution to the young American dancer of ballet: not to accept until you understand (at least to your own satisfaction), and not to dance any role, ancient or new, until you do understand.
She helped found the Boston Stage Society in 1922 and the New England Repertory Theater in 1938.
'' Doctors found cancer in her brain and lung last September.
Miss Greenwood's son, Jason Morrell, said his mother was found dead Saturday by friends she had invited to dinner.

       Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first won fame in France for her song ''Bambino'' in 1954, was found dead Sunday from an apparent overdose of barbiturates, according to family members.
Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first won fame in France for her song ''Bambino'' in 1954, was found dead Sunday from an apparent overdose of barbiturates, according to family members.
In 1917, she joined the board of the Virginia Day Nursery, which her mother helped found in 1879, and remained on the board until her death.
I suddenly found myself failing.
In 1962, with the release of the film versions of ''Summer and Smoke'' and ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' she found herself, after 10 years on the stage, being hailed as an ''overnight success.
With Mrs. Roosevelt and others, she helped found the nonsectarian Wiltwyck School for disturbed delinquent children in New York City.
Mrs. Peller lost her job with Wendy's in 1985 after she did a commercial for Campbell's Prego spaghetti sauce proclaiming: ''I found it.
I really found it.
'' The fast-food chain contended that the commercial ''infers that Clara found the beef at somewhere other than Wendy's restaurants.
Men found her fascinating.
On their second meeting, she wrote in her memoirs, she found him so passionately overpowering that on that very night they became lovers and remained so for nearly a year, until his death in 1926.
When her contract came up for renewal, she found she was no longer wanted at Paramount.
She was a native of Russia who arrived in America without her family and at the age of 6 was found nearly dead on the street from frostbite and exposure because she was too poor to own shoes.
In 1967, she and her husband helped to found the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, which provides fellowships for emerging artists and writers.
''But I have found a great deal to do.
When Mr. Rostropovich first heard her play, he remarked that he had found somebody to carry on his work.
''
        She moved to Scarsdale in 1961 and helped found the Music for Westchester Orchestra, the county's first professional orchestra, which later became the White Plains Symphony Orchestra.
