Although some critics dismissed her books, others found them well-done works of their type.
She found, for example, that a transplanted organ was considered a priceless gift by some recipients and a burdensome debt by others.
basketball team, she took up fencing and helped found the National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association.
"
        During her career, Miss Anderson gave her date of birth as Feb. 17, 1902, but June Goodman, a longtime friend of hers, said that while going through some family papers recently, she found Miss Anderson's birth certificate, which gave the date as Feb. 27, 1897.
A Hero's Welcome
        Finally rescuers found the crew, and they returned to a hero's welcome in Moscow, hailed as "daughters of the people.
She also helped to found several professional organizations serving the personnel recruitment industry.
Soon her work found a market in the Ledger syndicate, and ultimately in Life, when it was a comic magazine, as well as The Saturday Evening Post, The Country Gentleman, Judge and Collier's.
She and her husband, Jack, joined Leonard and Isabel Goldenson and Jane Hoving in 1946 to found United Cerebral Palsy of New York City.
Later she helped found the Food Animal Concerns Trust, which advocates treating farm animals humanely.
She retired there last year to devote full-time to her volunteer job as the executive director of the youth committee, which she helped found 17 years ago.
Miss Troyanos found few opportunities in New York, but she was a fighter: When the Met offered her small roles, she turned them down, and when she was denied a chorus role in "The Sound of Music" because Richard Rodgers thought her too glamorous to play a nun, she returned looking disheveled and got the part.
Critics described Mrs. Coker as a romanticist who found her plots, heroes and heroines in the legends and family histories of her native South Carolina.
She found that moderate doses of beta carotene can protect people from the harmful effects of ultraviolet light on the immune system.
In 1984, she found that the recommended dietary allowance for riboflavin was insufficient for women who exercise, and proposed a doubling of that level.
Mrs. Stark, who was a fashion model in the 1930's, designed women's hats for several years before helping her husband, Arthur Stark, found Stark Carpets in 1935.
Mrs. Jablons helped found the City Opera Guild in 1959 and for six years served as its president.
In the middle of the next season, the lump in her breast that originally had been diagnosed as benign was found to be cancerous.
Eleven months after Farr's first chemotheraphy treatments ended, doctors found that the cancer had spread to her skull and spine.
She helped found Boston Newsreel, a documentary company, and worked at WCBN radio and WCVB television in Boston.
Critics found that Miss McNeil imbued that simple character with nobility of spirit.
The introspective movie, confined largely to one room, was found to be as fine as the play.
The couple also helped found the Israeli Philharmonic Orchestra and Boys Town Jerusalem, and they sponsored a clinic for hemophiliacs at Tel Hashamir Hospital in Jerusalem.
Miss Raedler was on the original board of the Harlem School of the Arts and helped found the St. Croix School of the Arts.
Working in education, she helped found the Westland School in Los Angeles, a progressive school where she served as a consultant.
There she found a message from Mr. Havel saying he wanted to meet with her the next morning.
Arriving at his apartment, she found him facing television cameras and photographers.
"It was something called the Maya Corporation, and it was only in the early 70's that I found out it was Alice Tully providing the funds.
