She attended the local teachers' training college, where she felt so lonely that she found peace sitting among tombstones in a cemetery.
Having decided on a literary career early in life, she published some poetry in a prestigious little magazine but found that prose paid better.
Although critics frequently dismissed her books as trite, she kept a solid following among readers and Hollywood producers who found her tales highly satisfying social commentary, if not high literary art.
Eventually, these meetings and contacts would lead to the Bronx Museum, which Mrs. Fleck helped found, forming a group in 1986 called the Committee to Make the Concourse Grand Again.
The new organization took the name of Mr. Klot's organization and found a home at the Bronx Community College, part of the City University of New York.
The council soon found itself coordinating a host of cultural groups, including the Bronx Opera Company, the Bronx Experimental Theater, the Festival of Poetry and the Bronx Showcase of the Visual Arts.
Mrs. Lash was an early mainstay of the commission, which Mrs. Roosevelt helped found in 1944.
Often, she found that programs had no built-in procedure to evaluate their success.
She found that boys at high risk who had been given mentors, health-care services and summer camp fared worse in later life than a similar group of boys who were given nothing special.
In other studies, she found that some youths counseled by court-appointed volunteers fared worse than those who received no counseling.
Her statistical analysis of a program in Australia that provided recreation for troubled adolescents found bad effects.
And participants in the Scared Straight program, which takes young offenders from many locales to visit prisons, were arrested more often than a control group, she found.
Although Juliana was brought up in one of Europe's richest families, many Dutch found her endearing because, shy and soft-spoken, she exuded warmth and plainness.
She said she found curtsies embarrassing and enjoyed being filmed while riding her bicycle in a flowery housewife's dress.

        Dorothy Denny Scardino, a jazz pianist who rubbed elbows with the form's superstars but found her biggest following through a 25-year gig in a Manhattan bank lobby, died on March 9 at a hospice.
She got a complete collection of James's stories and found the quotation on the next to last page.
Correction:  April 10, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on April 1 about Frances B. Schreuder, a Manhattan socialite convicted in 1983 of having arranged the murder of her father in Utah, misstated the time elapsed before the murder weapon was found and referred incorrectly to the college work she completed in prison.
The weapon, a handgun, was found two years after the murder, not one.
He called Mrs. Hudson ''a part of that very small network of people who not only survived but actually found ways to struggle.
In 1954 she helped found an important Concretist group called la Frente (the Front).
Several were found off the South African coast last month.
Later, a justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan found that many strikers were withholding rent to force Mrs. Seril to sell the building or to convert it to condominiums or cooperatives; he also found that some of the strikers were failing to place their withheld rent in escrow, in effect living rent free.
Later, a justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan found that many strikers were withholding rent to force Mrs. Seril to sell the building or to convert it to condominiums or cooperatives; he also found that some of the strikers were failing to place their withheld rent in escrow, in effect living rent free.
Ms. Shemer, whose parents helped found Kibbutz Kinneret, grew up with singalongs.
Brand helped found Theater in the Street, a troupe that toured neglected city neighborhoods and gave free outdoor performances of classic plays.
''
        In 1960, she moved with her children to Los Angeles, where the actress Tallulah Bankhead almost immediately asked her to join the national production of ''Here Today'' -- a job that Ms. Sanford said resulted in her first encounter with discrimination, as she found herself relegated to separate sleeping and dining quarters from her white colleagues.
The puzzle was built around Lewis Carroll's 1872 book, ''Through the Looking-Glass and What Alice Found There,'' and required potential solvers to think backward.
''
        Decades later, when the National Endowment for the Arts started requiring grant recipients to sign an anti-obscenity pledge, Ms. Lewitzky and her company filed a lawsuit, and in January 1991, a federal judge found the pledge unconstitutional.
Moreover, she found, people who are experiencing traumatic life changes like divorces often experience similar stages.
Among the patients whom she interviewed in the late 60's was a woman, Mrs. Schwartz, who had been pronounced dead but hours later was found by a nurse to be alive.
She and associates talked to thousands of patients like Mrs. Schwartz and said they found common strains in the interviews.

        Gloria Emerson, a journalist and author who wrote with angry dignity about the effects of war on Americans, Vietnamese and Palestinians, was found dead by friends and the police yesterday morning in her apartment in Manhattan.
'' During the 1950's and 1960's she found renewed life on television (''Bonanza,'' ''Burke's Law,'' ''Marcus Welby, M.D.'').
After the Weather Girls, Ms. Wash sang, often anonymously, for C and C Music Factory, Black Box and other groups, and Ms. Armstead moved to Germany to found a new Weather Girls group with her daughter Dynell Rhodes, who survives Ms. Armstead, along with six other children and several grandchildren.
      
''None of the rest of us have found progesterone as helpful as the data Dr. Dalton presented, but she really was quite influential in the modern understanding of what happens to women premenstrually,'' said Dr. Diana Dell, an OB-GYN and psychiatrist at the Duke University Medical Center.
Although both a ceramist and a painter, Ms. Radi was best known for her book ''Baghdad Diaries,'' a vivid account of the texture of daily life during the first gulf war and its aftermath, when she found shelter from the bombing in the family orchard in a well-to-do neighborhood.
Ms. Radi, who usually managed to find a flower to tuck behind her ear every day no matter what war-ravaged city she was in, scampered through the wreckage of Mr. Hussein's compound and found happily that much of her large ceramic tableau of Iraq had survived the bombing unscathed.
Unearthed in three large pieces, Dr. Lehmann's statue was the third Nike to be found on the island.
The first, the Winged Victory that today greets visitors to the Louvre from the top of an imposing staircase, was found in 1863 by the French archaeologist Charles Champoiseau.
They took it to the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, along with an unrelated assortment of marble fragments also found on the island.
The team also found the tip of the ring finger nearby.
Examining the fragments left there by the Austrian team more than 70 years before, she found the rest of Winged Victory's ring finger and a thumb.
Back home, they found what appeared to be shiny spots on the car's exterior.
Ms. Rudge is found at the bottom of the grand marble staircase in the Winter Garden.
Laura Miller, a professor of linguistic anthropology at Loyola University in Chicago, said in an e-mail message that she had heard reports that other anthropologists working in China had found other women who continued to use Nushu.
Prints by Robert Frank ($25 each) and Julia Margaret Cameron ($65 each) found only a few buyers.
Such a roster differed sharply from the generally homogeneous fare found in popular picture magazines like Life and Look.
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
Prints by Robert Frank ($25 each) and Julia Margaret Cameron ($65 each) found only a few buyers.
Such a roster differed sharply from the generally homogeneous fare found in popular picture magazines like Life and Look.
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
Ms. Chang was found in her car on a rural road south of Los Gatos, dead from an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound, the local authorities told The San Francisco Chronicle.
''
        She also wrote her own books, which she illustrated, including ''How Six Found Christmas'' (Holiday House, 1991); ''A Little Alphabet'' (William Morrow, 1993); her retelling of the Grimms' ''Little Red Riding Hood'' (Holiday House, 1983); and ''Self-Portrait: Trina Schart Hyman'' (Addison-Wesley, 1981).
It makes me very sad to know that I have found my ideal vocation in such an inaccessible place.
She found new ways of telling them about bats and skunks and porcupines and their behavior even as she cleared up myths about them.
But most opera buffs and critics found it impossible to have a cool head when listening to Renata Tebaldi.
''She found in camp an aesthetic that was very different from what the straight world had acknowledged up to that point, and she managed to make camp 'straight' in a way,'' Arthur C. Danto, the Johnsonian professor emeritus of philosophy at Columbia and the art critic for The Nation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
She found the form an agony: a long essay took from nine months to a year to complete, often requiring 20 or more drafts.
Knopf said Ms. Van Duyn (pronounced dine) had recently been found to have bone cancer.
Ms. Chaney found herself unemployed after years appearing on popular radio series like ''Topper,'' ''Gangbusters'' and ''Mr.
