
       Doris Muser deKeyserlingk, the first woman granted tenure at Williams College, was found dead Tuesday at her home in Williamstown.
Doris Muser deKeyserlingk, the first woman granted tenure at Williams College, was found dead Tuesday at her home in Williamstown.
The New York Youth Orchestra, which she helped found in 1963, still performs.
Miss Woodbury retired from films in 1963 and that year helped found the Valley Players Guild in Palm Springs, where she worked in more than 120 productions over 25 years.
      
'' Her Primary Obstacle
        But to be a writer was difficult, she found, simply because she was a woman.
Browsers Welcome
        Essentially a person of no literary pretensions, Miss Steloff made her bookstore a place cherished as the habitat for the new and the avant-garde in literature, where small magazines and forgotten books of poetry, out-of-print books on belles-lettres and works on film and the theater could be found in an atmosphere congenial to browsers.
But she soon found herself a menial in the household and was forced to drop out of the seventh grade - her last formal schooling.
It was like giving a copy of Euclid to Isaac Newton: She had found herself and a way of life.
One British critic called the novel ''a Charlotte Bronte story minus Bronte,'' but found it had its own appeal.
Another critic, Basil Davenport, called it a ''melodrama, unashamed, glorying its own quality, such as we have hardly had since that other dependent, Jane Eyre, found that her house too had a first wife.
Because of their subject matter, many of Ms. Klein's books sparked considerable controversy, and a 1986 American Library Association survey found that nine of her novels had been removed from libraries.
Paintings acquired for the museum during her years as curator included major works by Poussin, Washington Allston and Thomas Cole, and she and Adelyn Breeskin were instrumental in securing the world-famous Cone collection of paintings and sculptures by Henri Matisse and others, Her gift for organizing scholarly exhibitions with wide popular appeal found outlet in ''The Age of Elegance: The Rococo and Its Effects'' (1959) and ''From El Greco to Pollock'' (1968).

       Julia Smith, a composer, pianist, teacher and writer on music, was found dead of a heart attack in her Riverside Drive apartment Thursday morning.
She was graduated from North Texas State University in 1930 and completed her education at the Juilliard Graduate School in New York and at New York University, where she received her Ph.D.
        Julia Smith, a composer, pianist, teacher and writer on music, was found dead of a heart attack in her Riverside Drive apartment Thursday morning.
''
        After the war, she helped found the party led by Charles de Gaulle.
      
Mrs. Tobin helped found the San Antonio Symphony Society in 1939 and its opera series five years later.
She tested it during her convalescence, found it satisfactory and made it part of her line.

       Ann Honeycutt, an author and radio producer, was found dead on Tuesday in her home in Manhattan.
Ann Honeycutt, an author and radio producer, was found dead on Tuesday in her home in Manhattan.
''
        New generations of entertainers, many of them female impersonators, have found her distinct mannerisms and clipped speech irresistible material for their acts.
Fiction Was Difficult
        There is a certain didacticism to these books, a feeling of willed creation, and Miss McCarthy herself acknowledged that she found it considerably more difficult to write fiction than essays or reviews.
She helped found the Professional Theater Program at the University of Michigan, which she directed from 1961 to 1973.

       Leda Anchutina Eglevsky, who danced in George Balanchine's first American ballet companies and founded the Eglevsky Ballet with her husband, Andre Eglevsky, was found dead yesterday morning in bed at her home in Massapequa, L.I.
Always reluctant to give her age, Miss
        Leda Anchutina Eglevsky, who danced in George Balanchine's first American ballet companies and founded the Eglevsky Ballet with her husband, Andre Eglevsky, was found dead yesterday morning in bed at her home in Massapequa, L.I.
A statement from the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston said Dr. White found that a fetus of a diabetic mother would often be healthy a month before delivery but would die if allowed to go to full term.
She also found that although infants of diabetic mothers usually are normal or larger than normal in size despite premature birth they require the same special care needed for premature infants.
Mrs. Green produced plays in the late 1940's to the 1960's, and helped found such theater companies as the the New Parsons Theater in Hartford, the New Dramatists in Manhattan and Theater Inc. in Manhattan, which became the Phoenix Theater.
