Mrs. Lippmann was also on the board of the Museum of the City of New York and helped found and develop its theater collection.

        Hedy Lamarr, the raven-haired Viennese beauty who became one of the reigning temptresses in Hollywood films in the 1930's and 40's, especially as Delilah vamping Victor Mature's Samson, was found dead in her home in Orlando, Fla., yesterday.
Her reputation grew, and she became a frequent public speaker (many of her speeches can be found on the World Wide Web at members.tripod.com/HazelWolf).
She helped him found and shape the agenda of the Public Policy Institute at the university.
Arriving from Coney Island one morning in 1917 to start classes, Fil D'Agostino -- as she was called by friends -- found five small rooms crammed into a single building east of Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village.
When she came to New York she intended to study at the Art Students League, but ended up attending classes taught by Hans Hofmann, whose emphasis on structure and strong color she found compatible.
As an active campaigner for American music, she helped found the American Composers Alliance in 1938 and was its vice president from 1961 to 1965.
Although a misinformed press agent billed her as a Russian ballerina, her success led her to stay on and found a modern-dance company, La Paloma Azul, in 1940.
In 1974 she helped found the Pacific Northwest Ballet in Seattle, remaining for two years as its first artistic director.
She became the first American woman captured in France when, on a visit to the front northeast of Paris, she found herself pinned down by German sniper fire.

        Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment.
I found I could do this, but I was quite amazed, quite unprepared to win the Academy Award.
Some reference books listed Miss Kedrova's year of birth as 1918, and Mr. Howard pointed out that other, later dates were to be found elsewhere.
Mrs. Glover's papers were found to be unacceptable, and she was instructed to stand aside while other passengers were checked and questioned.
After the war, she found her father in New York, where he had traveled just before the war broke out in September 1939.
A Brooklyn native who became enamored of stage acting and found her way into the movies during Hollywood's golden age, Miss Trevor appeared in nearly 70 films, working under legendary directors like John Huston and John Ford and playing alongside such famous leading men as John Wayne and Humphrey Bogart.
''
        While she was the administrative judge, she also headed the New York Judicial Committee on Women in the Courts, which was established after a two-year study had found that ''gender bias against women litigants, attorneys and court employees is a pervasive problem.
The process by which a man and a woman found each other usually occurred in Regency, Victorian or Georgian times, and before they got to live happily ever after, her characters said things like, ''Oh, Miss, there is evil in this house,'' or, ''My son will never marry; I am his life.
In addition to her writing, Dame Barbara found time to support many charities, promote aviation and work to improve the plight of pensioners and the acceptance of Gypsies in England.
She loved the research involved in historical fiction, she said, but found writing incurably painful.
But she found a spot at the Ebony Club in Cleveland and within a few years was living in Chicago and appearing with the saxophonists Johnny Griffin and Cannonball Adderley and finding work as the intermission pianist for strippers at the Red Garter nightclub.
Her biggest hit, ''Somewhere in the Night,'' came a year later; it had been the theme of the television series ''Naked City,'' and she found herself singing it on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and other variety programs.
Over two decades, until the final broadcast of ''Let's Pretend'' in 1954, she entertained young listeners with renditions of princesses and fairy godmothers and found fame in her startlingly realistic ''baby cry.
Along the way, they found time to do varied projects like studying the nutritional needs of concentration camp survivors and writing a medical journal article titled ''Food Lore From Nursery Rhymes.
She found herself spending time in hospital kitchens.
'' Viewers soon found out: more of the same.
She helped found the Africa Bureau with the Rev.
And at 94, she carried the torch for the Atlanta Games when it moved through Daytona Beach, Fla.
        ''Alice was the grand dame of the Olympians,'' said Dorothy Franey Langkop, honorary executive director of United States Olympians, an association of former competitors that the diver and her husband, the Olympic high-jump champion Dick Landon, helped found in the mid-1940's.
She soon found herself holding the hands of civil rights workers as they experienced daily intimidation and humiliation.
''
        Dr. Martin soon found other battlegrounds back home.
Soon after the project began, Ms. Vlock said in an interview in The New York Times, ''Everybody talks about the unspeakable, but it is speakable, and when it is spoken, it has a force that isn't found anywhere else.
In 1947 she helped found the Little Orchestra Society for children's concerts.

        Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24.
Mr. Holt returned to South Korea for more children, while Mrs. Holt found families in the United States willing to take them.
A jailer once threw a loaf of bread into her cell, and inside she found a matchbox and a slip of paper with a single word: ''coraggio'' -- courage.
In the 1960's she also helped found the Child Development Group of Mississippi.
Leonard, found the Colonial Penn Group of insurance companies, and they gave millions of dollars to art, dance, music and Jewish philanthropic causes, including the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
But he prevailed on the issue of buying a magazine that later merged with Modern Maturity, the magazine of the AARP, which he helped found.

        Paula Yates,  a British television personality known for her outrageously flirtatious interviewing style and for her relationships with the rock stars Bob Geldof and Michael Hutchence, was found dead at home here on Sunday.
But their relationship was marred by drug use and extreme behavior that ended when Mr. Hutchence was found dead, hanging by his belt, in a hotel room in Sydney, Australia, in November 1997.
In an attic, Travers said, she found a wooden peg Dutch doll with painted coal-black hair, a turned-up nose and small, bright blue eyes that became the model.
''
        She found that in the rugged land of Alaska.
''
        She found that in the rugged land of Alaska.
''
        In 1947, she arrived in New York, her boat fare paid by distant relatives who found her name on a survivors' list and invited her to stay with them.
Whether oozing seductive come-ons as the Devil's sexy troubleshooter in ''Damn Yankees'' or brooding over a whiskey as a disillusioned prostitute in a waterfront dive in ''New Girl in Town,'' a musical adaptation of  O'Neill's ''Anna Christie,'' she always reached for, and found, her character's heart.
Fosse soon found that working with Ms. Verdon was more of a collaboration than a tutorial.
Brooks Atkinson called her performance ''sobering and admirable'' but found the show an uneasy blend of the antic and tragic.
Clive Barnes in The Times saluted ''three superlative, knock-em-in-the-aisles performances by three stars who glitter like gold dust all evening,'' but most of the critics found it too determinedly seedy and cynical for its own good.
Well into her seventies, colleagues said, she could still be found at her desk late into the evening or on Saturday mornings.
She studied comparative religion at Columbia University and Union Theological Seminary, but as a woman found the road to a career in theology blocked.
In 1953, she used a small inheritance and some borrowed money to found the Sue Ryder Foundation, whose symbol is rosemary, a sign of remembrance.
Stage management quickly became her primary profession, and she soon found herself in charge of  shows with stars like Tallulah Bankhead, who once said that Ms. Mitchell would have been ''the most perfect person in the world if she could only play bridge.
Mrs. Sanger and her husband, Elliott M. Sanger, who helped found the station, assembled the music and interviews that turned WQXR, one of the country's first FM classical stations, into a New York institution.
In 1952 she helped Lawrence Langner found the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., serving first as executive director and later as associate producer.
But Ms. Windsor found a niche in film noir, a genre of mainly crime thrillers that captured a sense of postwar disillusionment.
''
        Six days a week, Jane, a curvaceous blonde secret agent -- Mrs. Leighton-Porter as drawn by Norman Pett -- found herself in madcap escapades.
Her butler found her in her swimming pool after she had suffered a stroke, a family spokesman said.
The local authorities said Mrs. Buckey was found unconscious in her home and was pronounced dead at a hospital.
In a case that many found reminiscent of the witchcraft trials of yore, the ensuing investigation soon received lurid reports of children being raped and sodomized, of dead rabbits, satanic rites and drinking blood.
''If you found a cause for the downtrodden of somebody being abused someplace, by God, Flo Kennedy would be there,'' former Mayor David N. Dinkins of New York said yesterday.
She was a regular at the Stork Club in a veiled hat and white gloves, while he found work as an art director.
She soon found work singing in comedy shows.
