''
        Like countless other street toughs before and after him, Mr. Baker, who had just got out of jail, found himself on his feet taking the first steps with a load of trays that would lead him  into Sister Bernadette's world of service before self.
By 1975, she and other pioneers, like Joyce Hoffman and Linda Benson, had inspired enough women to take up the sport that Ms. Sunn was able to help found the Women's Professional Surfing Association and establish the first professional tour for women.
Through her long work with the Saints Peter and Paul Antiochian Orthodox Church in Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Haje had gotten to know and impress many of Washington's leading Arab-American figures, and in 1972 when a group of them formed the National Association of Arab-Americans as the first political Arab-American organization, Mrs. Haje suddenly found herself in the forefront of a movement.
Although it was her typing skills that most benefited the organization in its formative stages, the association's founders, many of them unfamiliar with the ways of Washington, soon found her public relations expertise even more valuable.
Dr. Goldhaber added to the knowledge of the structure of the nucleus when she found regularities in nuclear excited states.
She said she just found married life too boring.
A Government commission found in the mid-1980's that at least 9,000 people had been killed or disappeared during the right-wing military Government's crackdown on political opponents.
The studies have established the basis for others that have found that a change in life style, like quitting smoking and controlling high blood pressure through proper diet and exercise, can improve longevity.
''
        Even with the advance publicity about the majesty of Miss Ulanova's role as Juliet, American critics found themselves astounded.
''
        As Jung had sensed, along the way she found too many common themes and symbols in too many isolated cultures for the similarities to be dismissed as mere coincidence.
She joined 9 other women in 1934 to found what is now the 2,000-member Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, and served as its president.
She favored the overhead shots and tilted angles of German Constructivists, but her photographs are often infused with the softer, more lyrical and humanistic qualities found in the work of many French photographers.
She found work singing in clubs in New York, but for a while in the mid-70's she despaired of breaking into the tight-knit world of commercials.
She eventually found a use for it after all.
Termed an unindicted co-conspirator, she was sent to prison by a Federal judge in Harrisburg, Pa., who found her guilty of contempt of court.
She found greater success in her solo career; Cashbox magazine named her Top Female Country Vocalist of 1963.

        Dr. Viola Wertheim Bernard, a prominent New York psychiatrist who found ways to help adopted and foster children feel at home in new surroundings, died on March 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
For all her soaring imagination, Ms. Epstein could never have dreamed up what happened to her after she arrived at the ramshackle East 77th Street shop where she had bought buttons before and found that the proprietor had died and the store was shuttered.
''
        In 1969, she helped found Friends of the Everglades, a conservation organization that now has 5,000 members.
When the bleeding stopped within minutes and the wound healed rapidly without a scar, Mrs. Maxwell knew she had found her life's work: ferreting out remedies used by the Indians for centuries and introducing them to the modern world.
Miss Manchester resigned in 1946 to found a monthly magazine called Ballet Today.
She also found time to pursue her old landscaping speciality by developing elaborate gardens at her suburban home.
She found her immediate escape from poverty by working in laundries, rising to supervisor, saving her money, moving to the southeastern city of Hastings and opening a rooming house for men.
By her own account Miss Mathiot  garnered a total of seven marriage proposals but her father rejected each of her suitors on religious grounds (none were Protestant) and although Miss Mathiot considered rebelling, in the end, she said, she found she couldn't and bowed to her family's wishes.
' '' Although she never fully conquered that fear, she was always able to say the next line and the next line, and in so doing found a lifetime of accomplishment in the theater.
      
Her books, ''The Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' ''The Further Prophecies of Nostradamus'' and ''The Final Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' in which she claimed to have found predictions of the execution of  Charles I, the Great Fire of London, the Apollo 13 catastrophe and the spread of AIDS, sold in the millions.
'' She found it fascinating and saw in it what she interpreted to be a prediction of World War II.
'' When Willam Christensen left California in 1951 to found Ballet West in Salt Lake City, of which he is now director emeritus, his brother  succeeded him in San Francisco.
'' In the 1960's and 70's, Miss West was not active in the civil rights movement and found radicals like the Black Panthers discomfiting.
(Miss Smith, whose romantic life  became a subject of intense speculation among her grandnieces and grandnephews, apparently found a satisfying solution to the problem of juggling job and family: attracting a steady supply of smitten suitors without actually succumbing to matrimony.
By 1931, Miss Smith had found her life's work in academia, but after a decade as a statistician and consumer price specialist at the University of Connecticut, she decided that it was time to complete her own college education.
She found a changed country, which she found hard to accept, and became like a character in ''Recollections of Things to Come'' who tried to step out of time by stopping the clock at the end of every day.
She found a changed country, which she found hard to accept, and became like a character in ''Recollections of Things to Come'' who tried to step out of time by stopping the clock at the end of every day.
As the wife of Kabir Bedi, a well-known film actor and producer in India, she had been leading the life of a heedless socialite, she said in an interview in The New York Times in 1996, when she caught sight of a guru teaching the dance form and found her life's goal.
She even found time to take baton-twirling lessons.
When he discovered that his daughter had been able to throw her voice there, he found a former vaudevillian to coach her.
When, by her account, her upstart Journal was actually banned from the University of Connecticut bookstore, Dr. Butler found another academic sponsor: Yale University.
She developed a technique of neuromuscular retraining, which involved a repatterning and realignment of the body that many dancers found helpful for healing chronic injuries and focusing on their creative work.
With her unglamorous looks and her plump, open face, she seemed made for sympathy and found herself typecast in supporting, or supportive, roles.
Inside the larger trunk, detectives found the body of Agnes Anne LeRoi, 32.
What they found in the smaller trunk catapulted the case into headline news around the country.
A few days later, a valise left behind by Mrs. Judd was found to contain a fourth body section.
Several days before the hanging was to take place, a jury impaneled for a sanity hearing found that Mrs. Judd was then insane, and she was institutionalized.
She was finally found in the San Francisco area, where, calling herself Marian Lane, she had worked as a housekeeper in a mansion owned by an elderly woman.
In those tense times, Mrs. Reischauer could easily have found herself distrusted by both the Americans and the Japanese.
In 1970, for example, she and two colleagues found that mutual funds did little to improve the market's efficiency.
On average, they found, mutual-fund investors would have fared better had they simply bought an equal number of shares of every common stock on the New York Stock Exchange.
During rehearsals she was paired with a man, but she found him so clumsy and the whole experience so embarrassing that she persuaded Mr. Azpiazu to let her dance alone, as she did from then on.
She knew only that some of her cousins had left Germany for York, Pa., and so she wrote to the Mayor of that town, who somehow found Lenore.
Mrs. Shaw was moved by the fate of her stepdaughter, who was found to have AIDS when she was 27, to join Mothers' Voices, which recruits mothers as educators on sexuality and the risks of unprotected sex.
'' She also found work in the theater and was invited to join the Comedie Francaise, but she left after two years, complaining that she was being overlooked for major roles.
''
        Still, Mrs. Elianoff found such an enthusiastic market for her Luba Elianoff line of luxury linens that she soon had to move her business to her Broadway workroom, where a staff handled the sewing.
In 1929 the real world intruded savagely on the Murphys' idyll when their youngest son, Patrick, was found to have tuberculosis.
Somebody found a poem she was believed to have recently written, and at her funeral last Saturday, it was read.
The brand found instant acceptance.
