Mrs. Lees, whose original name was Beatrice Mills, was born in 1910 in Chicago into a theatrical family that included her sister, Viola Spolin, who helped found the improvisational theater movement, and a cousin, Robert Fizdale, the pianist and writer.
In 1952, when asked by a reporter what she would do if she woke up one morning and found herself in the White House, she replied: "I'd go straight to Mrs. Truman and apologize.
The clothes can now be found at Barneys New York, Bergdorf Goodman, Neiman Marcus and Linda Dresner.
"
        As for letting a baby cry on and on, she said, "I found it made a lot of difference to me whose baby was crying.
In addition, the same institution Dr. Bain had headed found him guilty of misconduct and suspended him from the practice of medicine for two months.
She quickly found that the disarray of postwar Rome extended to newcomers as well as to survivors.
She had already helped found the Downtown Community School, a private elementary school in Greenwich Village, in the early 1940's.
They determined that certain principles found in an insect could explain certain things about mammalian systems, and vice versa.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Det.
The police found pills and a note, the detective said.
An assistant to Ms. Hyman found the singer unconscious in her bedroom at 211 West 56th Street around 2 P.M., said Detective Dwight Cunningham, a police spokesman.
The police found pills and a note, the detective said.
There was hardly a night the slender dark-haired beauty with the affecting Southern drawl couldn't be found at the Colony or the Monte Carlo for dinner, followed by stops at the Stork Club, the Cafe Pierre and El Morocco, and she had lunch at "21" so often that the bartender created a Honeychile drink in her honor (a whiskey sour made with honey rather than sugar).
Her color-coordinated dresses and jackets and well-cut coats in fine fabrics found favor among well-heeled women of her time in search of classic clothes that did not cost a month's rent.
"
        In years of research ignited by a professor who read her 80-page term paper at an astonishing rate while retaining its content, she found people from all walks of life who could read from 1,500 to 6,000 words a minute and sometimes more.
Intrigued, I clocked him on other material and found he could read at a rate of 2,500 words a minute.
Unlike many other short-term performers who end up in the suburbs, Mrs. Landes found a second act.

        Eileen Chang, a popular novelist and short story writer whose finely honed psychological studies and precise language won her acclaim as a giant of modern Chinese literature, was found dead on Friday in the Los Angeles apartment where she had lived as a virtual recluse.
Dr. Belcher always found time to indulge her passion for the stock market.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
Judge Ryan had found Mr. Hammett and Mr. Hunton guilty for refusing to name contributors to the bail fund of the Civil Rights Congress, which the Attorney General had designated as a Communist subversive front.
Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia.
Whatever her age was at the time -- Mrs. Cahill would never discuss the matter -- when reporters from The Washington Herald came to her Georgetown home in the summer of 1921 to notify Margee Gorman that on the basis of a photograph submitted by her parents she had been selected to represent the newspaper in the Atlantic City contest, they found her in a nearby park shooting marbles in the dirt.
"It afforded information and informed editorial comment upon contemporaneous tendencies in music not to be found elsewhere," Olin Downes wrote in The Times.
She became its director and established a graduate program there, leaving in 1951 to found the dance department at Juilliard, which she directed until 1985.
It was the early 1960's, a time, she soon found, when welfare inspectors routinely poked through recipients' refrigerators, demanded to know where they had got the money to buy television sets and staged midnight raids to make sure  they were not harboring men, a violation of the rules for women receiving Aid to Families With Dependent Children.
"
        In China, Mrs. Bruce found that she had more time to herself than in earlier  postings.
The mob never found the man it was looking for, and doubt remains whether any white woman had been attacked.
"
        Despite the success of "Gone With The Wind," Ms. McQueen found it increasingly difficult to find work in film and theater.
In 1951, she put on a one-woman show at Carnegie Hall, but she soon found she had to take on  other jobs to support herself.
But it was upon her return to Harlem one year later that she found a second vocation -- helping her community.
The driver was not found.
"
        What critics found most striking about Ms. Bambara's fiction, though, were the structure and language she used.
Hard work found its reward in the universal acclaim she received during the 1954-55 Broadway season when she appeared in Maxwell Anderson's play "The Bad Seed.
When a restaurant that the Wongs had managed for years, Canton Village, changed hands in the mid-1960's, the couple found themselves without jobs.
A grandson, David, the son of Robert, was found dead in a Florida hotel room in 1985, the victim, officials said, of an apparent overdose of cocaine and Demerol.
A grandson, David, the son of Robert, was found dead in a Florida hotel room in 1985, the victim, officials said, of an apparent overdose of cocaine and Demerol.
Mrs. Etra expanded that role by helping to found, in 1953, the National Women's Division of Yeshiva's newly chartered Albert Einstein College of Medicine.

        Ida Gertrude Krebs, whose lifelong interest in children with learning disabilities led her to found a school where she could implement a highly individual approach to such problems, died on Feb. 11 at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia.
Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.
John Mueller, in The New York Times Book Review, found Miss Rogers's book short on insight and discreet to the point that "one does not get a terribly rich feel for her personality.
She was its president until 1967, and helped found the Virginia Federation of Humane Societies in 1959.
In 1991, Ms. Hermanson helped found the Jewish Healing Center in New York, an organization that provides spiritual assistance to people coping with serious illnesses.
