Ms. Verrill, who had already recorded the film's soundtrack, suddenly found herself ousted by the actress of the moment, Andrea Leeds, who had become an overnight success that year in ''Stage Door.
While she was teaching at Public School 119, Sadie Delany found she could not support herself on the salary, so she started baking cakes and selling them for a nickel a slice to other teachers.
She went on to study at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and after graduation found a job with a dress manufacturer.
Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.
They were married in the mid-1940's and became a team in their Holocaust pursuits when he started representing the victims, especially children, before the courts and found that many of them had only vague memories of their ordeals.
''
        Professor Komarovsky found that 76 percent of the female students planned, at the time they entered Barnard, on combining career, marriage and children in the coming years.
Two observations of Professors Komarovsky's that Dr. Simmons found intriguing were her finding that the most highly career-minded students had mothers who had not worked and regretted it -- or mothers who worked and enjoyed it; and her suggestion that the young women sought a mixture of sensitivity, self-awareness and masculinity in men.
Professor Komarovsky also found that most of the women she surveyed found it hard to attain relationships that they considered satisfactory with men, although those women had had chances to interact with men from a variety of backgrounds.
Professor Komarovsky also found that most of the women she surveyed found it hard to attain relationships that they considered satisfactory with men, although those women had had chances to interact with men from a variety of backgrounds.
Later inquiries found that doors leading from the shop areas had been locked, presumably to keep the women at their sewing machines.
On the day of the fire, Mrs. Cohen would recall, she somehow found her way to a staircase and covered her face with her purse as she ran to the street.
She was found hanged in her room at the hospital, where she was being treated for depression, friends said.
''
        While the dominant view of her work was typified by The Daily  Mail's verdict that ''Blasted'' was ''a disgusting feast of filth,'' there were critics who found courage and honesty in her work.
''Wherever I went, I found an extraordinary curiosity about her work and what it said about contemporary Britain.
Her personal liberalism found expression in those years, and she was a founding member of the interracial Southern Conference for Human Welfare, which opposed segregation.
Existentialism, with its focus on individual will, appealed to her, but she found its emphasis on the primacy of the self disturbing.
Harold Bloom, while praising her ''formidable combination of intellectual drive and storytelling exuberance'' in a review of her novel ''The Good Apprentice'' in The Times, and noting her ''mastery'' in ''representing the maelstrom of falling in love,'' also found that her narrative voice often lacked authority, ''being too qualified and fussy.
The conviction was overturned with unusually harsh language when the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found that Judge Lowe had prevented the presentation of important evidence.
''She found the experience in jail heartening,'' Shane Hallinan said.
During a recent week in Florida, she raced through three novels and found herself bookless at the airport.
This would mean that the particle's position would be highly uncertain; it might be found anywhere within a large volume of possible places.
Although her subsequent American albums -- ''Cameo'' (1973, ABC-Dunhill), ''It Begins Again'' (1978, United Artists), ''Living Without Your Love'' (1979, United Artists), ''White Heat'' (1982, Casablanca) and ''A Very Fine Love'' (1995, Columbia) -- found her voice as full and compelling as ever, the material and production rarely matched the singing.
Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
A review in The New York Times Book Review  found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
Dr. Ainsworth's research also found that feeding an infant on demand rather than on a strict schedule led to a more secure attachment between infant and mother.
' ''
        Recently, Credit Suisse found a record of a depositor named J. Sapir, which seemed to confirm that Miss Sapir's father had held an account at the bank.
''We found a sufficient basis in the facts, combined with our concern with Miss Sapir, to arrive at today's settlement,'' said Bob O'Brien, the managing director of Credit Suisse First Boston.
That is when I found out that they actually had track meets for women.
''
        The couple moved to San Francisco in 1948, where she found little time to pursue her writing.
Some critics found her work mannered and humorless.
Ms. Boutelle found that Morgan also designed schools, theaters, churches, stores, hospitals, houses, apartments, a bowling alley, billard rooms, a zoo, a pet cemetery and a hay barn.
'' To her dismay, the young Mrs. Whitney found that she could not get a job writing for Newsweek or Fortune.
'' She found a job in women's magazines and, at 28, became editor in chief of a now-defunct magazine called Better Living, then of Seventeen.
They found there was a market for technical texts, and they went into business at their home in North London.
A United States district judge found them guilty and gave them suspended sentences of four months in prison and $100 fines.
In 1932, after helping found a Harlem branch of the Friends of the Soviet Union, she became a leading organizer of a trip to the Soviet Union by 22 black intellectuals, journalists and writers who were to make a Soviet-sponsored movie called ''Black and White,'' about white supremacy in America.
But she found academic life stifling.
'' Reviewers found the book self-serving in parts but also informative about the couple's intellectual journey as, together, they came to realize the flaws in the Soviet system.
After her return in 1933, Miss Garland helped found the New Duncan Dancers and was dance editor of New Theater magazine.
The woman who acted in anticipation of death found a life she could have never imagined.
The conviction that guided Ms. Knight as she supervised the Passport Office was that the Government had a legal right and moral responsibility to protect American citizens from ideas and philosophies she found abhorrent, especially Communism.
She finished five years later, but it was not until 1939 that she found a publisher.
Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary.
Ms. Bergman was found dead in her bedroom in a home she shared with her husband, Dino Andrade, in the Venice Beach area.
There she found steady work in television, parlaying her dark good looks into roles on shows like ''Gunsmoke,'' ''Perry Mason'' and ''The Fugitive.
After her husband's death she helped found an annual summer festival in Lille, France, with her nephew, the conductor Jean-Claude Casadesus, and in 1975 she started the Robert Casadesus International Piano Competition, in Cleveland.
She quickly found her way into artistic and literary circles.
Michael Shermer, the publisher of Skeptic magazine, said in an interview that psychic detectives commonly make logical predictions; for example, they suggest that a corpse will be found in a remote area.
Though it has been widely reported for three decades that they did, Mr. Nickell said that according to his research, the body was found floating in a pond by a man looking for a place to bury his dead cat.
She also said the murder weapon would be found in a river.
The weapon was never found, but the man convicted of the crime later admitted throwing it in the river, the chief said.
Although her report pointed to a number of possible explanations, it found that the scores tended to rise with the level of difficulty of the material students had been given to read from their earliest days in school.
Dr. Chall scorned that argument, maintaining that ''comparisons of different beginning-reading methods over the past 70 years have found that methods that teach decoding earlier and more systematically produce better word recognition as well as better reading comprehension.
