Ms. Carter collapsed and was found by one of her sons, said her spokesman, Roger Lane.
Ms. Carter made such an indelible impression as a shimmying, bawdy old-time vaudevillian in ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' that she often found herself typecast as a rollicking good-time mama.
A symbolic trial, it found Emperor Hirohito ultimately responsible for the policy by which the Japanese military forced Asian women into sexual slavery during World War II.
Ms. Wittig's startlingly rich imagery found its counterpart in her experimental literary approach: she sometimes abandoned paragraphing and normal punctuation and developed a lyrical style that could be called neither prose nor poetry.

        Amy Bess Williams Miller, who helped found Hancock Shaker Village, a restoration of a former Shaker community and a museum, died on Sunday at her home in Pittsfield, Mass.
She went through many bronchoscopies, either to check for possible rejection or infection or to open up her airways, her father said, and scheduling the procedures was often tricky because space had to be found in an operating room.

        Peggy Conklin, a stage actress who found early success in ''The Petrified Forest'' in 1936 and followed it with a wide variety of dramatic and comic roles on Broadway, died last Tuesday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 96.
She found work at an agency called Martin Landey, Arlow.
From experience, she found that in a busy municipal hospital the special needs of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary illnesses tended to receive short shrift.
Sandford Dody, who helped Miss Barrie write her autobiography, ''All My Sins Remembered'' (Appleton-Century, 1964), suggested that Barrymore had found her a breezy change of pace.
''It was easy to see why the aging actor, sick in a hospital and sated with strawberry blondes of Hollywood who were as bland as Wonder Bread, found this bright and wry little New York girl, with all her crust, a tasty morsel,'' he wrote in his own autobiography, ''Giving Up the Ghost: A Writer's Life Among the Stars'' (M. Evans, 1980).
She finally found Mistress Quickly best attuned to her voice.
''
        She found a niche in radio, singing with orchestras in national broadcasts.
In an interview in the catalog for the 1997 exhibition ''Realigning Vision: Alternative Currents in South American Drawing,'' organized by the University of Texas on the model of one of her earlier shows, she said that what she found distinctive about the art to which she had devoted her attention was its ''reluctance to give up the subject of the human condition.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
The Augustines found a grinding machine, originally meant to make binoculars, at a war surplus store on Canal Street and reconfigured it to grind nylon guitar strings to the right thickness and consistency.
Feather found her in Germany in 1954 and arranged a visa for her to work in the United States.
In 2000 the label found her through the saxophonist Lee Konitz and his wife, Gundula.
She apparently hit her head in a fall in her bathroom, where her housekeeper found her, The Associated Press reported.
Correction:  May 26, 2003, Monday  An obituary on April 29 about Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, a former stage manager and the widow of John Steinbeck, misspelled the surname of a co-founder of the Theater Guild, where she found work after first coming to New York, and misstated her job with the original Broadway production of ''Oklahoma!
In early 2001, an auditing firm found irregularities in the way the institute's chief financial officer and comptroller had been keeping its books.
That year Ms. Cadwell polled more than 600 women visiting Disneyland on their most-hated commercials, producing a list of spots for products like Scope mouthwash and Bold detergent that the women found insulting.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Cornell University, where she later helped found the President's Council of Cornell Women, and an M.B.A. in marketing at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
''
        Dr. Densen-Gerber's success at getting government help became her downfall when the state investigated her use of public funds in the early 1980's and found irregularities.
Before she found a home for them, they slept in 11 temporary shelters, giving rise to the name Odyssey.
Miss Hepburn, then 14, found his body hanging from the rafters of a house the family was visiting in New York City.
Trousers as a Trademark
        Despite her early success, reviewers in those days sometimes found her strident and mannered.
When Mrs. Fischbach founded the gallery, she showed 1960's avant-garde art, which had not yet found an audience.
She had surgery to remove a brain tumor, first found to be benign, six games into the 1995 season.
Her writings found a national response and went through various editions into the 1990's.
She was 84 and had formerly lived in Stonington, Conn.
        Rollie McKenna -- her full name was Rosalie Thorne McKenna -- found her calling at 30 when she bought her first camera on a visit to Paris.
Mr. Ammon, who was chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center, was found bludgeoned to death on Oct. 22, 2001, at his estate in East Hampton, N.Y. His widow and Mr. Pelosi married three months later.
She moved to New York to be an artist, working in found industrial objects, but lost interest, New York magazine said this July.
In later years, she lived quietly on Long Island, serving on the board of the hospital the couple had helped found and working on a planned second autobiography.
The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
They found it, in wildly different ways.
In one homicide, she matched the down in a pillow that was used to silence the murder weapon to traces of down that were found on the defendant's trouser cuff.
''
        The cowgirl found her own peace on a horse.
After the defeat of Germany in 1945, she was pronounced a Nazi sympathizer by the Allies and never again found work as a movie director.
'' When Ms. Riefenstahl was over 90, she again found herself at the center of heated debate when she was the subject of a three-hour documentary, ''The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl'' (1993), by the German filmmaker Ray Müller.
Her mother encouraged her artistic flair, and although her father, a businessman, was opposed to her working on the stage, she began dancing in an Isadora Duncan-like free style at age 16 and soon found work -- and considerable recognition -- in Berlin theaters.
She was found to be a ''Nazi sympathizer'' but she was not banned from working and was finally able to release ''Tiefland'' in 1954.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
In her experiment, Dr. Johns, a graduate student at the time, found that female rats would start to ovulate if exposed to an outside stimulus, like male urine.

        Thalia Mara, a ballet educator who helped found the USA International Ballet Competition in Jackson, Miss., died on Wednesday at St. Dominic/Jackson Memorial Hospital.
But based on wide surveys of other therapists, Dr. Glass found that it was most common to exclude the extramarital affair from the therapeutic discussion.
Dr. Whiting and her husband, Dr. John W. M. Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, traveled extensively to study parental practices and child behavior, hoping to identify aspects of human development found in all cultures.
She was involved in numerous philanthropies, including the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, where she helped found the Kips Bay Decorator Show House benefit.
But her feat, which she did only once and under horrendous conditions, made a memorable contribution in an age when many found it difficult to take female athletes seriously.
She helped found and was producing director of Naked Angels, a Manhattan theater company.
She then worked in public relations and helped found the Nantucket Film Festival and the New York Women's Film Festival.
When labor organizers found out that Mrs. Kidder's dresses were made in a nonunion factory in Charlestown, Mass., they threatened to protest at Luci Johnson's wedding in 1966.
The soldiers, she found, had been isolated and plied with propaganda, at times under the threat of physical harm.
At times, she found dead animals on her doorstep.
She studied infants born with extensive damage to the brain's language areas and found that their language abilities developed normally.
In recent work, she found that there was a significant overlap in areas of the brain involved in processing language and areas involved in processing environmental sounds like trains whistling, cows mooing and doors slamming.
