The 18-carat pocket watch that she said was her father's had been found in a purser's black leather portmanteau during a dive in 1987.
Having found a measure of racial and civil justice in 19th-century America after the United States displaced the Spanish in 1898, he espoused statehood as the best way to guarantee similar rights in Puerto Rico.
Stefan Kanfer, a writer on cultural topics, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1992: ''The real summa of tabloid sensitivity is not found on earth but in the supernovas.
Work with children from small villages after the war led her and her husband, Tadeusz Sygietynski, to found the Mazowsze ensemble in 1948.
A lively personality with a colorful turn of speech, Mrs. Scorsese found what amounted to a second career in her son's films, in which she improvised her dialogue.
If not all their proposals (like ''genkind'' to replace mankind) found their way into everyday usage, the women nonetheless helped to raise awareness of oppression by language.
In the early 1970's, Mrs. Davis also helped found the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, which urged black women to become involved in politics and community affairs.
She found the lemon-flavored cake inedible -- ''mush on the outside and soup on the inside'' -- and wrote that it left the oven in a mess.
But Dr. Wu found that far more particles flew off in the direction opposite the spin of the nuclei, proving that nature differentiates between left and right.
Within months he went off to war and she found herself at the center of London as a confidante and hostess for her new father-in-law, Winston Churchill.
The Prime Minister found her enchanting.
Dr. Fosdick, who never married, mainly, her sister suggested, because she never found a man her equal, later confided to friends that she did not think Stevenson had the gumption to be President.
'' and ''Common Sense and World Affairs,'' finally found her niche in 1954 as chief foreign policy adviser to Senator Jackson, the Washington State Democrat known for his expertise in military affairs.
She found that the work as a literary and talent agent suited her so well that she took over the business in 1947 and turned it into the Lucy Kroll Agency.
Later, the couple helped found the Georgia chapter of the A.C.L.U.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
Ms. Blume, a popular children's author whose books dealing frankly with adolescent sexuality have frequently been the targets of censorship, said: ''When my books were being banned early on, in the 80's, I had nowhere to go, until I found this remarkable woman, this tiny dynamo who had such passion and energy for fighting censorship.
Drawing on hundreds of letters from women who sought her advice and hundreds of interviews conducted over a three-year-period, Ms. Botwin found that 40 percent of married women were going outside their marriages for emotional and physical attention that they were not receiving at home.

        Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan.
'' Finally, when she needed money, she went looking for a job, applying at a personnel agency that found work as a file clerk at Duffy-Mott, makers of Mott's Applesauce.
After the festival was discontinued, she helped found the Mercury Ballet Company of Rochester, taught at her own ballet school and choreographed for the Rochester Music Theater.
Mr. Pidgeon had gone to the Willow Run Aircraft Factory to appear in the promotional film and found out that there was a woman named Rose who was a riveter, Mrs. Jarvis said.
Dr. Hibberd was in Virginia picking up her daughter from college, and found out when she called her answering machine from a pay phone in a Wendy's and heard urgent messages from reporters.
And I found some rare ones.
She said she later decided to stop because she found it distasteful to write about her experiences during the Duke's divorce case.
If she ultimately found teaching undergraduates more rewarding than scholarship, it may have been partly because Dr. Trell, who joined N.Y.U.
''
        Mr. Bellows said he found Mrs. Chandler to be ''tough, but not intractable,'' someone who knew her mind, was willing to debate and listen to argument and who eventually ''usually got her way.
''Usually I found something,'' she recalled.
Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations.
During a remarkable life in which she formed enduring intimate relationships with George Gershwin, Randolph Churchill, W. Averell Harriman, Joseph P. Kennedy, Walter Lippmann, Buckminster Fuller and scores of other diverse figures, Miss Halle demonstrated such a flair for friendship and a knack for bringing people together that it is a wonder she found time for anything else.
This year the Princess had taken highly publicized trips to former war zones like Angola to conduct her high-profile campaign against landmines, and had in recent weeks posed knowingly on Mediterranean holidays with her friend, Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, 42, in an apparent effort to show the world that the once troubled young woman had found personal happiness.
Mrs. Westwood faced  her share of the blame for the rout and, three weeks after the election, found herself combating suggestions that she resign.
In 1972, after receiving a degree in political science from New York University, she found she could not get a teaching job, and worked as a proofreader as a member of the International Typographical Union.
In 1939, she was sent to Shanghai, where tens of thousands of fleeing Jews found refuge.

        Kathy Keeton Guccione, who helped found Penthouse magazine in the United States with her husband, Bob Guccione, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York.
Speaking to a gathering at the United Nations in 1975, she recalled a woman she had found dying on a Calcutta street.
One day in 1952, as her longtime associate Sister Agnes recalled years later, ''she found an old woman dying in the streets.
In addition to all her good works, Mother Teresa found time to compose prayers, including this one:
        Make us worthy, Lord,
        To serve our fellow men
        Throughout the world who live and die
        In poverty or hunger.
She soon found a more desirable job, doing research for the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
The two substances are somewhat similar chemically, but she found that they produced distinct and noticeably different antibodies when exposed to an antigen.
Although she generally found something nice to say about every President and First Lady she or her mother worked for, Mrs.
Ms. Henry's colorful story found its way onto film, still seen on television to this day, and made a popular tourist destination of the annual roundup and auction of wild horses on Virginia's barrier islands.
The cause was lung cancer, said Susie Gilligan of Feminist Majority, a national group that Ms. Carabillo helped found 10 years ago.
Even before she arrived and settled into a $1 million Studio City estate she had bought three years earlier, Miss Katzenbogen, who had deferred an earlier planned move after her mother became ill, found that she was not entirely welcome in her exclusive new neighborhood.
She helped found the California Institute of the Arts, a somewhat avant-garde school that has produced many of the nation's most formidable animators.
She found a job as a $15-a-week ''inker'' of film frames.
By 1968 Ms. Steel was working as a receptionist in the garment district and soon found a low-level marketing job at Penthouse magazine devising X-rated products.
''She found it confusing,'' Ms. Mathews said.
She helped found a group called the Writers' and Artists' Protest Against the War in Vietnam, she was actively involved in the anti-nuclear movement, and in 1967 she edited a volume of poetry for the War Resisters League.
She found that the cloverleaf model best showed how transfer RNA did its work, finding and transporting the right amino acids to be linked together into proteins, said Dr. Joseph Calvo, a biochemist at Cornell.
''Her contributions were always behind the scene, looking until she found the shape that something wanted to take.
Her parents soon joined her and also found work with the company, but remained homesick for the country.
On Monday, in a major ruling against the Giuliani administration, she found that city officials had violated New York magazine's free speech rights when they pulled satirical advertisements from buses.
''
        Then, on Thursday, she found herself in the middle of another contentious dispute, between the two most powerful prosecutors in New York City: Manhattan District Attorney Robert M. Morgenthau and United States Attorney Mary Jo White.
''
        And recently, the Federal Court of Appeals overturned another decision, in which she found unconstitutional a law allowing the Government to ban the sale of sexually explicit magazines on military bases.
As her condition worsened, Ms. Weisenfeld found that much remained unknown about the disease.
