In 1964 she helped found the American Center for the Alexander Technique in Manhattan to train and certify teachers.
His expulsion was later found illegal by the United States Supreme Court.
Her second marriage, to Dr. Stefan Issarescu, ended in divorce and then, with her children grown up, she became a nun of the Orthodox Church in the convent of the Protection of the Holy Virgin in Bussy-en-Othe in east-central France before going on to found the convent in Pennsylvania.

        Colleen M. Sullivan, a former executive editor of Manhattan, inc. who also held editing positions at several newspapers, including The New York Times, was found dead Thursday in a motel room in West Hollywood, Calif. She was 40 years old.
Her family moved around (she lived in Kentucky at one point), and when her father found work in China, she studied with George Goncharov, a Russian-born dancer who had settled in Shanghai.
Together with her late husband, Max Silverstein, and the late Rabbi Stephen Wise, she helped found the World Jewish Congress, which first met in Geneva in 1936.
Mrs. Rosenthal was president of the Friends of the Upper East Side Historic District, a preservationist group she helped found to monitor compliance after the district's 1981 designation by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission.
Their success prompted her to found the Chicago Opera Ballet in 1956, a touring company that featured ballets inspired by operas and operettas.
"
        As the act progressed, the two got comfortable with each other as well, and soon found themselves in the gossip columns.
The quintessential Graham could be found in "Frontier" (1935), one of the choreographer's pieces on overt American themes.
Noguchi noted in general that he had found in Miss Graham "a drive that motivated her to strip the dance to its stark rudiment.
Mrs. Wainwright worked closely with Florida's best known environmentalist, Marjory Stoneman Douglas, to found the Everglades protection group in 1969.

        Finvola Drury, who helped create and conduct research that led to a treatment for immune deficency in AIDS patients, was found dead on Thursday evening at the home of a friend in Brooklyn.
Mrs. Liberman, whose original name was Tatiana Yacovleff, was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, on May 7, 1906, into a professional family that found sanctuary in Paris after the Bolshevik Revolution.

        Ethel Payne, regarded as the nation's pre-eminent black female journalist, was found dead Thursday in her Washington apartment.
It incorporated maps, landscapes, rocks and found objects, and it often took the form of one-of-a-kind printed books that included short autobiographical writings.
The first two plays in which she found work were failures, and she was dismissed from the cast of another play during its out-of-town tryouts.

        Sara Vogan, a novelist and teacher of creative writing, was found dead on May 17 at her home in San Francisco.

        Ruth Ellen Church, an author of books on cooking and wine who was a longtime food critic for The Chicago Tribune, was found slain Tuesday in her Chicago home.
Her sister, Margaret Pollitzer Hoben, helped found the Walden School.

        Carol Wilson Trueblood, assistant to the editor of The Washington Monthly, which she helped to found, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital.
Hospital workers had not tested the blood she received, but later found that it was contaminated with the AIDS virus.
At a Y nursery school celebration in 1981, Janet Fisher, one of its vice presidents, recalled that in England Miss Rosenthal had turned bomb shelters into nurseries, showing children how to make handicraft items from milk cartons and other materials found in the air-raid rubble.
"She did the same thing here at the Y with found objects," Mrs. Fisher recalled.

        Marcia Simon Weisman, a collector admired for her discerning taste in postwar American art and as a benefactor who helped found the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
De Kooning, Warhol and Ruscha
        Born in Portland, Ore., she was a daughter of Meyer Simon, who with Mrs. Weisman's brother, Norton Simon, went on to found Val Vita Food Products, a forerunner of Hunt Wesson Foods.
She devised a statistical model for estimating the size of the German submarine fleet in the North Atlantic, which after the war, was found to have been startlingly accurate.
A lifelong interest in religion, mythology and folklore led Mrs. Dooling to found Parabola, each issue of which explores the quest for meaning in life through investigating a universal theme like wholeness, pilgrimage or death.
In an address, Sir Peter Hall said that the fiercely private actress might have found the grand service, with performances by the guitarist Julian Bream, the Westminster Abbey Choir, the English Chamber Orchestra and the Royal Shakespeare Theater Wind Band, embarrassing and "slightly pompous.
Trying to Cope
        A year before her marriage to Mr. Lee, when reporters found her working in a dress shop in Topeka, Kan. (a job she took as part of her psychotherapy at the Menninger Clinic there), she told them she attributed her illness to "my lack of understanding of what I could cope with and what I could not.
