In 1979, she ordered the low-level nuclear waste dump at a Federal reservation in Hanford, Wash., one of only three in the nation, closed temporarily after inspectors had found that some radioactive material was being hauled in unsafe trucks.
Her body was found on Monday by the superintendent of the building in which she lived.
'Yankee Integrity'
        Reached by telephone yesterday, Ward Jackson, the Guggenheim's archivist, praised Mrs. Svendsen for a "Yankee integrity that you found in legendary figures like Alfred Barr and Lloyd Goodrich," referring to the former directors of the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
Death Sentence Commuted
        Mrs. Wallach was held in East Berlin, then in Moscow, where she was tried for espionage, found guilty and given a death sentence that was later commuted to 15 years in prison.
In her dissertation, written while she was a student at New York University's School of Education, Mrs. Saunders found that the city's elementary school principals performed an average of 446 different duties as part of their jobs.

        Doris C. Frankel, a playwright whose work found its way to Broadway, radio and television and who won an Emmy Award for her work on the soap opera "All My Children," died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
In the 1960's and 1970's she was one of the few women who found regular work as a director.
They sought their niche as bond traders and found it.
Digging on a remote hill, the explorers found a sanctuary of the Hellenistic period and evidence of close commercial ties between Cyprus and the Greek islands in the late Bronze Age, about 1500 B.C.
Kurt and I found our creativity and our life in editing and publishing.

        Gail Dunbar, an executive recruiter, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital, where she was taken last Tuesday after being found unconscious in her Manhattan apartment.
"
        Returning home by way of London, where she received more approbation, Mrs. Kennedy soon began to make her plans to redecorate the White House, a building that she found lacking in grace.
She found some objects in the White House basement; others were donated by private citizens who, like Mrs. Kennedy, were interested in the project.
Some people said she went too far when she found some antique Zuber wallpaper on a wall in nearby Maryland, had it removed and rehung in the White House at a cost of $12,500, even though the original French printing blocks were still in existence and she could have had the same design on new paper for much less.
But Mrs. Kennedy found she also needed more privacy.

        Eve Gentry, a modern dancer who helped found the Dance Notation Bureau in New York City and later established the Institute for the Pilates Method of Physical Conditioning in Santa Fe, N.M., died on June 17 at her home in Santa Fe.
Anorexia nervosa is an illness of deliberate self-starvation, found chiefly in young women.
"
        After World War II began in Europe in 1939, she found herself in a minority in Congress in voting against expanding the Navy.
In the 1950's Mrs. Markson was among the founders of the Milwaukee Repertory Theater, and she later helped found the American Conservatory Theater in Pittsburgh before the company moved to San Francisco in 1967; until 1980, she was vice president of the theater's board.

        Dorothy Dehner, a gifted sculptor of Surrealist and geometric abstractions in bronze and wood, whose professional career began in the 1950's after a stormy marriage to David Smith, the New York School artist, was found dead yesterday in a stairwell outside her apartment in Manhattan.
At her death, Mrs. Hoffstot was a vice president of the Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach and vice chairwoman of the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation, two groups that she helped found.
A Phenomenal Record Of Joint Triumphs
        When Miss Tandy and Mr. Cronyn first appeared together, in "The Fourposter" in 1951, audiences found a husband-and-wife team that would come to succeed Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne as the foremost couple of the American theater.
In 1965, she helped to found the private Gateway School in Manhattan and was its director until her retirement in 1979.

        Kathleen L. Schwaninger, an advocate for the disabled who played a critical role in the decade-long effort to close down the Willowbrook State School for the mentally retarded on Staten Island and who went on to help found an agency to aid seriously ill children, died Sunday in a plane crash in Hyannis, Mass.
She left the agency to join SKIP, Sick Kids Need Involved People, of New York, which she helped to found.
In the early 1950's, her family joined with three others to found a congregation, Temple Emanuel in Great Neck, L.I., of which she served as administrator.
A jury found that the arrest was legal but the long detention was not.
One day, when she was 11, her mother found her playing basketball in her bare feet.
The baby was delivered successfully but four years later, became seriously ill. Hospital tests found her red blood count low, and she was later tested with the other members of the family for H.I.V.
Mrs. Glaser tested positive, and doctors found she had passed the virus to Ariel through her breast milk.
In 1988, drawing on connections made through her husband, Mrs. Glaser helped to found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation with two friends, Susan DeLaurentis and Susan Zeegen.
The baby was delivered successfully but four years later, became seriously ill. Hospital tests found her red blood count low, and she was later tested with the other members of the family for H.I.V.
Mrs. Glaser tested positive, and doctors found she had passed the virus to Ariel through her breast milk.
In 1988, drawing on connections made through her husband, Mrs. Glaser helped to found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation with two friends, Susan DeLaurentis and Susan Zeegen.
