She also was a past national Hadassah chairman for young people pioneering in Palestine and helped found Kibbutz Hasollelim to train young Zionists.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
She traveled often, once spending six months in the desert; on a visit to Saudi Arabia, she found herself housed in the guest quarters of the king's harem.
After years of experience, she often found herself explaining procedures to younger male executive trainees.
"
        The next day, she found a guitar like Christian's.
In 1951, she helped found the League for Emotionally Disturbed Children, which was dedicated to promoting educational and therapeutic facilities.
Mrs. Markus became the target of controversy when she supported two British players, Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro, who had been found guilty of cheating by the World Bridge Federation in the 1965 World Team Championships in Buenos Aires.
Mrs. Brewster helped found Job's Refuge, a homeless shelter in Ossining.
'Nothing Is So Humble'
        As an artist, Mrs. Dienes had an innately experimental approach to materials and techniques and a lasting faith in the power of the found object.
"Bones, lint, Styrofoam, banana skins, the squishes and squashes found on the street: nothing is so humble that it cannot be made into art," she once said, and her work tended to prove her right.
She recommended that lawyers ask prospective jurors not if they were for or against an issue but open-ended questions to elicit their own thoughts, which she found to be more revealing.
She recommended that lawyers ask prospective jurors not if they were for or against an issue but open-ended questions to elicit their own thoughts, which she found to be more revealing.
For her, impatience became a virtue as she cut off the longwinded and went on to someone or something she found more interesting.
As a girl, she collected pennies for a new dispensary that became a forerunner of the hospital that her future husband helped to found in 1927 -- Bronx-Lebanon on the Grand Concourse in the Tremont section.
She also help to found the Kaposi's Sarcoma Research Fund in 1983.
In the process, she found ways to test tRNA activity and showed why all proteins start with the same amino acid, methionine.
Many institutionalized patients were found to have been misdiagnosed as demented and were restored to normal functioning with thyroid medication.
Despite freezing nighttime temperatures, she was found unharmed two miles from the picnic site.
Her ideas about transposable elements, they wrote, were "ahead of her time and Barbara found herself in an anomalous and unique position," adding, "She was universally respected and admired as one of the leading geneticists of her era, yet the reaction to her latest and perhaps most profound discoveries and insights was often uncomprehending or indifferent and not infrequently dismissive or even hostile.
But in recent years, working on a scale even larger than that favored by the first generation of Abstract Expressionists, she found both a glorious fulfillment in her work and an eager response from collectors and critics.
He said rescuers found two survivors, Douglas Colledi of London, Ontario, and Lucien Vixama of Providenciales, in the Fultons' righted boat on Friday.
She was the originator and senior editor of "Alternatives in Print," an international catalog of books, pamphlets, periodicals and audio-visual material not easily found in mainstream references works.
She was the originator and senior editor of "Alternatives in Print," an international catalog of books, pamphlets, periodicals and audio-visual material not easily found in mainstream references works.
Mrs. Furman helped found the volunteer organization in the early 1970's, and served a year's term as president from 1974 to 1975.
Hurok had urged Wigman to found an American school, and she agreed, sending Miss Holm to America to direct it.
Mrs. Hoxie helped to found the Presidential Studies Quarterly and served as its editor.
She found he had revised his theories to stress that the actor should create by imagination rather than by memory and that the key to success was "truth, truth in the circumstances of the play.
If Miss Segal found her roles limiting, audiences in the 1920's and 30's doted on her in musical confections like "Florida Girl," "The Desert Song," "The Chocolate Soldier," "Music in the Air," "The Three Musketeers" and "No, No, Nanette.
