While she was a student, she sought, and learned, the identity  of her natural parents and found that her ancestors included Anne Bradstreet, the 17th-century American poet.

        Esther S. Manz, who was a 208-pound housewife pregnant with her fifth child when a kitchen-table gathering in 1948 inspired her to found TOPS, a weight-loss support group that grew into a 300,000-member nonprofit organization, died on Monday at the Heritage Nursing Home in Milwaukee.
Several women who had worked for her at The Herald followed her and helped her found Newsline as an independent staff-owned magazine.
As Mr. Ackroyd said, "She discovered nothing, but found within herself a lasting treasure; it was her love of learning and her passion for the past.
Song after song found her confronting suffering, loneliness, abandonment or loss with an equanimity that her millions of listeners in the Spanish-speaking world found inspiring and deeply moving.
Song after song found her confronting suffering, loneliness, abandonment or loss with an equanimity that her millions of listeners in the Spanish-speaking world found inspiring and deeply moving.
Mrs. Bunce, who lived in Watertown most of her life, carried her knitting wherever she went, clicking away whenever she found a spare moment.
Although she suffered from osteoporosis so painful that she found it difficult to sit in a wheelchair in her last months, Mrs. Bunce, who had taught  herself to knit lying down after entering the nursing home, insisted on being taken to the church in December to make her usual surreptitious donation of her  year's production.
But in the 1980's, long separated from Mr. Mascolo, she also found love again in an unusual relationship with a young homosexual writer, Yann Andrea Steiner, with whom she shared her final years.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
She found the model for her stage character in Baileyton, Ala., when she stayed with a family whose grande dame regaled the company with humorous tall tales.
"
        Mrs. Keane, who mined the same vein of childhood experiences time after time, inevitably found new nuggets of insight or intrigue.
When she was 40, her husband died, and Mrs. Keane, who had two daughters, Sally and Virginia, was so grief-stricken she found she no longer had the zest for writing.
One day she found herself with two bored visiting children to entertain.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.
Miss McLean found work as a film technician, then worked as an assistant editor for a number of studios, and in the early 1930's began the long association with Mr. Zanuck, who inevitably selected her to edit his personal productions at Fox.
Instead, the study found that having a child can aggravate underlying disturbances in women who are severely maladjusted or mentally ill.
        With her husband, Dr. William A. Horwitz, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, she explored the mechanisms of paranoia and helped broaden the dynamic explanations of that disorder.
In 1933, she found a summer job on a Chrysler assembly line.
"She seemed to know things  other people never found out.
"They found a tumor that they said was the size of an orange," she wrote.
Helm, who worked virtually every day for 18 months, often hanging upside down or standing in water up to her waist for hours at a time, found the experience excruciating.
"
        These achievements were among the high points of a recording career that found Miss Fitzgerald recording in all manner of pop settings.
" These albums, which included a religious record, an album of country music and a Christmas collection, found her groping insecurely for a new pop identity.
Over the more than three decades that she wrote nonfiction, Miss Mitford railed against those who tried to suppress dissent over the Vietnam War, against a prison system she found to be corrupt and brutalizing, and against a medical profession she thought was greedy and given to unnecessary procedures.
Among her other books were "Kind and Unusual Punishment: The Prison Business" (1973), a study of American prisons, which she found wanting in almost everything except brutality; "A Fine Old Conflict" (1977), a memoir of her Communist days; "Poison Penmanship: The Gentle Art of Muckraking" (1979), and "The American Way of Birth" (1992), in which she accused doctors of doing too many Caesarean sections and of not paying enough attention to the possibilities  offered by midwifery.
Ms. Muir was born in Suffern, N.Y., and attended schools in nearby Ridgewood, N.J. She found her way into acting by chance.
"
        She found her way back into television in a drama on "Matinee Theater" on NBC in 1958.
Among the cases for which Miss Pupko found witnesses was that of Andrija Artukovic, Minister of the Interior for the Nazi puppet state of Croatia in World War II.
Noel Coward, who worked with her in 1956 on the live telecast of his comedy "Blithe Spirit," recorded in his diary that he found her "extremely tiresome.
Mrs. Gerard and Mr. M'Bow also found themselves at odds over the developing world's campaign to create what it termed a New World Information and Communications Order to be administered by Unesco.
She moved to Hollywood with Mr. Gerber and eventually found work at International Creative Management, the talent agency, where she rose from secretary to agent.
''
        Shortly after, she and her daughter, who joined her several years earlier, found a location at Park Avenue and 58th Street where in plush  surroundings she coddled her customers with tea and cookies while models paraded the clothes or saleswomen carried them out.
When her father died, she moved to New York with her mother and found work as a model for the Powers agency while still a teen-ager, changing her last name from LaCock to Marshall.
''She was the poison plant center'' in South Florida, said Lawrence Kaplan, an emeritus professor of botany at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and editor of the journal of the Society of Economic Botany, which Mrs. Morton helped found.
''
        By then the life of the blue-collar worker's daughter had changed considerably, largely because her husband had become a co-inventor of the microchip, which laid the foundation for the vast personal computer industry, and had helped found three of the industry's premier companies, including the giant Intel Corporation.
When she found that the steep driveway to her house became dangerously slick with wintertime ice, she built a more accessible winter home a thousand feet away.
'' That year she also found time to star in ''Hotel du Nord,'' directed by Marcel Carne, a classic with a fond view of working-class Parisians.
He had hired a teen-age boy from the children's home, somehow found out that the children were Jewish, then apparently passed the information to German troops garrisoned in a nearby town.
In 1969, when he troupe danced Fernand Nault's ''Symphony of Psalms'' in a Montreal church, many local theatergoers decided that the city no longer found ballet to be morally suspect.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
Since then her work found outlets at Harper & Row, Morrow, Macmillan, Doubleday and Walker, among other publishers.
Mr. Waldbaum found a 50-pound sack and offered to deliver it personally to her home.
She helped found the American Carousel Society to spread the word among other collectors and carousel lovers.
In 1993, Ms. Shostak, part way through an eight-year battle with breast cancer and believing that it would be her last chance to see Nisa, spent weeks searching for her in the deserts and, remarkably, found her.
During her five years there, she helped to found an innovative dance therapy program.

        Greer Lankton, an artist known for her flamboyant doll-like sculptures, was found dead in her apartment in Chicago last Monday.
The cause was cancer, said Jacqueline I. Haines, director of the Gesell Institute in New Haven, which Dr. Ames helped found in 1950.

        Peggy Wattles Pulleyn, whose grandchild's ill fortune moved her to found the Princeton Child Development Institute in 1970, died on Dec. 8 in a freakish accident near her home in Oldwick, N.J. She was 85.
A prime example of the theme in the Curious George books can be found in ''Curious George Goes to the Hospital,'' in which George swallows a piece of a jigsaw puzzle and is run through a battery of hospital tests.

        Magda Denes, a psychoanalyst who had just completed a book recounting her torment as a Jewish child hunted by the Nazis in wartime Budapest, was found dead on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Until then, many scientists still believed the human birthplace would be found in Asia.
A few years later, the two Leakeys uncovered the fossils of the first known member of the genus Homo habilis, or ''able man,'' in recognition of the many stone tools found among the bones.
There the tracks remained to be found by dung-throwing scientists.
''I was really looking for tools, but we never found any at the site.
Rushing back to her husband, she exclaimed, ''I've found him -- found our man.
Rushing back to her husband, she exclaimed, ''I've found him -- found our man.
She died in her sleep, said Ed Gallagher, a longtime friend, who found Ms. Railey on Sunday afternoon.
Her father, Joseph Medill Patterson, founded The Daily News in New York and helped found The Chicago Tribune.
Correction:  January 17, 1996, Wednesday
        An obituary last Wednesday about Mary Averell Fisk, who championed early-childhood education in 45 years as a volunteer in the New York City public schools, misstated the name of an organization she helped found.
She found her calling during the London Blitz in World War II, when she did the legal work that took hundreds of  children away from the air raids to safety in the United States on behalf of Eleanor Roosevelt's Committee for the Care of European Children.
When his taxi arrived at his apartment on West 67th Street, the driver found Lowell slumped over.
(She liked to joke that she found stout undrinkable.
"The thing she found was, if you give it a lot to eat, this process of aging  was greatly accelerated," Dr. Trager said.
After  one steady source on Long Island dried up, she found some closer to home -- in a fountain on the Rockefeller campus.
"
        After their marriage in 1952, they traveled widely and found a formula for pursuing their separate literary careers.
