In 1983 the state's Probate Council found that Judge Kinsella had acted improperly.
A psychologist and medical writer, Ms. Kushner turned single-mindedly to her breast cancer crusade in 1974, when she found a lump in her breast but refused to submit to the then routine ''one step'' procedure.
She railed against the one-step procedure and, after 18 telephone calls, finally found a general surgeon to remove just her lump.
She later found a breast cancer specialist to remove her breast when the lump proved cancerous.
She was the controller of the Brooklyn Academy of Music from 1968 to 1971, when she helped to found Art Services, a management agency whose clients have included John Cage, Joseph Chaikin, Richard Foreman, Philip Glass, Trisha Brown and Lucinda Childs.
''
        Amid these activities she found time to be interested in polar explorations, an interest shared with her husband.
To Mrs. Greneker's astonishment, she found that most mannequins were virtual statues and, in 1937, decided to make her own.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother,
        Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother, Billy.
Dr. Sitterly then found technitium in the spectrum of sunlight - the first indication that it exists in nature.
It has now been found in the light from other stars and is one of the most common products of atom-splitting in nuclear reactors.
Guest helped found the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and was chairman of the friends of the center for many years.
''
        Headed a Preservation League
        In 1976 she helped to found the Miami Design Preservation League, which in 1979 won Federal historic designation for the South Beach district of Miami Beach.
Chapters in Other Towns
        Mrs. Capitman, president of the Art Deco Society of America, helped found chapters of the society in several cities, including New York, Washington, Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
''
        Doubts in Sweden, A Hit in Berlin
        The four-hour movie drew mixed notices in Stockholm, but a three-hour version was a hit in Berlin, where reviewers found Garbo ''a soul-revealing Nordic princess.
''Send In the Clowns,'' the song that usually closed her shows, became her ultimate vocal showpiece, a three-octave tour de force of semi-improvisational pyrotechnics in which the jazz, pop and operatic sides of her musical personality came together and found complete expression.
Since Mrs. Hyde was found to have cancer five years ago, she worked ardently to call attention to the disease, raising nearly $2 million for Georgetown University Medical Center, which established the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research last year.
She revived the Birmingham Symphony Orchestra and helped found the the Birmingham Civic Theater, which later became the University of Alabama-Birmingham Town and Gown Theater.
''I found a magic in the designers I photographed.
She attended the Shipley School in Bryn Mawr, Pa., which she found progressive.

       Barbara Baxley, a stage, film and television actress, was found dead Thursday in her Upper West Side apartment.
Barbara Baxley, a stage, film and television actress, was found dead Thursday in her Upper West Side apartment.
''
        Miss Bailey had a bluntness that some found disconcerting.
''
        Miss Bailey had a bluntness that some found disconcerting.
Dr. Shorb found a bacterium, Lactobacillus lactis Dorner, that was present in tomato juice and liver extract, making possible the creation of the vitamin.
As her acting career became less demanding, Miss Dunne found other pursuits, away from the film industry.
Mrs. Sigmund first learned that she had cancer in 1982, when a melanoma was found behind her left eye.
But last year, after Mrs. Sigmund unsuccessfully sought the Democratic nomination for governor of New Jersey, doctors found that the cancer had spread.
''
        Writing Poetry
        After Mrs. Sigmund was found to have a recurrence of cancer last year, she began chemotherapy treatments but continued to devote as much energy as she could to the duties of her office and her favorite hobby, writing poetry.
In 1986, she was named judge of the year by the National Association of Women Judges, an organization she helped found in 1979.
A jury in Federal District Court in Manhattan found Mrs. Gabel, Ms. Myerson and Mr. Capasso not guilty of charges of conspiracy, fraud and bribery.
Ms. Phillips's colorful, vivacious paintings in a semi-abstract style are found in a number of museum collections.
