She found work singing for a radio station in Fargo, then as a singer in Minneapolis with Will Osborne's band.

        Edith Bouvier Beale, once a successful model and aspiring actress who later lived a gothic life in Grey Gardens, a dilapidated 28-room house in East Hampton, N.Y., with her mother and dozens of cats, raccoons and opossums, was found dead in her small apartment in Bal Harbour, Fla., on Jan. 14.
In the dining room, they found a five-foot mountain of empty cans; in the upstairs bedrooms, they saw human waste.
She found veteran cooks who could create and test recipes.
Five years ago, however, she found a home at Transy House, a private shelter for transgendered people in Park Slope, Brooklyn, patterned on STAR House.
''I found in this country everything I wanted.
''I found in this country everything I wanted.
''Then having found what she wants, it is with a man's vigor that she gets it down to stay,'' he continued.
Ani Pachen told how she was so hungry that she would rejoice when she found a worm in the soil.
She helped found an interfaith chapel at the Florida School for the Deaf in St. Augustine; it was renamed in her honor in 1986.
A friend denounced Ms. Rinser as a traitor in 1944, and a Nazi tribunal found her guilty of high treason for interfering with the ability of the armed forces to fight.
Bing, who was never comfortable with easygoing American personalities, found Ms. Farrell's irreverence hard to deal with.
When Mrs. Roosevelt visited Buckingham Palace in 1942, she found a bathtub painted with a black line above which water was not supposed to rise; food that was close to inedible (and severely rationed) and rooms that were so cold that the women wore fur coats and blankets indoors.
Accustomed to eating meager sandwiches served by the queen during his weekly luncheon meetings with the king, he found on one occasion that the food was even more horrific than usual.
She helped found an interfaith chapel at the Florida School for the Deaf in St. Augustine; it was renamed in her honor in 1986.
Ms. Ocloo found that ideas she had been developing with women in Ghana were also percolating elsewhere.
''You know what we found?
We found that a woman selling rice and stew on the side of the street is making more money than most women in office jobs -- but they are not taken seriously.
But the Nazi forces found themselves blocked once more by fierce Jewish resistance after several days of vicious street fighting.
''
        She was found to have breast cancer in 1970 and had her left breast removed.
She found her way to Hollywood, arriving in January 1947.
She discovered ready students among movie stars, who found yoga's breathing and relaxation techniques useful to their work.

        Ruth Fertel, who found a New Orleans restaurant called Chris Steak House in the classified ads and from it built one of the largest steakhouse chains in the world, died Tuesday in New Orleans.
''
        In the early 1980's, when she found out that she had scleroderma, which hardens the skin and internal organs, Ms. Monsky was given only two years to live.
In 1914 there were 14 Yiddish theaters in New York, and avant-garde movements like naturalism, expressionism and Stanislavsky's Method often found their first expression there.
At first she found herself in uncharted territory, as she put it in a 1996 interview.
Among her husband's papers, Ms. Gould found a diary written in code.
After Oxford she entered local politics in London and helped found a left-wing weekly, Tribune, which was edited by her lover, William Mellor, who died before they could marry.
Precocious on and off the dance floor, she graduated from high school at 14 and found work as a dancer, touring Europe with Duke Ellington and Cab Calloway in the 1930's.
''By the time I got to Vietnam,'' she said, ''I found the battlefield stories no longer very interesting.
Mrs. Sutherland found it ''most imaginative and unusual.
''By the time I got to Vietnam,'' she said, ''I found the battlefield stories no longer very interesting.
''If I found something I wanted to do, I had to get permission.
She found it difficult to find work.
In her next book, she found a healthier relationship.
The women, who had an average age of 20, found themselves rattling around the Midwest playing a game that more and more resembled baseball.
Dancer, who played center field and sometimes pitched for the Minneapolis Millerettes, the Fort Wayne Daisies and the Peoria Redwings, found room to display a remarkably free spirit.
''If I found something I wanted to do, I had to get permission.
She found it difficult to find work.
Even as Ms. Slobodkina found success in writing and illustrating books, she continued her paintings, textiles and sculptures.
The Kalahari Desert was the answer he found.
The family was at first apprehensive about tales of poison darts and trance dances, but found the Bushmen polite and kind.
''
        Dr. Stewart was also at the center of a 14-year battle with the Department of Energy, which cut off her access to its records on the health of nuclear-weapons workers after she and her colleagues found that low doses of radiation had increased the number of cancers among workers at the Hanford nuclear weapons plant in Washington State.
In 1962, she helped found the Army Music and Theater Program, and then for two decades she directed the program, which The Washington Post in 1976 called ''the largest producing organization of music and theater in the world.
She was later a sports commentator for ABC, developed tennis programs at resorts and helped found the Cartier tennis tournament in Long Island's Hamptons to benefit the American Cancer Society.
Even in the 1960's, when the theater was internationally renowned, Ms. Littlewood herself was to be found washing the steps before opening nights, reportedly snapping at one passing actor, ''I'm expecting company -- what about you?
'' That hospitality and lack of pretension found its way into productions that combined simple staging and dramatic gusto with a determination to break down the conventional barriers between actors and audiences.
Cassette copies of her show found their way to musicians like Loretta Lynn, Marcia Ball and Billy Gibbons of ZZ Top.
The next year, Ms. Velikanova helped found the Initiative Group for the Defense of Human Rights in the U.S.S.R., and became the backbone of the Chronicle of Current Events, a samizdat news bulletin, after the arrest of its founder, Natalya Gorbanevskaya.
She found the voice and courage to attack Mr. Walesa.
Reviewing ''Streetcar'' in The Times on Dec. 9, 1952, Mr. Martin found fault with some of Bettis's choreography.
Earlier this year, Dr. Kilbourn established for the first time that Ebola is a serious threat to wild gorillas as well as to humans when she found dead specimens in the jungle and found that the disease had killed them, the society said.
Earlier this year, Dr. Kilbourn established for the first time that Ebola is a serious threat to wild gorillas as well as to humans when she found dead specimens in the jungle and found that the disease had killed them, the society said.
She was found guilty, given two suspended six-month sentences and fined $10,000.
It made the same sound as the alert that had signaled rocket and mortar attacks on Pleiku, and Ms. Van Devanter found herself compulsively crawling out of the house.
Born into a well-off Jamaican family, Ms. Carroll moved to Harlem when she was 10 and found an instant affinity for the arts, playing viola with the Dean Dixon Symphony when in high school.
After honing her craft by acting at the Harlem Y.M.C.A., Ms. Carroll found some work in the theater in the 1950's, and also toured extensively with a one-woman show that she wrote.
Mrs. Grossman and Ms. Thomas found 5,000 references in the O'Brian novels, which they boiled down to 130 recipes for Mr. O'Brian's seeming favorites.
A sailor's stew, it, too, required a good helping of suet, which, the authors found, a local butcher was all too glad to give away.
But just to make certain the restrictions could not be changed she helped found the Marin Agricultural Land Trust, or MALT, which now has 47 ranches and dairies covering 32,000 acres.
Much of her work then found its way into newspapers and national magazines like Life, Harper's Bazaar and Vogue.
She personally fostered six girls and found places for many others.
They had been well-known journalists in Ireland -- her father had helped found RTE, Ireland's national broadcasting organization -- and then they felt stuck in the suburbs.
She felt she had gotten her message out, that she had found herself, that her face had become acceptable, Ms. Barasch, her twin, said.
