She had suffered for some months from a severe bronchial condition, said a friend, Lou Guzzo, who is a television commentator.
"
        Governor Ray a conservative in fiscal matters and was praised by a lobbyist in the aircraft industry as "the best friend business ever had.
The cause was pneumonia, said a friend, Michael Clark.
The cause was a heart attack, said Jess L. Hoaglin, a friend.
The cause was cancer, said Jacqueline Algon, a friend.
She was a friend and confidante of Harold Ross, the first editor of The New Yorker magazine, and she knew Dorothy Parker, Robert Benchley, Christopher Morley and other members of what came to be known as the Algonquin Round Table.

        Maria St. Just, an actress and longtime friend of Tennessee Williams, died on Tuesday at her home in London.
A Friend of the Camera
        "I don't know how to be afraid of that old red eye," she once said, referring to the television camera.
The cause of death was a heart attack, said Jack Bloomfield, a friend.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and her recording producer.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rony Rogoff, a family friend.
The cause was complications from a stroke she suffered several months ago, Prof. Harvey J. Goldschmid, a family friend, said.
The cause was a stroke, said Sigrid Sanders of Manhattan, a friend.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX-TV in New York City and a longtime friend of Ms. Harper.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX in New York City, and a longtime friend.
The cause was heart failure, said Meg Gordean, a friend.
She died of natural causes, said Jon Hendricks, a friend.
Her teachers regarded her as an outstanding girl, but she once fretted to a friend, "I'm sure no one will ever marry me, and I'll end up being a housemother at Farmington.
"I think she cast a particular spell over the White House that has not been equaled," said Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, who was a friend of the Kennedys.
She told a friend, "You don't know how lonely I've been.
Mrs. Onassis's began her career in publishing in 1975, when her friend Thomas Guinzburg, then the president of Viking Press, offered her a job as a consulting editor.
In 1978, Mrs. Onassis then took a new job as an associate editor at Doubleday under another old friend, John Sargent, and was installed at first in a small office with no windows.
She published a number of children's books by the singer Carly Simon, a friend and Martha's Vineyard neighbor.
"
        John Russell, a former art critic for The New York Times and a longtime friend of Mrs. Onassis, remembered her as a shrewd judge of people, but one who was always mindful of their feelings and was careful not to hurt them if her judgments were negative.
She told a friend that she admired his "strength and his success.

        Jolene R. Marion, a New York lawyer who played a prominent role in the animal-rights movement, died on Sunday at the Queens home of a friend, Marilyn Mason.
The cause was breast cancer, said Larry Keith, a friend.
Miss Davis suffered from Parkinson's disease and cancer, said a friend, Cliff Olson.
"She had a particular gift of intimacy with her listeners," said Carole Nolan, general manager of WBEZ and a longtime friend.
In 1985, Random House published "Darlinghissima: Letters to a Friend," by Janet Flanner, who, under the pseudonym Genet, wrote the "Letter From Paris" column in The New Yorker.
Mrs.Murray, a longtime friend of Miss Flanner, edited the book and added commentary.
In 1985, Random House published "Darlinghissima: Letters to a Friend," by Janet Flanner, who, under the pseudonym Genet, wrote the "Letter From Paris" column in The New Yorker.
Mrs.Murray, a longtime friend of Miss Flanner, edited the book and added commentary.
She suffered a brief illness, said Keven Bellows of Los Angeles, a family friend.
"She did pass for white when she was traveling in the South with Duke Ellington and his band," said Jean-Claude Baker, a restaurateur and author and a friend of Ms. Washington's.
The cause was heart failure, said Raoul Abdul, a New York writer and longtime friend.
Dr. Michael Osterholm, an AIDS expert and epidemiologist with the Minnesota Department of Health who became a friend of her family, said she "helped bridge the gap between the worlds of the health care provider and the AIDS patient in need of competent and compassionate care like no one else could.
The cause has not been determined, Marilyn McCully, a family friend, said yesterday.
" Joe Mankiewicz, the film director who was a longtime friend, said that while Lynn Fontanne always had to make an entrance, "to Jessie the way she was when she got there was what was important.
The cause was cancer, said Robert Sonderskov, a family friend.
The cause was a heart attack, said Marjorie Berke, a friend.
The cause was cancer, said Barry Paris, a friend.
Miss Primus died after a brief illness, said Joyce Knight, a friend.
The cause was complications from injuries in the Northridge, Calif., earthquake in January, said her friend Lester Glassner.
The movie was written, produced and directed by her friend Bud Greenspan, the Olympic historian.
The cause was an aneurism, said Tedi Dreiser Godard, a friend.
President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, who occupied a Towers suite when he was chief United States delegate to the United Nations, returned to visit their friend and neighbor after moving to the White House.
Some time ago I talked with the Duchess of Orleans, who was a customer of hers and a close friend, and she said she went to visit her in an old people's home.
The cause of death was heart failure, said Carol Harford, a longtime friend who is president emeritus of the Wolf Trap Foundation, which presents the park's arts programs under the auspices of the Department of the Interior.
In 1958, she continued her work under the label of Claire McCardell, a designer and friend of Mrs. Orrick who had died the year before.
Ms. Hubbard, who retired in 1970 at the onset of Cushing's disease, an adrenal disorder, died of congestive heart failure, said Marc L. Alper of Rockview, Md., a family friend.
She was a friend of former President George Bush, at one time a Greenwich resident, who appointed her to a three-year term on the National Council on Disability in 1990 when she was 92.
" She was, he said, a "revered friend and an inspiration to me in both my private and public life.
