''
        Harriet Wasserman of the Harriet Wasserman Literary Agency, who worked with and was a friend of Ms. Donadio for many years, said of her talent with regard to writers: ''She was an appreciator.
Old, an immunotherapy expert at Sloan-Kettering and a longtime friend.
She was Wittgenstein's student and friend during World War II.
Her only close friend at the factory, a forewoman, died in the fire.
After the first year, to counteract unimpressive ratings, ''Mannix'' was changed, and Peggy Fair, the widow of a police officer who had been a friend of Joe Mannix, was added to the cast.
The cause was bacterial meningitis, said Prof. Jack E. Shepherd Jr., a friend and colleague at Dartmouth, where she was an adjunct professor of environmental sciences.
The cause was breast cancer, according to her publicist and friend, Tonya Miller.
In 1988, at the age of 79, she was nominated for an Oscar as best supporting actress for her performance as Lillian Gish's optimistic friend and neighbor in the 1987 drama of old age, ''The Whales of August.
''
        Like her friend Lucille Ball, Ms. Sothern turned early to television.
''
        Ms. Karnilova was a soloist when she left Ballet Theater in 1946 to appear in ''Call Me Mister,'' a Broadway revue, and a series of musicals, many directed or choreographed by Jerome Robbins, a close friend from her corps days at Ballet Theater.
Her husband, Bryon O'Leary, an actor who had been a childhood friend and was often thrust aside by ''Forsyte'' fans eager to meet Irene, died in 1970 of an overdose of whiskey and barbiturates.
It was while living in Paris that she discovered American jazz, when a friend played her a recording of Billie Holiday singing ''I've Got a Right to Sing the Blues.
It was while living in Paris that she discovered American jazz, when a friend played her a recording of Billie Holiday singing ''I've Got a Right to Sing the Blues.
Working together in Athens, the two were responsible for uncovering famous monuments like the garden in which the Temple of Hephaistos stood and the Odeion, or music hall, of Emperor Augustus's closest friend, Agrippa.
''She collected drawings, poetry and everything else,'' said Dr. Marvin Reznikoff, a close friend and emeritus professor of psychology at Fordham.
''Imogene can look so abandoned that you wonder if she ever had anybody to abandon her in the first place,'' a friend said.
''She had the wonderful faculty of understanding,'' the friend said.
She moved to Santa Fe in 1931 at 18, according to John S. Hart, a neighbor and friend.
Ms. Chabot told her friend that she had never seen  O'Keeffe on a horse.
Later Mr. Graham became an even more influential figure in Washington, a close friend of President John F. Kennedy and Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson.
) Mrs. Graham wrote that she was startled when her friend Luvie Pearson, the wife of the columnist Drew Pearson, told her to run the paper herself.
''
        In a statement yesterday, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, chairman emeritus of The New York Times Company, said:
        ''We are deeply saddened by the passing of Katharine Graham, a close friend and honored colleague.
''
        Meeting the Elite
        In time, as Mrs. Graham became more comfortable with her ability to exercise power, she took trips to confer with foreign leaders, usually accompanied by one of the reporters and her friend Meg Greenfield, who was editor of the editorial page of The Post and a columnist for Newsweek.
She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
''
        Mrs. Gelb scored a major coup when she persuaded her friend Antoine, the Paris hairdresser whose clients included Greta Garbo and Claudette Colbert, to color several wigs with Clairol and place them in Saks Fifth Avenue's windows.
''She is a teacher, yes, but she is also a very genuine friend of the tots who sit entranced before the receivers.
Titled ''To Friend and Foe,'' it featured floor-to-ceiling images and words and a pair of small, scrappy wood shacks painted with her signature Victorian lettering.
Like 25 other books by her, it was illustrated by her friend, the British artist Nora Unwin.
Maurice Jarre, a friend of Ms. Loriod, played the instrument for ''Lawrence of Arabia'' and ''Mad Max.
After a season of walk-ons with a stock company in Louisville, Ky., where she'd gone at the urging of a friend who was working there, she boarded a Greyhound bus for New York.
It takes her closest friend, Alexander J. Dubé, to loosen her up.
''When he was elected president, she had more communication and involvement with her father than she had had for the rest of her life,'' her friend Judy Carter, the daughter-in-law of former President Jimmy Carter, said in 1989.
During World War II, while serving in the French resistance, Ms. Brée became a friend of Albert Camus.
During World War II, while serving in the French resistance, Ms. Brée became a friend of Albert Camus.
Despite expectations that she would proceed to law school or teaching, she went to New York with a friend, the poet Robert Horan, for about three years.
She was arguing about a movie with a friend when the editor of City Lights magazine asked them each to review Chaplin's ''Limelight.
'' The friend turned in nothing.
She added props, from canes to matador capes, and persuaded a friend in the fabric business to develop nylon pompoms as a more versatile substitute for paper ones.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Myrna Felder, a colleague and friend.
She was famous for her malapropisms, consistently referring to the Reina Sofia, a prominent museum of modern art in Madrid, as the Sophia Loren and once telling a friend that she did not approve of ''unanimous sex.
The cause was cancer, said Shirley E. Herz, her longtime friend and former publicist.
The Times of London noted that Lady Jean was a close friend of Princess Margaret, and ''played a pivotal role during her fraught relationship with Group Captain Peter Townsend, acting as a go-between and counselor, especially during the sad period after the princess decided to call off their engagement.
She drove a pink Cadillac and, for some years, lived in a $5 million, 30-room pink palace with 28-foot high ceilings, a Grecian pool, crystal chandeliers and 11 bathrooms, one of which duplicated that of her friend, Liberace.
A friend once told Mrs. Ash, ''Mary Kay Cosmetics was a divine accident looking for a place to happen.
She drove a pink Cadillac and, for some years, lived in a $5 million, 30-room pink palace with 28-foot ceilings, a Grecian pool, crystal chandeliers and 11 bathrooms, one of which duplicated that of her friend, Liberace.
A friend once told Mrs. Ash, ''Mary Kay Cosmetics was a divine accident looking for a place to happen.
She and her husband, Dr. Bernard Berkowitz, a psychologist and psychiatrist, wrote ''How to Be Your Best Friend'' (Random House, 1973).
It was ''How to Be Your Own Best Friend,'' not ''How to Be Your Best Friend.
It was ''How to Be Your Own Best Friend,'' not ''How to Be Your Best Friend.
The cause was a brain inflammation, said David Bauer, a friend.
She had been ailing for several months, said George O'Brien, a friend, and died at New York Weill Cornell Center.
''She was tickled pink,'' the director Joel Schumacher, a friend since the 1960's, said of her new visibility.
Although in many ways Ms. Donovan was simple in her tastes, preferring plain food and the subway, she was also at home in the upper reaches of fashion and society, a friend to Mr. Lagerfeld as well as the philanthropist Bunny Mellon.
In 1999, the Democrats gained a majority and Ms. Jacobs became presiding officer, a position she hopes to retain despite backing a friend, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, in the primary against Thomas R. Suozzi, the incoming county executive.
