Some of her  fellow teachers, who were all white,  were friendly, she said, ''but you couldn't count on any of them being your real friend.
''It was very chic to go out there and buy things in a lovely spot,'' recalled Virginia Wagoner Booth, who was then a buyer for Lord & Taylor and became a lifelong friend.
She was a commanding presence in her own salon, speaking with a mystical authority that her fellow author and friend, Elizabeth Longford, likened to ''what I imagine to be the kind of voice possessed by a Celtic prophetess reading the runes.
For the rest of her life, Bessie Cohen would remember that earlier in the day, she had urged her friend, Dora Abramowitz, who was 15, to ask the foreman to give her a 50-cent raise to bring her salary up to the $3 a week that Bessie was earning.
'' She looked across the room and could see her friend Dora, looking frightened.
She said she had been wounded by the bad publicity, and according to a newspaper account, confided to a friend that ''the only good journalist is a dead journalist.
She was a writer in residence at the experimental company Paines Plough, working with emerging writers at the urging of her friend and fellow playwright Mark Ravenhill, the author of ''Shopping and .
We still have a long ways to go, but you, my friend, have made it easier for all of us.
She had been recuperating from recent surgery when she suffered a heart attack, said a friend and associate, Samantha La Viale.
She got her professional start with an Andrews Sisters-style group called the Lana Sisters, but quit to form her own folk-pop group, the Springfields, with a friend, Tim Field, and her brother, Dion O'Brien, now known as Tom Springfield, who is her only survivor.
A longtime resident of Eugene, Ore., Mrs. Waddy moved to Las Vegas in 1998 to live with a friend, Barbara Connolly, when her health declined.
Another friend, Marie Marshall of Eugene, recalled how Mrs. Waddy was still bowling and driving a car into her 90's.
Although clearly enamored of Marxism since youth, Ms. Anderson was not overtly political, said her childhood friend, the writer Helen Yglesias, a classmate at James Monroe High School in the Bronx.

        Melba Liston, a trombonist and arranger who worked with some of the best bands in jazz, died on Friday after a series of strokes, said a friend, the pianist Randy Weston.
'' When a gossip column last year reported that Miss Lortel would soon celebrate her 98th birthday, Blanche Marvin, a friend, reported that she was furious.
The cause was leukemia, said Leyna Gabriele, a friend.
''She is one of the pioneers and champions of bringing law and order into labor relations,'' said Robert S. Rifkind, a lawyer and longtime friend whose father, Simon H. Rifkind, was a law clerk for Ms. Klaus.
She had congestive heart failure, a friend, James A. Moore, said.
Neither her brother nor her longtime friend Nilofer King knew how Ms. Brandel became obsessed with cooking.
In 1938 she married Ronald Batty, a childhood friend and executive at Foyle's.
'' as a favor to the director for casting her in ''Beetlejuice'' as a chain-smoking ghoul, a role she thought was ''great,'' said John Springer, her friend and publicist.
Ms. Raskin won praise for ''Hot Flashes,'' which is about three middle-aged women who come together to mourn and commemorate the death of a female friend.
The cause was cancer, said the photographer Ram Rahman, a friend.
''I don't think she particularly missed being in the fashion industry,'' said John Perry Barlow, a friend of the couple.
''If you look at any 'I Love Lucy' rerun, if Lucille Ball is wearing glasses, they are Harlequin glasses,'' said David Mayhew of Maplewood, N.J., a friend of Mrs. Miranda's family.
Nathan Chroman, a longtime friend of Ms. Hansen's and her lawyer, said that Ms. Hansen, when she lived in Denmark, helped Danish Jews in their mass escape to Sweden.
She died in a hospital of complications from emphysema, said a friend, Patricia Reilly.
She graduated from high school at 15, earned a teaching certificate, then was introduced to Mr. Murray when she and a friend went to a radio station where he was teaching dance steps over the air.
Ms. Sheely had taken her daughter, Jessye, to the park and apparently had a heart attack, said Grisha Coleman, a friend.
Writing of a scene in the movie when painfully complacent Atlantans hear themselves chastised for inaction in the civil rights battles, Ms. Sibley said, ''It was an Atlanta attitude at the time, and many Atlantans took it like Miss Daisy, listening and looking at the empty chair beside her where her black servant and best friend, Hoke, should have been sitting if her courage had matched her good will.

        Joan Braden, a former State Department official who was a hostess and friend to high-ranking Washington figures and whose eight children inspired the ABC television series ''Eight Is Enough,'' died on Monday in Alexandria, Va. She was 77 and a longtime resident of the Washington area.
She also began to create a visual and literary record of her life and was preparing it as a book with a friend.
Press, a specialized publishing house, said he planned to publish the book when the friend completed it.
Her novel ''My Friend Says It's Bulletproof'' (1968) is loosely based on an affair she had with a lawyer on a trip to Canada.
The cause was liver failure, said the dancer Christian Holder, a friend.
The cause was intestinal cancer, said Mary Jane Lang, a friend of Miss Scott.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said George Glatter, a friend and colleague, who said Ms. Wolff had kept coming to her office until several weeks ago.
''
        President Clinton yesterday called her a dear friend and a heroine and said her death ''will leave a vacuum in the civil rights community, the State of Arkansas and our country.
The cause was complications from breast cancer, said Sato Moughalian, a friend.
She was discovered by Mr. Andrade and a friend.
Believing that she had nowhere to go but to the top, as she told Roger Aujame, a friend and former Corbusier Foundation director who is working on a catalog of her works, Ms. Perriand sought a job at Le Corbusier's studio.
Believing that she had nowhere to go but to the top, as she told Roger Aujame, a friend and former Corbusier Foundation director who is working on a catalog of her works, Ms. Perriand sought a job at Le Corbusier's studio.
The cause was unknown, said Jonathan Hollander, a friend and the artistic director of the Battery Dance Company in New York.
She died after a long illness and complications from diabetes, said a friend, Vickie Chamberlain.
In 1965, a friend took Mrs. Snetsinger birding for the first time in Minnesota, and when her husband took a corporate job in Missouri she pursued her interest with a group of birders.
