) Ms. Wasserstein's classmate, the playwright Christopher Durang, was a particular friend; she used his introductory icebreaker -- ''You look so bored, you must be very bright'' -- directly in ''The Heidi Chronicles,'' and they collaborated on a revue for the school's cabaret group.
Her death was announced by her friend Marian Seldes.
Andrew Young, a former United Nations ambassador and longtime family friend, said at a news conference yesterday morning that Mrs. King died in her sleep.
Dr. King, in the market for a wife, called her after getting her name from a friend and announced: ''You know every Napoleon has his Waterloo.
Miss Lewis, as she was always called, died in her sleep in her home in Decatur, Ga., said Scott Peacock, her friend and caretaker.
That view was lent support by Henry Louis Gates Jr., chairman of the department of African and African-American studies at Harvard, and a friend of Mr. Appiah's since their student days, who noted that it was a marriage of equals at the highest levels of their societies.
She was not initially enamored of Mr. Muse, but her competitive juices surged when her best friend, an attractive Frenchwoman, fell for him.
She published a two-part biography of her longtime friend, Aldous Huxley, in 1973.
Guest's first marriage, to John Dudley, a painter and writer who was a close friend of Henry Miller's, ended in divorce.
It told of a man too shy to tell his true feelings to a female friend:
        You give your hand to me
        And then you say hello
        And I can hardly speak
        My heart is beating so
        And anyone could tell
        You think you know me well,
        But you don't know me.
Oree Walker was her best friend and, until her death, in 1991, worked out melodies for her daughter's words.
''
        As a friend of Ms.
On Jan. 12, wearing what she described as her ''Barbarella wig,'' she sang ''Now and Forever'' to a sold-out crowd at Madison Square Garden on behalf of a friend, the former Rangers hockey captain Mark Messier, who was honored in a retirement ceremony.
A friend from acting school, Eli Wallach, was cast opposite her as Alvaro Mangiacavallo, the simple but loving truck driver who revives the widow's spirits in a tumultuous courtship.
When she was old enough to work, her goal was to save $100 to move to New York City and become an actress; in 1943, she left Troy for Manhattan, where she and a friend shared a $45-a-month apartment.
The English Surrealist painter Leonora Carrington was a fellow student and a close friend.
Mrs. Jordan left no immediate survivors, said Mary Jo Kaplan, a friend and former student, but her family was huge: a legion of devoted former pupils who tended to her needs.
Jamie Dixon, Maggie's older brother and the men's basketball coach at Pittsburgh, said she collapsed Wednesday while having tea at a friend's home.
Ed Franklin, a longtime friend, said that Mrs.
Glory Van Scott, a friend and former Dunham dancer.
Earlier in the month she had appeared at La Boule Blanche (the White Ball) at Riverside Church, an event organized by her friend Dr. Scott to celebrate the publication of an anthology of writings by and about Miss Dunham.
''
        Ms. Lewis starting investigating Vioxx after a friend of her mother's said she had become ill after taking the drug and soon lost her job, according to Shelly Sanford, one of her law partners.
Ms. Lewis wrote two letters to Merck seeking to negotiate a settlement in behalf of her mother's friend, Ms. Sanford said, but both offers were rejected.
The cause was breast cancer, said George Boziwick, a friend and the chief of the music division at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.
''She was the fiercest editor,'' the writer Diane Johnson, a close friend, recalled.
One day 10 years later, Truman walked into a bank in St. Louis where Miss Odum was working and told its president, a friend, that he needed a secretary.
The photograph, released by The Associated Press in 1945 and identified as Miss Odum, was actually Jane Lingo (a friend of President Truman's daughter, Margaret).
      
Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the family, who has exhibited with Ms. Juda's gallery since 1963.
Her death was confirmed by a friend, Daniel Gelfand.
The cause was ovarian cancer, according to Peter Sparling, a friend and colleague.
The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said Joan Schenkar, a friend.
''She was the ears of her husband,'' said Hellmut Fritzsche, a friend and scientific collaborator.
Mrs. Boegner was the granddaughter of Henry Phipps, who in 1861 joined his friend Andrew Carnegie in the steel venture that became a core part of the United States Steel Corporation at its founding in 1901.
''
        Through the years, Mrs. Lawford was a close friend of Marilyn Monroe, Tennessee Williams and Sinatra, for whom she partly named her daughter Victoria Frances.
A close friend she regarded as a sister, whom she had recruited to spy with her, was killed by a sniper while she was in the back seat of a car driven by Ms. Deschamps, who then quickly had to dig the grave.
The advice of her mentor, a French colonel who had been a friend of her father's, was to ''join the Red Cross or something,'' not the underground.
She had no special training when she and the friend she recruited began riding their bicycles to spy on German troops -- some of whom gallantly helped with bike repairs.
As a Wagnerian soprano, Ms. Varnay never achieved the widespread public recognition of her beloved mentor Kirsten Flagstad or her good friend Birgit Nilsson, who like Ms. Varnay was born in Sweden in 1918.
At times, however, she was overshadowed by Babe Didrikson Zaharias, her friend and rival.
She sold the shop and moved to New York, but hated it and moved to Chicago, where a friend suggested she might find design work at Playboy.
She said that a friend told her: ''It doesn't matter what you sound like.
Her friend Nancy Kline announced the death.
Mrs. Carr owned a flower plantation in a volcanic paradise, was stalked by leopards, pestered by elephants and cuddled by monkeys and became a close friend of Dian Fossey, the mountain gorilla researcher, who was mysteriously killed in 1985.
The cause was complications following a heart attack and a stroke she suffered after surgery, and Ms. Brown had been on life support since Oct. 29, said her friend, lawyer and executor, Howell Begle.
The score included the comic lament ''I'm Going Back (To the Bonjour Tristesse Brassiere Company)'' as well as some songs that became part of the standard pop repertory, like ''Just in Time,'' ''Long Before I Knew You'' and ''The Party's Over,'' which ended with the melancholy verse:
        Now you must wake up
        All dreams must end
        Take off your makeup
        The party's over
        It's all over, my friend.
The cause was complications of brain cancer, said Linda Wharton-Boyd, a longtime friend.
Ms. Shelly wrote and directed several other independent films, including ''Sudden Manhattan'' (1997), in which zany characters collide in Lower Manhattan, and ''I'll Take You There'' (1999), a romantic comedy about a real estate broker whose wife leaves him for his best friend.

        Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend.
''She was a bridge for feminism into many traditional places,'' said the feminist leader Gloria Steinem, a friend.
The cause of death had not been determined, Eli Leon, a quilt scholar and longtime friend, said yesterday.
If a friend managed to drag her to a local exhibition of her work, she quietly slipped into the gallery anonymously.
Although Ms. Tompkins always worked under a pseudonym to preserve her anonymity, rarely attended her own exhibitions and agreed to sell few of her quilts, she was nonetheless pleased -- not chagrined -- to have her work shown, Eli Leon, a quilt scholar and longtime friend, told The Times on Wednesday.
The cause was pneumonia, said Leslie Gottlieb, a publicist and family friend.
