But when she became a national fixture as the flapper, a designer friend accused her of being the worst-dressed woman in Hollywood.
But when she became a national fixture as the flapper, a designer friend accused her of being the worst-dressed woman in Hollywood.
'' Dame Margot called Ms. Kaye ''the most wonderful friend - understanding, perceptive, encouraging.
While at the United Nations, she lived in a six-bedroom house in Scarsdale with her mother and her five children, including an adopted son who was the child of a friend killed in the revolution.
From Pene du Bois, and later from her close friend, the painter Reginald Marsh, Miss Bishop learned to sharpen and perfect her sense of a New York subject.
Miss Ravera was a close friend of former President Sandro Pertini, a Socialist, who nominated her as senator for life.
She returned to the United States in the 1930's and appeared in a number of films directed by John Ford, an old friend, who cast her in such classics as ''She Wore a Yellow Ribbon,'' ''Stagecoach'' and ''Fort Apache.
Her work was usually carved from wood or stone, and she was sculpturing until shortly before she died, said Renata Manasse Schwebel, a fellow sculptor and longtime friend.
Mrs. Nasher, a friend of many of the artists whose work she collected, began by collecting pre-Columbian art, later becoming interested in Texas artists and 20th-century
        Patsy Nasher, who with her husband, Raymond, created one of the world's leading collections of modern sculpture, died of cancer on July 1 at the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas.
Mrs. Nasher, a friend of many of the artists whose work she collected, began by collecting pre-Columbian art, later becoming interested in Texas artists and 20th-century American painters and sculptors.
In a statment by the White House yesterday, the President and his wife lauded Mrs. Wrather as ''a warm and caring friend'' who had for so many years ''enriched our lives with her sparkling personality, her wonderful sense of humor, her loyalty and her love.
Rearranging 'Mountain Woman'
        At the gathering, William Lieberman, director of the department of 20th-century art at the Met, described Mrs. Nevelson as ''a great artist, a wonderful woman, an elegant lady and a good and generous friend.
''
        Barbaralee Diamonstein, a member of the New York City Landmarks Commission, a writer on art and architecture and a longtime friend of Mrs. Nevelson, described the sculptor -known for her theatrical garb and personality almost as much as for her art - as ''all collage:her work, her conversation, her ensembles.
After his death in 1957, she was the co-editor of his ''Dark as the Grave Wherein My Friend Is Laid'' (1968), and she edited his ''Psalms and Songs'' (1975) among other works.
In 1951, Mrs. Wilson, along with a friend and Westchester County neighbor, Anne B., set up a central information center for these groups.

       Jacqueline Friend, a psychology professor and the New York State coordinator of pre-retirement planning for the American Association of Retired Persons, died of cancer Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Jacqueline Friend, a psychology professor and the New York State coordinator of pre-retirement planning for the American Association of Retired Persons, died of cancer Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Friend, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from Adelphi College and held master's degrees from Columbia University.

       Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday.
Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday.
