A friend, Ingeborg von Zitzewitz, said she died of cancer.
She reportedly died after an asthmatic attack in the northern resort city of Chiang Mai, where she was vacationing with a French friend.
Like many artists of her generation, including Larry Rivers, Nell Blaine and her close friend, Robert De Niro Sr., Ms. Tabachnick was familiar with the gestural techniques of Abstract Expressionism, but, looking to Matisse, preferred to used them in portraits, landscapes and figure paintings.
The cause was breast cancer, said a friend, Judith Norsigian.
She was recommended for the role by a friend who knew the film's casting director.
He spoke Chinese and became a trusted friend of Zhou Enlai, Mao Zedong's most influential advisor.
The cause of death was breast cancer, said Susan Sherman, a close friend and editor of her letters.
For, being mortal, this luxurious heart
        Would starve for you, my dear, I must admit,
        If it were held another hour apart
        From that food which alone can comfort it --
        I am come home to you, for at the end
        I find I cannot live without you, friend.
After studying at Northwestern University, she went with a friend to Denver, where she got a job and met her first husband, Hugh Tighe, who was later transferred to Pueblo.
Peter L. Knecht, her longtime friend and lawyer, said that Mrs. Adams, a native of Manila, had had heart surgery and that her life support system was disconnected.
I be going there as a friend to help that husband deliver his baby.
The cause was cancer, said Marge Berson, her friend and executor.
"She carried a very heavy schedule without talking a lot about it," a friend, Margaret Greenfield, said yesterday.
"
        Mrs. Greenfield and another friend of many years, Sydney Gruson, said friends would remember Mrs. Sulzberger as a woman who jealously guarded the time she spent with her family, her antiques hunting and her passion for the company and conversation of intimates.
The cause was breast cancer, O. Aldon James Jr., a close friend, said.
He was hired as publisher of The Houston Post-Dispatch at about the same time that Miss Culp, a friend of Florence Sterling, whose millionaire brother owned the paper, got a job in the circulation department.
"She was a character," said her friend, Susie Schneider, who reported that the Princess, a longtime resident of Marbella, Spain, had died of lymphoma.
As she once told an interviewer, "Everybody was my friend, but I wasn't in love with nobody.
The cause was complications from a heart attack, said Thayer Burch, a friend.
If Gloria Wills's days on Broadway had been a Busby Berkeley musical, she would have been the star's funny and bubbly best friend, the one who has her moments in the spotlight but gives up a promising career to marry a rich businessman.
Her Broadway career began when, as a virtual unknown, she replaced Ethel Merman, who became her close friend, in Cole Porter's "Anything Goes" in 1935.
Her second husband, Ferdinand Reyher, a friend of Bertold Brecht's whom she met at the MacDowell Colony in New Hampshire, died in 1967.
She was killed when a car she was driving struck a tree, said Eliot Coleman, a friend who lives on a neighboring farm.
Until her friend Michael Thornton, the British biographer, tracked down her birth certificate, it had been assumed that Miss Dickson was born on July 20, 1900, the date given in a standard reference work.
"Here's my philosophy about life," said Dr. Simmons, who considers Ms. Morrison her best friend.
"
        Her friend, Professor Gates, said he was already planning ahead.
She was a friend of most of the scientists whose institutions she helped, and although she was rarely seen at the glittering social events favored by her peers, she had an active social life centered on the arts and science community.
"
        Dr. Elaine Pagels, a professor of religion at Princeton University who was a longtime friend, said: "She had a remarkable mind, and had she been born in another generation, she might well have done something herself.
Her friend and mentor, Harry Truman, helped to dedicate the new bank.
The cause was lung cancer, her friend Sandy Silverman said.
Whether she was writing speeches for Dore Schary at the Anti-Defamation League, editing Albert Shanker's newspaper columns for the United Federation of Teachers or, more recently, advancing her friend Mario M. Cuomo's economic development programs at the U.D.C., Ms. Glass pursued her work with a passion that seemed to go far beyond her professional obligations.
It is a reflection of the book's decidedly mixed reception that while the daily review in The New York Times dismissed it with a sneer, Miss Young's friend, William Goyen, turned a Times Sunday review into a page-long paean.
Active in charities, she formed the Jennie Levine Cancer League in memory of  a friend who had died of cancer.
The cause was pulmonary disease, said Carole Weisweiller, a friend.
A friend discovered the theft last month.
While working on Jefferson's  papers, a chance discovery of a piece of music sent to him by Maria Cosway, a friend from his Paris days, led to her 1945 account of their well-documented flirtation, "My Head and My Heart.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Claire Chapman, a friend.
As a former daughter-in-law of Henri Matisse, the widow of Duchamp and a close friend of John Cage and Jasper Johns, she was in her later years the unquestioned doyenne of the survivors of a great age in art, dance and music.
It was during her years with the acting company that a friend dubbed her "Butterfly," after Ms. McQueen told her she had once danced a butterfly ballet in a performance of "A Midsummer Night's Dream.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.
Louis Massiah, a friend and colleague in Philadelphia, said that as a child, Ms. Bambara would often visit a Harlem branch of the New York Public Library, where she was inspired by two black poets: Gwendolyn Brooks, whose photograph hung there, and Langston Hughes, who she said would often come and talk to children there.
The cause was a heart attack, said Joanne Joseph, a friend.
The cause was a heart attack, said Lester Glassner, a friend.
The cause was cancer, said Leon Wieseltier, the literary editor of The New Republic, a friend and the executor of Mrs. Tynan's estate.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Clint Wade of Manhattan, a longtime friend.
The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Lois Smith Owens.
The poet W. H. Auden, a client who became a close friend, described a Christmas spent with the Sterns in the poem "Thank You, Fog.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Kathleen Wampola, a friend.
The cause was cancer said Marion North, a friend and colleague.
