Mrs. Morris was a familiar figure at race tracks, often accompanied by her friend, Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur.
Mrs. Schieffelin was born in New York City, a daughter of the former Annette Butler and James Wright Markoe, J. P. Morgan's friend and  physician.

        Elspeth Huxley, a witty and energetic journalist and author of more than 30 books, including memoirs, biographies, crime stories and novels, many inspired by her childhood in colonial Kenya, died on Jan. 10 in a nursing home in Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England, a family friend said.
She was being treated for cancer, said a friend, the theater historian Delilah Jackson.
''It was an intellectual watering hole,'' said Gonzalo Cordova, a friend who began teaching history at the university the year she retired.
Kate Swift, her close friend and co-author, said the cause of death was chronic obstructive lung disease.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, Patricia M. Hynes, a friend, said.
When a friend proposed to introduce her to Mr. Niebuhr, a faculty member, she was skeptical, her daughter, Elizabeth Sifton, recalled yesterday.
''Oh, no,'' the friend said, ''you'll love him,'' and she did.
Through Winston Churchill she met Max Beaverbrook, the press baron, who became her mentor; Harry Hopkins, Franklin D. Roosevelt's envoy, who became her friend, and W. Averell Harriman, the lend-lease administrator, who became her lover, and, 30 years later, her third husband.
'' A friend asked her to go to the theater with Hayward, whose wife, Slim, later known in New York society as Lady Keith, was in Europe.
At about the time of their marriage, Harriman put his investments in the hands of William Rich, a man he believed to be a careful and conservative investor, and he engaged his old friend Clark Clifford and his partner Paul Warnke as his lawyers.
''
        ''America has lost a remarkable representative, the State Department has lost one of its most effective diplomats and I have lost a friend,'' she said.
Whatever her father's influence,  Dr. Fosdick, who was born in Montclair, N.J., and grew up in the faculty housing at the Union Theological Seminary, took as her mentor the family's friend and neighbor, Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian whose belief that evil is a palpable world force that must be resisted and overcome became the geopolitical creed of a generation of cold war theorists.
From her second-floor bedroom window, she once told a friend, she could see ''that the gardeners are doing exactly what I told them to do.
As Mrs. Gibson later confided to a friend, her husband, who died at 88 in 1980, ''would never have made general without me.
Ms. Maillart, who often traveled alone -- on foot, on horseback, or by camel -- made another concession for a 1947 trek with a sick, morphine-addicted friend.
Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.
The cause was cancer, said Carol Yaple, a friend.
''The fans -- people all over the world who regard me as a friend!
Among the other books she wrote or edited were ''The Selected Writings of John Marin'' (1949); ''Indira Gandhi: Letters to an American Friend'' (1985) and ''Encounters: a Memoir'' (1987).
After setting up free legal clinics and discovering that poor people were often frustrated by their inability to collect small debts, she conceived the idea of a small claims court and lobbied hard until the first was signed into law by her old friend and suitor, Mayor La Guardia.
She might have stuck with distance running if a friend had not taken her to a triathlon one day.
With her friend Elissa Cullman, known as Ellie, Ms. Kravis was a founding partner in 1984 of the Manhattan decorating firm of Cullman & Kravis.
''
        In 1987, Mrs. Cullman traced the origins of the firm to a movie script that she and Ms. Kravis showed to Stanley Jaffe, a film producer and old friend.
Ms. McLeod was also featured in ''Courage of Lassie'' (1946), ''That's My Man'' (1947), ''The Fabulous Texan'' (1947), ''Old Los Angeles'' (1948), ''My Wife's Best Friend'' (1952) and ''Ride the Wild Surf'' (1964).
When her friend Martha Raye told her there was going to be an all-black company of ''Hello, Dolly!
The cause was complications from a fall, said Gregory Maguire, a friend.
F. Phillip Geraci, who bought the landmark building in 1967 and spent 12 years restoring it, was a friend and client.
But after entering a poetry contest at the urging of a New Jersey friend and winning a $1 prize, Mrs. Riggs let go with a flood of pent-up poetry.
The cause was cancer, said Leslie Getz McDonagh, a friend.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Hattie Winston, a friend, who said Ms. Foster was in Virginia to attend a stepgrandson's high school graduation.
''
        Robert Weil, a senior editor at St. Martin's Press, recalled that Ms. Daves became familiar with Dr. King in the early 1950's before he achieved national prominence while leading the 1955 boycott of the segregated transit system in Montgomery, Ala.
        Mr. Weil said Ms. Daves told a friend that there was an extremely articulate, charismatic and visionary minister from the South she had to meet.
One friend recalled how she tore up a $20,000 check from a wealthy businessman and handed it back to him, telling him that it was unacceptably paltry.
Not only did she appear in the experiments of Lopukhov, but she also became a friend of Balanchine, at that time an experimental young choreographer.
A tall, slender, blonde beauty who kept her youthful good looks well beyond middle age and whose infectious enthusiasm continued long after that, Miss Halle (pronounced HAL-ee) once showed a friend a list of 64 men who had proposed to her, among them a youthful Randolph Churchill and an aging Averell Harriman.
As a result, Miss Halle, who was an old friend of Franklin D. Roosevelt and campaigned for him in 1932, became one of the few people to be on intimate family terms with the two wartime leaders.
The cause was a stroke, said Bud Knight, a friend and former colleague.
This year the Princess had taken highly publicized trips to former war zones like Angola to conduct her high-profile campaign against landmines, and had in recent weeks posed knowingly on Mediterranean holidays with her friend, Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, 42, in an apparent effort to show the world that the once troubled young woman had found personal happiness.
By 1986 the first press stories about cracks in the marriage appeared, at a time, a biography of the Princess has said, when Charles had resumed his relationship with his married friend Camilla Parker Bowles.
King Juan Carlos, a friend of Ms. Miro's since they were law students in Madrid 40 years ago, paid condolences at the city morgue on Sunday.
She pestered her mother so often for a new story about Betsy Ray and her friend Tacy Kelly that Mrs. Lovelace, who had concentrated on short stories and historical novels, decided to put Betsy and Tacy on paper.
''
        The Associated Press quoted a friend, the filmmaker Pierre Sauvage, as saying that Miss Gold ''felt that only one year in her life really mattered and it was the year she spent in Marseilles.
A friend of Ms. Addams, Mrs. Dick volunteered in the Immigrants Protection League, an arm of Hull House that provided legal services and helped immigrants adjust to life in the United States.
The cause was cancer, said Harry Hinson, the fabric designer, who was a longtime friend.
In 1964, when a friend's husband died unexpectedly, Mr. MacDougall suggested that she and her friend form a decorating company.
In 1964, when a friend's husband died unexpectedly, Mr. MacDougall suggested that she and her friend form a decorating company.
A friend of her sister was working at the new Walt Disney studios, and told her about a job opening there.
The cause of death was breast cancer, said Dr. Wayne Lavender, a family friend.
By 1978, Ms. Steel had ended a 10-month marriage, sold her business to her ex-husband and asked Mr. Davidoff to place a call to his friend Mr. Katzenberg about a marketing job for her at Paramount.
After the war she married Mitchell Goodman, an American writer, and for several years they lived in France near Mr. Creeley, who was a friend of Mr. Goodman.
The musical historian Miles Kreuger, who saw the show in its premiere engagement and later became a friend of Ms. Bell's, said this week that as Fiona ''she had the most wondrous, doe-like, ethereal quality.

        Veronica Geng, an accomplished parodist who spun out biting pieces for The New Yorker based on chance remarks by hapless politicians and the banalities of wedding announcements, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said a friend, Barbara Epstein, editor of The New York Review of Books.
The cause was a brain tumor, said  Philip Roth, the novelist, who was also a friend.
Charles McGrath, a friend and colleague at The New Yorker who is now editor of The New York Times Book Review, said: ''Her thing was high, intellectual comedy.
