
       Dr. Charlotte Friend, a medical microbiologist who made major contributions to the understanding of cancer during a career that spanned almost four decades, died Tuesday after a long illness.
Dr. Charlotte Friend, a medical microbiologist who made major contributions to the understanding of cancer during a career that spanned almost four decades, died Tuesday after a long illness.
Friend discovered a virus that causes leukemia in mice.
The virus, named the Friend virus, has been an important tool for study of the relationships between animal cancers and viruses for many years.
Friend was professor and director of the Center for Experimental Cell Biology at the Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Friend began studies of animal cancer viruses, most scientists considered it heretical to suggest that viruses might also be involved in human cancers.
The Friend virus has been so important in cancer research that it is the focus of an entire chapter in Oncogenic Viruses, a definitive text on cancer virus research by Dr. Ludwik Gross of the Veterans Administration Medical Center in the Bronx.
CHARLOTTE FRIEND DIES AT 65
      

       Elizabeth Kray, a friend and patron of poets for more than 30 years, died of cancer Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Elizabeth Kray, a friend and patron of poets for more than 30 years, died of cancer Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Mr. Benton, director of ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' and other films, said of her yesterday: ''Helen Scott was a great friend of all film makers.
In 1950, after settling in the United States, Miss Yourcenar and her American friend and companion, Grace Frick, bought the house in Northeast Harbor - on Mount Desert Island off the Maine coast -that became their longtime home.
In the mid-1960's, a graduate art student, Nina Howell Starr, saw some of her works that had been bought by a friend and eventually arranged small exhibits of Mrs. Evans's work in New York City.
''The only thing I can tell you to say,'' she once told her friend and representative, Mrs. Starr, ''is that it's Minnie Evans's lost art.
''She had a good time with her life,'' added his wife, Carol Sulzberger, a friend of Mrs. Dorsey.
''We and the whole state have lost a wonderful friend and leader,'' Mr. Sinner said.
Senator Mark O. Hatfield, a Republican who was a friend of Mrs. Green for 40 years, said yesterday: ''She was probably the most powerful woman ever to serve in the Congress.
''Charlotte Curtis, who graced this newspaper for over 25 years, was a warm and considerate friend who could write with a rapier and who, as an editor, was eternally curious and questioning,'' Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of The Times, said yesterday.
'' But Miss Strauss was not a friend of all writers.
She was a friend whom we will miss.
A close friend of Ms. Frankfort said that she had been depressed for some time and had left a suicide note.
''
        ''She was not a gal who worried about the fashion of the times,'' said the playwright, Horton Foote, a longtime friend of the actress and the author of the screenplay for ''The Trip to Bountiful.
The Job at Vanity Fair
        Declining to rest on her money, Clare Boothe importuned a society friend, Conde Nast, publisher of Vogue and Vanity Fair, for a job.
After that a friend noticed a gradual change in her: ''Twenty years ago she was like a diamond - beautiful, brilliant and cold.
A friend and neighbor of Miss Carroll, Countess Maria Larisch, said that the actress had been released from the Hospital Clinic a few days ago after spending more than two weeks there.
