'' He called her ''ma'am'' and in his later years, confided that she was his ''constant friend, sweetheart and devoted support.
In 1990, at age 91, with her friend Barbara Bush at her side, she cut the ribbon opening the research center of the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk, where her husband is buried.
Ms. Wolf was already at most people's retirement age when a friend persuaded her to join the Audubon Society in the early 1960's.
It was the era when Rachel Carson was warning that pesticides and the eradication of habitats were threatening the earth with a silent spring with no song birds, but more than that book or her friend's arm-twisting, it was bird-watching (specifically, observing a brown creeper grubbing in the woods) that sparked her deep involvement with Audubon.
In his foreword to ''China for the West,'' an authoritative publication on the Mottahedeh collection, Nelson A. Rockefeller, a friend and fellow collector of Chinese export porcelain, described the collection as ''utterly fabulous, an artistic and cultural treasure without comparison in its field.
''As a woman, she had to have had a first-class mind to join the Chancery bar, to have built up a successful practice and to have become a senior executive at Lloyds,'' said a friend and fellow barrister, John Tackebury.
In 1936, she meet her future husband, Paul Auriol, through a friend who was a ski champion.
The cause was a heart attack, said Sandra G. Owen, a friend.
''
        Ms. Howard traveled extensively, often with her friend Cole Porter.
The cause was bladder cancer,  said Sylvia Hueston, a friend.
Beni Montresor illustrated Mrs. de Regniers's ''May I Bring a Friend?
After leaving the agency in the 1970's, she divided her time for many years between Chicago and New York, working as a consultant, before settling in Connecticut two years ago with Jacqueline Babbin, a friend for 40 years.
She edited two Caldecott Medal books, ''May I Bring a Friend?,'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, illustrated by Beni Montresor, and ''A Story, a Story,'' by Gail E. Haley, as well as Ursula K. LeGuin's ''Farthest Shore,'' which won a National Book Award.
The cause was cancer, said Jennifer Howse, a friend who headed the center's advisory board for the last 10 years.
After spending the next six years training as an architect, she worked briefly in Dublin and London before turning her talents, through a friend's offer, to the burgeoning movie-studio system in England, where she earned a place in the art department at Fox Studios.
Her friend Esther Hautzig, a Manhattan book editor and writer who grew up in Vilna, said of her, ''No computer on earth can store the information she had in her brain because she lived through it.
But one afternoon, she and a friend watched proceedings in Family Court at time when poor children were not given assigned counsel.
As the friend and colleague of many international celebrities, she was also the recipient of many such communications and eventually became a leading dealer in the field.
''She didn't try and put on any great airs,'' recalled the folk singer Pete Seeger, a longtime friend who occasionally performed with her.
''I am a friend of the Red Sox.
''
        Lib Dooley was a faithful friend.

        Laurel Fox Vlock, who was instrumental in the videotaping and archiving of many survivors' accounts of the sufferings caused by the Holocaust, died on Saturday in New Haven, Conn. She was 74 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        She died of injuries suffered in a car accident on Friday, said Kathy Landau, a friend.

        Helen Culver Ewing Breasted, who worked at Hull House in Chicago with Jane Addams, its founder and a family friend, died Sunday at her home in Tamworth, N.H. She was 90 and also had a home in Sewickley, Pa.
        Mrs. Breasted, a native of Chicago, attended Vassar College.
The cause was food poisoning, said  Josephine Rowe, a friend.
There, ''she was a creative force and arbiter of quality,'' said a friend and colleague, Estelle Ellis.
A friend and fellow nun in Sister Isolina's order, the Missionary Servants of the Most Blessed Trinity, said that Sister Isolina successfully mediated a conflict between warring Puerto Rican youth gangs in Brooklyn in the 1950's and 60's while she was the director of a Catholic charitable center there.
The friend said Sister Isolina's success as a peacemaker was the result of her interpersonal skills, her training in sociology at Fordham and the insights provided by her Puerto Rican heritage.
After she published ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend'' in 1995, her childhood friend, Mr. Nicolson, reminisced about her in The Spectator.
The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Alan Davies, a  friend of Ms. Grey's.
The article attracted the appreciative attention of Frank Lloyd Wright, who became a mentor and close friend.
He was too busy, but, as Miss Travers wrote almost a half-century later, on a friend's mantle she saw a Christmas card that had ''a happy imperfection, a sense of wonder.
In 1937 she married E. V. Knox, a friend and colleague of her father's, and outside publishing was known as Mary Knox.
''
        A friend, Arlen Hurwitz, once recalled how Ms. Peters reacted to the attention of fans during the height of her career in the late 1940's.
''
        As an understudy for the actress playing Bankhead's daughter in Hellman's ''Little Foxes'' in 1939, Miss Rawls met the woman who would become her mentor and lifelong friend.
As she recalled it, she was sitting in her kitchen when, over peanut butter sandwiches, she told a like-minded friend, ''The world is in a mess.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Tim Page, a friend.
Alongside her close friend Robbins, she was associate director of ''Peter Pan,'' starring Mary Martin.
Mr. Hughes, who would become her friend and longtime supporter, wrote back: ''You have talent.
She had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said a friend, Norma Hurlburt, executive director of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
From the age of 10, she was educated at home by private tutors, living with her mother and a beloved aunt in ''a kind of aristocratic poverty,'' as she once told a friend.
' ''
        The Chronicle quoted Frances Bergen, the mother of Candice and a long-time friend, as suggesting that Ms. Windsor's striking resemblance to Joan Crawford might have obscured her during Crawford's heyday.
To enliven her expression, she always conversed with an imaginary friend as she was photographed.
Mr. Hughes, who would become her friend and longtime supporter, wrote back: ''You have talent.
