Marie-Alain Couturier, a French Dominican priest and a friend of theirs.
A refined, elegant woman who loved opera, collected art, spoke eight languages fluently, traveled the world with confident ease and made millions in the stock market, she was an intensely private person of such shadowy origins that the United States Chess Federation lists her birthplace simply as Europe, and until recently her best friend had no idea she had once been married.
''I knew she had a cousin in Boston,'' her friend, Bea Lacativa, said, recalling that it was not until she called the cousin's telephone number when Miss Karff was hospitalized last year that she learned that the cousin had also been her husband.
''Whatever Helen did, she had to be the best at it,'' said Edward Chandler, a San Francisco attorney who was a lifelong friend of Wills.
I have a friend, Mihaela Penes'' -- a Romanian who won the women's javelin throw in the 1964 Olympics -- ''who's endowed by nature.
Ms. Van Horne, who later wrote a syndicated column for The New York Post, died of breast cancer, said a friend, Leslie Rubinstein.
''A friend describes the disease as me being on a raft alone while the people who love me keep trying to pull me toward shore.
''
        Their first published project was a bedroom for the 9-year-old daughter of a friend, with tall bookcases made of bamboo poles and topped with burnt-orange felt valances.
She assembled an important collection of historical material from Haiti, as well as of African art, and persuaded her childhood friend, Langston Hughes, to donate a portion of his papers to the center.
A friend of Romare Bearden, Dorothy West, Richard Wright, W. E. B. DuBois and other figures of the Harlem Renaissance, Mrs. Hutson helped make the Schomburg the cultural center of Harlem.

        Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby.
Invited by a friend to meet the great man, she was so disconcerted when Jung mentioned a patient who lived on the moon that the brash young woman piped up and said surely he meant the woman acted ''as if'' she lived on the moon.
A few weeks before her death, Dr. von Franz, who suffered from Parkinson's disease, told a friend of a dream in which her disease had vanished, leaving her completely healed.
In his book, Mr. Grafton quoted a friend of hers as saying, ''The Jock Whitneys are just about as 'down-to-earth' as any people can be with a quarter of a billion dollars.
Mrs. Harrington was born in the Germantown section of Philadelphia, and her father abandoned her when she was 6 years old, family members and a friend said.
She had been battling bone cancer, according to Peter S. Diggins, an artists' representative in New York and a longtime friend.
The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her agent and friend, Jim Wilhelm.
She was closest to Marcel Duchamp and his friend, the diplomat and writer Henri-Pierre Roche.
''She's fierce and intense and funny,'' said her longtime friend Gloria Steinem.
'' But he was, she said, her best friend and supporter, and ''one of the few unneurotic people left in society.
She wrote a book, ''Gender Gap,'' with her old friend Mim Kelber.
When a friend signed up for an oil painting class at a gallery and asked Mrs. Spelce to join her, she agreed, saying she had always wanted to draw.
The cause was liver failure, said Christopher English Walling, a friend.
Her friend and business partner, Millicent Safro, said the cause was an infection contracted during treatment for the flu.
A few weeks later, at a party at the store for an artist friend, she got the answer: One of the guests was Ms. Safro, a young antiques restorer who took one look at Ms. Epstein and the jumble of crushed and torn cartons of buttons and decided to set them straight.
''The years caught up with her,'' William T. Muir, a lawyer and friend, told The Associated Press.

        Loren MacIver, a painter of dreamlike, half-abstract landscapes, city views and close-ups of natural forms, and a close friend of many American poets, including Elizabeth Bishop, E. E. Cummings and Marianne Moore, died on May 3 at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan, where she had lived and worked since the early 1940's.
''As soon as I'm gone,'' she told a friend, ''they'll come running.
The cause was complications of a stroke, said Janet Light, a friend.

        Natasha Gelman, who with her husband, Jacques, amassed an outstandingly fine group of 20th-century European paintings and sculptures and who was a friend and patron of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and many other Mexican painters, died on Saturday at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico, after a long illness.
One day a friend advised him to take a look at a circus performer called Cantinflas.
She became his student and close friend; for her 18th birthday, he made her a cake that lit up and revolved whenever anyone approached.
The cause was cancer, said Phillip Price, her friend and companion.
In 1982 a close friend from the circus, known as Boris the Gypsy, was arrested and charged with smuggling.
The cause was not immediately clear, but she had had a fall at her home, said Janet Post, a friend.
Rona J. Shays, a close friend, recalled that Ms. Perles used to say that her own mother had not wanted her to go to law school and had said to her, ''No one will want to marry you if they think you're smarter than they are.
Mr. Styron made it a major setting for his 1960 novel, ''Set This House on Fire,'' and it was there that Mr. Matthiessen and Harold L. Humes founded The Paris Review, summoning Mr. Matthiessen's boyhood friend, George Plimpton, from his studies at Cambridge University to run it.
Ms. Timoner, who had always been deeply involved in religion and who had been struggling with herself over whether to become a rabbi, attributed her decision to begin religious studies in 1984 to a friend who told her one day: ''You know, in 7 years you could be a 40-year-old housewife or you could be a 40-year-old rabbi.
After the fall harvest one year, the farmer whose land she had worked tried to find her a winter job at a resort that his friend Henry Ford owned in Eustis, Fla., but wondered whether Miss Smith knew how to drive, a requirement for the job of shuttling guests to and from the train station.
''
        Peggy Charren, a longtime champion of better television programming for children and a close friend of Ms. Lewis's, recalled yesterday what it was like when Ms. Lewis, accompanied by Lamb Chop, showed up in Washington in 1993 to appear before the House Telecommunications Subcommittee, which was holding hearings on how to strengthen the provisions of the Children's Television Act of 1990.
Greg Foster, a former champion hurdler and a family friend, said he had spoken with Griffith Joyner's husband, Al Joyner, and with her sister-in-law, the track star Jackie Joyner-Kersee, and had been told that Griffith Joyner was believed to have suffered a heart seizure.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said her friend Ora Harris.
''We did Banana Republic, always Saks, Gracious Home was like a candy store to her,'' said Helen O'Hagan, a friend and former Saks executive.
''She was a woman of strong character, strong principles, dedicated to her work,'' said Joan Gordon, a friend of Ms. Long's in Ottawa.
A son from that marriage, Robert M. Gray, died of cancer, said Sarah Jennings, a Canadian arts journalist and a family friend.
Jean Paul Goay, Ms. Julien's brother-in-law, said that on the night before she died she insisted on being taken to a show in Montreal where an old friend, the French comedian Raymond Davos, was performing.
At age 6, for example, she criticized the sculptor Constantin Brancusi, a family friend, for creating ''L'Oiseau d'Or'' with a horizontal head, a position that she said would make it impossible for the bird to sing.
A longtime friend, Kenneth Cain of Sun City, Ariz., said yesterday that Mrs. Judd had no immediate survivors.
''Her philosophy was an involved community is the best protection against abuse of the elderly,'' said Ann Wyatt, a friend.
After Mr. Baker's death in 1967 she became a close friend of fellow hotel residents, including the composer Virgil Thomson.
