She had known Bukharin, who was 25 years older than she and a friend of her father's, all her  life.
Stephen F. Cohen, a Princeton University historian who published a biography  of Bukharin in 1973, met clandestinely with the widow during the Brezhnev era and became a close friend, discovering in the archives and returning to her the  last love letter Bukharin wrote to her, on Jan. 15, 1938, from prison.
She quickly became a close friend of Princess Margaret, and her parties in the official residence attracted the cream of young London glitterati.
"She loved people and she was fun," said Mary Lindsay, the wife of Mr. Lindsay and a longtime friend.
Nan Kempner, a New York socialite and a longtime friend, said, "She had enormous intelligence and curiosity and she wanted to see and do everything.
The cause was emphysema, said Bernard P. Wiesen, a friend.
Shortly after her divorce, Mrs. Ford, who had moved to Manhattan, was with a  friend having a cup of espresso at the Regency Hotel.
She noticed Mrs. Austin, who was with a friend at another table.
Mrs. Ford's friend later reported: "It was all very  civilized, but if there were a way to bottle up the electricity in that little room, it would run the Ford industries for a solid year.
In 1943, she joined the Resistance in a small group that included Francois Mitterrand, who remained a friend until his recent death.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
The cause was heart failure, said Jack Hakman, a friend.

        Lucille Bremer, an actress and dancer who was Fred Astaire's partner in "Yolanda and the Thief" and "Ziegfe'd Follies" during her brief film career in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 and lived in
        The cause of death was complications after a heart attack, said Dale C. Olson, a friend in Los Angeles.
The cause of death was complications after a heart attack, said Dale C. Olson, a friend.
"Her great thing was E. M. Forster's wonderful phrase 'Only connect,' " Jenny Koralek, a children's writer and longtime friend, said by telephone from London  yesterday.
She soon began contributing poems to The Irish Statesman, a literary weekly whose editor, George William Russell, was the poet A. E. Through A. E., who became a mentor and lifelong friend, and through W. B. Yeats, to whom he introduced her, Miss Travers began to pursue the deep interest in Celtic folklore and Eastern mysticism that is palpable in all her subsequent work.
Ms. Travers's books  during these years include "Friend Monkey," a 1971 retelling of the Hindu myth of the monkey lord Hanuman, a 1973 biography of the Russian mystic G. I. Gurdjieff, "About the Sleeping Beauty" (1975), a critical exploration of the fairy tale, and "What the Bee Knows" (1989), a collection of her Parabola pieces.
A friend, Carla Fine, said the cause was AIDS.
For Ms. Payan, however, there was a more cherished sign that her message was  getting through: since her announcement in 1993, her friend Ms. Fine said yesterday, her three sisters had reconciled with her.
Bette Washington, a longtime friend and associate, said that Mrs. Kornegay became active in local issues at once.
The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said a friend, Betsy Flagler.
The cause was cancer, said a friend, Deborah Peterson.
A friend and ally of Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor, for 40 years, Ms. Nichols twice served as president of the WNYC Communications Group, with two radio stations, WNYC-AM and WNYC-FM, and a television station, WNYC-TV, Channel  31, licensed and partly financed by the city.
Some accused her of trying to promote  the interests of Mr. Koch, her old friend.
She died after a brief illness, said John Taras, a friend.
Mrs. van Ameringen, born Hedwig Pfaltz in Newark, first heard the Philharmonic as a child at Carnegie Hall and became the orchestra's friend for life.
The cause was pneumonia, said Timothy Holmes, a friend.
She died after a series of strokes, said Elmon Webb, a friend.
The cause was brain cancer, said a friend, Alexandra M. Marks.
"
        As a teen-ager, Miss Fitzgerald developed a dance routine with a friend, Charles Gulliver, which they performed in local clubs.
Although she competed rarely throughout the 1980's, Ms. Ahern remained in touch with the L.P.G.A., sometimes assisting and coaching players, or caddying on tour for her close friend, Sherri Turner.
She swiftly established a reputation not only as a skillful lawyer but also as an eloquent friend of the downtrodden, a champion of women's rights and a diligent party worker.
Eleanor R. Belmont, founder of the Opera Guild and a friend, persuaded Mrs. Patton to turn her attention in that direction and become managing director.
Drago Najman, a friend and former senior Unesco offical, confirmed her death by telephone from Paris, where Mrs. Gerard had been living while undergoing treatment.
''Catherine would just persist and persist until it happened,'' recalled Mary Eastwood, a retired staff lawyer for the Justice Department and a friend of Ms. East.
''Her generation was involved in the forming and shaping of a whole new field of study, especially for liberal arts colleges, that changed the focus of study from normative Christianity to a whole range of religions,'' said Diana L. Eck, a professor of comparative religion and Indian studies at Harvard University, who took Dr. Corwin's class at Smith and became a lifelong friend.
Dr. Corwin remained single until she was 74 years old, when she married Herman Brautigam, a friend and colleague she had first met 40 years earlier as a student at Yale.
When Jascha Heifetz, a family friend, was looking for a secretary, she applied.
The cause was cancer, said Jane Rosenthal, a friend.
The cause has not been determined, said Ronny Cohen, a friend.
At a party at Aqueduct on her 102d birthday in 1992, a guest she introduced as ''my gentleman friend'' admitted that he had not seen Man o' War win the Preakness in 1920.
She died of cancer, said Erik A. Hanson, a friend.

        Evelyne V. Johnson, widow of Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, the philanthropist and chairman of Johnson & Johnson, died on Tuesday at Longleat, her estate in Princeton, N.J.
        Mrs. Johnson's family would not give her age, but a family friend said she had been in her 90's.
The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Jose Sourillan, according to The Associated Press.
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out for a female vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who  had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out, successfully, for a vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
The cause was a heart attack, said David McCain, a musicologist and friend who learned only recently of Miss LaCentra's death.
Their families lived in the same apartment house, at 107th Street and Fifth Avenue, where George, whose father had died, kept a close eye on his little sister, who was Ruth Lewis's best friend.
He died in 1981, and Ms. Bessay, a longtime friend, inherited his shanty and the suit.
She died after a short illness, said Jen Nelson, a friend.
A witty anecdotalist and shrewd observer of modern-dance history, Miss Bird had been at work on her autobiography with a friend, Joyce  Greenberg.
She died of respiratory failure brought on by post-polio syndrome, said Eric Brown, a friend and co-director of the Tibor de Nagy Gallery.
The cause was heart failure, a friend said.
According to the Somerset County Prosecutor's office, she was walking on a road in Bedminster when a car driven by a longtime friend, Allison Ewing, backing up to meet her, lurched out of control and struck her.
Discussing the Curious George phenomenon, Hillel Stavis, a longtime friend who, with his wife, Donna Friedman, runs a shop called Curious George Goes to Wordsworth, a bookstore on Harvard Square, said: ''The art work is endearing and it is pretty timeless.
The cause was cancer, Mary D. Kierstead, a family friend, said.
She died after a short illness, said Barbara Meiste, a friend.
She apparently had suffered a heart attack or stroke, her family said yesterday through a friend, Geoffrey Weill.
She died in her sleep, Ed Gallagher, a longtime friend, told Christie's.
As a young girl she traveled to Manhattan, Washington and Paris with her parents, said David Granger, a longtime friend.
For the next 33 years, she lived and entertained in ''a romantic apartment overlooking the Seine in Paris,'' said Ethel de Croisset, a close friend who lives in Paris.
She died in her sleep, said Ed Gallagher, a longtime friend, who found Ms. Railey on Sunday afternoon.
As a girl she traveled to Manhattan, Washington and Paris with her parents, said David Granger, a longtime friend.
For the next 33 years, she lived and entertained in ''a romantic apartment overlooking the Seine in Paris,'' said Ethel de Croisset, a close friend who lives in Paris.
A consummate politician from her earliest days in the Texas Legislature, Ms. Jordan won a seat on the House Judiciary Committee though only  a freshman by importuning her political mentor and friend, former President Lyndon B. Johnson, to pull some strings.
"I feel a stabbing sense of loss at the passing of a good friend," Mrs. Johnson said today.
"I never wanted to be run of the mill," she told Molly Ivins, the Texas writer who was a friend since 1969 and likened interviewing Ms. Jordan to "a bit like grilling God" because of the care, scholarship and booming authority of her speech.

        Dr. Elizabeth Monroe Boggs, a co-founder and past president of the Association for Retarded Citizens, died on Saturday at Cooper Medical Center in  Camden, N.J. She was 82 and a resident of Hampton, N.J.
        She died of injuries sustained on Jan. 21 when she lost control of her car on an icy road near her home, said Dr. Deborah Spitalnik, a close friend and colleague.
She wrote two novels, "A Young Girl's Touch" (1956) and "A Love Match" (1969), though the latter was withdrawn because of threats of legal action by a  former friend.
When the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, awarded Miss Chukovskaya a literary prize last year, she refused the money because she disagreed with Moscow's military campaign to keep Chechnya a part of Russia, said her longtime friend and English translator, Sylvia Rubashova, who lives in  London.
John J. Stephan, a friend who is a professor of history at the University of  Hawaii, said the manuscript of "Sofiya Petrovna" was passed along and hidden at  a time when its possession would have been tantamount to a death sentence.
Her father, Basil, the Marquess, was a friend of Evelyn Waugh and part of the circle described in "Brideshead Revisited.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Donna Drake, a friend.
