Her social circle included the expected royalty and celebrities, like her friend Greta Garbo, whom she called ''the loveliest woman you or I ever saw or will see,'' but she preferred that they be interesting people.
One friend designed a poster that read, ''Thank you to the lungs of Laura for 20 years of exemplary service.
A friend, Stewart L. Udall, then the secretary of the interior, described a plan to turn the building on 10th Street NW into a museum with a light and sound show.
She first saw Barrymore in the 1931 film ''Svengali'' and vowed to marry him, a friend, Linda Herman, recounted.
Last year she sold at auction a silver pillbox once owned by her friend Marilyn Monroe.
Her biggest moment came when she was a featured performer in the role of Cleo, the heroine's waitress friend, in the musical ''The Most Happy Fella.
The cause was cancer, said Deborah Hochman Turvey, a family friend.
Dr. Borg was strict about who was allowed to be on the list, limiting recipients to women with highly technical training, and the discussions were rigorously confined to technical issues, said Maria Klawe, dean of engineering at Princeton University and a longtime friend of Dr. Borg.
In Munich she started her own small group, and around 1951 a friend sent a tape to the American jazz critic and record producer Leonard Feather.
Mr. Steinbeck had been asked to escort Ava Gardner to a dinner party in Carmel and when Miss Gardner was unable to attend, the hostess asked to pick up the actress Ann Sothern and ''a friend.
'' The friend was Elaine Anderson Scott.
Her portrait head of Marcel Duchamp, a friend, is in the collection of the Wadsworth Athenaeum Museum of Art in Hartford.
Miss LaBeija (pronounced la-BAY-zha) appeared proudly in luxuriant female garb that was often golden and shimmering, and referred to herself in feminine terms, her friend Marcel Christian LaBeija said.
The cause was brain cancer, said her friend and financial adviser Richard L. Koenigsberg.
She chose her friend George Cukor to direct.
Then a friend referred to him as ''the most eligible bachelor around.
The cause was a heart attack, said Catherine Tambini, a friend and colleague.
Heldman persuaded her friend Joseph Cullman, chairman of Philip Morris, to donate prize money and sponsor five tournaments.
''Because she's a comic writer and genuinely funny, early on she was put in the 'sweet' box, where she does not belong,'' the novelist Margaret Atwood, a friend, told an interviewer.
A friend, Rabbi David M. Posner, said she died a few minutes after the tribute ended.
      
''
        She was a friend of Capote for decades and laid claim in her memoir to having been his muse for Holly Golightly, the blithe spirit of his ''Breakfast at Tiffany's.
''I have a friend whose machine says, 'At the beep, speak.
She became his friend and principal portraitist and in 1955 made a film, ''The Days of Dylan Thomas,'' which won international prizes.
She wrote that trips to Europe meant a break from a souring marriage, and a visit to a friend in Kuwait in 1950 produced a harvest of pictures of local life, like Bedouin falconers.
That year, the writer John Malcolm Brinnin, her artistic mentor and lifelong friend, introduced her to Capote, and her future in portraiture.

        Mary Viscountess Eccles, a bibliophile who built up what is widely considered the world's finest collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to Samuel Johnson and his biographer and friend, James Boswell, died on Aug. 26 at her home, Four Oakes Farm, in Somerset County, N.J. She was 91.
The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
''There were so many paradoxes about this most beautiful, most intelligent, and most beguiling of the celebrated Mitford sisters,'' the novelist and critic A. N. Wilson, a friend of Lady Mosley, wrote in The Daily Telegraph.
''She was the nearest thing to Botticelli's Venus that I have ever seen,'' wrote James Lees-Milne, a family friend; Evelyn Waugh, who dedicated ''Vile Bodies'' to her, said that her beauty ''ran through the room like a peal of bells.
Her activism never stopped, said Rose Sanders, a friend and civil rights lawyer.
''Her motto always was 'Don't look back,' '' said John Loring, a longtime friend and the design director and a senior vice president of Tiffany & Company.
The cause was heart failure that followed diabetes and other ailments, said a friend, Alois Krtil.
'' The reason, she said, is that the emotional intimacy with the friend gradually, almost invisibly, supplants that with the spouse.
She became interested in the subject of infidelity after learning about a friend who was having an affair, and she pursued the subject in a doctoral program at Catholic University, where she earned her Ph.D. in 1980.
At times her friend Auden, considered by many the best poet writing in English in the 20th century, even invited her students to tea.
Soon, she and her best friend, Mary Valentine, were living a life of laughter and ideas, centered in Greenwich Village, revolving around Mr. Kallman, and liberally lubricated with wine of often dubious quality.
For the Bielenbergs, the moment of truth came when a close friend, Adam von Trott, took part in plotting the attempted assassination of Hitler on July 20, 1944, for which he was hanged.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
''She was very comfortable with all kinds of people, which is not common for a woman who's born to the purple, so to speak,'' her friend Eppie Lederer (the advice columnist Ann Landers) once observed.
''I've always felt that having a garden is like having a good and loyal friend,'' C.Z.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
''She was very comfortable with all kinds of people, which is not common for a woman who's born to the purple, so to speak,'' her friend Eppie Lederer (the advice columnist Ann Landers) once observed.
''I've always felt that having a garden is like having a good and loyal friend,'' C.Z.
Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she died of cancer at a New York hospital.
The exile ended when her old friend Mr. Nichols, a producer of ''Annie,'' persuaded her to try out for the role of Miss Hannigan.
Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she died of cancer at a New York hospital.
The exile ended when her old friend Mr. Nichols, a producer of ''Annie,'' persuaded her to try out for the role of Miss Hannigan.
The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of pediatrics at the University of Minnesota.
She was ''the Alice Waters of the tea movement,'' said a friend, Ruth Reichl, editor in chief of Gourmet magazine and former restaurant critic of The New York Times, in a reference to the founder of Chez Panisse.
Through a friend, Stanley Marcus of Neiman-Marcus, she obtained a storybook assignment in 1956, designing bridesmaids' gowns for Grace Kelly's wedding to Prince Rainier of Monaco.
The cause was complications of a heart attack and a stroke, said Pam Dixon, a friend and colleague.

        Friede F. Roth, a personal representative for classical musicians, most notably the pianist Claudio Arrau, died on Friday in Manhattan, said Josephine Hemsing, a friend of Ms. Roth.
The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Dr. Jeffrey Elman, a close friend and a colleague at the University of California, San Diego.
