She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New York Times, died of complications of breast cancer, said a friend of the family.
She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New York Times, died of complications of breast cancer, said a friend of the family.
The cause was lung cancer, said a friend, Lauren Giber.
Miss Carpenter died of a stroke, said a friend, Rudy Toronto.
She died of cancer, said Merrillee Ford, a friend of the family.
She died in her sleep, said Edmund Delaney, her lawyer and a friend.
She had breast cancer for 15 years, said Gabriella Stern, a family friend.
The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said Jerzy Warman, a friend in Manhattan.
The cause of death was a hemorrhage of the aorta, said Mira Felner, a friend.
The cause was heart failure, said John Springer, her longtime press agent and friend.
There was the time, for instance, when her husband took her to call on the writer Gertrude Stein and Miss Stein's friend Alice B. Toklas in their Paris home.

        May Friend Goodman, who served for two decades as a representative of a leading international Jewish organization at the United Nations, died on Friday at her home in Cedarhurst, L.I.
The cause was breast cancer, said a friend, Howard Mandel.
Lee Walter, a friend of the singer, gave the cause as congestive heart failure a month after a stroke.
"
        During her career, Miss Anderson gave her date of birth as Feb. 17, 1902, but June Goodman, a longtime friend of hers, said that while going through some family papers recently, she found Miss Anderson's birth certificate, which gave the date as Feb. 27, 1897.
The cause was heart failure, said a friend, Vera Wells.
In Palm Beach, they lived in a mansion, Los Incas, near the winter home of Rose Kennedy, who became Mrs. Sanford's close friend.
She had a brief illness, said Cynthia Whittaker, a friend.
The cause was cardiac arrest after surgery, said Tom Costello, a friend and business associate.

        Arleen Auger, an American soprano who was renowned for both her commanding presence on the opera stage and the subtlety of her song interpretations, died on Thursday at the home of a friend in Leusden, a suberb of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.

        Dr. Barbara Whitney, an expert in sex education and a leader in the battle against AIDS in New York City's public schools, died on Friday at a friend's home on Squam Lake, N.H. She was 56 and lived in Brooklyn.
She is remembered by many as Sophy, the group leader, in her friend Emily Kimbrough's book, "Pleasure by the Busload.
The immediate cause was congestive heart failure, said Jean B. Angell, a close friend who was also her lawyer.
She was 81 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Martineau had been visiting a friend in Washington, Conn., when she entered the hospital.
The cause was a heart attack, said William Herz Jr., a friend.
She died of complications from a fall last March, said Dr. Murl G. Barker, a friend, who is chairman of the Russian department at Rutgers University.
The cause was pneumonia, said a friend, Rosemary Franck.
The cause was brain cancer, said Dick Davis, a friend.
The cause was a brain tumor, said a friend, Carrie Nye Cavett.
The cause was progressive pulmonary edema resulting in cardiac arrest, said Howard J. Rubenstein, a spokesman for Bernard Lafferty, a friend and adviser to Miss Duke who was with her at her death.
Late one evening in Rome in 1945, Miss Duke, who was then 33 years old, told a friend that her vast fortune was in some ways a barrier to happiness.
In an act of personal generosity in 1988 that involved an old friend, Miss Duke posted $5 million bail for Imelda Marcos, the wife of the former Philippine president, Ferdinand Marcos, who died in 1989.
And in 1966 there was the accidental death of Eduardo Tirella, an interior decorator who was a close friend, when the car she was driving slammed him against a gate on Rough Point, the Newport estate.
"Sometimes when we're hanging the flowers I spend 16 hours a day," she once told a friend, adding cheerfully, "I work like a stevedore.
The author wrote that Miss Duke told a friend later that adopting Ms. Heffner had been "the greatest mistake I ever made.
The cause was cancer of the brain and lungs, said Howard Hurwitz, a friend.
She had been ill for a long time with a variety of ailments and her death was a suicide, said her friend and executor, Robert Riggs.
The cause was a stroke, said Dr. Fred Plum, the head of neurology at New York Hospital and a close friend.
The cause was lung cancer, said Celia Tackaberry, a friend.
The cause was complications of diabetes, said Rita Madero, a friend.
The cause was an infection after a fall, said Barry Sullivan, a friend.
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
She died in surgery after a long illness, said Sherlee Lantz, a longtime friend of Miss Loy.
A poet friend suggested the catchy name Loy, and it stuck.
"
        Miss Loy was a longtime friend of Eleanor Roosevelt and other leading Democrats and regularly campaigned for the party's Presidential candidates.
She died in surgery after a long illness, said Sherlee Lantz, a longtime friend of Miss Loy.
A poet friend suggested the catchy name Loy, and it stuck.
"
        Miss Loy was a longtime friend of Eleanor Roosevelt and other leading Democrats and regularly campaigned for the party's Presidential candidates.
The cause was pneumonia, said a friend, Meredith Charpentier.
As a singer who had a modest operatic and recital career in the 1930's, she was keenly aware of the problems performers face, and throughout her life was a friend and supporter of singers, pianists and composers.
Irwin Scherzer, the manager of the Chamber Music Society in its early days and a close friend of Miss Tully, said: "She wouldn't know herself how much money she had donated.
