''
        Sir Noel, Miss Lillie's devoted friend and often the writer of her material, her director or her co-star, finally grew accustomed to her idiosyncrasies.
Her friend Ethel Barrymore thought the song was a lovely, serious one, but Miss Lillie made it a side-splitter, especially when she sang it garbed in a long formal gown, then raised her skirt and roller-skated off stage.
She helped start The Little School in 1930 with a friend, Elizabeth Morrow, for whom the school was renamed.

       L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died of cancer Jan. 28 at the home of a friend in Piedmont, Calif. She was 63 years old and lived in Oakdale, Calif.
        L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died of cancer Jan. 28 at the home of a friend in Piedmont, Calif. She was 63 years old and lived in Oakdale, Calif.
        Dr. Richardson received a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley in 1962 and joined the faculty at Berkeley a year later.

       L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died of cancer Jan. 28 at the home of a friend in Piedmont, Calif. She was 63 years old and lived in Oakdale, Calif.
        L. Janette Richardson, a professor of literature who specialized in Chaucer, died of cancer Jan. 28 at the home of a friend in Piedmont, Calif. She was 63 years old and lived in Oakdale, Calif.
        Dr. Richardson received a Ph.D. from the University of California at Berkeley in 1962 and joined the faculty at Berkeley a year later.
She was 90 years old and had suffered from lung cancer, said a longtime friend, Sophia Yarnall Jacobs.
She was 90 years old and had suffered from lung cancer, said a longtime friend, Sophia Yarnall Jacobs.
A longtime friend and associate of Golda Meir, who was also a schoolteacher, Miss Syrkin published ''Golda Meir: Woman With a Cause'' - a three-volume biography of the Israeli Prime Minister - in 1964.
For the next 12 years she worked in various bookstores: Schulte, Brentano and McDevitt-Wilson, where she developed what one friend called ''an instinctive taste for the best in modern literature,'' a taste that she was willing to gamble on when she had her own shop.
In these two series she was joined by her two children, her longtime friend Vivian Vance and Gale Gordon, who succeeded Mr. Arnaz as her masculine foil.
It was not until 1980 that Mrs. Pirone learned her real mother was Juanita Jennings, a woman she had grown up knowing and loving as a close family friend.
''I was secretly pleased,'' she told a friend, ''because the medal was green and gold and looked well on an orange evening dress I had to whip up for the affair.
At the time of his marriage, General Ilic, a close friend of Marshal Tito, was a diplomat.
Faced with arrest and internment in 1937, she was smuggled aboard a trans-Atlantic liner by a family friend, Guglielmo Marconi, the radio developer.
''She took it very seriously,'' said Auleen Eberhardt, a longtime friend of Mrs. Hayford.
''Her thought process was very original,'' said Bill Blass, who became a friend of Mrs. Vreeland and her husband, who died in 1966.
'' In a statement volunteered for this obituary, she said, ''I want to make it very clear that President Roosevelt never made a suggestion that I become his girlfriend, and Mrs. Eleanor Roosevelt was just as good a friend as Mr.
A friend of her mother's who was reading Balzac's ''La Cousine Bette'' suggested the name-spelling change, telling her that it would ''set you apart, my dear.
Thousands of marijuana smokers were helped by the program, said a longtime family friend, Richard Weiner.
'A Subversive Soul'
        ''If there were any real ancestor among American women for Mary McCarthy it might be Margaret Fuller,'' the critic Elizabeth Hardwick, a friend, once observed, referring to the 19th-century American editor, essayist, poet, teacher and translator.
She recalled telling a friend some two decades ago that she ''never woke up in the morning without a feeling of intense repentance and a resolve to be better.
Until then, she regularly appeared at her office on the sixth floor of party headquarters, accompanied by her assistant and longtime friend, Irene Falcon.
Among her leading roles were the Queen of Spades in ''The Card Party'' and the Bride's Friend in ''Le Baiser de la Fee,'' both created by Balanchine for a Stravinsky Festival in 1937 at the Metropolitan Opera House, then the home of the American Ballet.
Miss Garde died at a Sherman Oaks hospital, said Elliott Reid, a longtime friend.
She was active in her community, serving on its election board, singing alto in the Port Washington Singers choir in Port Washington, L.I., and working as a Friend of the Library in Manhasset.
