She died of pneumonia, after having been hit on Dec. 1 by a bus near her Fifth Avenue residence, said Arnold Allentuch, her executor and friend.
She died of congestive heart failure, said Dr. Rachael Yocom, a friend.
She died of cancer, said M. J. Gladstone, a friend.

        Sandy Dennis, who as a young actress in the 1960's entranced Broadway and Hollywood with performances that won her two Tony awards and an Academy Award, died on Monday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 54 years old
        Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Dennis had been fighting a long battle with cancer, said Doris Elliott, a longtime friend.
She died of heart failure, said Margaret Lefranc Schoonover, a friend and colleague.
Although the exact cause of her death was not known, Ms. Dennis had been fighting a long battle with cancer, said Doris Elliott, a longtime friend.
In 1974, when Rhoda was finally married after a long run as Miss Moore's unmarried best friend, all Rhoda and Joe wanted was a small ceremony before a justice of the peace.
In 1974, when Rhoda was finally married after a long run as Miss Moore's unmarried best friend, all Rhoda and Joe wanted was a small ceremony before a justice of the peace.
She died of lung cancer, said Ruth Hein, a friend.
"She was the first great model," Miss Colby's longtime friend, Frances Koltun, said yesterday.
" Ms. Falkenburg, who became a close friend of Miss Colby, said yesterday: "She was in charge of coordinating all of these stars of the Selznick stable, on screen and off.
It cost $85; for $45, a friend built an amplifier for her.
She died of complications of a stroke, said Bill Cunningham, a longtime friend.
The cause of death was cancer, said a friend, Walter Mac Williams of Bernardsville.
She died of a heart ailment, a friend said.
She died of congestive heart failure, said Jeanine Peterson, a friend.
She died of cancer, said James McKinley, a friend.
She died a few days after suffering a stroke, according to Ralph Allen, a friend and co-executor of her estate.
She died of cancer, said Rip Hayman, a friend and the curator of the Sari Dienes Foundation.
"
        Her friend Maurice Chevalier said: "Dietrich is something that never existed before and may never exist again.
Perhaps the best description of her face was provided by Erich Maria Remarque, her longtime friend, in his novel "Arch of Triumph":
        "The cool, bright face that didn't ask for anything, that simply existed, waiting -- it was an empty face, he thought; a face that could change with any wind of expression.
She was a close friend of many famous people, including Ernest Hemingway and Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin.
Moments after she had finished singing a program of songs associated with her longtime friend Frank Sinatra, the 74-year-old singer and actress collapsed and was taken to St. Clare's Hospital, where she was pronounced dead on arrival.
She was a friend of Amelia Earhart and was active in International Women Pilots, which Miss Earhart founded.
Ms. Sze died of throat cancer, said Jean B. Angell, a close friend who was her lawyer.
She died of congestive heart failure, said a close friend, the writer Richard Clurman.
Lady Bird Johnson became a a close friend and one year, one of Miss Parnis's designs was bought by four Kennedys in four separate cities.
When Miss Parnis heard that a friend was selling the Matisse she had admired she immediately agreed to buy it.
Moments later a friend came by and saw her crying.
She died of cancer, said a friend, Helen L. Horwitz.
Mrs. Douglas raised more than $100 million for the Metropolitan Opera and a few times more than that for all her other causes, said John O'Keefe, a longtime friend who worked with her for Lincoln Center.
Mrs. Hunnewell died of cancer, said Tex McCrary, a family friend.
Eventually she looked up an old friend with whom she spent one romantic evening six years earlier, when AIDS was virtually unknown.
Her last appearance on Broadway was as Lady Brockhurst in the 1970 revival of "The Boy Friend" with Sandy Duncan.
A Friend of the Famous
        During her time in the drama department, which began shortly after she joined The Times in 1945, Miss Rotter made many friendships with the famous on Broadway and its auxiliary fields.
She died of complications from emphysema, said Marion Connell, a colleague and friend.
According to Mary Bond, the longtime friend who took care of her during her final illness, she died of cancer.
She died of cancer, said Marjorie Weinberg, a family friend.
She died of heart failure, said a friend, Mary Jane Harris.
Ms. Wasey died of cancer, said Priscilla Pattison, an artist and longtime friend.
She died of liver cancer, said a friend, Blanche Cook.
She died of kidney failure, said a friend, Eleanor Stier, who lived with her.
'She Was Irresistible'
        "She was the general of a volunteer army," said Beverly Sills, the national chairwoman of the March of Dimes and a longtime friend of Miss Whitelaw's.
Gerald L. Wagner, a friend.
She died of lung cancer, said Grace Paley, the writer, who was a friend.
She died of breast cancer, said Robert Bazell, a friend.
She died of heart failure, said Robert Sidney, a friend.
The documentary Kelly Candaele and his friend Kim Wilson made in 1988 led directly to the movie starring Geena Davis and directed by Penny Marshall.
