After her strokes, William W. Graulty, a bank officer who managed her finances, was named her conservator by Judge Kinsella, who also appointed a close friend as co-conservator and his former clerk to oversee them.
Her last manuscript, ''Eddie's Friend, Boddles,'' was delivered to Morrow just before Christmas and is to be published next year.
She started as a wrapper in a department store and worked in other low-paying clerical jobs while studying dancing with a vaudevillian friend of her family.
''Ruth would have been a great diplomat,'' said Representative Benjamin Gilman of New York, a close friend of Miss Washington.
''
        To Friends, 'the Little Giant'
        Another friend, Dr. Caroline Westerhoff of Prattville, Ala., said Miss Washington was a role model for young blacks and other minority youth.
She started as a wrapper in a department store and worked in other low-paying clerical jobs while studying dancing with a vaudevillian friend of her family.
The star's death was announced by Paul Mills, a longtime friend and film producer, who said she had been ill for some time, particularly with respiratory problems, and had a stroke more than three years ago.
She also wrote droll letters to the editor on issues great and small, asking that they be thrown out if judged foolish, or published with only a pseudonym, usually the name of a dead relative or friend.
Later that year Mrs. Sulzberger, a prime mover in setting up a program that let high school students alternate classroom studies with store and business jobs, received an award from the New York City Board of Education; it cited her as ''an outstanding friend of cooperative education.
Mr. Ochs walked his daughter to the grave of the poet for whom the park was named and pointed to the tombstone inscription composed by Fitz-Greene Halleck for his friend in 1820:
        Green be the turf above thee
        Friend of my better days!
Mr. Ochs walked his daughter to the grave of the poet for whom the park was named and pointed to the tombstone inscription composed by Fitz-Greene Halleck for his friend in 1820:
        Green be the turf above thee
        Friend of my better days!
But another friend, Jane Gunther, said, ''She has a poetic magic, so difficult to describe, and all one knows is that one wants this in one's life.
''
        Miss Goddard, an energetic and articulate woman, was a close friend of a wide range of artists, including the composer George Gershwin, the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera and the artist Andy Warhol.
''She was an original,'' said Lois Elias, a friend of Mrs. Spewack for 30 years.
Known for her wit and charm, she was a sought-after guest, a close friend of Ernest Hemingway, the Selznicks and much of Hollywood and New York society.
Mrs. Roberts and a friend, James Hatcher, founded the Alabama State Council on the Arts and Humanities in 1966, and she won appointment from Gov.
Friend of Eleanor Roosevelt
        In 1978, Mrs. Picker became director of the United Nations Association of the United States, an independent group founded by Eleanor Roosevelt to educate others about the nature and function of the United Nations.
A friend, Claire Lane, said Miss Webber's discoveries also included Sidney Lumet, Betty Hutton, Lee J. Cobb, Celeste Holm, Garson Kanin, Karl Malden, Gary Merrill, Edmund O'Brien and Ruth Hussey.
''
        Praised in Broadway Debut
        Ms. Balin won critical praise for her Broadway debut in 1957 in ''Compulsion''; Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times said her portrayal of a convict's friend was ''tenderly moving.
They included ''Stout-Hearted Seven,'' ''The Magic Ring,'' ''Secret Friend,'' ''My Love Is a Gypsy'' and ''Little Rhody.
The cause of death was pneumonia, said Harriet Harvey, a friend.
The cause of death was pneumonia, said Harriet Harvey, a friend.
She died of complications from an aneurysm, a friend said.
She died of complications from pneumonia, a family friend said.
She died of complications from a thyroid condition, said Daniel Rosenblatt, a Gestalt therapist in Manhattan who was a close friend.
She was 67 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        A friend, Melinda Bass, said Ms. Stein apparently had died of a heart attack.
The cause of death was cancer, a family friend, Jeremiah Newton, said.
She died of cancer, a friend said.
She died of cancer, a friend said.
She was a friend of Georgia O'Keeffe, with whom she traveled about the Southwest.
''
        Miss Bailey's husband, the jazz drummer Louis Bellson, to whom she was married for 38 years and who went with her to the hospital on Friday, said simply, ''I've lost my best friend.
Valentina Cormona, a friend and colleague, said Mrs. Lampkin died of a heart attack.
She died as a result of internal bleeding, said a friend and colleague, Sheldon Roskin.
A forceful, dynamic woman, Mrs. Beyer became a close friend of Secretary Perkins and Eleanor Roosevelt.

        Eve Arden, the caustic comedienne featured in dozens of films as a heroine's wry and wisecracking best friend, a warmhearted but sassy schoolteacher or secretary, died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
As a young woman, she appeared with her best friend, Bessie Mae Sue Ella Yaeger, in amateur theatricals and later wondered why she had become a star and Bessie Mae had not.
"
        As a tribute to Bessie Mae -- and for good luck -- she worked her friend's name into many of her scripts, on stage and in films.
"
        She and her husband owned a ranch in Brazil, Nossa Fazenda (Our Farm), next to a home owned by her friend Janet Gaynor.
In 1982 she was in a taxicab accident in San Francisco that took the life of her close friend Ben Washer and severely injured Miss Martin, Miss Gaynor and Miss Gaynor's husband, Paul Gregory.
Margery Elliott, a family friend, said her death was caused by complications of pulmonary cancer.
She died of leukemia, said a friend, Tom Seligson, a television producer.
She died of congestive heart failure, said Martha Karlin, a friend from Sunrise, Fla.
        Dr. Poe came to the United States from Vienna in 1927.
She was christened Ann, but a family friend, a Sioux chief, gave her the Indian name Anutika, which her family adapted to Anya.
Mrs. Doll died of complications following surgery for a brain tumor, said Robert Fizdale, the pianist, who was a longtime friend.
Miss De Treaux died of respiratory and heart problems at the Medical Center of North Hollywood, said a friend, Ken Maley.
We have lost a great friend and a great editor," said The Herald's publisher, David Lawrence.
