''
        Her best-remembered film roles include the mother of Rocky Graziano in ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' (1956) Marilyn Monroe's waitress friend in ''Bus Stop'' (also 1956) and the overbearing mother of the blind boy in ''Butterflies Are Free,'' for which she won the Academy Award as best supporting actress in 1972.
''
        Ms. Heckart smoked up until her death and blamed her friend Bette Davis for her addiction.
A friend who had gone to California suggested she join her.
Munro Leaf -- a friend who was the creator of ''The Story of Ferdinand,'' the classic children's book about the bull who preferred smelling flowers to fighting other bulls -- recommended her to Crowell, where she started as a general editor.
In 1944, Theodore H. White, the Time correspondent (he had been a close friend of Mr. Jacoby), finally persuaded his boss, Henry Luce, to seek War Department accreditation for Ms. Whitmore, so that she could join Mr. White in Chungking.
She was linked romantically with Anthony Barton, a friend of her husband, and then had a relationship with Robin Douglas-Home, an aristocrat and former army officer who was the nephew of a former prime minister and played the piano in nightclubs.
She also began to spend more time on the Caribbean island of Mustique, where a friend, Colin Tenant, had given her land as a wedding present and where she built a vacation home known as Les Jolies-Eaux.
'' one friend asked.
'' one friend asked.
She died at Mount Sinai Hospital, Suzanne Laurier, a friend for 23 years, said.
She even befriended some; she invited Ms. Cristalli and a friend to view the last taping of the show in 1986, and they kept in touch through cards and letters over the years.
In 1989, her friend Colleen Dewhurst, who was then president of Actors' Equity, chose Miss LeNoire as the first recipient of what became the union's annual award for broadening participation in theater.
A friend denounced Ms. Rinser as a traitor in 1944, and a Nazi tribunal found her guilty of high treason for interfering with the ability of the armed forces to fight.
''Dickie, this is absolutely terrible,'' he told his friend and cousin Lord Mountbatten.
An employee who became a loyal friend and confidante of Mrs. Reagan, Mrs. Sawyer complained that the news media were quick to find fault with the first lady.
''
        Mrs. Reagan called Mrs. Sawyer ''a dear friend'' who shared many joyful and sad moments, including the times when Mrs. Reagan learned she had breast cancer and when her mother died.
During the civil rights movement, Mattel created Barbie's first black friend, ''Colored Francie.
In 1946, she married Joachim Gaehde, and the couple settled in Munich, where she worked as a conservationist and became a friend of Max Schweidler, a legendary German paper conservator.
The cause was heart disease, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and gospel music scholar.
According to The A.P., in 1999 she gave a lavish party to unveil the mausoleum she and a friend had bought for $500,000 in Lake Lawn Metairie Cemetery.
The cause was cancer, said her friend and colleague, Tom Brocato.

        Kimberly Miles, recipient of a lung transplant in November 2000 in an unusual operation in which her sister and a friend donated parts of their lungs, died on Monday in Minneapolis.
Miles's sister Tammy Hoff and a friend, DorMae Gebhardt, both in their early 30's with families of their own, offered to be donors.
A friend who encountered her on Madison Avenue swathed from head to knees in blue fox, complete with tails, made a mild remark about the generous amount of fur.
The cause was breast cancer, which she fought for a decade, said Adrienne Torff, a friend.
In an interview yesterday, Ms. Walker, a close friend, called the small, elegant but tough Ms. Jordan, ''unwillingly nonviolent.
''
        On an impulse, she called a friend who was a Sun-Times executive and asked whether she could help the advice columnist answer some of her mail.
Deciding to settle only for the best, she called up Justice William O. Douglas of the Supreme Court, a friend from her Democratic Party days.
For the next letter, from a Roman Catholic who wanted to marry a Protestant, Mrs. Lederer sought the counsel of another old friend, the Rev.
''
        On an impulse, she called a friend who was a Sun-Times executive and asked whether she could help the advice columnist answer some of her mail.
Deciding to settle only for the best, she called up Justice William O. Douglas of the Supreme Court, a friend from her Democratic Party days.
For the next letter, from a Roman Catholic who wanted to marry a Protestant, Mrs. Lederer sought the counsel of another old friend, the Rev.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
Lavonne Davis, her friend since childhood and a professional teammate then known as Pepper Paire, remembered Dancer's superb fielding: at the crack of the bat, she would turn and dart to the exact spot the ball would come down, catch it over her shoulder and throw a strike to home plate.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
A friend introduced her to Margaret Wise Brown, the author of ''Good Night Moon'' at the Bank Street Writers Laboratory in Greenwich Village.
''I was never a friend of Frida Kahlo,'' Mrs. Olmedo conceded in an interview with The New York Times, in which she referred to the artist's bisexuality.
The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Leslie Aqua Viva Shulman, a friend.
''A book is a friend,'' she used to say.
The cause was cancer, said a friend, Lynda Morgenroth.
''
        Her big break came when she was tapped for a supporting role in the second season of Norman Lear's ''Sanford and Son,'' which starred Foxx, a friend from comedy club days, as Fred Sanford, an eccentric and irascible junk dealer in the Watts section of Los Angeles.
Her character, Aunt Esther, took her share of zingers from Foxx and other cast members -- Sanford's friend Grady once quipped, ''Nice having her around, she makes the junk look so pretty.
The cause was cancer, said Edward Manowitz, a friend.
She had congestive heart failure, a friend, Paula Giddings, said.
The cause was complications from diabetes and heart disease, said Anita MacShane, a friend.
Known as Marvin then and thereafter, she next became one of ''Murrow's boys,'' broadcasters recruited by Edward R. Murrow, an old friend from the National Student Federation of America.
Jack Valenti, a friend of Mrs. Mahoney, was a special assistant to the president in the Johnson administration.
Ms. Robinson wrote that Mrs. Mahoney remembered feeling a sense of social responsibility for the first time at age 10 when she was riding in a friend's pony cart.
'' Sullivan, a friend, gave her permission.

        Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night.
