The cause was lung cancer, Esme Chandlee, her friend and former publicist, told The Associated Press.

        Dr. Gertie F. Marx, a New York anesthesiologist who helped advance the use of modern epidural injections that ease women's pain during childbirth, died on Sunday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx, according to Dr. Jill M. Rabin, a friend and colleague.
She is survived by a cousin, Dr. Ronald Simon of New York, and by her close friend and former student, Dr. Rabin, also of New York.
      
''
        ''I should add,'' he said, ''she was a great anti-hypocrite, and a superb cook -- not a bad friend to have.
The cause was a heart attack, said Dorothy Lee, a friend and her executor.
She performed with Graham from 1932 to 1938, then returned to California and founded the San Francisco Dance Theater with her husband, the composer Ray Green, and a Graham colleague and lifelong friend, Gertrude Shurr.
She was surrounded there by remnants of the Bloomsbury group's heyday, including their books, one of them the letters of her friend Virginia Woolf, and their art, including the painter Dora Carrington's famous portrait of Lytton Strachey.
Another link was Julia Strachey, Lytton Strachey's niece and Ms. Partridge's oldest friend.
Ms. Partridge survived another old friend, the Shakespearean scholar George Rylands, who died in 1999, making her the last person who experienced the Bloomsbury phenomenon close up as an adult.
Her father was William Cecil Marshall, an architect, the runner-up in the first Wimbledon final in 1877 and a friend of Darwin.
The cause was colon cancer, said Laurie Cohen, a family friend.
Alice Helpern, a friend and colleague, said that Ms. Melikova collapsed in the lobby of her apartment building in Manhattan and was taken to a hospital, where she died.
The Duchess of Windsor had long been a friend and now there were others.
The cause was cancer, Kyle Good, a family friend, said.
''
        She became active in human rights issues after the arrest of her first husband, Yuli Daniel, for anti-Soviet essays written together with his friend Andrei Sinyavsky, in 1965, the same year she received her doctorate in linguistics.
''She was a moral influence since the beginning and her influence defined the course of this whole movement,'' said Lyuda Alekseyeva, a close friend and contemporary who now heads the Moscow Helsinki Group, a leading human rights organization.
The cause was abdominal cancer, said Roger Mosesson, a friend.
She then wrote a powerfully spare account of his funeral:
        ''His old friend, Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who married him, baptized his children and prayed over him in the icy air of his inaugural, said a Low Mass.
A woman who increasingly acquired the manner of an aging countess, as her friend Phil Gailey, editor of editorials at The St. Petersburg Times in Florida put it, she was legendary on the campaign trail for enlisting male reporters as her porters.
Her death came after a long illness, said her friend and colleague Jennifer Harmon.
She became chairwoman of the county chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1961 at the urging of her friend Medgar Evers, the N.A.A.C.P.
She was 100 or 101, said Annie Rieken, a close friend and director of the Heritage Foundation of Monroe County, where the farm is located.
Her death was announced by Lee Redmond, a family friend.
With her friend, Ann M. Martin, the author of ''The Baby Sitters Club'' series, Ms. Danziger also wrote two epistolary novels for slightly older readers, ''P.S.
The portrayal impressed show-business insiders, including the television producer Norman Lear, who in 1971 hired Ms. Sanford to play a Queens neighbor to the confrontational Archie Bunker, and an eventual friend to his wife, Edith, in ''All in the Family.
She had a heart attack after a stroke, said Marjorie Perces, a friend.

        Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf.
While in her twenties, together with her colleague and friend Grete Stern, the then Ellen Rosenberg formed a commercial photography studio in Berlin named Ringl & Pit.
In 2003, she participated in the Vienna Biennial with her stage interpretation of ''Salome,'' and she was preparing another project, ''Beethoven Night,'' with Robert Wilson, a friend, for 2005.
Rick McKay, a director and her friend, said she died peacefully in her sleep.
Fay's mother sent her to Los Angeles to live with a friend and pursue a movie career.
In 1986, after the death of her friend James Beard, she led the effort to buy his town house in Greenwich Village and convert it into a nonprofit foundation.
Her husband's friend Franklin Roosevelt Jr. invited them to supper with his parents at the White House.
The cause was a stroke, said Ronald Christ, a friend and collaborator.
Her death was reported by Marlene Grunewald, a longtime friend who took care of her.
''In 2002 she was also convicted of tax fraud in a case involving payments she received in the early 1990's to intercede with François Mitterrand, a friend and then the president of France, in an oil deal.
The cause was leiomyosarcoma, a rare form of cancer, said a friend and collaborator, Larry Walczak.
She relates in matter-of-fact detail how a friend's nanny working in one of the presidential palaces told about what happens to thieves:
        ''She said that when someone was caught stealing, they gathered the staff together, brought in a doctor, who chopped off this guy's hand, and immediately dunked it into boiling oil to cauterize it.
In the late 1980's, a friend, the poet Robert Mezey, encouraged Ms. Adair to put together a manuscript of her best work.
The cause was breast cancer, according to Les Schecter, a friend.
Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman.
Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman.
The cause was pneumonia combined with congestive heart failure, said a close friend, Dr. Marianne J. Legato, a Columbia cardiologist and internist, who was a protégée of Dr. Ferrer as a medical student in the 1950's.
Soon after Ms. Truitt began making these new works, the Color Field painter Kenneth Noland, a friend since her student days at the Institute of Contemporary Art, brought Greenberg to see her work, and they encouraged the dealer Andre Emmerich to pay a visit.
''The theme that runs through Susan's writing is this lifelong struggle to arrive at the proper balance between the moral and the aesthetic,'' Leon Wieseltier, literary editor of The New Republic and an old friend of Ms. Sontag's, said in a telephone interview yesterday.
''She was at one time my publisher and at another my agent, but above all a supportive friend.
There she worked with Harold Arlen, Charles Strouse and Lee Adams and, most rewardingly, with Mr. Herman, who became a close friend.
Her death was announced by the chairman of the PaceWildenstein gallery, Arne Glimcher, her friend and longtime dealer.
She died after a series of strokes, said a friend, Doris Bacon.
