With her friend Dorothy Fay Little, she founded the Greenwood Music Camp, a summer camp for children in Cummington, Mass., and served as a director there for 50 years.
The Associated Press reported that Louis Martins, a friend of Dame Margot, said she did not want people to know she had cancer.

        Nancy Kulp, an actress best known for her role as the secretary Jane Hathaway on the television series "The Beverly Hillbillies," died of cancer on Sunday at a friend's home.
Mrs. Jenkins, who lived in the New York City area for 60 years, died after a series of strokes, said Beatrice S. Hawkins of Manhattan, a friend.
She died as the result of a stroke, a friend, Donald Gaynor, said.
The Kramarskys came to the United States from the Netherlands in 1940, aided by Dr. Chaim Weizmann, a family friend who became the first president of Israel.
A longtime fan of Penn and Teller, she arranged an introduction through a friend about a year ago.

        Finvola Drury, who helped create and conduct research that led to a treatment for immune deficency in AIDS patients, was found dead on Thursday evening at the home of a friend in Brooklyn.
The friend with whom she was staying, Lucretia Strippoli, said Ms. Drury appeared to have died of natural causes.
Mr. Liberman was an adolescent friend and fellow Russian emigre in Paris.
Ms. Olyanova died of pneumonia, said David Hollister, a close friend.
She died of pneumonia and vascular disease, said Elizabeth Park, a friend of more than 20 years.
"  An Early Start, Long Run
        In films, Miss Browne was the cynical and tippling actress and friend of the title character in "Auntie Mame" in 1958.
She died of complications from diabetes, said Alan Eichler, a friend.
She died of pancreatic cancer, a family friend said.
She died of liver cancer, said a friend, Jed Wheeler.
The cause of death was heart failure, said a friend, Anne Kaufman Schneider.
Eva was 15 when Constance Collier, a family friend, got her a walk-on role in Maeterlinck's "Monna Vanna" in London.
Miss Laise was a close friend of Mr. Bunker's first wife, Harriet Allen Bunker, who died in 1964, and it was Miss Laise's first marriage.
She was a warmhearted, gregarious woman, and dancers who began by respecting her as a mentor came to cherish her as a friend.
She died of cancer, a friend of the family said.
She died of cancer, a friend of the family said.
She died of cancer, said a friend, Marie Wheeler.
Tributes From Friends
        Arthur Schlesinger Jr., the historian, a close friend of Mrs. Tree's for many years, said: "Her ambition was to be a combination of Mrs. Roosevelt and Carole Lombard.
"
        Another close friend agreed.
She died of cancer, said Margo Britton, a friend of the family.
She died of cardiac arrest, said Theodore Wilentz, a close friend.
She died of natural causes, said a friend, Florence Stephens.

        Jeanette Leentvaar, a Dutch dancer, teacher and choreographer, died on Monday at a friend's home in Caracas, Venezuela, after a long illness.
She died of cancer, said Elaine Shipman, a friend and colleague.
She was a close friend and early supporter of the author James Baldwin, and his book "Another Country" is dedicated to her.
She died after a stroke, said a friend, Virginia P. Kamin.
She died of cancer, said Joahn Webb, a friend.
She died of cancer, said Kurt von Schuschnigg, a friend and the executor of her estate.
She died of congestive heart failure, said Gerald Phelan, a friend.
She died of cancer, which she had been fighting since 1979, said a friend, Barbara Moore.
She was a wonderful and generous friend.
