''
        Correction:  January 18, 2005, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Suzie Frankfurt, a New York decorator who was a friend and collaborator of Andy Warhol's, misstated the place of her first meeting with him.
Her friend Mary Walsh told The Associated Press of her death.
''She had a profound impact on the way people think about how kids develop,'' said Dr. John Spencer, a psychology professor at the University of Iowa, a friend and former colleague of Dr. Thelen's.
The cause was complications of liver disease, her friend Barbara Ashley said.
The cause of the death was complications from kidney disease, said Steve Blauner, a family friend.
Andrea Goodman of Lenox, Mass., a friend, said she appeared to have suffered a stroke, and no autopsy was performed.
'' She lost her role as Mr. Buttons's wife in 1952 after the publication ''Red Channels: The Report of Communist Influence in Radio and Television'' (1950) listed her as belonging to ''subversive organizations,'' probably because she ''signed a few petitions like the rest of us,'' her friend the actress Lee Grant said.
According to her friend the writer Ann Louise Bardach, ''She even turned important people down for treatment because, as she said, 'You can't change character.
Dr. Buckley died in a nursing home after a series of strokes, said a close friend, Joyce Maclay.
The cause was congestive heart failure, Sue Stewart, her friend and caretaker, said.
Ms. Fittko had earlier helped the philosopher Hannah Arendt, who had been her friend in Paris, get out of a prison in France.
It was there she aided her friend and fellow prisoner Hannah Arendt by helping to supply her with a stolen release document.
Mr. Benjamin died there after swallowing some of the 50 morphine tablets he had earlier split with his friend Arthur Koestler.
But those papers were discovered in the Bibliothèque Nationale in Paris, where Mr. Benjamin's friend the essayist Georges Batailles had hidden them from the Nazis.
She changed the magazine's approach, said her friend Betsy Carter, a writer and magazine editor.
The cause was lung cancer, said Helene Browning, a friend.
When a friend brought her his beat-up work shoes, she began to see old leather objects as metaphors for the passage of time and the scars of life.
She graduated from Vassar in 1939, and in the late 1940's she and a friend, Dottie Noyes, owned a New York furniture store, New Design, that sold contemporary creations by the Eameses, Saarinen and Aalto.
The cause has not been determined, said Anne Emerman, a longtime friend.
''Basically, her heart gave out,'' said Robert Jurgrau, a former student and close friend.
Money grew tight, and she noted that her old friend Welles was directing something called the Mercury Theater.
''
        Norman Lloyd, a longtime friend and founding member of the Mercury Theater, described the effect she had.
She was told to play best friend to the dying Bette Davis in ''Dark Victory'' (1939), and her performance persuaded Samuel Goldwyn to cast her as the tragic Isabella Linton in ''Wuthering Heights.
Scheftel asked a friend to introduce them, and they were married in 1946.
Her death was confirmed yesterday by her longtime friend and manager, Don Dellair.
Her death was confirmed Saturday by her longtime friend and manager, Don Dellair.
Susan Vail, a longtime friend, confirmed the death.
In 1943 she married Tony Smith in Hollywood, with her close friend Tennessee Williams as best man.
The cause was complications after an operation, said a friend, Marion Howe.
She first went to Africa in 1958 to visit a friend who was a member of the White Sisters, a Roman Catholic religious order.
''She was fed up,'' said Elaine Steele, a longtime friend and executive director of the Rosa and Raymond Parks Institute for Self Development.
She traced her interest in horticulture to a pot of huge purple orchids displayed in a friend's house in Milwaukee when she was a child.
Mr. Wiesenthal learned from a friend in Toronto that she had moved to Queens and got the address.
Her death was reported yesterday by a longtime friend, Ann Berlin.
She was persuaded to put the characters into a book by a friend, the novelist and memoirist Paula Fox, with whom she had previously collaborated on a television play.
She died of cancer, said Alan C. Rothfeld, her lawyer and longtime friend.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Leslie Steinau, her lawyer and a longtime friend.
When a childhood friend started taking ballet lessons from Edna McRae, a respected Chicago teacher, Ms. Cohen went along.
