In 1986, Mrs. Garbe and her brother, Norman Moore, gave $1 million to Washington University to endow a professorship in architecture.
She gave her first professional performance in 1918 and performed in dozens of European cities.
She gave her first professional performance in 1918 and performed in dozens of European cities.
'' An Impression of Authority
        In her person as well as in her choice of words, Mrs. Tuchman gave an impression of authority.
She had strong features, a high forehead, wise hazel eyes and a somewhat serious manner that gave way, now and then, to a dazzling smile.
She was a former board member of the Alexander Graham Bell Association for the Deaf, which gave her its highest award; a former president of Auditory-Visual International and a former board member of the Foundation for Children's Hearing, Education and Research.
Correction:  March 30, 1989, Thursday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary March 22 about Helen H. Beebe of Easton, Pa., a teacher of the deaf, gave her maiden name incorrectly.
It was a major national event when, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy Ricardo gave birth to Little Ricky on the air the same night Lucille Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz y de Acha 4th.
It was a major national event when, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy Ricardo gave birth to Little Ricky on the air the same night Lucille Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz y de Acha 4th.
In shaping situation comedies, Miss Ball consistently sought superior writers, followed their advice, gave them unstinting credit and paid close attention to production details.
''I went to Mack Sennett's studio, and they gave me a job right away at $25 a week,'' she told The Los Angeles Times in a 1987 interview.
Over the years, Mr. Ruth and his first wife gave conflicting birth dates and details.
In the 1930's, she was pianist for the Orchestrette Classique, a New York women's orchestra, and gave concerts throughout the United States, Europe and Latin America.
Gave 445 Met Performances
        At the Metropolitan Opera she specialized in Verdi roles, above all ''Aida,'' which she sang at the house and on tour with the Met 75 times.
All told, she gave 445 performances with the company.
'' In a ceremony on stage after the third act, Mr. Bing presented her with a Steuben glass cup and Lowell Wadmond, the chairman of the Met's board, gave her a silver tray.
On her return to the United States in 1955, her transsexualism was sensationalized in the daily tabloids, some of which she gave exclusive interviews.
In 1974, she gave up private practice in pediatric orthpedics because of high premiums for medical malpractice insurance but continued as an associate professor of orthpedic surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and as a physician at Columbia-Presbyterian, where she was director of the Children's Foot Clinic.
She also gave recitals and wrote and performed a concert program called ''Some of My Best Friends Like Opera.
She had an eye for what was new and imaginative, and many fashion designers say she gave them a crucial boost at an early stage in their career.
''She sent me to Arizona,'' he said, ''with Veruschka, the model, four suitcases full of fabrics, wires and tape and told me to wrap and tie everything as I wanted and then she gave me eight pages in the magazine.
''
        Mr. Luboshutz and Miss Nemenoff gave more than 800 performances in the United States before they returned to Europe to make their joint debut in 1952.
They also gave the premieres of concertos composed for them by Bohuslav Martinu and Vittorio Giannini.
'' Mr. Warner later gave up his option on it.
But once she had returned to the United States, Warners gave her a new contract calling for fewer pictures at a much higher salary.
They also gave her excellent, high-budget pictures, like ''Jezebel,'' for which she won her second Oscar in 1938.
The role of the loony Baby Jane Hansen, addled into thinking she was going to make a comeback in vaudeville, gave Miss Davis a chance to pull out all the acting stops, and she did so with relish.
''
        When she was 11, Miss McCarthy was rescued from her misery in Minneapolis by her maternal grandfather, Harold Preston, who took her to Seattle and gave her a fine education at the Forest Ridge Convent and the Annie Wright Seminary.
WEWS eventually replaced Ms. Fuldheim as anchor, but gave her a commentary segment on the nightly news until her retirement five years ago after she suffered a stroke.
When the revolutionary army of Chiang Kai-shek advanced on the city in 1930, she refused to leave with other British and American missionaries, who gave her up for dead and held a memorial service in her honor.
The hospital gave no information regarding funeral or memorial services.
She gave many of her canvases to friends.
Dr. Hammer bought Campobello and gave it to the Governments of the United States and Canada.
The movie gave Miss Bari, playing a poor dancer who rises to power as a viceroy's consort, her greatest chance by leading a cast of celebrated performers, including Alla Nazimova, Louis Calhern, Blanche Yurka and Akim Tamiroff, but the film was marred by a pompous script and a hurried production schedule.
In the years that followed, a succession of mental tests, some now outdated, gave contradictory results.
