An estimated 5,000 people attended the Mass, at the end of which they gave the fascist salute and shouted ''Franco!
The failure of this venture, and the experience of genteel poverty in Detroit, gave her a lifelong sympathy with underprivileged people.
Gave Up Composing
        As a composer, Miss Behrend produced a variety of mostly small-scale pieces, only some of which were published.
It gave an all-over structure within which incidents of every conceivable kind could be accommodated.
It gave an all-over structure within which incidents of every conceivable kind could be accommodated.
It gave an all-over structure within which incidents of every conceivable kind could be accommodated.
Correction:  June 2, 1988, Thursday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary of Edna Boyne Campbell in some editions yesterday gave the date of her death incorrectly.
She was a debutante during the season of 1922-23, when her father gave her a ball at the Ritz-Carlton.
To retaliate, Mr. March stood in the wings gargling loudly while Miss Bankhead gave her big speech.
Mrs. Ramsey also appeared in ''Goonies'' and played Nick Nolte's mother in ''Weeds,'' but her role as the domineering, loud-mouthed mother in ''Throw Momma From the Train'' gave her stardom.
It was the removal of part of her tongue during throat cancer surgery three years ago that gave her the speech impediment heard in ''Throw Momma,'' which starred Danny DeVito and Billy Crystal.
Married Into Wealth
        In 1927, Miss Dawn married Charles Gruwell, a mining engineer from Montana, reportedly ''one of the richest men in the West,'' and largely gave up her career, though she did appear on stage in ''Wonder Boy'' in 1931.
At the first international convention of Al-Anon, in 1985 in Montreal, an audience of 45,000 -members of Alcoholics Anonymous as well as Al-Anon - gave her a standing ovation.
In later years her abstract needlepoint tapestries of the 1940's and 1950's, depicting surreal human and mythical figures, gave way to calligraphy-based designs.
But they were devoted to one another and Miss Graham gave him not only her love and patience but also a measure of peace of mind.
A native New Yorker, Ms. Onassis gave up her American citizenship.
Mrs. Cafritz gave elegant and lavish parties from the end of World War II until the early 1970s, when failing health curtailed her social schedule.
After his death, she became president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, which gave about $6 million a year to local organizations devoted to the arts, community service, health and education.
In June 1986 she gave her last large party, which was described as a ''trip back into Washington social history.
She gave dozens of parties every year in her 57-room, white brick mansion on a seven-acre hilltop that included a basement night club with illuminated dance floor, a gym and an Olympic-size swimming pool.
Toward the end of her life she gave Israel a new Supreme Court building.
