In 1949, Ms. Mayo gave another highly regarded performance in ''White Heat,'' in which she played the wife of a psychopathic gangster.
(She sometimes gave the date as 1920.
Instead, she fired a parliamentary salvo at the chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, Wilbur D. Mills, who gave out committee assignments.
She gave birth to two sons in the mid-1960's: Juan Enrique and Alejandro.
In late 1996, Speaker Newt Gingrich gave her and Representative Jane Harman, Democrat of California, the tough assignment of investigating sexual harassment in the Army.
With the assistance of a local socialist mayor, who gave her an old map, she led Mr. Benjamin and two other refugees across the mountains to Port-Bou, a Spanish border town.
She was named director of the Women's Army Corps, Regular Army, which gave enlistees a chance to try for any noncombat position and provided for an initial peacetime strength of 18,000.
She gave Khachaturian's piano concerto its first performances outside the Soviet Union, touring with it in 1940.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, Mrs. Knippers, who became the institute's president in 1992, gave the group its domestic focus, first on radical feminism within the churches, then on homosexuality.
This frequently sent him to the jungle in search of a rare black orchid whose serum gave him temporary respite.
Among the works she gave to the museum were pieces by Bonnard, Picasso, Miró and Vuillard.
When Ms. Laredo went to Serkin to ask if he thought she could handle the Rachmaninoff, he gave his blessing.
'''You must do it' was the answer he gave me,'' Ms. Laredo said in a 1987 interview with The New York Times.
The actor Rod Steiger once gave her a copy of Stanislavsky's writings on acting.
''Basically, her heart gave out,'' said Robert Jurgrau, a former student and close friend.
It was Buhlig who introduced her to his former student Cage; Ms. Sultan, in turn, introduced Cage to her student Mr. Wolff, who gave Cage his first copy of the I Ching.
''
        In addition to buying, wearing and collecting clothes, many of which she donated to museums' costume institutes and various charities, Mrs. Kempner served on a number of charitable boards and benefit committees, gave occasional courses in couture at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and at New York University, and flirted with a number of other careers.
In addition to spending more than $6 million of her own, she gave 200 acres of her family's farmland, buildings included, to start the college, which became coeducational in 1970.
''
        On the instructions her father gave her before leaving, Lore wrote the Jewish refugee committee asking it to get her parents out of Austria, as well as her grandparents, aunt and twin cousins.
The gift that gave her the most satisfaction, she said, was one of her earliest and least heralded: the Enid A. Haupt Glass Garden, a playground for children who are patients at the Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine at New York University Medical Center.
Six bronze sculptures by Giacometti, a sculpture by Henry Moore and a painting by Mark Rothko were among 13 pieces she gave to the National Gallery of Art in 1977.
Many of the workers were former sharecroppers, and the dam project gave them their first real income.
When both gave separate programs at the American Dance Festival at Connecticut College in 1959, Doris Hering concluded in Dance Magazine: ''Both are mystics.
Ms. Sergava was born in Tiflis (now Tblisi) in Georgia on July 30, 1909 or 1910 (she gave both dates).
She was a juror at several major competitions, and in addition to her work at the Manhattan School, she gave master classes in Europe, Asia and South Africa.
