Ms. Giroud never returned to politics, but her weight as a commentator gave her considerable political influence.
She aided causes like gun control and AIDS programs in the public schools and gave $10 million to the Juilliard School for a program to attract gifted minority students and teachers.
She persuaded Mr. Wallis to let her buy the play for $20,000 -- he gave it the name ''Casablanca'' -- and the movie, starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, came out in 1943.
The studio gave her a new name, Mary Brian, and pared her age to 16, deeming 18 too grown up for the part.
The Times's critic, Howard Taubman, gave the show a mixed review.
The federal government gave her license number 2,613, meaning that just 2,612 pilots had been licensed before her.
Altogether she gave 249 performances of 15 roles before her last Met performance, in ''Faust,'' on March 12, 1960.
She and her husband donated their collection, considered one of the best ensembles of post-1960's Latin American work in the United States, to the Archer M. Huntington Art Gallery (now the Jack S. Blanton Museum of Art) at the University of Texas, Austin, to which Ms. Duncan also gave a substantial collection of archival material.
Such key assignments gave her leverage to lobby for giving women specific protection under the Civil Rights Act.
''What she did by dancing the way she did -- to be prima ballerina at the Metropolitan Opera House -- gave everybody hope.
Once he gave me a demonstration of my walk; he said I walked like a schoolmistress.
''Pygmalion,'' which was later the basis for the Lerner and Loewe musical ''My Fair Lady,'' gave Dame Wendy some of her finest scenes.
In 1999 the Mystery Writers of America gave her an Ellery Queen Award, which honors distinguished people in the mystery-publishing business.
' '' Although her choice was based on comfort, her trademark trousered look became so influential that the Council of Fashion Designers of America gave her a lifetime achievement award in 1986.
'' Playing Warren Beatty's wise old aunt, she gave advice to the woman he loved, played by Annette Bening.
Miss Hepburn's age gave the role the trappings of a farewell to movies, but if she moved more slowly than before, in demeanor she was as game and modern as she had ever been, even venturing an unprintable line about ducks.
In 1994, President Clinton gave her the National Medal of Arts.
She gave the premieres of works written for her by David Diamond, William Schuman and Vittorio Giannini, and the European premieres of works by Aaron Copland and Wallingford Riegger.
'' Over the years she attracted many admirers, including the Prince of Wales, who in 1990 gave his patronage to a ''school of wisdom'' that she founded, the Temenos Academy of Integral Studies.
Her acting ability, however, did not attract the attention of the critics, who generally gave her films poor reviews.
Although shunned by the British establishment -- British ambassadors to France were instructed not to invite her to the embassy, for instance -- Lady Mosley presided over a beautifully decorated house, Temple de la Gloire, where she gardened, wrote, read, gave interviews, kept up on London literary gossip and entertained an endless stream of glittery visitors who were, inevitably, thoroughly enchanted by her quick wit, sparkling appearance, and sly sense of humor.
Her work gave plane manufacturers information for designing engines that could continue to fly after ingesting the birds, and it helped ornithologists create bird management programs to prevent flocks from gathering near airports.
Her grandfather gave her her first horse when she was 5.
Correction:  October 2, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Althea Gibson, the first black competitor in the United State tennis nationals and the winner of five Grand Slam titles, gave an incorrect surname for the first black player in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event.
''
        These films gave her the image of a romantic heroine in the Wagnerian cast, in harmony with nature and bent on fighting evil.
In 1947, she had a brief romance with Larry Storch, and gave birth in 1948 to a daughter, Candace, whom they put up for adoption.

        Eleanor Lambert, whose tireless promotion of American fashion gave the industry an international presence and helped to elevate it from rag trade to respectability, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Miss Lambert gave up her office just a year before her death but still kept busy with a few accounts.
In 1998, Ms. Kroc gave $100 million to the Salvation Army to build and endow the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego and $25 million to the University of San Diego to establish its Institute for Peace and Justice.
In the 1980's she gave $19 million to the University of Notre Dame to endow an institute for international peace studies.
Through foundations and in her own name, she also gave major gifts for AIDS research, hospice care, environmental causes, nuclear disarmament and programs to combat drug and alcohol abuse and hunger.
'' and gave her lessons when he was in town.
Ms. Farnan had a special vantage point, and many but not all reviewers said she gave an unexpectedly detailed, intimate and accurate view of Auden's private life.
Correction:  November 27, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the AIDS activist and educator Evan Ruderman on Friday gave an incorrect surname for her surviving stepmother.

        Lotte Berk, the dancer who gave her name to a no-nonsense system for achieving slim waists, trim thighs and taut bottoms that became a must for glamorous women in the 1960's, died on Nov. 4 in England.
The names she gave her pelvic exercises and muscle tweaks had a decidedly earthy flavor with sexual connotations.
She was not prepared for the ticker-tape parade that New York gave her through its financial district on Aug. 27, 1926, in which an estimated two million people turned out and chanted, ''Trudy!
Waters, who gave her license to do something about it.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse.
''There was no question of my working -- I wasn't Katherine Cornell or Helen Hayes,'' Mrs. Stevenson recalled in a 1997 interview, when asked why she gave up her dancing career.
