A few days before the performance the three dancers gave Graham a costly carnelian necklace inscribed ''To Miss Martha with Love.
The reviews of Miss Lamarr's films all emphasized her beauty, but when the scripts actually gave her something to say, the critics were not as passionate.
In another of her best-known roles, she gave Victor Mature the ultimate haircut in  ''Samson and Delilah,'' Cecil B. DeMille's 1949 epic.
''I made $7 million and yet I was on relief and they gave me all of $48 a week.
The experience led her into advocacy for the rights of immigrants, a cause she never gave up.
But her associates said she never gave up trying to overthrow whatever she saw as unjust, whether it was the behavior of big corporations or the policies of the United States in Nicaragua.
''
        On divorce, she gave voice to many readers' feelings in a ''Hers'' column in The Times in 1980, describing the day she and her former husband watched their older daughter's high school graduation: ''There on stage is someone who is half he, half she; their blood, their genes.
Her brother, Warren H. Badger, a lawyer, gave the couple money that they quickly spent on acquiring an architectural print by Piranesi.
She also was associated with the American Heart Association as an investigator and with the biochemistry section of the National Institutes of Health, which gave her its N.I.H.
In 1979, she established the Innovative Design Fund awards, a nonprofit organization based in New York that gave up to $10,000 to designers with original ideas in home furnishings, textiles and fashion so they could transform their sketches into marketable products.
In 1994, when the Rhythm and Blues Foundation gave the Shirelles a Heritage Award, Ms. Kenner-Jackson sang with the group's other surviving members, Ms. Alston Reeves and Ms. Lee, for the first time in 19 years, Harris having died in 1982.
They turned around and gave you one of those looks that said, 'Uh-huh, I got you now.
''
        The result was that her husband gave up flying, while she dropped out of the social and political life to devote herself to it.
A laconic, independent woman, she gave few interviews and did not teach painting or write about her work.
She was one of several postwar artists who, despite Abstract Expressionism's unanimous success, persisted in the notion that abstraction and representation were not mutually exclusive states, that one could paint from reality in a way that gave form, color and paint a power all their own.
''The marriages never gave her anything to go on.
''
        Then there was the party she gave for Senator John F. Kennedy during the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, at which he won his party's nomination.
Shortly after Schmirler gave birth to her second child last summer, following a difficult pregnancy, doctors discovered a malignant tumor in her chest cavity.
In 1944, the agency transferred her to Paris and gave her a WAC uniform and paperwork identifying her as a second lieutenant.
Known as one of the grand dames of Charleston, Mrs. Legendre gave a New Year's Eve costume party that was a tradition for half a century.
But she gave up photography in the mid-1980's, saying she wanted to spend her  time reading.
The ads continued to be produced by Mr. Rogers after Ms. Trahey gave up the agency business in the mid-1970's.
''
        To keep her fertile mind active, Ms. Trahey also gave lectures to professional women's organizations and wrote scores of magazine articles, novels, humorous pamphlets, a play and a self-help book called ''Jane Trahey on Women & Power: Who's Got It.
'' The consensus of critics was that they gave the play much more artistry and vitality than it deserved.
After she gave up teaching  to devote more time to writing, she maintained a presence in the schools as a guest story reader and lectured at colleges to help aspiring writers.

        Elizabeth Wilcox, who took more than 100,000 sensitive photographs chronicling 35 years of medical care at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and then gave them to the center, died on May 6 at a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. She was 84 and had lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and in Redding, Conn.
''
        In 1991 she and her husband, a  retired associate professor of medicine at Columbia University's medical school, gave the center her collection of more than 100,000 photographic images, almost all taken at the center.
After Peggy Jo Kienast gave birth to quintuplets in 1970, Mrs. Wilcox was the only photographer permitted to take official pictures of them at the medical center.
She gave up her small shop near Lincoln Center some time before her death but continued to deal privately from her apartment.
''
        She even gave the lie to the British maxim ''as different as chalk and cheese.
''There is no branch of nutrition science, past or present, that has not been influenced in some way by the results of her pioneering work,'' a statement by the British Nutrition Foundation said, ''and because of the inspiration and encouragement she gave to nutrition scientists of all ages in the United Kingdom and overseas.
Throughout her career, Ms. Marchand gave her roles an unexpected edge.
Tony gave his mother airline tickets so that she and his aunt could fly to Arizona.
In her memoir, ''A Far Cry: The Making of a South African,'' Miss Benson told how her early racial prejudice gave way to a wholehearted repudiation of white minority rule in South Africa.
''I can't think what I gave them to eat, because I am a very indifferent cook, but it was quite an extraordinary evening,'' Miss Benson recalled in 1996, describing how Mr. Mandela paced up and down her apartment, brimming with ideas.
''It reminds me of all the great help you gave to me and my family while I was in prison,'' he wrote.
In his 1972 book, ''The Making of a Black Revolutionary,'' James Forman wrote a personal inscription in the copy he gave Dr. Martin.
''
        ''She quietly gave birth to enormous best sellers that achieved cult status,'' said Peter Workman, the company's chief executive.
In New York, she gave piano lessons.
''
        In 1997 the International Society for the Performing Arts Foundation gave her an award of merit timed to the 50th anniversary of her agency.
The Amato Opera gave its first performances in the basement of Our Lady of Pompeii Church in Greenwich Village.
The artists to whom Ms. Hearn gave first shows, or first New York shows, included the painters Philip Taffee, Milan Kunc, Peter Schuyff, Jutta Koether, Monique Prieto and, most recently, Jeff Elrod, and the Conceptualists Susan Hiller, Renee Green, Lincoln Tobier and Simon Leung.
Her family said she had been ill for a long time, but gave no details.
She is survived by a sister, Jean Magrow of Oceanside, N.J.
        After Ms. Quinn had for some time been running the standing-room line,  a procedure to which the Met gave tacit approval, some regular standees urged her to begin collecting tips for her efforts.
They also gave buildings to the National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey and to Community Mainstreaming Associates of Great Neck, N.Y., which provides homes for the disabled.
When she ended her dancing career, she founded a ballet school in Brussels and a dance theater for children, which gave performances around Europe.
Leonard, found the Colonial Penn Group of insurance companies, and they gave millions of dollars to art, dance, music and Jewish philanthropic causes, including the Holocaust Museum in Washington.
When the school gave her an honorary degree at that time, she brought a phalanx of friends and relatives to the ceremony to see her in her academic cap and gown; she had dropped out of City College to get married.
She and her husband gave the school another $2 million for an endowed scholarship fund in their names.
Despite her love of Paris, Biala never gave up her United States citizenship.
''I have loved the camera ever since, because it gave me joy and it gave me a life,'' she said.
''I have loved the camera ever since, because it gave me joy and it gave me a life,'' she said.
They married in 1947, and she gave up her budding movie career to become a full-time wife and mother.
''
        In 1971 Ms. Austin gave up her successful career as a Broadway producer to develop bold new works in musical theater, or, more accurately, music-theater, a category she created to indicate a cross-pollination of the arts.
Her work there gave her a lifelong sympathy for refugees and for prisoners and other casualties of war.
Mrs. Gresser, who was born in 1906 in Detroit, taught herself to play chess using a book a fellow passenger gave her on a cruise in 1939.
She had been a piano prodigy, and though she gave up public performance as an adult, she maintained close ties with the composers and performers of her day.
Her mother was a cellist who gave up her career to nurture her musical daughter.
Earlier this year, Robert Hurwitz, its director since 1984 and a great admirer of Ms. Sterne, issued a two-disc recording in tribute to her, containing highlights from favorite albums she had produced and live recordings of performances she gave in her early years as a piano prodigy.
      
''
        The way her gardens settled into the landscape gave them a sense of timelessness, even though they had to be carefully monitored.
Recently, she gave her professional papers to Smith College.

        Peggy McMartin Buckey, a principal defendant in the Virginia McMartin Pre-School child-molestation case, who went free after a costly seven-year ordeal when prosecutors gave up, died on Friday in Torrance, Calif. She was 74 and lived in Torrance.
''
        Justice Emily Jane Goodman of New York State Supreme Court said Ms. Kennedy gave women courage.
Ms. Kennedy gave an emphatic yes.
''I'm sure there were a lot of women before Shpritzer who sought advancement in the department and then gave up, figuring it was not worth the risk,'' Commissioner Murphy said.
'' To that end, she gave many readings at schools, prisons and hospitals and attended annual poetry contests for school-age youngsters, which she sponsored, judged and often paid for out of her own pocket.
