The Board of Regents gave her the James E. Allen Jr. Memorial Award for distinguished service to education.
Author of a Dozen Books
        Tall, blond and with blue eyes, she gave beauty advice to women in more than a dozen books, including ''Make Your Name in Modeling and Television,'' ''Finishing Touches,'' ''Look Your Best,'' ''Between Us Girls'' and ''Candy Jones' Complete Book of Beauty and Fashion.
'' If a cameraman she worked with decades earlier was having financial problems, she invariably gave him enough money to ease his troubles.
'' If a cameraman she worked with decades earlier was having financial problems, she invariably gave him enough money to ease his troubles.
Rescued by Paramount
        Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer gave her a part in a Hedy Lamarr feature, ''Ziegfeld Girl,'' but dropped her upon learning that she was not 19 years old, as she had said she was, but 17, which meant that under state law she could work only four hours a day and had to have a tutor.
Paramount gave her a six-month contract, complete with tutor.
The Slesingers gave up management of the camp in the early 1930's, and the camp was later sold.
She gave up that post in 1957 but kept her active membership.
''
        Columbia University, at its 1951 commencement, gave Mrs. Sulzberger a Doctor of Laws degree, citing her as the ''distinguished daughter of a distinguished father'' and praising her civic involvement as well as her role at The Times.
In addition to her occupation with Barnard affairs, she served at various times as a trustee of the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, which gave her an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters in 1973, and of the University of Chattanooga.
Her schooling at home, which Mrs. Sulzberger later called ''rather haphazard,'' nonetheless gave her a good grounding in history and literature.
When she was older, she was often a guest at luncheons her father gave for figures in business, the professions or politics.
She was also a tireless hostess at lectures that staff members of The Times gave for teachers, and she had a hand in Musical Talent in Our Schools, a project aimed at stimulating student musicians.
A next step was taken in 1961, when Mr. Sulzberger gave the publisher's post to Mr. Dryfoos and became chairman.
In May 1923, when she signed her first contract with the Metropolitan Opera, she gave her age as 18 and was said to be the youngest singer ever signed by the company.
She taught voice privately until 1981, and in recent years she gave master classes at C. W. Post College and Long Island University.
''
        Her speech was heavily accented and husky, but this new dimension of the Swedish enigma gave her even greater stature, and the movie played to packed houses across the country.
''Queen Christina'' (1933) gave Garbo a long-sought chance to portray the eccentric 17th-century Swedish monarch.

       Miriam Witkin, a soprano who sang on several New York stations in the early days of radio and who gave concerts at Aeolian and Chickering Halls, died in her sleep on Sunday at a family home in Bridgewater, Conn., after a brief illness.
Miriam Witkin, a soprano who sang on several New York stations in the early days of radio and who gave concerts at Aeolian and Chickering Halls, died in her sleep on Sunday at a family home in Bridgewater, Conn., after a brief illness.
The writer Robert Benchley praised her as ''a woman who could charm a rock,'' and Ray Milland, a frequent co-star, hailed her as ''the most honest actress I ever knew; she gave it all she had.
Songs of Seduction
        Two of her biggest successes, ''Make Yourself Comfortable'' (1954) and ''Whatever Lola Wants'' (1955), from the Broadway musical ''Damn Yankees,'' were songs of seduction in which her almost overripe timbre gave an extra edge of sensuality to come-hither messages.
In her early 20's she became a regular guest at San Simeon, the Hearst estate, and in 1941 Gary Cooper gave her away when she married Howard Hawks, the director and producer.
Her great-grandfather, Samuel Jacobi, learned photography from Louis Daguerre, who gave his name to an early picture-making process.
Mrs. Salvatori and her husband, Henry Salvatori, an industrialist, gave many gifts to schools, hospitals and shelters.
Her mother, a professional soprano, gave her singing lessons when she was a child, and she later studied at the Royal Manchester College of Music.
It gave no cause of death.
Miss Biro gave her New York City debut recital in November 1940 at Town Hall.
Miss Biro gave her New York City debut recital in November 1940 at Town Hall.
Critics agreed that her artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance.
Oscar Eluded Her
        Reviewers agreed that Miss Dunne's artistry gave even inferior films some distinction, and she won praise for virtually every performance.
Active in community affairs there, she gave 150 acres of her estate to the Teatown Lake Reservation, a conservation group.
Three decades later, at the suggestion of Robert Moses, then New York City Parks Commissioner, the Freemans, joined by other heirs of Mrs. Freeman's mother, Evalina Ball, gave the estate to the city.
She was christened Ann, but a family friend, a Sioux chief, gave her the Indian name Anutika, which her family adapted to Anya.
A Change of Personality
        Combined with her sultry eyes and husky voice, the new look gave her an earthier, more arresting personality.

        Alice Marble, a Californian who grudgingly gave up baseball and grew into America's No.
A hospital spokesman, Randy Bevilacqua, gave no cause of death.
"
        This year, Mrs. Doll gave a total of $3 million to American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet, the School of American Ballet and the American Friends of the Paris Opera and Ballet.
She gave recitals as a mezzo-soprano in Europe and in New York City after her arrival in 1940.
Her niece, Frances Hershkowitz of New York City, gave Miss Hoffa's age as 83 or 84 and said her aunt had died in her sleep.
