She gave up the operalogues on her 80th birthday in 1972.
Mrs. Martin, who had been on the board of Gonzaga University in Spokane since 1978, gave $4.5 million in 1985 for construction of the school's Charlotte Y. Martin Center.
''She took the oath, signed all the papers, and gave me a bottle of champagne,'' Mr. Edwards said.
''She took the oath, signed all the papers and gave me a bottle of champagne,'' Mr. Edwards said.
Mrs. Levy and her late husband, Benjamin, were among those who gave money to help establish the college from its inception in 1952 to its completion in 1955.
His family gave $3.9 million to build the Power Center for the Performing Arts on the Ann Arbor campus.
At the urging of the candidate, she gave a seconding speech for the Presidential nomination of Adlai E. Stevenson.

       Maxine Sullivan, whose cool, precise and rhythmic singing of the Scottish folk song ''Loch Lomond'' in the late 1930's gave her an identity that remained with her throughout her career, died of heart failure Tuesday at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx.
She was 75 years old and lived in the
        Maxine Sullivan, whose cool, precise and rhythmic singing of the Scottish folk song ''Loch Lomond'' in the late 1930's gave her an identity that remained with her throughout her career, died of heart failure Tuesday at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx.
Miss Sullivan, who had a busy career both in this country and abroad, gave her last performance March 22 at the Westport Arts Center in Westport, Conn. She entered the hospital April 1, where she suffered a seizure and went into a coma.
She gave me only good counsel.
Her 1979 autobiography, ''A Talent for Luck,'' gave what one reviewer described as ''a brief twist of the knife'' to writers she did not like, either personally or professionally.
''Glamorous and talented, she gave us many wonderful moments on the stage and screen and delighted audiences from the time she was a young girl.
''I gave that up when I realized that one wrote the same thing over and over again whether it was for cold cream or plumbing fixtures,'' she once said.
Her work, which consolidated and expanded the knowledge of those drugs, gave the medical profession a window on the modern world of antibiotics and, with their use in treating battle wounds, helped save thousands of lives in World War II.
''
        In the New Yorker sketch, Miss Page gave her own views on what makes a successful actor: ''The main thing is the ability to control your instrument, which in the actor, is yourself.
'' - and gave concerts throughout the United States.
Two decades later she gave her most indelible performance opposite Humphrey Bogart in ''The Maltese Falcon,'' John Huston's crime classic.
She said that ''from 1920 to 1930, I gave my father $461,000'' while she kept only $24,000.
''
        In ''A Life on Film,'' Miss Astor deplored a ''poverty of spirit'' in many contemporary movies, writing that ''whatever we did - we old moviemakers - we gave people a lot of fun.
Through depressions and wars and calamities, we gave them the sense of glory, of a future that would be braver than today.
Miss Gordon and her twin sister recently gave a library wing to the Roxbury Latin School in Boston's West Roxbury district in honor of their sister-in-law, Mary Rousmaniere Gordon.
