Mrs. Isaacs, a member of the family that gave the city of Scranton its name, supported community improvement projects through the Scranton Area Foundation.
"
        She gave full rein to those feelings in "Medea," a role she seemed to have been born to play.
When she assumed the presidency of the William Alanson White Psychoanalytic Society in May 1990, she gave an address titled, "Impact of a Therapist's Life -- Threatening Illness on the Therapeutic Situation.
She gave a classical dignity to anything she wore.
" He said that Ms. Dennis gave "a vivid performance of emotional range and depth (that) sincerely acquaints us with a genuine loving person we can believe wants to find her pupils' wounds and, what's more, try to heal them -- which she can't.
That same year she followed with another acclaimed work, "The Seventh Cross," in which Spencer Tracy gave one of the best performances of his career, portraying a refugee from a Nazi death camp.
That same year she followed with another acclaimed work, "The Seventh Cross," in which Spencer Tracy gave one of the best performances of his career, portraying a refugee from a Nazi death camp.
" He said that Ms. Dennis gave "a vivid performance of emotional range and depth," and added that she "sincerely acquaints us with a genuine loving person we can believe wants to find her pupils' wounds and, what's more, try to heal them, which she can't.
She gave the work of several prominent New York artists early exposure through her curatorship of the Allen Art Museum's well-known Young Americans series.
They reportedly gave her away when she was about one month old to grow up as a virtual slave in another peasant household.
The trek took a year, and gave the marchers an aura of prestige that they carried for the rest of their lives.
Influence of Encouragement
        In a short reminiscence that appears in a catalogue for an exhibition of Mrs. Dienes's work that is touring Europe, the art dealer Leo Castelli says that in the 1950's, Mrs. Dienes "was very encouraging to the younger artists and gave their new work her seal of approval.
He also notes that Mrs. Dienes gave Mr. Rauschenberg the large stuffed eagle he used in "Canyon," one of his most famous combine paintings.
Miss Dietrich gave her own print of the film to the Museum of Modern Art in New York, where it is shown frequently.
Not long after they met in the 1940's, Mr. Sinatra gave the plump, moon-faced singer the nickname "Buddha.
The Clubs and the Labels
        It was while appearing at the Cinderella Club in Greenwich Village in 1948 that she was discovered by Mae West, who gave her the part of Flo the Shoplifter in a revival of "Diamond Lil.
Last year the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers gave her a lifetime achievement award.
Mrs. Nathanson and her siblings gave the Mazer Building in memory of their father, Abraham Mazer, who died in 1952.
Last year the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers gave her a lifetime achievement award.
She exhibited at the Daniel Gallery in Manhattan, and in the early 1930's was the first artist invited to join the Public Works of Art Project, the predecessor of the Works Progress Administration, which gave artists work during the Depression.
Sowing Urban Green
        Through the Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation of New York, Miss Parnis gave away at least a million and a half dollars.
At the start of World War II, Miss Nirenska, who was Jewish, immigrated to England, where she gave solo recitals, choreographed musicals and entertained the troops.
She was a principal in a suit -- Flast v. Gardner -- in the United States Supreme Court that gave individual taxpayers the right to go to Federal court to challenge laws that, in their opinion, provide public funds for non-public schools.
Earlier this year, she gave the Luks portrait to the Brooklyn Museum, where it is on view in conjunction with the current exhibition "The Eight.
"
        During the 1930's she was a charter member of the Group, which gave birth to modern American acting.
" On opening night in 1935, the audience gave an extraordinary 45-minute ovation.
"
        During the 1930's she was a charter member of the Group Theater, which gave birth to modern American acting.
" On opening night in 1935, the audience gave the play and cast an extraordinary 45-minute ovation.
She never gave lectures, as most scientists do to build their careers.
" Musical Heritage
        Miss Kirsten was born into a musical family in Montclair, N.J., on July 6, 1910 (although she gave her birth year variously as 1917 and 1915).
When she gave her farewell performance at the Met, on Dec. 31, 1976, Allen Hughes wrote in The New York Times that "she sang and acted the part of Tosca with the vocal control and dramatic acuity of a prima donna in mid-career.
She was an outspoken lesbian and served on the board of the Feminist Press in New York City and often gave readings of her works at Judith's Room, a feminist bookstore in Greenwich Village.
She gave concerts for the blind and worked with blind singers.
"It was the Group Theater that gave me my life.
"She rose gently, with the smile she always gave, like she knew that she owned everything," Mr. Sutton said.
" She resisted the invitation with the excuse that she was ill, but after the White House insisted that her daughter, Lorraine, appear in her place, Mrs. Hale eventually gave in.
The Garden Club of America gave her its Horticulural Award in 1982.
She married Bobby Candaele during her career and gave birth to the first of their five sons before the 1948 season.
