They delivered their book proposal to the publisher hours before Mrs. Murkoff gave birth to a daughter, Emma.
'' The library gave her 15 duplicates.
She signed them and gave them to the buyer.
It gave a powerful impetus to the fledgling labor movement, greatly strengthening the building of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, which two years before the fire had led a three-month strike to focus attention on conditions in workplaces like the Triangle factory.
''
        When he gave the speech, he said: ''The leaders of both the British and Jewish races, for reasons which are understandable from their viewpoint as they are inadvisable from ours, for reasons which are not American, wish to involve us in the war.
''Angel Unaware'' sold 400,000 copies in two years; Miss Evans gave the profits to the National Association for Retarded Children.
Mrs. Levin also gave paintings to the Museum of Modern Art and created a fellowship to encourage the development of young scholars and curators.
Immensely athletic, she was a crack trap shooter and deep sea fisherman, and her MGM contract gave her three months off each winter to ski in Sun Valley.
The combination of pragmatism and kindliness she brought to the post was suggested by tips she gave Essence magazine in 1992 to help parents and children deal with college rejection.
In 1998 the organization gave Mr. Matisse's archive, which included extensive correspondence with Giacometti, Miro, Dubuffet and Henri Matisse, to the Morgan Library, where a portion of it is to be exhibited in March 2002.
Ms. Sciutti taught at the Royal College of Music in London and gave master classes at the Lyric Center of Chicago, at the Juilliard School and as part of the Merola Opera Program at the San Francisco Opera.
Her agent said she died unexpectedly but gave no further details.
Jazz singing gave her a sense of belonging.
In recent years, Ms. McCorkle developed interactive music workshops for children ages 5 to 18, which she gave at Lincoln Center, Borders bookstores and in public schools in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
Jazz singing gave her a sense of belonging.
In recent years, Ms. McCorkle developed interactive music workshops for children ages 5 to 18, which she gave at Lincoln Center, at Borders bookstores and in public schools in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
Although she had retired from the concert stage, Ms. Menuhin gave occasional performances in recent years.

        Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.
The couple spent DJB's money by May 1975, as planned, and then gave from their personal funds.
The 90-minute show started the careers of some of the nation's most successful writers and performers and set comedic standards that gave rise to Carol Burnett, Gilda Radner, Lily Tomlin and others.
So ''Your Show of Shows,'' which also starred Carl Reiner and Howard Morris and at various times counted Mel Brooks, Neil Simon and Woody Allen among its writers, had to be fashioned out of the broader terrain of everyday life, which gave the comedy a timeless, classic quality.
In ''The Sewing Machine Girl,'' a sendup of sweatshops, Ms. Coca, with Mr. Reiner as a badgering, leering boss, worked faster and faster, drooping lower and lower, until at last she gave up, did a whirling dervish dance of consumption, collapsed in death throes and, sprouting wings, flew up to heaven on wires.
After ''Your Show of Shows'' ended in 1954, NBC gave Ms. Coca her own half-hour show and a 10-year, $1 million contract.
She was paid half that sum in the first year, but her show faltered and she gave up the balance of the contract.
She often gave them cuttings and seeds from plants she herself had clipped or gathered from such legendary gardens as Gethsemane, outside the city of Jerusalem, or Monet's garden at Giverny.
''She took that grim forbidding aristocratic face off English gardening, and with her charm and her writings, gave it a friendly, domesticated face.
''So her husband gave her a book on mandrakes that piqued her interest.
Three years before Watergate, she gave solid backing to The New York Times in a historic confrontation with the government when she permitted her editors to join in publishing the secret revelations about the war in Vietnam known as the Pentagon Papers.
When he drank too much, gave vent to his rage or frequently became ill, she attributed it to the pressure of his work and not to a serious emotional affliction that had not yet been identified.
She resolved not to give her husband a divorce unless he gave up enough controlling stock in the Post to give her majority interest.
Truman Capote gave what could only be called a coming-out party for her, the Black and White Ball at the Plaza in New York, which was not only  the social event of the 1966 season, but also a masked ball of such glamour that it is considered one of the legendary parties of the 20th century.
Just two weeks ago she was surrounded by friends at the annual party her daughter gave for her in Southampton, N.Y., and last week was in Idaho for a conference of media executives where she saw more friends and colleagues.
During the 1980's and 90's, the Borgenicht Gallery gave first solo shows to young artists like Mark Tansey, Michael Zwack, Mark Innerst and Jane Rosen; began to represent Janet Fish; and held several shows of the work of Stuart Davis and Charles Biederman, American artists from earlier generations.
In ''One Writer's Beginnings,'' Miss Welty's 1984 memoir based on a series of lectures she gave at Harvard, she recalled the exhilaration she felt when she fell under the spell of books.
'' She did not win an Oscar, although the New York Film Critics gave her their best actress award.
''It gave me time to find my identity apart from my skiing so that when I came back to skiing it was something I wanted to do for me and not because I needed that image from other people,'' she said.
In 1991, the Women's Sports Foundation gave her the Flo Hyman award, which had previously gone to Martina Navratilova, Evelyn Ashford, Jackie Joyner-Kersee and Chris Evert.
''
        Eliza Parkinson was also a prime mover in the museum's international council, which in effect gave the museum worldwide status.
''
        In 1987, after the Iran-contra affair, when Ms. Reagan asserted that Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security aides,  should be court-martialed for their actions, Mr. Reagan told Republican leaders, ''I gave up arguing with my daughter long ago.
When her father retired, he gave shares in the business to his three sons-in-law.
It commissioned environmental works from aspirants like Walter de Maria and Michael Heizer and gave artists stipends, bought them food and clothes and paid for their materials.
In 1999, the organization gave the Wheelers its lifetime achievement award.
Modernization Act of 1997 was signed into law, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of of Massachusetts, gave the pen he received from President Bill Clinton to Ms. Raines for her role in pushing for the law, which streamlined the drug approval process.
The following year, Miss McGuire gave what Leonard Maltin and other critics called ''an unforgettable performance'' in Robert Siodmak's ''Spiral Staircase,'' playing a mute  servant menaced in a strange household that might be harboring a psychopathic killer.
Reviewing it in The Times, John O'Connor said that Miss McGuire was ''an actress whose presence has been unfailingly elegant'' and that she gave ''a performance of powerful dignity.

        Elaine Dannheisser, a longtime collector of contemporary art who gave most of her collection to the Museum of Modern Art, died on Sunday night at her home in Manhattan.
In 1996 she became a trustee at the Modern and also gave the museum 75 works by 28 artists, one of the largest gifts in its history.
Through the years, she amassed a vast collection of paintings by Bellows, Henri, her father and others, which she gave to the Monhegan Museum as a memorial to her family.
Soon it was an international success both on the stage and on the screen, and, Mrs. Goetz said, ''it gave James, long in his grave, the best seller he never had.
''She gave us fashion credibility,'' said Dennis Leggett, the creative director at Old Navy, a division of Gap.
The Halloween section not only gave advice on charms and spells, crystal balls and using a tambourine to contact spirits but also gave a recipe for pumpkin bread.
The Halloween section not only gave advice on charms and spells, crystal balls and using a tambourine to contact spirits but also gave a recipe for pumpkin bread.
But it gave computing a way to handle and visually describe business data, making it easier to program business problems on computers.
Miss Mödl was one of the last exponents of the diva who gave her life to her art.
History gave her a shove in the right direction.

        Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
