'Sugar Babies' gave me the stardom that my soul kind of yearned for.
The critics felt she rivaled Ms. Lansbury, and Clive Barnes said in The New York Times that she gave the show ''a real shot in the arm.
Neighbors gave her a bicycle so she wouldn't have to run so much.
Her editing for them was of such quality that they gave her credit as the third director of well-known films like ''Gimme Shelter'' (1970), an account of the Rolling Stones' 1969 tour of the United States.
She compressed it and gave you a sense of a buildup of tragedy that you otherwise wouldn't have.
The Fishers also gave money to the United States Naval Academy, and in the 1970's they led the campaign to refurbish the Intrepid and turn it into a floating museum, contributing millions of dollars to the effort.
In the late 1980's, Ms. Tully gave financial support to the Tully Crenshaw Feminist Oral History Project, which collects interviews with those active in the movement.
Ms. Tully started it as the History of NOW and Betty Friedan Project, and it led to reunions of those active in the organization's early days, which in turn gave rise to the Veteran Feminists of America, founded in her Manhattan apartment.
Hermann Goering, the Luftwaffe chief, gave her a silver swastika he took off his uniform.
Last year, some of her other memories of the Kennedy White House were in the news when an interview she gave in 1964 for the John F. Kennedy Library came to light.
She said her penciled eyebrows gave her the look of an ''aging 1920's flapper.
An energetic dealer, receptive to new talent, Ms. Kornblee gave shows in the 1960's and 70's to a number of artists whose work is now well known.
Last year it gave $13 million.
She also gave to many smaller institutions, including the Newark Museum and the New Jersey Symphony, paying all of the salary expenses of the orchestra in some years.
Newsweek noted in 1990 that she gave as much space to quotations from her father as to those from Herodotus and Thucydides.
''
        Robert Price, who helped direct Mr. Lindsay's four congressional races and first mayoral campaign, once gave Mrs. Lindsay the ultimate politician's compliment.
The summer before the killing, when her sons went to Salt Lake City to work in their grandfather's company, she gave them poison to put in his food, Mr. Coleman said.
Correction:  April 14, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on April 2 about Janet Akuyuz Mattei, an astronomer who tracked variable stars, gave an outdated name for the hospital in Boston where she died.
When Yale gave her an honorary degree in 1958, it said she had been a major force in ''adding a bright star to the galaxy of liberal arts colleges for women.
Of her departure for California, David Truman, dean of Columbia College, wrote in Barnard's alumnae magazine that although she was the only woman at many Columbia meetings, her wisdom and humor gave weight to her advice and made her ''one of the best men in the university.
''
        Ms. Derian added, ''When you gave her a hug she was soft, and that was all the soft you got out of her.
In her later years she focused on contemporary American works on paper and regularly gave them to the Smith College museum, either drawing works from her collection or buying them for the museum.
In the 1990's, Ms. Breslin and her father, Jimmy Breslin, the Pulitzer Prize-winning newspaper columnist, both published books about their life-threatening illnesses and gave joint interviews about them.
The film gave the actress Silvana Mangano her sensational start and opened as ''Bitter Rice'' in this country in 1950.
Correction:  August 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Myra Waldo, an author of travel guides and cookbooks, gave an incomplete title for a book she wrote with the actress Gertrude Berg.
Brand helped found Theater in the Street, a troupe that toured neglected city neighborhoods and gave free outdoor performances of classic plays.
Eventually, the White House gave up its claim of executive privilege to keep the documents secret, and Ms. Burford resigned on March 9, 1983.
She began studying Japanese dance when she was 3 and ballet when she was 6, but gave up dancing when her teachers said she was too tall and broad-shouldered for a professional career.
Miss Watanabe gave recitals until she was 18, but she was already thinking about the opera stage.
Mrs. Auerbach continued her career as a photographer through the 1950's, although she gave up the rigors of the studio for more anecdotal and lyrical forms of documentation.
While studying there her uncle gave her a camera, and it led her to abandon sculpture for photography, primarily because she thought she might earn a living.
She also gave many lectures and distributed tape recordings of them, conducted extensive research into what she described as the five stages of death based on thousands of interviews with patients and health care professionals and did groundbreaking work in counseling dying patients.
Mrs. Copley, whose worth was estimated to be $960 million by Forbes magazine last year, gave millions to the San Diego Symphony and the San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art.
''Loving Graham Greene'' was the title she gave her novel, published by Random House in 2000.
'' Otherwise, she gave no indication that she would lead an outsize life.
She stayed with WGBH even after her series became a national success because it gave her the freedom to cook tripe, kidneys and other offal that she said would not fly on commercial television.
''
        Her life sparkled with acquaintances like Churchill and Garbo, and the great Paris designers, including Christian Dior, gave her their latest couture when she was a slim Parisian socialite.
One of her four books, ''The Congress Dances: Vienna 1814-1815,'' captured enough spice from that epochal meeting of Europe's leaders that several reviewers said it gave new meaning to affairs of state.
Ms. Kallir's first important performance in New York was an evening of concertos with the National Orchestral Association at Carnegie Hall, in 1949, when she played the Schumann Concerto and gave the premiere of a Concerto by Alan Hovhaness in which she was asked to imitate the sound of a Javanese gamelan, partly by playing on the strings of the piano with a timpani stick.
Ms. Kallir also gave performances with her daughter, who survives her, as does her husband.
      
Her pictures gave form to the imagery conjured up by master storytellers like the Brothers Grimm, Hans Christian Andersen, Mark Twain, Dickens, Chaucer, Dylan Thomas and, not least, Margot Fonteyn's retelling of ''Swan Lake.
Non-Russian dancers in the Ballets Russes were expected to change their names, and it was Diaghilev who gave the British dancer her professional name.
He also gave Miss Markova a governess, who made sure that her charge went to bed early when she was not performing and saw to it that she did not overindulge in chocolates and that she attended no social occasions but chaperoned teas.
She remained there until 1974, after which she gave occasional master classes for many organizations, including the Royal Ballet School.
She gave people a vocabulary for talking about it and thinking about it.
Doctors gave her a 10 percent chance of surviving for two years.
''
        Before leaving she gave away all her paint and canvas rolls, hoping young artists would use them.
