While Dr. Ray was Governor, the power of her intellect and her skill as a speaker gave her an aura of great competence.
They also gave the museum drawings by Balthus, Chagall, Matisse, Modigliani and Rouault.
Her repertory also included many contemporary works, and she gave the premieres of works composed for her by Richard Lane, Bernard Hoffer and Judith Shatin.
has flowered," Dr. DeBakey recalled in the 1985 interview, "because in many ways she gave birth to it and nursed it.
An accomplished pianist, Miss Adonaylo gave recitals and appeared with orchestras in her native Uruguay before devoting herself to her singing career.
The wide-ranging contacts and conviviality made her an egalitarian and gave her a liberal education while she resolved to be an actress.
She set up a White House fine arts commission, hired a White House curator and redecorated the mansion with early 19th Century furnishings, museum quality paintings and objets d'art, creating a sumptuous celebration of Americana that 56 million television viewers saw in 1961 as the First Lady, inviting America in, gave a guided tour broadcast by the three television networks.
"
        But the images of Mrs. Kennedy that burned most deeply were those in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963: her lunge across the open limousine as the assassin's bullets struck, the Schiaparelli pink suit stained with her husband's blood, her gaunt stunned face in the blur of the speeding motorcade, and the anguish later at Parkland Memorial Hospital as the doctors gave way to the priest and a new era.
Three years later she gave birth to John F. Kennedy Jr. A third child, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, lived only 39 hours and died less than four months before President Kennedy's assassination in 1963.
"
        Mrs. Onassis gave a rare to Publishers Weekly, the industry trade magazine, and it was on the subject of publishing.
When she was 70, Mrs. Albers gave up weaving and became a printmaker, at which she was prolific for more than a decade.
"She and Walter created the institutions that gave vision and vitality to the community.
Scion of Blair House Family
        A native of Boston, Ms. Blair was raised in Washington, a scion of the family that gave Blair House to the United States Government, which turned it into a residence for dignitaries visiting Washington as guests of the White House.
She also had leading roles in stock companies and dinner-theater productions and gave concerts across the country.
She gave piano lessons, and discovered her son's ability when at the age of 3 he went to the piano after one of her students left and played by ear the piece that had just been taught.
The 1,500 people of Monona, a farming community in northeastern Iowa, gave her family "nothing but support," she said at the time.
She gave lectures on White House history that detailed the occupants' idiosyncrasies, like Dolley Madison's conversational icebreaker of reading a passage from whatever book she was carrying at the time.
In 1969, the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences gave Miss Raye the Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award for her wartime efforts, and she was given the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1993.
Milton Berle gave her a start in television, and by 1954, she was the medium's reigning female comedian.
She enrolled in modern-dance classes at the New Dance Group, where she began to teach, and in 1943 gave the first performance of her own work.
When she graduated, Temple gave her an athletic scholarship at Tennessee State.
That year another of her charities, the New York City division of the American Cancer Society, gave her its humanitarian award.
"Only a year ago, when Mayor Giuliani and his wife, Donna, were dining at my apartment," Mrs. Levey said, "she called and asked to speak to the Mayor and gave him half an hour of her advice on running the city.
" The second reason she gave was respect for the older sister of Mme.
In 1977, President Gerald Ford gave her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.

        Mildred Orrick, a designer who gave women's fashion a natural, informal look for more than three decades, died on Dec. 9 at her home in Elliston, Va., where she had lived for the last 20 years.
"Of all the people who gave of themselves to the political process," Mr. Bush said from his office in Houston, "Helen Walsh ranks right up there with those I admired the most.
Reviewing "Hello, Out There," Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times that together they gave "a lyrical performance of great enchantment.
