A chance summer booking on a turn-of-the-century Mississippi River showboat gave them the river bug.
By then, Captain Billy had married the floating troupe's piano and calliope player, Josephine Costello, who gave birth to Betty four years later.
After their divorce in 1962, Miss Bryant, who never tried to win acting jobs in New York or Hollywood, settled in Park Ridge, where she directed amateur theatrical productions and frequently gave lectures on what it was like to grow up on a showboat.
      
By the time she returned six months later, Mrs. Godowsky had so wowed Cole Porter at a party Elsa Maxwell gave in Paris that he designed a show for her at the storied nightclub Les Ambassadeurs, where she sang Gershwin tunes with George as her accompanist.
When she gave her first scientific paper at a major meeting, she said she got into an argument with a distinguished scientist and stood her ground because ''I knew I was right.
''
        Soon afterward, Arturo Toscanini, who was preparing an all-Debussy program for the Philharmonic Symphony Orchestra -- precursor of the New York Philharmonic -- engaged the young soprano whose years in France had perfected her pronunciation, and gave her one week to learn ''La Demoiselle Elue.
She made several opera and song recordings and gave many recitals.
She and the baritone Giuseppe Danise were married in 1947, and he gave up his career to manage hers.
On a Metropolitan Opera broadcast in December 1989, the soprano plaintively gave a personal summation of her career: ''I had something appealing, I don't know what.
But times changed, wives and mothers went to work, and the wool and crochet hooks gave way to novels and biographies.
The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.
Later, the Rowland Institute gave me a staff job and my own laboratory.
As a recitalist, she gave the premiere of Darius Milhaud's Sonatine for Oboe and Piano in 1955.
For Miss Tolstoy, who was 7 when her grandfather died in 1910 and 10 when the outbreak of World War I gave her father an excuse to desert his family (he eventually settled in the United States and remarried), the aristocratic life was short-lived.
But Ms. Anderson's literary agent, Malaga Baldi of Manhattan, said any infirmities disappeared at a reading the author gave at the New School for Social Research on March 25.
''
        Besides supervising the wardrobe, Baroness de Rothschild was involved in a wide range of company activities, including taking a few dance classes with Graham and buying the dancers jewelry one Christmas at a lavish party she gave for the troupe.
Yet when American ballet companies began to flourish, she gave authoritative performances in some of the great classics.
''
        Forsaking the Footlights For a Backstage Role
        Miss Lortel gave up a career as an actress in 1939 in deference to her wealthy husband's wishes and in 1947 began an experimental summer theater for American and foreign plays and playwrights in the barn of the couple's summer estate in Westport.
In 1955 her husband, Louis Schweitzer, gave her a Manhattan theater, now known as the Lucille Lortel Theater, as a 24th wedding anniversary gift.
Miss Sapir never gave up.
The direct lineal ancestor who gave her entry into the Daughters of the American Revolution was Israel Matson of Philadelphia.

        Ida Klaus, a labor law pioneer who became a high-ranking New York City official in the 1950's and who wrote the law that gave city employees the right to bargain collectively, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.

        Edith Lewin, who with her husband, Bernard, amassed the largest privately owned collection of Mexican modernist art and then gave it away, died on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 88.
And in 1992 the land of Christmas holly recognized her contributions when the Royal Horticultural Society of Great Britain gave her the Reginald Cory Memorial Cup.
She gave her farewell performance as the Ballerina Doll in Michel Fokine's ''Petrouchka'' in 1962.
She gave her farewell performance as the Ballerina Doll in Michel Fokine's ''Petrouchka'' in 1962.
She gave her birth year as 1920, however by 1933 she was already appearing with the Four Black Cats, a nightclub variety act.
The daughter of a singing barber from Seville province, Ms. Jimenez was born on July 28, 1908, in La Puebla de Cazalla, which gave rise to her nickname.
But in the mid-40's she gave up performing to explore ways in which dance could serve as therapy for schizophrenic patients.
A United States district judge found them guilty and gave them suspended sentences of four months in prison and $100 fines.
Quitting in 1941, she got in touch with James, who gave her a larger-than-usual role in his band and even had his arrangers beef up the orchestrations with violins.
She gave the German premiere of the Elgar Concerto in Hamburg, with Barbirolli conducting, and performed as a member of the Loveday Trio, the Fidelio Ensemble and the Paganini Trio.
''
        She gave $5 million to Sloan-Kettering to renovate its 42-bed Women's Inpatient Center for the diagnosis and treatment of gynecological cancers.

        Claudette Sorel, a pianist who was at her best in music that demanded delicacy and lyricism but who also gave highly regarded performances of difficult contemporary works and big Romantic showpieces, died on Friday at her home in Hampton Bays, N.Y. She was 66.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
She gave up dancing in 1963 but as late as the mid-1980's ran her own theater in Cairo, helping to write and choose plays, as well as directing and producing.
She opened her own studio in 1973 and gave her last major recital with her students in 1989.
Over the years, Mrs. Exner gave varying accounts of her supposed relationship with Kennedy.

        She had not even known exactly what the word ''philanthropy'' meant, but the elderly washerwoman who gave away practically every dollar she ever made to endow a scholarship fund for poor students in Mississippi would become a symbol of selfless giving.
Oseola McCarty, who gave away a life savings of $150,000 to help complete strangers get a college education at the University of Southern Mississippi here in her hometown, died late Sunday afternoon in the frame house where she took in laundry and ironing and made her small fortune a dollar or two at a time.
After hearing of Miss McCarty's gift, Ted Turner, a multibillionaire, gave away a billion dollars.
After her breakout role opposite Kirk Douglas in Stanley Kramer's ''Champion,'' a 1949 adaptation of a Ring Lardner short story about a maniacal prize fighter, Warner Brothers gave her starring roles in nine films in under two years.
There she met Launder, who gave her a small part in his 1947 film ''Captain Boycott,'' with Stewart Granger.
A gauge of the growth of her movement is that 1964, when she gave the opening speech at the inaugural dinner at the Witchcraft Research Association, it was attended by 50 subscribers.
She became so attached to a kitten that she gave up hospitals for fear the kitten would be neglected in her absence.
''We estimated that for every complete Pictionary we gave away, we sold between 5 and 12 more,'' he said.
She performed regularly in Brazil, Spain, France and Britain and eventually gave concerts in the United States, Japan, Mexico and the Soviet Union.
She gave incomparable performances of works by the French organ masters, including Charles-Marie Widor, Louis Vierne, Jean Langlais, Marcel Dupre and her husband, who died 13 years ago.
They gave joint concert tours frequently, their first visit to the United States coming in 1964.
After the Beijing massacre of 1989, when troops moved in to suppress the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, Mrs. Yang and her husband gave a joint television interview deploring the brutality of the government's actions.
Mrs. Casadesus also gave regular master classes at the Salzburg Mozarteum and at several French and American universities.
''She gave so much to the birding world and had so much more left to give,'' said G. Stuart Keith, the birding association's first president.
Later that year she made a test recording for RCA Victor, and John McCormack, another renowned tenor, gave her singing lessons and announced that she had promise.
In the case of the murders of about a dozen black children in Atlanta in 1979-80, she gave the police 42 names of possible killers, and none of the names were Wayne or Williams.
''
        She also gave credit to the organization's slogan, ''Custodians of the Crises of Life.
A woman from Reading, Mass., in an online customer review of ''Knitting Without Tears'' on Amazon.com, said: ''Elizabeth's wonderful instructions, comments and faith gave me the O.K.
