She subseqently played with most of the major American orchestras and gave recitals in Town Hall, Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall.
She considered herself a dressmaker first and foremost, yet employed tailoring techniques to achieve the controlled flow of fabric that gave her jersey dresses their signature fit.
Once you had it made, they protected you; they gave you stardom.
Once you had it made, they protected you; they gave you stardom.
From this, the Scharrers developed the concept of neurosecretion -- secretions from nerve cells -- that gave rise in the 1930's and early 1940's to neuroendocrinology as a new discipline.
She and her husband gave their collection of prints of theaters, costumes and stage sets to the Pierpont Morgan Library, of which she was a Fellow in Perpetuity.
Mrs. Simpson took French couture and gave it an American ready-to-wear interpretation.
When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.

        Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, to which she gave dozens of paintings collected over the years by her and her second husband, Samuel A. Marx, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Correction:  September 1, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Saturday about Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, misstated the number of paintings she gave to the museum.
The tiny, soft-spoken woman who gave her name to Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics liberated students, professionals and business people from the habits that shackled them to the average American's reading rate of 250 to 300 words a minute.
"She gave in and had a telephone installed about 10 years ago so she could keep in touch with all her friends around the world," said Mr. Coleman, who with his wife, Barbara Damrosch, is host of a cable television series called "Natural Gardening.
Nearing, who was born in Ridgewood, N.J., graduated from Ridgewood High School, then traveled extensively aboard, studying the violin, which she gave up for gardening when she married Mr.
The Cummingses gave more than 600 pieces of pre-Columbian works to a gallery bearing his name at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
At a birthday lunch Miss Dickson gave at her home in 1980, the Queen Mother demonstrated her own musical-comedy talents by singing a "Cabaret Girl" tune, "Dancing Time.
"
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
Her syrupy voice was not affected by a flirtation with miniature cigars that she indulged in her early days on radio but gave up years ago, her sister said.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
In addition, Mrs. Kean was a governor of the New Jersey Historical Society, which gave her an award for her historic-preservation work.

        Genora Johnson Dollinger, who rallied support for the hard-fought strike that gave the United Auto Workers union its foothold at the General Motors Company in 1937, died on Wednesday at Cedar Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
The strike crippled General Motors, and its settlement proved a stellar event for the whole labor movement because it gave new stature to unions representing industrial workers.
Mrs. Goodman, whose original name was Mary Alice Kemery, was born in Morgantown, W. Va., on a date she gave as April 19 in a year she would never disclose.
"But she was always available to talk, and until a few years ago, when she became ill, always gave me good advice.
She also gave the Metropolitan her favorite piece of jewelry, a glorious enameled necklace, made about 1900 by Lalique.
After her retirement in 1962, she liked to reminisce about her former clients, none of whom, by her account, gave her as much trouble as Sinclair Lewis, a notoriously irascible man, especially when he had been drinking.
After her retirement in 1962, she liked to reminisce about her former clients, none of whom, by her account, gave her as much trouble as Sinclair Lewis, a notoriously irascible man, especially when he had been drinking.
Often she gave anonymously.
Her distinctive voice could be heard through the corridors as she  gave tap dance and ballet lessons.
Often she gave anonymously.
Mrs. Hermanns made her New York debut at Town Hall in 1942, and gave annual recitals that often included works by Busoni, Dussek, Kodaly and other composers whose works were not in the mainstream repertory.
She also gave duo-piano recitals and made recordings with Ruth Steinkraus Cohen.
When the restaurant's quarters were razed for an office tower in 1973, it was moved to its current location at 38 West 48th Street, where the architectural firm of Gwathmey Siegel & Associates gave the interior a cool, sophisticated look.
"Our parents gave us love, support and encouragement throughout their lives.
"Our parents gave us love, support and encouragement throughout their lives.
"
        "She sustained us in the saddest times -- by her faith in God, which was the greatest gift she gave us -- and by the strength of her character, which was a combination of the sweetest gentleness and the most tempered steel," he said.
They gave the money to the Metropolitan Opera.
Miss Graf gave recitals at Town Hall in Manhattan in 1949, 1952, 1964 and 1967.
She gave her last solo recital in New York at Weill Recital Hall in 1989.
After her husband died, she took over as the head of the family foundation, the Mary and Barry Bingham Sr. Fund, which gave $59 million to a wide variety of institutions.
"They gave me a sewing machine," she once recalled, "but I never opened it.
A tiny woman who wore her hair in a prim bun that gave her the look of an ideal candidate to be helped across the street by a Boy Scout, Miss Kuhn, who detested the term "senior citizen," made no apologies for her looks or her age.
Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, said yesterday: "Ginger Rogers was a better dancer than most people gave her credit for.
She shunned the machinery of modern career-making and rarely gave interviews.
In recent seasons, she gave recitals every two or three years at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
