They were friends over the years, and seven months before the assassination, he visited Miss Barr after her release from prison and gave her two dachshund puppies.
''There needed to be a book that gave a coherent text of African-American literature.
''
        In the play's bittersweet final scene, Heidi has become a single mother to a new infant -- a path Ms. Wasserstein would herself pursue many years later, ultimately at great physical cost, when she gave birth, at age 48, to her daughter, Lucy Jane, in 1999.
Her friendships in the theatrical community (and out of it) were wide and deep, and she generously gave of her time and resources to benefits of all kinds.
'' Charmed by the brash Brooklyn girl who had no idea she was auditioning for an opera, the director gave her a small comic role, which he kept enlarging.
''
        Finally, ''A Double Life'' gave her a lift.
The women's answers gave her the seeds of her book.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
The women's answers gave her the seeds of her book.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
Ms. Caldwell never gave up hope that she could raise funds and re-start her company.
''Food for her was really a form of cultural and aesthetic expression, one that gave comfort and meaning to peoples' daily lives,'' said her daughter, Lissa Muscatine.
In 1991, the archaeological institute gave her its Gold Medal for Distinguished Archaeological Achievement.
She got as good as she gave: her injuries included 12 broken noses, four broken elbows, a broken collarbone, a broken tailbone and numerous cracked ribs.
She died at a Toronto hospital, said a distant cousin, Lucia Jacobs, who gave no specific cause of death.
''She gave voice to something that needed a voice.
That gave her a perch from which to observe urban renewal projects.
At one point she gave concerts on long train trips, and she toured Europe before World War II.
She grew frustrated with the violin and spontaneously gave it away to a cab driver whose instrument had been stolen.
Cara Enright, a guard on Dixon's team, said yesterday: ''I just loved the energy that Coach brought to practice every day and the way she never gave up on us, always believed in us.
''The National Party gave them an inferior education so those children were going to remain the slaves of white people.
In 1976, she made a pilgrimage to Mecca and gave up drinking and smoking.
During the 1950's and 60's, she and her husband at the time, Jason, were the first couple of publishing, powerful book editors who knew everyone and gave the kind of high-octane dinner parties that warranted mention in Edmund Wilson's journals.
' ''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Dorothea T. Church, the first successful black model in Paris, gave an outdated date for the opening of an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York, ''Black Style Now,'' in which she will be featured.
Two years later, she gave birth to a son, Richard.
She gave $125 she had won on a television quiz show to the pregnant wife of the large armed man who had attacked her.
Though it was Ms. Uhnak's own alchemy that turned police duty into imaginative fiction, she sometimes gave part of the credit to the criminals she had met in the line of duty.
''
        Correction:  July 26, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on July 12 about Dorothy Uhnak, the policewoman turned detective novelist, gave an incorrect given name for her surviving sister.
In Mexico, Ms. Schonthal studied composition with Rodolfo Halffter and Manuel Ponce, and in 1946 she gave the premiere of her Concerto Romantico for Piano and Orchestra.
One reason Miss Schwarzkopf later gave for cooperating with the Nazis was that it was incumbent on aspiring singers in the company to support the party.
As a Nazi, Miss Schwarzkopf gave performances at party functions and sang for Waffen SS troops at the front.
''White Lies,'' her narrative short-form film of 1981, gave Willem Dafoe one of his first cinematic roles.
''
        Correction:  September 16, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with the obituary of Ann W. Richards, the former Texas governor, misstated the year she gave the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.
His basic shyness to the outside world gave way to fun, humor and wit whenever he was with the family.
She got no awards from governments until 2000, when the United States gave her the Distinguished Service Medal and France recognized her heroism in a joint ceremony.
In the late 1960's she gave up her weighty dramatic soprano repertory, which included a chilling portrayal of Strauss's Elektra, and began a ''second career,'' as she called it, singing mezzo-soprano roles and character parts.
In an interview quoted in the reference book Major Authors and Illustrators for Children and Young Adults, Ms. Daly recalled the special urgency -- akin to grasping quicksilver -- that gave rise to ''Seventeenth Summer.

        Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song she identified as Blotz's ''Schlumpf'' to demonstrate what it is like to sing with ''no voice but great art,'' died on Wednesday in Bateman's Bay, New South Wales, Australia.
Ms. Russell gave a number of explanations for why her ambitions changed from being a serious singer to being a serious satirist.
An Englishman, he was a charming conversationalist and gave her a lion's claw covered with gold.
The pop singer Frankie Laine gave her a lasting nickname: Miss Rhythm.
The television producer Norman Lear gave her a role in the sitcom ''Hello, Larry.
Georgetown made her a full professor in 1973 and gave her the endowed Leavey Chair five years later.
