In an article about Bessie Smith, Dinah Washington and Billie Holiday, Miss Moore wrote: "They were not just blues singers, they were innovators who took experience directly from the harsh and dynamic areas of life, refined it and gave it the form and beauty that moved us so much.
In an article about Bessie Smith, Dinah Washington and Billie Holiday, Miss Moore wrote: "They were not just blues singers, they were innovators who took experience directly from the harsh and dynamic areas of life, refined it and gave it the form and beauty that moved us so much.
For several years she gave a health-education message to a nationwide television audience on a morning program hosted by Arlene Francis.
She finished her apprenticeship at another law firm that gave her broader experience but paid her nothing.
She also gave lectures and demonstrations to the public at Wave Hill, the National Academy of Design and the Donnell Public Library.
When Mrs. Parish married at age 19 and had been decorating for all of a year, Mrs. Parish's mother gave the newlyweds a small house on Gracie Square.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
President John F. Kennedy gave her a post in the State Department, and within two years she was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, at that time the highest job in the department ever held by a woman.
Mrs. Brillenbourg said that Dame Margot had been ill for two and a half years but gave no further details.
But Sir Frederick also gave her a comic role in "A Wedding Bouquet" (1937), emphasized her charm in "Les Patineurs" (1937) and made her a classical soloist in such abstractions as "Symphonic Variations" (1946) and "Scenes de Ballet" (1948).
She raised money for several organizations, including the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which gave scholarships to Sephardic youths in Israel, and Fountain House, a Manhattan rehabilitation center for the mentally ill.
        She is survived by her husband, Salvador J. Assael, president of Assael International, which produces cultured pearls; a daughter, Arlette, of Sausalito, Calif.; and two brothers, Daniel Vock, a lawyer, of Greenwich, Conn., and David Vock, a businessman, of Nice, France.
      
The EFE news agency gave her date of birth as Nov. 5, 1910, which would make her 80.
She appeared in opera houses around the world, danced at the coronation of Emperor Hirohito of Japan in 1928 and gave programs in the Soviet Union in 1930.
Miss Graham usually cast herself at the center of these works until 1969, when she gave her last performance and retired reluctantly from the stage at the age of 75.
Miss Graham's Medea, Jocasta, Phaedra and Clytemnestra gave vent to their lust and hate, baring the passions that few humans liked to recognize in themselves but that Miss Graham exposed with the unflinching scrutiny of a 20th-century Jungian analyst.
In 1987, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark gave Miss Graham the Ingenio et Arti medal, a rarely awarded honor and her country's highest distinction for contributions to the arts and sciences.
The museum also gave shows to the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors and the National Association of Women Artists.
Interviews With U.S. Scholar
        Some of the best insights into Ms. Jiang came from a remarkable series of interviews she gave in 1972 to an American scholar, Roxane Witke.
In 1940, Miss Suckley, who raised Scottish terriers, gave the President a puppy he named Fala.
"
        After the director Elia Kazan cast Ms. Remick as a seductive cheerleader in his 1957 film, "A Face in the Crowd," she gave highly praised performances in Martin Ritt's "Long Hot Summer" (1958), Otto Preminger's "Anatomy of a Murder" (1959) and Mr. Kazan's "Wild River" (1960).
Family members gave the cause of death as cardiac arrest.
Family members gave the cause of death as cardiac arrest.
She gave her last performance in 1937 and settled in New York the next year.
An accomplished pianist as well as teacher, she and Ms. Barthelson gave many two-piano recitals at the school and elsewhere.
Known for her instrumental role in galvanizing support for, and contributing art to, the Museum of Contemporary Art in the late 1970's and early 80's, Mrs. Weisman also gave prize works from her collection to the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
To the Los Angeles County Museum of Art she gave works by Newman and Hans Hofmann, among others.
Last year she gave Jasper Johns's "Map," perhaps the most important work in her collection, to the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art.

        Gladys Krieble Delmas, a philanthropist and writer who gave more than $20 million to cultural and educational institutions, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
