She gave a White House command performance for President John F. Kennedy.
But she began teaching voice and directing productions at the State University of New York at Purchase and gave private lessons for several years.
She was born in San Francisco and gave her first concert there when she was 5.
She gave another reason for staying single: "Actresses have no business marrying.
Years later he went backstage to see her, gave a dimpled smile and said, "You were too shy, weren't you, Helen?
But as she later recalled, "On opening night, I gave one of those shrill, tense performances that became a hazard in my career whenever I was not in top form.
"
        Miss Hayes gave birth to her daughter, Mary, in February 1930.
Lee Walter, a friend of the singer, gave the cause as congestive heart failure a month after a stroke.
"
        During her career, Miss Anderson gave her date of birth as Feb. 17, 1902, but June Goodman, a longtime friend of hers, said that while going through some family papers recently, she found Miss Anderson's birth certificate, which gave the date as Feb. 27, 1897.
"
        During her career, Miss Anderson gave her date of birth as Feb. 17, 1902, but June Goodman, a longtime friend of hers, said that while going through some family papers recently, she found Miss Anderson's birth certificate, which gave the date as Feb. 27, 1897.
Her church choir raised money to pay for her lessons, and the Philadelphia Choral Society, a black ensemble, gave a benefit performance to support further studies with Agnes Reifsnyder and Giuseppe Boghetti.
"
        In the late 1930's, she gave about 70 recitals a year in the United States.
She toured Australia for the first time in 1962, and in October 1964 began her farewell tour, at Constitution Hall, and gave her last recital at Carnegie Hall on April 18, 1965.
She gave benefit concerts for the Congress of Racial Equality, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.
The group was jolted into action when Savannah's Old City Market gave way to a parking lot.
He said the restoration gave Savannah an economic boost by attracting throngs of tourists every year.
In 1978, the Mystery Writers of America gave her its Grand Master Award in recognition of her life's work in fiction and criticism.
Her father, William, an itinerant miner of Irish-American ancestry, gave her the nickname Pat because of her birth on the eve of St. Patrick's Day.
Statuesque and attractive, she was a compelling and elegant stage personality who invariably gave the impression of having thoroughly explored both the overt emotional resonance and the underlying psychological nuances of the songs on her programs.
In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford visited the district to proclaim its national landmark status, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation gave Mrs. Kramer an award.
She gave up the presidency in 1968 and remained as chairwoman until 1982, then became chairwoman emeritus.
Her Octavian in "Rosenkavalier" was long the centerpiece of her repertory, and early in her career she gave highly regarded performances as Cherubino in "Le Nozze di Figaro" and Romeo in Bellini's "Capuletti e i Montecchi.
" In May she gave what James R. Oestreich called in The New York Times "a searching, almost harrowing reading" of the Mahler Third Symphony with the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall, and last month she sang Clairon in the San Francisco Opera production of Strauss's "Capriccio.
Correction:  August 13, 1993, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about a retired public health worker who lived in Cambridge, Mass., gave her name incorrectly.
In recent decades, she worked with disturbed children and gave private acting lessons.
The dispute was resolved and she returned to the program after she gave birth.
But she never gave up her desire to dance.
While in London, she staged the dances for Cole Porter's "Nymph Errant," which starred Gertrude Lawrence, and gave solo recitals of her own choreography.
She gave lecture-demonstrations based on dance history and often appeared before government bodies to argue for increased State and Federal support for the arts.
She gave the work's premiere, in 1952 in Leningrad, and developed a close friendship with the composer.
She gave her New York debut recitals on Oct. 30 and Nov. 3 this year, playing the Shostakovich preludes and fugues at the 92d Street Y.
She was honored several times by the Austrian Government (she held an Austrian passport), which gave her the title Kammersangerin.
She gave generously to the Martha Graham Dance Company and Eliot Feld's ballet troupe, and she was a board member of numerous other arts and educational institutions.
