In recent years, she was vice chairman of Community Planning Board 14 and was on the executive board of the Midwood-Kings Highway Development Corporation and on the board of the Brooklyn College Performing Arts Center, which gave her its Distinguished Community Service Award in 1995.
In its first year the institute gave 20 women scholarships of up to $3,000 each, space to do their work and access to Radcliffe and Harvard services.
''
        Ms. Kumin said that at a time when she was teaching English composition to physical education majors at Tufts University because only men were allowed to teach liberal arts majors, ''being chosen as a Radcliffe scholar put an imprimatur on what you were doing and gave it legitimacy.
''She never gave up on me,'' he said.
Ms. Ruvinska made her New York debut at Town Hall in 1935, and gave annual recitals for a decade before taking a hiatus.
She also played contemporary music regularly, and gave the premieres of sonatas by Paul Ben-Haim and Iain Hamilton.
Ms. Ruvinska made her New York debut at Town Hall in 1935, and gave annual recitals for a decade before taking a hiatus.
She also played contemporary music, and gave the premieres of sonatas by Paul Ben-Haim and Iain Hamilton.
For her 14th birthday, her parents gave her a membership in the Berkeley Tennis Club, where a volunteer coach, William Fuller, arranged daily matches for her.
Her father was a very nice man, but he gave Mary Lou a whipping one time.
And when their friends' stepfather bought new shoes for his own daughters but none for them, Mary Lou and her sister took their own Sunday shoes and gave them to their friends.
Cab Calloway was one of her best customers, but the one who gave her the name the Pie Lady and made her famous all over Harlem was another fellow.
It was only when war came to Bosnia that she gave it a pass.
Woodie King, artistic director at the New Federal Theater, said, ''For our first 15 years of existence, she covered all of our productions and gave us and other theater groups a visibility that we would not have had otherwise.
Rail-thin, exotically featured and crowned with a lion's mane of hair that gave her the look of a space-age Nefertiti, Chesbrough (Chessy) Lewis Hall was born in 1931 in Perrysburg, Ohio, into a privileged world where little was expected of a young woman except a fairy tale debut, a comfortable marriage and an entry in the Social Register.
''I remember the first time she gave a press conference in Canada and spoke against the dictatorship,'' said Laura Bonaparte, another member of her group.
The original furnishings were not included in the sale of the property, but over the years Countess Szechenyi's descendants gave most of them to the society.
In their 1953 paper in the British journal Nature, James D. Watson and Francis H. C. Crick, who first constructed a model of the DNA molecule, barely mentioned Dr. Franklin and gave her none of the credit for their conceptual breakthrough.
That interpretation, perhaps not coincidentally, gave her the qualifications to translate the ancient texts Jung needed for his work.
After her husband's death in 1982, Mrs. Whitney gave $8 million to the Yale Medical School, then the largest gift in the school's history.
The trust also gave $2 million for acquisitions, and Mrs. Whitney chose a Toulouse-Lautrec painting from her husband's collection, ''Marcelle Lender Dancing the Bolero in 'Chilperic,' '' to give the gallery in his memory.
Artists like Klee and Picasso, she said, gave her the means to create word canvases depicting the world around her.
In 1992, at 66, she gave a searing performance in Janacek's ''Jenufa'' as Kostelnicka, a Moravian villager so ashamed of her stepdaughter's out-of-wedlock son that she drowns the infant in a stream.
She said she knew from the age of 11 that she wanted to be a lawyer, and not long afterward gave her first public speech, in a subway station, while collecting for a Zionist youth organization.
In 1976, she gave up her House seat to run for the Senate.
In recent years this gave her something of an edge over Mrs. Meilleur, who had been virtually blind and deaf since entering the nursing home in 1989.
Leaving Dallas at the end of the 1950's to be near her sons, who had settled in Austin after graduation from the University of Texas, she took a job as a nurse at a private school, a position that gave her a year-round home in the school infirmary and left her with free time in the summer.
Although her work included portraits of family members and some urban scenes, Mrs. Spelce's favorite subject was her childhood farm, a decidedly busy and happy place, according to her renderings, and one that clearly gave her a much recollected contentment in her long nursing career.
Ms. Holmes and her husband, Roshi Bernard Tetsugen Glassman, a Zen teacher, founded a group of nonprofit and for-profit companies and gave it the name of the Buddhist and Hindu circle of life, the mandala.
Correction:  April 21, 1998, Tuesday  The obituary of the photographer Linda McCartney yesterday gave an incorrect name in some copies for the most recent studio album by her husband, the former Beatle Paul McCartney.

        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Her staging of Rameau's ''Platee'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music gave the soprano Renee Fleming one of her first starring roles in New York.
'' She gave an annual series of free summer concerts in Prospect Park in Brooklyn as well as performances at Riverside Church and the Church of the Virgin Mary in Manhattan.
In 1943, when she was 18, she gave a concert at Orchestra Hall in Chicago, the first black performer to do so.
Hollywood gossip columnists gave the marriage six months, but it lasted 54 years, until Mr. Harris's death at the age of 91 in 1995.
Hollywood gossip columnists gave the marriage six months, but it lasted 54 years, until Mr. Harris's death at the age of 91 in 1995.
Ms. Rockmore gave one of the first theremin concerts in the United States, in 1934.
She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994.
She was influential as a teacher, not only for her exacting standards and the encouragement she gave students, but as an example of persistence in a climate unfavorable to black and women artists.
''
        Woody Allen gave Ms. O'Sullivan her most luminous screen role, when she was 75, in his 1986 hit ''Hannah and Her Sisters,'' in which her children included her daughter Mia.

        Louise M. Davies, the San Francisco benefactor who gave the city she loved a $5 million concert hall in 1980, died on Monday at a retirement home in Portola Valley, Calif. She was 98.
After the hall opened, she gave another $3 million as a fund to attract leading guest conductors.
The librarian gave her the wrong book, the ''Propheties de M.
After Miss Southgate gave birth in 1952 to a child who lived only 12 hours, the couple took the precaution of moving to a ground-floor apartment for her next pregnancy, so she would not have to walk up stairs.
This position lasted until he gave the works to the National Gallery of Art in 1942.
''The hair gave us the idea,'' he said.
''
        Langston Hughes gave Miss West the nickname ''the Kid'' and took her to Russia in 1932.
''Color is important, but class is more important,'' Miss West often said in the dozens of interviews she gave after ''The Wedding'' was published by Doubleday and made into a  miniseries by Oprah Winfrey.
Miss  West's belief in integration and her penchant for romance coalesced in the final line she gave Shelby Coles: ''Color was a false distinction; love  was not.
Indeed, she gave so many impassioned lectures on the importance of education that youthful defendants learned to assure her that they attended school regularly, a tactic that might have worked more often if Judge Stout had not learned to check school attendance records.
In addition to its embrace of women's potential, the religious order gave Sister Irene other advantages.
So Ms. Lewis remained and Lamb Chop, who always rose to the occasion, gave an impassioned speech about the need for Government to care about children and children's television and to protect young viewers from junk.
She quit her job and gave herself a year to figure out how to spend the rest of her life.
And the constant tempo-changing gave the impression of emotional extremity and careful control of the artistic environment.

        Phyllis M. Rhinelander, a lineal descendant of two early mayors of New York City and of the Kip family, who gave their name to the Kips Bay region, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She taught at Cooper Union, the New School for Social Research, New York University and the City College of New York and gave private lessons.
It gave the female fliers civil service status for what was really a military job -- ferrying planes around the country from factories to air bases and from one base to another.
Within weeks, ''Mariana scarfs,'' copied from her costume, were on sale in chic French shops, Miss Parla had taught Josephine Baker to rumba and had made a side trip to Brussels, where King Leopold was so enchanted he gave her a box of chocolates so big she danced on it for him.
Ms. Thornton, whose soprano voice had a mezzolike hue and a texture that gave it a distinctive character, was a specialist in the music of the 12th-century abbess Hildegard von Bingen, and it was largely because of Ms. Thornton's performances and recordings with Sequentia that Hildegard and her works have lately become the focus of scholarly and popular interest.
What began as a coup threatened to become a coup de grace; Sartre read Taradash's adaptation after he gave Miss Dalrymple the go-ahead and was filled with loathing for it.
A student of the American modern dancers Pearl Primus, Jean Erdman and Eleanor King, she gave up her legal practice to study Indian dance with Phupesh Guha from 1937 to 1941.

        Helen Herrick Malsed, a lumber baron's daughter whose imagination gave rise to the popular Slinky Dog and Slinky Train toys, died Nov. 13 in Seattle, her home for almost 60 years.
In Paris they painted scenery for Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, which gave them entree to a circle that included Picasso and Jean Cocteau.
One of the first and by far the fiercest and most controversial of the New Critics and a man of cocksure opinions, for all his fabled influence on 20th century American poetry, Mr. Winters may have made his greatest contribution to literature when his wife, whose life was virtually without drama, complained that she had trouble finding suitable plots and he gave her a chance copy of a 19th-century compilation of famous old legal cases.
In Albuquerque, Indians of several tribes gave her the title ''grandmother'' as an indication of the respect they held for her.
''
        A perfect personification of her first name, Ms. Roberts gave new meaning to the word flamboyant.
She listened to the composer play one song on the piano in her apartment, and it gave her goose bumps.
One day in the mid-1940's Mr. Bloomgarden gave her a new play to read, Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest.
