And a Dickens could even have contrived for her father's second wife to be the stepdaughter of Clarence Barron, the short, rotund powerhouse owner of The Wall Street Journal who encouraged his step-granddaughter to meet and study people of all walks of life, ''even gamblers and crooks,'' and who gave her what became her credo as a sometime journalist and spy: ''Facts are not the truth but only indicate where the truth may lie.
A mezzo-soprano who had performing aspirations early on, she sang small roles during her first five years at the company but gave up the stage in 1960 when she was appointed assistant manager.
''We gave up space in our building, allowed attrition to run its course, cut back on orchestra rehearsals and did away with all nonessentials.
In a series of interviews in her later years and a biography, ''A Lifetime on the Titanic,'' published in 1995, Mrs. Haisman gave a vivid account of the ship's final moments, although some details have been called into question.
That style, which she explored for the rest of her life and eventually translated into sculpture, gave expression to her draftsmanship and encouraged her sense of color.
Most recently, she gave money to Helen Keller International to combat river blindness in Africa.
They gave works by Mr. Johns, Mr. Stella and Claes Oldenberg to the museum.

        Raya Garbousova, a cellist who gave the premieres of several contemporary works, including the Samuel Barber Cello Concerto, died on Tuesday at her home in De Kalb, Ill. She was 87.
By the late 1920's, she had performed in Berlin, Paris and London, and she gave her first performance in New York City in 1935.
She gave the first American performances of works by Hindemith, Prokofiev and Martinu.
Miss Garbousova taught at the Hartt School of Music in West Hartford, Conn., and at Northern Illinois University in De Kalb and gave master classes at many other schools.
From the time her first ''Letter from London,'' appeared in The New Yorker in the first week of World War II in September 1939, Miss Panter-Downes gave Americans a ground zero view of world events, sometimes with a folksy blend of  American reference points and British nomenclature.
She made weekly visits to London, but believed that living at a certain distance from the city gave her letters a beneficial perspective.
As Mrs. Averell Harriman, she gave fund-raising dinners for Democratic candidates in the 1970's.
In its 99-seat theater, the York often gave new life to shows that had been neglected.
A native of Liverpool, England, whose father came to the United States when she was 2, Mrs. Gibson, grew up in New Dorp, S. I., in a house whose spacious, English-style garden appealed to her mother and gave Mrs. Gibson a lifelong love of flowers.
In 1994 she also gave the Library of Congress 110 boxes brimming with thousands of letters, manuscripts, contracts and other memorabilia.
The United States Attorney's office would periodically announce that it was looking at how she gave lucrative work to a cadre of lawyers.
The United States Attorney's office would periodically announce that it was looking at how she gave lucrative work to a cadre of lawyers.
She gave her farewell recital in 1982 but continued teaching voice at the University of Toronto.
She gave some of the hottest names of the swinging 1960's boutiques in the store, and among the labels sold there were Norman Norell, James Galanos, Donald Brooks, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigere and Rudi Gernreich.
In 1989, as union vice president, Ms. Bernstein helped negotiate a settlement ending a nine-day strike that  gave teachers a 24 percent raise over three years.
Here, and in her later  Columbia albums, ''Nested'' (1978), ''Mother's Spiritual'' (1984) and ''Walk the Dog and Light the Light'' (1993), her songs gave increasingly direct expression to the pantheism that had always lurked in her writing.
The book's success finally gave Ms. Hanff the wherewithal to travel to England, where she visited the boarded-up bookshop and met Mr. Doel's widow, Nora, a journey documented in ''The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street'' (1973).
In 1968, Mrs. Norman gave a large collection of photographs to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
She gave the Evelyn Sharp Laboratory for Nuclear Medicine to the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York.
But ''The Street,'' which sold 1.5 million copies, gave Mrs. Petry the wherewithal to retreat back to Old Saybrook, where she and her husband settled in a 200-year-old sea captain's house and got an unlisted telephone number.
After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mumford gave up a budding career as an editor of the literary periodical The Dial to help further her husband's literary and academic aspirations.
Few dance educators were as respected as Miss Schonberg and because of the devoted attention she gave to students, few were as beloved.
It was a family tragedy that gave Mrs. Riggs the opportunity to hear these and other tales firsthand.
The government of Orissa gave Sanjukta, as the dancer was known, a state funeral.
Miss Danilova gained the reputation of being an artist who was never slack and who gave one-night appearances in tiny villages the same loving care that she bestowed upon seasons at the Metropolitan Opera House.
She broadened her scope considerably after Randolph Churchill gave a speech in Cleveland in 1931 and fell in love with her.
In 1996, the Connecticut Critics Circle gave her a special achievement award for 30 years of ''outstanding contribution to a theater in Connecticut.
In 1996, she played opposite Fritz Weaver in the full-length version of Noel Coward's ''Song at Twilight,'' and gave her last performance in ''The Show Off'' by George Kelly, a play she had done 21 years before, also at Long Wharf.
Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher, was one of her principal fans and consultants; he gave her a small staff and complete autonomy to design, edit and produce Times Talk.
The couple separated in 1992, and in November 1995, Diana gave her explosive interview to the BBC confessing her own adultery, her anger at the palace and her feeling that Charles would not be a good King.
After Mr. Lopata died of liver disease in 1991, Mrs. Lopata and her children gave $1.5 million to the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, Conn.
She also gave a substantial gift to the American Liver Foundation in her husband's name, a foundation official said.
In addition, Mrs. Lopata gave $500,000 in 1991 to the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia to establish an endowed fund for research on hepatitis B.
As an association vice president in the 1950's, she traveled widely and gave speeches around the country.
''
        In predominantly Hindu India, she made sure that the priests of her order gave last rites, the Roman Catholic sacrament for the dying, only on request, and that they dealt with the dead according to the practices of the individual's own religion.
''After I did what I could, she took my hand, gave me a beautiful smile and thanked me.
She gave me more than I gave her.
She gave me more than I gave her.
She gave master classes at colleges and regional dance festivals across the country.
She first covered Senator Humphrey's campaign, but when he lost the West Virginia primary to Mr. Kennedy and dropped out of the primary, she covered Senator Lyndon Johnson all the way to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July of 1960, where he became Mr. Kennedy's running mate,
        Later that year, CBS gave her own weekday radio show, ''One Woman's Washington,'' in which she discussed Washington topics that she thought might be of interest to women around the country.

        Merian Lovelace Kirchner, the little girl whose pleadings for just one more bedtime story gave birth to a beloved series of children's books, died on Sept. 25 at a hospital on Staten Island.
''
        Indeed, school busing was replaced by neighborhood control of schools and local school boards, a change that recently gave way to greater central control by the Board of Education.
''With them was a handsome American girl, Mary Jayne Gold, who gave them vast sums of money for their noble work in which she also took a hand,'' Peggy Guggenheim wrote in her memoirs, ''Out of This Century,'' recalling that she visited the chateau as part of her own plan to finance the escape of several artists, including Max Ernst, whom she later married.

        Margaret Harshaw, an American soprano and mezzo-soprano who was best known as a Wagnerian singer but whose performances in Mozart and Verdi operas were also highly regarded, died on Friday at Condell Memorial Hospital in Libertyville, Ill. She was 88 and lived in Lake Forest, Ill.
        Ms. Harshaw sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 22 seasons, from November 1942, when she made her debut as the Second Norn in Wagner's ''Die Gotterdammerung,'' until March 1964, when she gave her final performance as Ortud in ''Lohengrin.
She gave up competitive dancing last year.
Doctors gave the cause as acute pulmonary infection.
She gave up salaried work and became a full-time hostess, traveler and stepmother, occasionally decorating friends' apartments as wedding presents.
After four years of fertility treatment in the late 1960's, Mrs. Meyner became pregnant for the first time and gave an interview to The Ladies' Home Journal for an article titled ''My Miracle Baby.
After Miss Katzenbogen gave assurances that cat litter would be removed daily and that the cats would be confined to their quarters and not loosed on the timorous neighborhood, she received an exemption allowing her to keep her 20 cats as long as they lived.
In 1977, Mrs. Hooker also gave the Smithsonian a 75-carat emerald brooch.
She and her son, however, gave a suite of Louis XV-style furniture to The Elms, one of Newport's famed ''cottages,'' built in 1901 and modeled after the Chateau d' Asineres near Paris.
Her first novel, ''How I Gave My Heart to the Restaurant Business'' (Ecco Press), a roman a clef, was published earlier this year, and she completed a cookbook, ''The Vegetarian Compass,'' which is to be published by Little, Brown next spring.
In 1992, the foundation gave $2.5 million for the construction of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, which opened in the fall.
''I always gave Veronica my books,'' he said shortly before she died.
Mr. Angell gave her a tryout and she went on to become his  assistant.
Dr. Holley gave some of the prize money to Dr. Keller and others on his research team at Cornell.
At an early age, however, her mother gave her up, and she spent much of her childhood in an orphanage in Petionville, an upper-class suburb in the hills above Port-au-Prince.
