She was 14 when she made her professional debut at a local radio station in Jamestown and was still a teenager when a program director at a radio station in Fargo gave her a job and her stage name.
Another lawsuit over royalties neared an end last week in Los Angeles, when a superior court judge gave preliminary approval for a $4.75-million settlement between Universal Music Group and several hundred recording artists whose lead plaintiff was Miss Lee.
She eventually received a $65,000 trust fund, and retained the house her husband gave her in 1923.
She fled to Copenhagen, where she gave birth to a son, Lars, and later settled in Stockholm.
The restaurant critic William Grimes gave Tamarind a rating of two stars in reviewing it in The New York Times in April 2001.
The Loeb family gave the Loeb Boathouse in Central Park to New York City.
Mrs. Kempner and her husband, Alan H., gave money and time to the Kempner Rare Book Library at Columbia University.
She was seen frequently at the Stork Club and was a regular at the Friday lunch that the club's owner, Sherman Billingsley, gave for models.
'' Soon after they started going out, Mr. Auer gave Ms. Patchett the nickname Pancho, which stuck.
She gave up even her smaller space in 2000.
She gave up even her smaller space in 2000.
She met Mr. Meyerowitz when he noticed one of her paintings at a show and dropped by to ask her for a donation to a charity that gave artworks to the poor.
She gave him several paintings, and their courtship started.
The producers even filmed Ms. Stuart at the hospital after she gave birth to her son in 1956.
The conductor Leopold Stokowski gave a boost to Ms. Farrell's classical career when, having heard her sing on radio, he invited her to record Wagner's ''Wesendonk'' lieder with him.
Correction:  April 1, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell on Monday misstated the origin of the old Roxy Theater in New York, where she gave some concerts in 1950.
Miss DeLay began playing the violin when she was 4 and gave a recital at her church when she was 5.
The interview was harmless enough -- ''I play golf, badly, and I am fond of lawn tennis,'' she confided -- but she was roundly rebuked by the king, and never gave another interview.
The princess gave up her beau, married the photographer Anthony Armstrong-Jones five years later, and ended up divorcing him 15 years after that.
Ms. Ocloo, in a speech in 1990, gave a starkly practical explanation.
An aunt gave her 10 shillings, worth less than one United States dollar.
''
        The day she entered the hospital she gave a speech urging women to carry on her campaign for micro-lending.
'' In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson said that as ''the other woman,'' she gave ''a remarkably skillful, passionate and perceptive performance.
''
        In 1990 in a tribute to Beckett at the Almeida Theater in London, she gave a luminous reading of the television play, ''Eh Joe,'' to a throbbing background score by Earl Kim.
Critics said the doll gave girls misguided goals, whether for their careers or for their own physical development.
So I gave it beautiful breasts.
According to The A.P., in 1999 she gave a lavish party to unveil the mausoleum she and a friend had bought for $500,000 in Lake Lawn Metairie Cemetery.
The 110 drawings they gave to the Fogg were estimated at $20 million, and they still had hundreds of drawings and paintings left.
In one typical gesture several years before the World Trade Center terrorist attack, she gave the Police Department $1 million.
''
        After Sept. 11, she gave another $1 million to the families of police officers and firefighters, he said.
The Nanas gave birth to legions of fanciful humanoids, animals, plants and monsters and a trend away from the refinement of individual objects toward the creation of whole, fantastic worlds that would be most fully achieved in ambitious public works like Surrealistic amusement parks.
The Illinois Library Association gave her its Intellectual Freedom Award for opposing Internet filters and state legislation that would have left obscenity standards to individual counties.
But she gave Mr. Robinson a second chance at a Harlem nightclub some months later, when they were formally introduced.
She encouraged his natty style and shared his penchant for flash as they spent and gave away Mr. Robinson's $4 million in winnings.
Carmine DeSapio, the leader of Tammany Hall, was the éminence grise who at the final moment gave the quiet nod to her position.
At 15, she was discovered by Vallee, who gave her a guest spot on his radio show, which was broadcast nationwide.
It lasted three years and gave very early exposure to talents like Laurie Anderson, Robert Mapplethorpe, Mr. Kushner and Gordon Matta-Clark.
With Mr. Solomon, her partner in the gallery until their separation in 1988, she gave lavish soirees at their East 57th Street apartment for hundreds of people involved -- or not -- in her world.
Mrs. Cook gave large sums to institutions throughout New England, from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University to animal shelters, her daughter said.
She then gave up the beginning of a career in ballet to travel around the world with her mother, who had been widowed again.
''
        Rivera made 27 drawings of the young woman and gave them to her.
A grateful Rivera, whose reputation and earnings had tumbled, again gave her the nude drawings.
''
        But she gave up her acting career in 1931, when she married John Randolph Fell.
In 1992, Mrs. Goldman gave Yale University Law School what Guido Calabresi, then its dean, called ''probably the biggest gift in the history of American legal education'' -- more than $20 million, principally for the reconstruction and expansion of its library, which was renamed the Lillian Goldman Law Library.
In 1998, she made a $5 million gift to the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan for the family center there, and a few weeks before her death, she gave $1 million for renovation of the Kane Street Synagogue in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
''
        She said she was on the floor, holding Behan's legs to his chair, while he gave a notoriously incoherent, drunken interview in the BBC studios.
''
        She also gave William Saroyan's ''Sam, the Highest Jumper of Them All'' its world premiere, enjoyed success with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Make Me an Offer'' and the ex-convict Frank Norman's ''Fings Ain't What They Used to Be,'' and discovered talent that ranged from John Bury, later the National Theater's head of design, to Richard Harris, who played Macbeth for her.
She also fed the ship's cat, which the crew later gave to her.
Correction:  October 9, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary on Sept. 30 about Erna Furman, a child psychoanalyst and an expert on grief, gave a misspelled name in some references to the center where she practiced.
A grocer who belonged to the church gave the Gallaghers, who were Roman Catholics, three tickets.
''I went over to the store crying and they gave me a ticket,'' Mrs. Connelly said.
Its later cases included fighting for freedom to travel, even to Communist countries; protecting draft resisters in the Vietnam War and a deserter in the Persian Gulf war; trying to reverse the perjury conviction of Alger Hiss, in part for denying that he gave secrets to the Russians; and suing for the admission of girls to Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan.
''The old people who gave money are dying, and the younger people don't want to give.
Ms. Slavenska gave a complete evening of her own choreography in Zagreb in 1928 at the age of 12.
On Nov. 22, 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that an Idaho law that automatically gave Mrs. Reed's former husband preference over her as administrator of their dead son's estate violated the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law.
Although the Lists gave art to several New York museums, after her husband's death in 1987, Mrs.
In 1993, the Rhythm and Blues Foundation gave her its Prestigious Pioneer Award in a ceremony at the Hollywood Palace.
'' Sullivan, a friend, gave her permission.
