(Miss Anderson subsequently gave benefit performances at the hall.
At a ball she gave at Ferrieres for 1,600 people, the chateau was covered in  white muslin to make it look like a huge diamond-studded cobweb.
The foundation Mrs. Uris headed also gave grants to projects likely to better the life of a specific neighborhood and its homeless, unemployed and undereducated.
Ms. Beltran later would tell how she pestered the group until they gave her a chance to show off her vocal skills.
Miss Garson obtained a secure post as a market researcher for a London advertising firm, but gave it up to study acting with the Birmingham Repertory Theater during two years in the provinces, where she received increasingly
        favorable notices.
In addition to money, Mrs. Loeb gave time.
Ms. Wallenda, who was 17 and an utter novice on the high wire in 1985 when she married into the Wallenda family, famous for its aerialists and acrobats, gave her final performance on March 4, 1990, at Mansfield University.
She gave $5 million in 1991 to establish the Hedwig van Ameringen Guest Artist Endowment Fund, which helped engage scores of the world's leading soloists to play with the Philharmonic.
And it was in Berlin that she gave her last operatic performance, as Tosca on June 9, 1990.
In April 1958 she gave a Carnegie Hall concert with Duke Ellington to celebrate the release of her four-disk set, "Ella Fitzgerald Sings the Duke Ellington Songbook.
She gave lectures and dance recitals on the material throughout the United States.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Hummert gave up their Park Avenue triplex and cut down a bit on her travels, but she continued her active life, which until a few months ago included daily three-mile walks.
Morrison gave her a small one in "The Wild Westcotts.
There was never anything that gave me as much satisfaction as to be in something amusing.
On Dec. 28, 1983, the Reagan Administration abandoned its efforts to negotiate change at Unesco when Mrs. Gerard gave Mr. M'Bow notice of America's intention to withdraw from the organization on Dec. 31, 1984, and to end its financial support of the agency, cutting its budget by a quarter.
The fact that she began work for The Post on her 105th birthday and that she later appeared on ''Late Night With David Letterman'' and other television programs and gave many newspaper interviews might suggest she was employed more for her promotional value than for her expertise.

        Brenda Forbes, a character actress who gave vital support onstage to Katharine Cornell, Alfred Lunt, Lynn Fontanne and other stars during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
In a whirlwind of philanthropy that began almost as soon as she settled into her house on Muscongus Bay and continued the rest of her life, she systematically gave away some $75 million, primarily to Maine charities.
Among other things, she built a golf course for the town of Bremen, gave lavishly to the Portland Museum of Art, the Maine Maritime Museum and the University of Maine.
Music history was actually Mrs. Lawrence's second career; she did not begin to devote herself fully to it until 1965, when she gave up a 40-year career as a concert pianist.
In that idyllic setting, she gave Jewish children of all ages sanctuary while she arranged to shuttle them out of France to safety in Switzerland.
She maintained close ties with the Government, gave quiet and unpretentious parties and, unlike many envoys, avoided making political statements about United States policy.
David Robinson, film critic for The Times of London, wrote in a 1985 biography of Chaplin that the actor gave Miss Cherrill the part of the flower girl largely because she portrayed a blind person appealingly, in a test, after he advised her to look at him but ''to look inwardly and not to see me.
And 36 years after Dr. Hooker addressed the American Psychological Association, the organization gave her its award for distinguished contribution to psychology in the public interest, saying, ''This revolutionary study provided empirical evidence that normal homosexuals existed and supported the radical idea then emerging that homosexuality is within the normal range of human behavior.
Most recently, the foundation gave $250,000 for a room for the staff of the new Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street, and just last week she gave her annual Christmas lunch for more than 1,000 employees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Most recently, the foundation gave $250,000 for a room for the staff of the new Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street, and just last week she gave her annual Christmas lunch for more than 1,000 employees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Of the $1.58 million the foundation gave away in 1995, 105 of the total of 111 grants were between $1,000 and $50,000.
Mr. Gregorian recalled that when Mrs. Astor gave a dinner for the library, she invited virtually the same people she had recently invited to a party for President Reagan.
The work gave her ''a great sense of happiness and well-being,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''Disclosing the Past,'' published in 1984, because the drawings afforded a glimpse of the lives of the hunter-gatherers who painted them.
''No amounts of stone and bone could yield the kinds of information that the paintings gave so freely,'' she said.
At that time, Mrs. Wilson gave up her work as administrative assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and with her husband founded the Martha's Vineyard Little Theater, where they produced and directed plays.
She married Dr. Fitzhugh Boggs, a fellow scientist, in 1941 and gave birth to their son, David, in 1945.
In 1994, in a long program about AIDS that was broadcast on all French television channels, she gave a harrowing account of how her 26-year-old granddaughter, Erica, had died of the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome the previous year.
of New York City cited her as Woman of the Year in 1983 and gave her its Elizabeth  Cutter Morrow Award, for women who have influenced the quality of life in New York.
In the same concert, she gave the premieres of concertos composed for her by Joseph Manieri and Daniel Brewbaker.
"
        Her mother, Maureen, the Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava, is a flamboyant figure in London who, according to one newspaper account, gave a black eye to Sir Oswald Mosley, the English Fascist, after he made a pass at her in Antibes.
