Besides her son Charles , she is survived by another son, David, of Boulder; a sister, Eva Taylor Holt of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
A song cycle for her grandchildren, "Reaching for the Brass Ring," was performed by the Philadelphia Orchestra in 1953.
She is survived by two daughters, April Gagliano of Rome and Andrea Kaufman of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a stepson, Rear Adm. Robert Brock McClinton, retired, of Sequim, Wash., two grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Arnold Rich of Armonk, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son and daughter-in-law, Alexandra is survived by three grandchildren, Peter, Philip and Alexander.
      
Besides her daughter, Amanda, a writer in New York City, she is survived by a sister, Virginia Jane Scott of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son John, she is survived by another son, Charles, of Cornwall, Conn., and Cortona, Italy, four grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Hanna and Alina, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren, all in Poland.
      
She is survived by two sons, Talbot, of The Plains, Va., and John, of Washington; a daughter, Lucy, of Brookline, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      
4th, of Palm Beach, Fla.; her mother, Frances Jones Redmond of Essex, Conn.; a sister, Jean Cushing of Riverside, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kobrin is survived by three sons, Lawrence and Richard, both of Manhattan, and Jay, of Stamford and Sante Fe, N.M.; a sister, Thelma F. Diamond of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Freedman, the widow of Dr. Harold H. Freedman, is survived by three daughters, Joan Freedman of Freehold, Dr. Ann F. Mizgerd of Potomac, Md., and Ellen F. Dingman of Raleigh, N.C., and four grandchildren.
      
" She is survived by Mr. MacArthur, of Palm Desert, Calif., and three grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Marilyn Silverstone of Katmandu, Nepal, Barbara Garrison of Manhattan and Susan Darer of Beaconsfield, England; a brother, Dr. Leon Littman of Manhattan; four grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
Mrs. McPherson is survived by her husband of over 60 years, Edward R. McPherson Jr.; two daughters, Anne McPherson Tracy of Ridgefield, Conn., and Jane McPherson Nickerson of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Stephen Mather McPherson of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fox is survived by a daughter, Constance; two other sons, Frank and Michael; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Helen Sanger of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
; a daughter, Penelope Shaw, an instructor in modern dance and Yoga at Hunter; two sons, Patri, who teaches physics at Harvard, and Paul, a cartographer for Time magazine; six grandchildren, and one great grandson.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ann Everson of Westport; four sons, John, of Westport, Peter, of Norwalk, Conn., Robert, of Edmond, Okla., and Alfred Jr., of Palm City, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lambert is survived by two stepdaughters, Rachel Mellon of Upperville, Va., and Lily McCarthy of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; seven grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 63 years, Charles Cogen; two sons, Joel, and Edward; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her three brothers, Mrs. Boas is survived by two daughters, Frances Jacobs Frawley and Barbara Jacobs Tamerin, both of Manhattan; a son, Robert Allen Jacobs Jr., of Westport, Conn.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by two sisters, Anne Smith of Boston and Jane Hamilton of Denver; a brother, Kenneth Murchison of Las Cruces, N.M., and several grandchildren.
      
Holland B. Clark of Hilton Head; nine grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marjorie Hawkins of Manhattan, three grandchildren, nine great-grandchildren, and three great-great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Malu, she is survived by another daughter, Fayette Block, also of Provincetown; a sister, Dorothy Nay Carter of Vine Grove, Ky.; a brother, Benjamin Franklin Nay of Bremerton, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Tatiana Benetkova of Prague, and two grandchildren.
      
; 10 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Clement served as trustee of the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn.
        She is survived by two sons, Stuart Holmes Clement Jr. of Saybrook, Conn., and Samuel Prescott Bush Clement of Litchfield, Conn.; a daughter, Mary Bush Clement Estabrook of North Haven, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and 14 great-granchildren.
      
A. Berle of Manhattan; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Norman of Los Angeles, she is survived by another son, Kalman, of Woodmere, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Evelyn Fyler of Ossining; her son, John Neumann of Carmel, N.Y, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by John Fitzallen Moore of Libertyville, Ill., a son by her first husband, the poet Louis Untermeyer; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 46 years, she is survived by four sons, Henry B. of Manhattan; Theodore S. of Manhattan; Samuel G. of Hingham, Mass., and Miles W. of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; two brothers, Henry Z. Steinway of Manhattan and Frederick Steinway of Amherst, Mass., and a sister, Lydia G. Cochrane of Chicago.
      
Mrs. Buell is survived by her husband, Clarence Addison Buell; two sons, Lawrence I., of Boston, and Frederick H., of Warwick, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret R. Bennett of Washington; a brother, Abbot Low Moffat of Hights town, N.J.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband of nearly 65 years, Mrs. Hausman is survived by two sons, Richard and Michael, both of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Troy, and a sister, Shirley Stern, both of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      
Professor McManus is survived by four daughters, Joan Lawrence of Natick, Madeline Frankenhauser of Falmouth, Mass., Catherine Myers of Wilmington, Del., and Anna McThaden of Seattle; 23 grandchildren, 37 great-grandchildren, and a great-great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marianne Doran of Pleasantville; three sons, John, of Fort Collins, Colo., Peter of Solebury, Pa., and Paul, of Fresno, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Survivors include her husband, Sidney; two daughters, Elizabeth Millet of Manhattan and Jessica Rosenberg of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      
and Walter Anoushian of Manhasset; her mother, Shoushan Kaprielian; a brother Walter Kaprielian, both of Bellerose Village, and four grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband of 20 years, Stanley; a son, Walter Frisch of Manhattan; a daughter, Devin Feldman of Queens; a brother, E. Jerrold Miller of Capri, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 47 years; three daughters, Christiana MacDonald of Paris, and Bibi Besch and Drea B. Gillogly, both of Los Angeles; a son, Andrew F. Besch of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, Joseph L., survivors include a daughter, Ellen Feingold of Newton; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her son, Lee K., of Wilmington, N.C.; a daughter, Cathy Prince of White Plains; a brother, Nathan F. Klein of Titusville, Fla.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
"
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Denholm Muir Jacobs of Northeast Harbor; 6 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Suzanne Beech Warner of Boulder City, Nev., and Mary Lynn Oliver of Wichita, and three grandchildren.
      
; 9 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Ballard is survived by a son, Robert F. R. Ballard of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Liza Dietz Gard of London; six grandchildren, and two stepgrandchildren.
      
Harold H. Weicker, also of San Francisco, and Mary Audrey Mellor of Scottsdale, Ariz. She is also survived by 13 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren from that marriage.
In addition to Dr. Nils Olson of Frederick, she is survived by another son, Eric W. Olson of Stockholm, and three grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Maya Wallace of Woodland Hills, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter and son, Mrs. Morrell is survived by four grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Stephanie LaFarge of Hastings-on-Hudson; her companion, Len Tillett of Norwich, England; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include a son, Sargent P., of Hamilton; two daughters, Louise Alden Cohen of Cambridge and Charlotte P. Armstrong of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
She is survived by two stepsons, Henry, of Pearl River, N.Y., and Thomas, of Maui, Hawaii; a stepdaughter, Katherine Wetzel of Belford, N.J.; grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 64 years, she is survived by two sons: Denis K. and Michael J.; nine grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 64 years, she is survived by two sons: Denis K. and Michael J.; nine grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, a resident of West Haven, Conn., Mrs. Klarnet is survived by two grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Luke Breit of Mendocino, Calif.; a daughter, Miranda Breit of Piney River, Va.,and three grandchildren.
      
; her mother, Caroline Colgate Taylor of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Day of Canberra, Australia; a brother, Howard C. Taylor 3d of Jericho, Vt., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Charles; two daughters, Susan Curcio of Chatham, Mass., and Shelley Brown of Glen Ellen, Vt.; a son, Philip Atwood Carpenter of Chester, Vt.; a brother, Robert Winnett of Pittsburgh, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Stark is survived by her sons, both of Manhattan; a sister, Bea Zolt of Manhattan; two brothers, Mitchell and Bernard Snitkim, both of Miami, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Edward Rosenthal of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Hannah Wit of Oakland, Calif.; a son, David Wit of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Julie Sovern of New York City and Elizabeth Sovern of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; two stepsons, Jeffrey Sovern of Queens and Douglas Sovern of Oakland, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Lenore Ridgway of Kingston, N.Y., three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Wardell Michael Gaynor of Brooklyn and Matthew Small Gaynor of Cincinnati; a daughter, Brenda L. Gainer of Wilmington; 10 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
; 10 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Hubert DePass of Orlando, Fla.; two daughters, Barbara Hurst and Jeanne Drysdale, both of Queens; two stepdaughters, Beverly Bressant of Orlando, Fla., and Claire Johnson of Queens; a stepson, Raymond DePass of Queens; nine grandchildren, 14 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel Feinberg; a brother, Edward Gilbert; a daughter, Dr. Jaimy Honig, and two grandchildren, all of New York City.
She is survived by her husband, Peter; two sons, Stuart, of Seattle and Bruce, of Fort Collins, Colo.; two daughters, Ellen Uebele of Eden Prairie, Minn., and Leslie Franks of Portland, Ore., and six grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Kim Allen of Minneapolis; a son, Kerry Allen of New York City; a sister, Mary Behr, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Sandra, she is survived by another daughter, Susan Ruskin of Boynton Beach, Fla.; a brother, Nate Krevitz of Bakersfield, Calif.; three sisters, Edna Goldberg, Minnie Krevitz and Molly Moise, all of Griffith, Ind., and five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, John F., of Orange Park, Fla., and James V., of Bellmont, Calif; a sister, Muriel Zeigler, of Malverne, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Feitel is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth Fieman of Denver; two sons, Thomas of Summit, N.J., and Charles of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Leeds of Albuquerque, N.M., and six grandchildren.
      
; a son, Jeremy of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Penny, of Haydenville, Mass., and Meg, of Northampton; two sons, Tom, of Brooklyn, and David, of Roxbury, Mass., and nine grandchildren.
      
Penfield Roberts, Crane Brinton and Walter Bogner, is survived by a daughter, Jane Roberts Gill of Brookline; a sister, Catherine Allphin of Middletown, R.I.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Eugene, of Anacortes, Wash., and two grandchildren.
      
She was born in Manhattan and attended Nightingale-Bamford School there and the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn.
        She is survived by her husband, Joseph W. Gerrity Jr.; four sons, Richard, Joseph W. 3d, Robert and Daniel; three daughters, Nancy Achilles, Susan Chase and Cynthia Holland, and 14 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Heineman is survived by three daughters, Helen Heineman Haje and Laurie Heineman Millican, both of Manhattan, and Carol Heineman Staley of Fort Collins, Colo.; a sister, Della Mickoll Podell of Milwaukee, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. van Heerden of Manhattan, Dr. Ingalls is survived by three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 58 years, Winston T. Kellogg of Easton; a sister, Joan M. DeWind of Sherman, Conn.; three daughters, Joanna K. Uhry of Manhattan, Constance Casey of Wilmette, Ill., and Emily K. Hackett of Stamford, Conn., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Margaret Schoenherr of Palos Heights, Ill., and Carol Pearson of Clinton, S.C.; two sons, William, of Bellevue, Wash., and Kenneth Jr., of Washington; 13 grandchildren, and 27 great-grandchildren.
      
