She is survived by two daughters, JoAleene Miranda of Des Plaines, Ill., and Mary Perry of Park Ridge, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Louis Duddleston, and a son, James Breyley Jr., both of Raleigh; a daughter, Diana Caldwell of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter V. Tishman of Manhattan; two daughters, Margot T. Linton and Valerie T. Diker, both of Manhattan, 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Mott is survived by a son, Stewart Rawlings Mott of North Salem, N.Y.; a daughter, Maryanne Turnbull Mott of Santa Barbara, Calif.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Owings is survived by a daughter, Wendy M. Benjamin, of Durango, Colo., from her previous marriage to Malcolm Millard, a resident of Carmel, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Natalie O. Prael and Jennifer O. Dewey, both of Santa Fe., and Emily O. Kapozi, of Novato, Calif.; a brother, William Wentworth, of Walnut Creek, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
''
        From the late 1930's she held forth at Carradale, her 300-acre farm on the Mull of Kintyre in Argyllshire, riveting diffuse collections of writers, Labor politicians, African visitors, academics, scientists, local fishermen and hunters, children and grandchildren.
''
        Her husband died in 1970; she is survived by three sons, two daughters, 19 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Godowsky, whose husband and brother Ira both died in 1983, is survived by a son, Leopold 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Alexis Gershwin of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Georgia Keidan of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Nadia Natali of Ojai, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
; a daughter, Janet Kestenberg of West Chester, Pa., and four grandchildren.
Mr. Engel, a businessman, survives her, as do her daughter, of Manhattan; her son, Paul, of Oceanside, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
Her survivors include two sons, Dr. Matthew Freund of Miami Beach; and Harry I. Freund of Harrison, N.Y. and Manhattan; 5 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren and 2 stepdaughters, Midge Decter of Manhattan, the political writer, and Connie Fields of St. Paul.
      
Parks said in a letter to the Durr family: ''I will miss you, old soldier, but the rich legacy you have passed to your children, grandchildren and great-grands lives on.
Mrs. Durr is survived by four daughters, Ann Durr Lyon of Harrisburg, Pa., Lucy Durr Hackney of Philadelphia, Virginia Foster Durr of Sweden, Me., and Lulah Durr Colan of Milwaukee; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son; a daughter, Jennifer Malahowski of Austin, Tex., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three grandchildren.
      
Besides Terence and Patrick, Mrs. Hallinan is survived by three other sons: Matthew, Daniel and Conn, all of Berkeley, and 16 grandchildren.
      
For that, Miss Bloch, who is survived by two sons, George Ernst Dimitroff of Tumwater, Wash., and Pancho Dimitroff of Aurora, Colo; a daughter, Sita Milchev, of Gualala; a sister, Suzanne Bloch Smith of New York; 8 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren, had only herself to blame.
She is survived by three daughters, Nancy Behrman, Elaine Cooper and Carol Lederman; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Dorman Priest of Amherst, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her two sons, Mrs. Tyng is survived by six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sister, Ruth Zia, of Columbus; two sons, Samuel, of Columbus and Daniel, of New York City; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, she is survived by two sons, David of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Daniel of Paris; a daughter, Judith Davison of New York; a brother, Harry H. Herman of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
''
        She is survived by her husband, the publisher Bernard Geis; two sons, Peter, of La Honda, Calif., and Stephen, of Geneva; a sister, Jean S. Gottlieb of Fort Myers Beach, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Warren,  of Manassas, Va.; a daughter, Sarah Carroll Watson of South Berwick; two grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Claudia Petursson of Kirkland, Wash., and Alison Tunney of Santa Monica; a son, Andrew Weiss of Los Angeles; a sister, Patricia Troop of London, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by their daughter, Karen Gilbert of Brentwood, Calif.; two sons from an earlier marriage, Dr. David Flory of Manhattan and Dr. Christopher Flory of Williamsburg, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, she is survived by her daughter, Jane Hamilton of Denver, and three grandchildren.
Ms. Gilbert is survived by a daughter, Gwynne Wolin of Stamford, Conn., and Coconut Creek, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Boutelle is survived by three sons, Christopher, of Los Angeles, William, of West Chesterfield, Mass., and Jonathan of Santa Cruz; a sister, Mary Holmes of Santa Cruz, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Frederick L. Meserve Jr. of Kennett Square, Pa; two daughters, Anne Davis of Winnetka, Ill., and Marcia Poutiatine of Vero Beach;  seven grandchildren and a great grandchild.
      
; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
; eight daughters, Beverly Carter of Drew, Naomi Granberry of Cleveland, Miss., Pearl Owen and Deborah Smith, both of Oxford, Miss., Gloria Dickenson of Battle Creek, Mich., Ruth Whittle and Bertha Huckleby, both of Toledo, Ohio, and Edna Threats of Kansas City, Kan., 35 grandchildren and 36 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son John, of Manhattan, she is survived by two other sons, Robert Jr., of Haverford, Pa., and Steven, of West Nyack, N.Y.; two daughters, Alison, of Berkeley, Calif., and Jordan, of Nashville, and nine grandchildren.
      
Ms. Ross is survived by a daughter, Linda Proctor of Concord, N.H.; her companion, George Hofmann, an artist and professor at Hunter College, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Thomas, of Fresh Meadows, Queens, she is survived by a daughter, Ann Herman of Lakeland, Fla., five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a son, Donald Klune of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepdaughter, Carol Klune of Arcata, Calif.; a brother, Arthur Peterson of Seattle; 17 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
; a brother, Theodore H. Sheafe of Tigard, Ore.; a sister, Mary S. Jewett of Lyme, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Erika Littlewood of Richmond; two sons, Jamin Ben, of Takoma Park, Md., and Noah A., of Vienna, Va.; seven grandchildren, and a brother, Richard Bellman of Manhattan.
      
Dr. Allen is survived by three daughters, Dana Densmore of Santa Fe, N.M., Indra Allen of San Francisco and Dr. Martha Allen of Washington; a son, Mark, of Memphis; a brother, Donald Rehkopf of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
; a son, Brian Henry Cullman of Manhattan; two stepsons, Hugh Cullman of Beaufort, N.C., and Paul T. Cullman of Ferndale, Wash.; 12 grandchildren and 25 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her son Henry, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two other children, Nancy Carlson of St. George, Vt., and Michael Richardson of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Mary Conrad of Albuquerque, N.M.; two brothers, T. P. Hazard Jr. of Rockville, Md., and Oliver C. Hazard of Bedford, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
While studying at Barnard College, she tutored and cared for the grandchildren of Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The New York Times.
In addition to her daughter, Jane Clough of Paris and Pound Ridge, N.Y., she is survived by a son, Peter A. Cooper of Brattleboro, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son John, of Greenwich, Conn., Mrs. Lindsey is survived by her son Alexander of Seattle; a sister, Cynthia Saint-Amand of New York, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Malcolm Stewart of Lancaster, Calif.; a sister, Ruby Birdson, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Lawrence and Robert, both of Manhattan; nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Celestino Miranda; a son, Terry Sanders of Los Angeles, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
; a sister, Ann Rountree Forsberg of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Calvin Rountree of Hayesville, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Murray is survived by twin daughters, Jane Heimlich of Cincinnati and Phyllis McDowell of New Haven, eight grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Susan Sibley Little Bazemore of Des Moines and Mary Everitt Little-Vance of Roswell, Ga.; a son, James W. Little 5th of Alford, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Baird Parker of Lansdale, Pa., she is survived by her daughter, Kim Parker, of Delaware Water Gap, Pa.; another son, Gar Woods of Long Pond, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three children, David Bradley of Oakland, Calif.; Patrick Breen of Denver, and Moira Stern of Sparks, Nev.; a brother, Leslie Zimmer of East Greenbush, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Vereen, of League City, she is survived by another daughter, Audrey Johnson of Houston; two sisters, Earline Allen of Houston and Irma Dews of San Pablo, Calif.; three brothers, Cyrus, Robert and Cornelius Thorne, all of San Francisco; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
They survive her, as do several grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Jeremy Mortimer of London; five daughters, Madelon Dimont Burk of France, Caroline Bennett of London, Julia Mankowitz of London, Deborah Rogers of Cornwall, England, and Sally Silverman of Bristol, England, and 11 grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Faye Marie Rutledge of Winder, Ga., and Aleda Torgerson of Silver Bay, Minn., and a son, Marion, of Manhattan, Kan., as well as 16 grandchildren, 24 great-grandchildren and five great-great-grandchildren.
She is survived by Jack Bradford, her husband, their children, Dan and Laura, and four children from previous marriages: Richard, Marcia, Ann and Kenny, as well as eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Weitzman is survived by two sons, Donald, of Brookline, Mass., and David, of Orinda, Calif.; a sister, Frances Pasmanick of Washington; two brothers, Harold Cohen of Arlington, Va., and Norman Cohen of Venice, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York, Ms. Leslie is survived by a brother, Warren Leslie, also of New York, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Kenneth of Haverford, Pa., and Robert of Los Angeles; four grandchildren; and her companion, G. Reginald Bishop Jr.
      
; a sister, Princess Genevieve di San Faustino of San Francisco; and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Casadesus is survived by a daughter, Therese Casadesus Rawson of Berwyn, Pa., and another son, Guy Casadesus of Toulon, France, as well as five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Burton P. Resnick of Rye, N.Y., and Ira Resnick of Manhattan; a daughter, Marilyn Katz of Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Anna Sherman of Yonkers; 10 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bob; two sons, Alex Allison of Nutley and Robert McBride of Stone Ridge, N.Y.; a daughter, Dorothy McBride of Montville, N.J.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Kaplan, a retired justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; a son, James Kaplan of Northampton, Mass., a daughter, Nancy Mansbach of Newton, Mass.,  and four grandchildren.
; two stepdaughters, Valerie Levy of Sydney, Australia, and Margery Manber of Scarsdale, N.Y.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
''
        In addition to Ms. Swansen, who lives in Pittsville, Wis., Mrs. Zimmermann is survived by her husband, Arnold; another daughter, Lloie, of Pittsville; a son, Thomas, of New Hope, Pa.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
