She is survived by a son, Robert of Lincoln; three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Philip, of Clinton Township, N.J.; two daughters, Marjorie Wismer of Bricktown, N.J., and Joan, of Raritan Township; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Frederick DuBois of Des Moines, Iowa; four sons, Frederick Jr., and Marshall, both of Manhattan, John of Flathead Lake, Mont., and Robert, of Halifax, Nova Scotia; a daughter, Mary S. Merrill of Manhattan, and 15 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Harry Conover of Sudbury, Mass., and Carey Conover of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Dunn is survived by a son, Tristram, of Darien, Conn., as well as by Mrs. Spangenberg, who lives in South Salem, N.Y., and by four grandchildren, including Mrs. Hanson's three children.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Margery Owen Bostrom of Red Bank, N.J., and Elizabeth Owen Greene of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; two stepdaughters, Dorothy Barber of Bridgewater, N.J., and Geraldine Slattery, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; two stepsons, Harry Bledsoe of Avoca, Iowa, and George Bledsoe of Council Bluffs, Iowa; 11 grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandsons.
Surviving are two daughters, Margery Owen Bostrom of Red Bank, N.J., and Elizabeth Owen Greene of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; two stepdaughters, Dorothy Barber of Bridgewater, N.J., and Geraldine Slattery, of Bryn Mawr, Pa.; two stepsons, Harry Bledsoe of Avoca, Iowa, and George Bledsoe of Council Bluffs, Iowa; 11 grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandsons.
      
Besides her husband and brother, she is survived by her parents, Harry and Jean Dinnerstein of North Miami Beach, Fla.; two sons, David, of Pomona, N.Y., and Jay, of Anaheim, Calif.; a daughter, Bonnie Friehling of Great Falls, Mont., and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, J. Merrill Knapp; two daughters, Joan Crocker of Dedham, Mass., and Phoebe Warren of Billings, Mont., and four grandchildren.
      
A graduate of Adelphi University, she is survived by a daughter, Sarah Petlin of Manhattan; a son, William, of Newton, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Bernard Simon of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Robert, of Virginia Beach, and James, of San Rafael, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Amyas Ames, the chairman emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the New York Philharmonic; two sons, Oakes and Edward, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Olivia Ames Hoblitzelle and Joan Ames Woodcock, both of Cambridge, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
; two sisters, Anne Watson, of Marion, and Elizabeth Chambers, of New Haven, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kelly is survived by two daughters, Margaret R. Conlan of Philadelphia and Lizanne K. LeVine of Gladwyne, Pa.; 13 grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, survivors include a brother, Richard Young, and a daughter, Josephine Edmonds Case, both of Van Hornesville; three sons, James 3d and John, both of Cambridge, Mass., and Samuel, of Fairfax, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
; a stepson, John R. O'Neill, of Montgomery, Ala., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert J. Stuart; a son, two daughters and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Straube is survived by two daughters, 11 grandchildren, 26 great-grandchildren and two great-great grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Straube is survived by two daughters, 11 grandchildren, 26 great-grandchildren and two great-great grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Patricia Jones of Manhattan and Mary Simmons of Chevy Chase, Md., and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Melvin Braverman; a sister, Isabelle Kistenberg, and three grandchildren.
      
; two sisters, Anne Witherby of Boston and Rosamund Bodman of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Survivors include two daughters, Sarah P. Gwynn of Atlanta and Emmy P. Casey of Chattanooga, two sons, D. Carter Patten 3d and W. A Bryan Patten of Chattanooga, a sister and 11 grandchildren.
      
; Thomas Tone of Ottawa, and Cornel Wallace Wilde of Beverly Hills, a brother, John Wallace of Los Angeles, a sister, Karol Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Martin is survived by two sons, Bill and Dan Fitch; nine grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Jonathan A., of Mountain View, Calif.; a daughter, Joanna Caproni of Manhattan; a sister, M. Helen Burnard of Nashua, N.H.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by three sons, Dr. Alan S., of Demarest, N.J., and Paul R. and Roger L., both of Portland, and nine grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Susan Gullotta of Pleasantville; a son, Dr. Beach Conger of Hartland, Vt.; a brother, Dr. George A. Cunningham of Palm Beach, Fla., and seven grandchildren.
      
And she strove to preserve the family ties among her 4 children, 13 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
'' When she was nearing 80, she began spending several days annually with grandchildren at schools in the Boston area, an effort to understand the outlook and life style of young people.
''I think this helped me form the habit of qualifying my remarks; it's become almost second nature,'' she said in later years, ''and I've endeavored to hand this wisdom on to my children and grandchildren.
Grandchildren were born.
''Through her, the continuity of family control from father to husband to son-in-law to son has been maintained for over 60 years and, through her, it will be passed on to the next generation - her grandchildren,'' Mrs. Tuchman wrote.
In addition to Geraldine and Carl Ferraro, Antonetta Ferraro is survived by six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Simon, of Baltimore, and Nelson B., of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Gemma Rettman of Eugene, Ore., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, of Reston; two daughters, Sheila, of Westport, Conn., and Mona Sharkey of Elverson, Pa.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, Timothy, of Manhattan; two brothers, Dean Ruth of Washington, and Robert Ruth of Lodi, N.Y.; a sister, Elizabeth Edwards of Cocoa Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
Judge Rinenberg is survived by her husband, Warren; two daughters, Alice Brickner, of the Bronx, and Curry Sawyer, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Walt Thomas; three daughters, Mary Green of Hendersonville, N.C., Anne Gibbons of Fairfield, Conn., and Gillet Page of Kennebunkport, Maine; two sisters, Katharine Haines and Elizabeth Wales, both of Englewood, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      
She is survived by a son, Henry, of Manhattan; a daughter, Pamela Lee Syrmis, also of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Strauss of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, George Lessner; two sons, Alford, of Newburgh, N.Y., and Robert, of Wappingers Falls, N.Y.; five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by two sons, Eskander and Narcy, and five grandchildren.
She is survived by her sister, Alice Rutherfurd of Manhattan; two daughters, Elizabeth Guest Stevens of Washington, and Virginia Guest of New York City; a son, Raymond Jr., of Front Royal, Va., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Capitman leaves two sons, Andrew W., who lives in London, and John A., who lives in Cambridge, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, who lives in Bethesda, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Marie-Claude Solvay, who lives in Belgium, and Anne Robertshaw of Greensburg, Pa., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Shaffer of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Clement, of Toronto and Lewiston, N.Y.; a sister, Kitty C. Margulies of Manhattan, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Elena Lonsdorf of Atlanta and Elizabeth Treadwell of New York, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Theodore Klein Jr., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Giselle Marziale, three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren, all of whom live in Rome.
She is survived by one of her four children, Barbara M. Lawson of Cranby, Colo.; 13 grandchildren; 26 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Nancy Gilbert of West Palm Beach, Fla., and Peggy Kaufmann of Sun City, Ariz., and Fort Lee, N.J.; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edward, of Glencoe, Ill.; a daughter, Susan, of New York City; a sister, Radie Harris of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
; two brothers, Jack and Ralph, both of Baltimore; four grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her sons, Richard and William; a sister, Elinor; five grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      
; two sisters, Elinor Vaughan of Kittery Point, Me., and Kathleen McCann of San Mateo, Calif.; a brother, Philip Burnett of Laguna Hills and Newport, R.I.; 13 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert J., and by a son, four daughters, two sisters and 11 grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lake is survived by her husband, Leonard Lake; a daughter, Ellen, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Dorothy Sterling of Wellfleet, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Thomas George of Princeton, N.J., and George W. George of Stamford, Conn.; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, John H. Wolf of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Vito Pagano; a daughter, Anne Hogya of Bayville; four sons, Eugene, of Oyster Bay, Peter, of Houston, Vincent, of Mahcoutah, Ill., and Robert, of Bayville; three brothers, and four grandchildren.
      
; two sons, Robert of Chicago and Charles of Philadelphia, 11 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. James is survived by a daughter, Bambi Sue Camerman of Flemington, N.J.; a son, Donald Burke of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
The widow of Lazaar Henkin, also a lawyer, she is survived by a son, Jay M. Stanley of Kintnersville; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Roberts 3d; two sons, David Roberts 4th and Robin Watson Roberts, both of Birmingham; two brothers, three sisters and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Marjory Barnum of Northfield, Ill,; two sons, Ralph E. Jr. of Vero Beach, Fla., and William of Chicago; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Walter; a daughter, Anne Riley Patterson of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry, of Munich, West Germany, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Martin Richards of New York, Mrs. Richards is survived by two brothers, J. Seward Johnson Jr. of Princeton, and James L. Johnson of Pottersville, N.J.; three sisters, Diana Firestone of Waterford, Va., Elaine Wold of Boca Raton and Jennifer Duke of Jacksonville, Fla.; five sons, Eric Ryan of New York; Seward, Hillary and Quentin Ryan of Hilton Head, S.C., and Roderick Ryan, of Andover, N.J.; one daughter, Alice Ryan Marriott, also of Hilton Head; and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Catherine C. Brawer of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Elizabeth Coleman of Atlanta, and four grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Jerome Cohen of Kings Point, L.I., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Merrill is survived by two daughters, Lyuba Rhodes of Geneva and Dr. Sadja Greenwood of San Francisco, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, who live in Manhattan, and by 7 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Barbara Kimball of West Hartford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her father, Sam Rosenberg of Hallandale, Fla; her daughters, Ba-Nhi Mai and Kim Thuy, both of Westport, and Nguyet Baty of Berlin; a brother, Richard Balin of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph M. Schor; a daughter, Esther, of Metuchen, N.J; two sons, Joshua, of Brookline, Mass., and Gideon, of Manhattan; two brothers, Jack Moshman of Bethesda, Md., and Bert Moshman of Kew Gardens, Queens, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Geraldine, of Washington, Meredith Reuben of Stamford, Conn., and Faith Adamson of Philadelphia, a sister, Bernice Johnson of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Donald Robinson, of New York City, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Andrews's survivors include a daughter, Ann E. Kane of Stanford, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Sarah Ash of Raleigh, N.C., and six grandchildren.
      
A widow, Ms. Stein is survived by a son, Richard, of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and a daughter, Nancy Tunis of Rye Brook, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Harrington is survived by two sons, Roby 3d, of Darien, Conn., and Edward, of Lancaster, Pa.; 11 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Emilie J. Jacobi of Manhattan, Margaret Jacobson of Mountain View, Calif., and Elizabeth Reiss of Orange, Conn.; nine grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; eight grandchildren, and two great- grandchildren.
      
; eight grandchildren, and two great- grandchildren.
      
; three sons, Worth, of Hartford, Robert, of Huntington, and Harvey, of Manhattan; 10 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, A. Carter Hinckley of Manhattan; a daughter, Debbie Berghorst of Winnetka, Ill.,; two brothers, Beverley Burnham of Morris Plains, N.J., and Yerbury Burnham of Keowee, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Hyman Lichtenstein; two daughters, Carolyn and Diane; her mother; a sister, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mr. Stone, she is survived by their son Joseph, of Newtown; a daughter, Francine, of Wallingford, England; two sisters, Dorothy Hatch of Washington and Miriam Whelan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. James Mark of Palo Alto Calif., a daughter, Margaret Heller of Madison, N.J.; eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, William E.; three sons from a previous marriage, Henry Sage Jr. of Atlanta, Reginald Sage of Georgetown, S.C., and David Sage of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Duncan Devereux of Virginia Beach; a sister, Audrey Carey of Ponta Vedra, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, J. Harold; two daughters, Deborah G. Block and Marjorie G. Bachrach, both of Manhattan; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two children from an earlier marriage, a son, Rafael Palacios and a daughter, Carmen Palacios de Ramirez, both of San Juan; two daughters from her second marriage, Senator Victoria Munoz Mendoza of San Juan and Viviana Munoz Mendoza of Boston; 14 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen Darrow of South Newfane, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving, besides her son, Richard, of Potomac, Md., are four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by another son, Jack, of Manhattan; four grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Julian L. Peabody, a lawyer; a daughter, Post Eddy Scharnberger of Los Angeles; two sons from a former marriage, Charles F. Willis 3d and R. Reese Willis, both of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to Ms. Kleeman, she is survived by another daughter, Elizabeth Frank of Baltimore; a son, Richard P. Kleeman of Washington; eight grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Surviving are a daughter, Nancy Osserman of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
; a brother, Samuel Murphy Jr. of Boca Grande, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
A widow, she is survived by three daughters, Page Tharpe of Marathon, Fla.; Virginia Conn of Kilmarnock, Va.; and Constance Van Valkenburg of St. Paul; a brother, William F. Royall, a retired Navy admiral, 24 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sacerdote, who was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Mount Vernon, N.Y., is survived by her husband, Dr. Paul Sacerdote; two sons, Dr. Alan Sacerdote of Brooklyn and Marc Sacerdote of Manhattan; two brothers, Nathan Quittell of North Lauderdale, Fla., and Jules Quittell of New Rochelle, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Nancy Westendorf of Vienna, W.Va., and Carrie Streim of West Hartford, Conn; a sister, Mina Goldberg of Boston, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Jane Ann Jones of Aberystwyth, Wales, 4 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Harold, of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Arthur, of Manhattan, president of The New York Times Foundation; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Richard, of Atlantic Beach, L.I., and David, of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Carole Friedman, of Atlantic Beach; nine grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Peter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Joseph, of Manhattan; a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Elisabeth Lloyd of Yonkers; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Robin Halpren-Ruder of Providence, R.I., Abby Ruder of Philadelphia and Michal Ellen Ruder of Houston; two sons, Brian, of Pittsburgh, and Eric, of Princeton, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a two children from a former marriage, her son, Walter of Rye, N.Y., and a daughter, Susan Butler of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a brother, Edwin H. Koehler of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol K. Pforzheimer of Stuart, Fla., five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frederick; a daughter, Nancy Bergen of Nashville; her father, Harry Spiewk of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Beyer is survived by three sons, Donald of Falls Church, Va., Morton of Lolo, Mont., and Richard of Seattle; 12 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Nancy Etting of Madison, Conn., and 10 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
In addition to her son, of Lewes, Del., she is survived by four grandchildren and three great grand-children.
      
Mrs. Ascoli is survived by two sons, Alfred R. Stern of Manhattan, and Peter M. Ascoli of Chicago; a brother, William Rosenwald of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Lilian S. L. Chance, of Malvern, Pa.; 17 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Norma Lovins, of Hamden, Conn.; a stepson, Stephen Bonime, of Teaneck, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Karen Bonime, of Ukiah, Calif.; a sister, Ruth Fischer, of Manhattan, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margery H. Oakes of Manhattan, six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Martha Ford of Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich., and Anne Ball of Greenwich, Conn.; nine grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
; sons, Tom, of Stuart, Fla., and Bob, of Beverly Hills, Calif.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Evelyn Scott of Montreal; two sons, George, of Holicong, Pa., and John, of Riverdale; 11 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Cave is survived by grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Carol Kridel of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michel; a son, Leonid, of Rome, Pa.; a daughter, Denise Hidalgo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susanna Berger of New Rochelle, N.Y.; a son, Jonathan, of Tuckahoe, N.Y., five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Princess Guity Afrouz Wambold of Durham, N.H.; three grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her son from a former marriage, Shane Edwin Riorden of Williamstown; a brother, Stanton Mighell of Aurora, Ill.; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Leslie Blake and Cheryl Bulbach, both of Manhattan; two sons, Stephen Short of Manhattan and Dr. Wayne Blackmon of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Arthur, Mrs. Bishop, a widow, is survived by another son, A. Michael Lipper of Summit, N.J.; two stepdaughters, Susan Lipper and Randa Bishop, both of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
A widow, she is survived by two sons, Robert J., of Arlington, Va., and Richard B., of Loudonville, N.Y.; a daughter, Patricia L. Savage of Providence; two sisters, Margaret Rowell of Queens and Rita Hitchinson of Hyde Park, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
Miss Martin is survived by her son, her daughter, Heller Halliday DeMeritt, six grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Scott Grabo of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Carrie Grabo of Woodbury, Vt.; her mother, Pearle Carroll of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Sam Silbergeld; three daughters, Sandra, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Janet Silbergeld and Dr. Nancy Jecker, both of Seattle; a son, Dr. Danie Silbergeld, of Seattle; her mother, Jennie Driscoll, of Beavercreek, Ohio; two sisters, Ruth Hallman, of Beavercreek and Julie Stockman, of Dayton, Ohio; two brothers, Dr. Glenn Driscoll, of Fresno, Calif., and Carl Driscoll, of Lathrup Village, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Robert Hoffman of Coconut Creek, Fla; 13 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
"
        Miss Bennett is survived by her fourth husband, David Wilde, a former critic and publisher whom she married in 1973; four daughters, Diana Anderson of Los Angeles and Melinda Bena of Chappaqua, N.Y., from her second marriage to Gene Markey, a film writer-producer whom she married in 1932 and divorced in 1937, and Stephanie Guest and Shelley Wanger, both of Manhattan, from her marriage to Mr. Wanger, and 13 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from previous marriages, a daughter, Lucia Scott of Stamford, Conn., and a son, Guy Thomas of Manchester, Vt.; two sisters, Dorothy Lewis of St. Louis and Ruth Hamilton of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Jean Kullander of Savannah, Ga; two daughters, Catherine Hollenberg of Clarks Summit, Pa., and Laura Morse of Wellesley, Mass, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother and her daughter, Mrs. Creel is survived by four grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Nancy Sayles of Abilene, Tex., and three grandchildren.
Besides her daughter Nancy, of Chevy Chase, Md., Professor Ronsheim is survived by two other daughters, Jane Ring of Evanston, Ill., and Carol Martin of Cos Cob, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
; two sons, Toby, of Manhattan and Julius, of Malaga, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Straus is survived by her four sons, Nathan 3d, of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; Barnard, and Irving Lehman, of New York City, and R. Peter, of Washington, D.C.; 11 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Anne Gordon of Indianapolis, and six grandchildren.
      
Besides Mrs. Childs, she is survived by a brother, D. Tennant Bryan of Richmond; three other daughters, Anne McGuire and Shelah Scott, both of Charlottesville, and Constance Tucker of Cincinnati; 11 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
