In addition to her son Francois, she is survived by another son, Georges; three daughters, Marie-Christophe de Menil, Adelaide de Menil Carpenter and Philippa de Menil Friedrich; 11 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Dr. Leslie Lopato of San Francisco; a son, David, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Winifred I. Warner of Laurel Hollow, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Jeffrey Paley of Manhattan; a daughter, Hilary Paley Califano of Roxbury, Conn., and Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Joy H. Briggs of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include two sons, Charles, of Destin, Fla., and Albert Jr., of Washington; a daughter, Sharyn Corry of Middleburg, Va.; two sisters, four brothers and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband of 59 years, she is survived by two sons, both theoretical physicists, Dr. Alfred Goldhaber of Setauket, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Goldhaber of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Liselotte Leoni of Nice, France, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Phillip Cook of Buffalo and Thomas Bernstein of Manhattan; two brothers, Frederick Hanson of Sun Lakes, Ariz., and Evanston, Ill., and Theodore Hanson of Honolulu; three grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      
''
        Over the years, Mrs. Lollis cooked and cleaned for other people and once worked for Western Union, but as she got older she mostly did volunteer work for the Mount Olivet Baptist Church and kept up with her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren, telling them stories about the old days.
Mrs. Lollis, whose daughter Ruby Jewett died in December, is survived by her other daughter, Alice E. Wilson of Atlanta, 3 grandchildren, 6 great-grandchildren and 20 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by two sons, Richard of Virginia Beach, Va., and William of Cicero, N.Y.; four daughters, Jeanne Steffanelli of Portsmouth, Va., Linda Bamberger of Mattydale and Candice Jost and Cynthia Morris of Syracuse; 15 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Amy Hirshhorn, of Watertown, Mass., and Jo Ann Hirshhorn, of New Orleans, and two grandchildren.
      
Two sons, Michael Paine of Harvard, Mass., and Cameron Paine of Tylersport, Pa., and two grandchildren survive.
Dr. Wakin is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by two daughters, Lila Jacobs of Minneapolis and Nancy Barnes of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by 3 daughters, Vivien Malloy of Waccabuc, N.Y.; Mary Ann Quinson of Manhattan, and Pamela Lichty of Honolulu; a son, Edwin, of Manhattan; 13 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by four daughters, Mary Jo Nocero of Orlando, Fla., Eileen Hult of Milwaukee, Betty J. Santangelo of Manhasset and Patricia A. Santangelo of Manhattan; a son, Charles A. Santangelo, of Washington; a sister, Rose Santangelo of Harrison, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her daughters, Kate Whitney and Sara Wilford, both of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Shuman, whose brother died in 1968, is survived by a son, Earl, of St. Charles, Ill., two sisters, Irene Van Thournout of St. Charles and Esther Rudder of Connecticut, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Watkin, who created some confusion by marrying and later divorcing a man with the same surname as her own, is survived by a son, Daniel, an Associated Press correspondent in Rome; a sister, Mary Lou Wakin of Manhattan; a brother, Joseph Wakin of Stamford, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
''
        When she received her peerage, she said she celebrated by baking muffins for her grandchildren; having them, she said, was ''even better than being in love.
In addition to four children, Gabriel Vaugh of Barrie, Olive Therrien of Peterborough, Rita Coote of Deep River and Ernie Meilleur, who lives in the same nursing home his mother lived in, Mrs. Meilleur is survived by 85 grandchildren, 80 great-grandchildren, 57 great-great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Cormier, who claimed 37 grandchildren and 100 great-grandchildren a dozen years, had since lost count, said her son, Herbert, of Crowley.
She is survived by her brother, Don, of Ashland, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sons, Neal and Bennett, both of Dallas, Mrs. Spelce is survived by two sisters, Inez Robertson of Jackson, Calif., and Marie Colvett of Grass Valley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Grandy is survived by her mother, Frances Grandy of Manhattan; two daughters, Allegra Fitch of Brooklyn and Lydia Silverman of Riverdale, the Bronx, and three grandchildren, Zachary Fitch and Julia and Evan Silverman.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, George Richey; five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco,  and seven grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her husband, George Richey, she is survived by five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco and seven grandchildren.
Mrs. Sonz is survived by her husband, Ben Sonz Sr.; a daughter, Ann Mantranga of Sausalito, Calif.; two sons, Benedict Sonz Jr. of Bethesda, Md., and Paul Sonz of Mill Valley, Calif.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
; 10 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Faye is survived by her daughters, Alice Regan and Phyllis Harris; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Faye is survived by her daughters, Alice Regan and Phyllis Harris; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Steve, of Ann Arbor, and Philip, of Boise, Idaho; a daughter, Carol, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and six grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and Anthony, of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
Dr. Boulton is survived by her husband; three sons, Carter Bancroft, of Huntington, N.Y., and Michael and John Bancroft, both of Seattle; three stepdaughters, Janet Boulton, of New York, Nancy Boulton, of Lincoln, Mass., and Tiffany Wallace, of Lexington, Ky., and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Whaley, whose husband died in 1987, is survived by three daughters, Emily Whipple, Anne Le Clercq and Martha Adams, all of Charleston, and seven grandchildren.
      
; a stepson, Richard Bookman of Coral Gables, Fla.; two grandchildren, four step-grandchildren and her companion, Henry Kohn, also of New York.
In addition to Mr. Cushing and Mia Farrow (who lives in Connecticut), she is survived by five other children, Patrick and Theresa, both of  Vermont, John Jr. of Maryland, Prudence of Iowa, and Stephanie of New York City; 32 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her daughter, Maryon Davies Lewis of San Francisco, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Beryl Snyder Trost, and two sons, Brian and Jay, all of New York, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she is survived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; another sister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, Glenn Daniel, David Lawrence, and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, and six grandchildren.
      
Survivors include a son, Roxburgh Rennie of Providence, R.I.; a daughter, Missie Rennie Taylor of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Laurie Zucker of Athens, Ohio, and Alix Nelson Frick of Manhattan, the president of Franklin Spier Advertising; a sister, Lillian Ovberg of Glen Cove, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, a daughter and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 73 years, Carl S. Shoup; their daughter, Dale S. Mayer, of Center Sandwich, N.H.; a son, Paul S., of Charlottesville, Va., eight grandchildren  and nine great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Esther Man of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
Ms. Levin is survived by her husband, Dr. Lowell S. Levin; three daughters, Brooke A. Levin of Oakland, Calif., Jill S. Levin of Albuquerque, N.M., and Lori Levin Albert of New Haven; her mother, Estelle Greenberg of Warwick, R.I., and five grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by three grandchildren, seven great-grandchildren and three stepchildren.
      

        Rose Blumkin, who founded the Nebraska Furniture Mart in 1937, helped her son and grandchildren build it into the nation's largest home furnishings store and continued selling carpet there well past her 100th birthday, died on Friday in Omaha.
But she began to feel frozen out of decisions as her grandchildren, Irving and Ronald Blumkin, became more involved in the 1980's.
She is survived by her son, Louis; three daughters, Frances Batt, Cynthia Schneider and Sylvia Cohn; two sisters, Anne Rosenblatt and Ruth Lasher, all of Omaha; a brother, Mayer Gorelick of Los Angeles; 12 grandchildren, and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Irwin, whose husband, Keith, died in 1994, is survived by two other daughters, Jane Croll of Des Moines, and Ann Bauer of Dubuque; a son, Rees, of Ames, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Ann Wandell of Windham; a brother, Bruce McWilliams of Little Deer Isle, Me; four grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by twin sons, Alex of Athens, Ga., and Mark of Coimbatore, India, and two grandchildren.
      
At her death,  she was a board member emeritus of the Archives of American Art and the Guildhall of East Hampton, N.Y.
        She is survived by two children, Otto L. Spaeth Jr. of Rye, N.Y., and Mary Louise Koon of St. Louis; 16 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
; 13 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      
Calif.; a daughter, Mary Jane Joyce of Derwood, Md., four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughters, Mary Calderone is survived by three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her brother, Steven Klebanoff of Rye, N.Y.; two sons, William Goff of Kent, Conn. and Neal Goff of Manhattan; two daughters, Ginny Goff Green of Loveladies, N.J., and Kimberly Goff of Bridgehampton; and three grandchildren.
      
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by two stepdaughters, Ann Heinemann of La Jolla and Joan Simon of Larchmont, N.Y.; two sisters, Naka Rawthroen of Los Angeles and Mari Bruck of Studio City, Calif.; nine grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Crockett is survived by her husband, Robert O. Crockett Jr.; three children, Jennifer, Elizabeth and Robert, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gilkeson, whose husband and son predeceased her, is survived by five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
By then, Mrs. Lukens had received so many honors and heard so much  praise it was a wonder she had any time for her nine grandchildren.
Besides Ms. Kleinhans and Dr. Korein, both of Manhattan, Mrs. Korein is survived by her sister, Esther Kessler of Naples, Fla.; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son; a sister, Tamara Nijinsky of Phoenix, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren, two stepgrandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Both sons, as well as six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren, survive Mrs. Kissinger.
She is survived by a son, Edgar S. Cahn of Washington, and a daughter, Mary Cahn Schwartz of Chevy Chase, Md., three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Christine Donovan of Manhattan and Sharon Dodd of New Orleans; a son, Dr. James F. Donovan Jr. of Oklahoma City, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Korn is survived by two daughters, Penelope Lehman of Riverside, Conn., and Wendy Lehman Lash of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, also of Seattle, she is survived by her sisters, Catherine Chastek of Spokane and Fredrica Adams of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Godden is survived by two daughters, Paula Kenilworth and Jane Murray Flutter; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her daughter Marion, Dr. Alexander, who was a widow, is survived by another daughter, Margaret Williams, and two sons, Firnist Alexander and Sigismund Alexander, all of Jackson, and nine grandchildren.
      
) The couple lived in Carmel, Calif., and later in McLean, Va. Mrs. Donnelly, who was widowed in 1988, is survived by their children, John, of Palm Beach Shores; Sherman, of Key Biscayne, Fla., and Laura, of East Hampton, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
For Miss Lewis, who is survived by a daughter, Joanna Thomson of Madison, Wis.; a son, Daniel Winters  of Davis, Calif., and three grandchildren, her family was always more important than her work, and her life is well reflected in her final collection, ''The Dear Past,'' (1994) with poems covering most of the century.
Survivors include two daughters, Caroline Lalire of Hamilton, Va., and Zita Emerson of Albuquerque; a son, Peter Abel of St. Davids, Pa., 10 grandchildren and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
