Her survivors include two daughters, Nackey Scagliotti of Boothbay Harbor, Me., and Edith Tomasko of Hopkinton, N.H.; three brothers, Robert Scripps of Fredericksburg, Tex., Charles E. Scripps of Cincinnati and Samuel H. Scripps of Rhinebeck, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son from an early marriage, James E. Mitchell of Philadelphia; a sister, Jeanne C. Fleischmann of Manhattan, who is the widow of Peter F. Fleischmann, a chairman of The New Yorker; and two grandchildren.
      
; two sons, Luke, of Palos Verdes, Calif., and Wen, of Ambler, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 35 years, James Denman; two sons, Daniel Stanton of Ridgewood, N.J., and James L. Denman of Manhattan; a daughter, Diana Denman of Atlanta; a brother, Rupert Welch of Falls Church, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Morgan Most of Agoura Hills, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Betty Devenney and Carol Gibney, both of Yonkers; two sons, John, of Macon, Ga., and Joseph, of Mahopac, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, David, of Ridgewood, N.J.; three daughters, Lucy Rae Ricciardi of Greenwich, Conn., Catherine Rae Reed of Littleton, Colo., and Mary Louise Rae Arnold of Fort Worth, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jill Allgauer of Munich, and three grandchildren.
      
' ''
        She is survived by her daughter, Nydia Levick of Port Angeles, five grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and four great-great grandchildren.
' ''
        She is survived by her daughter, Nydia Levick of Port Angeles, five grandchildren, five great-grandchildren and four great-great grandchildren.
''
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Simon is survived by a daughter, Sheila Simon of Carbondale; a son, Martin, of Crofton, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Kenner-Jackson, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by four children, Antonio Kenner, Gary Kenner, Tracey Jackson, and Staci Jackson-Richardson, all of Sacramento; two sisters, Ernestine Francies of Passaic and Agnes Coley of Bloomfield, N.J.; a brother, Jeremiah Coley of Paterson, four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eddie Starr II, of Phoenix, and a daughter, Evelyn Starr, of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Melvin Faggs, of New York City, and Steve Murray, of Huntsville, Ala.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Cleon J. Wingard; a son, Cleon Jr., of College Hill, Ohio; a daughter, Diane Lynn Peterson, of Denver; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides their son John, of Lakeland, she is survived by their two other sons, Josiah Bartlett Steinberg of Lakeland and Marc Steinberg of White Sulphur Springs; their daughter, Alexandra Kaghan Macaluso of Reston, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and four children, she is survived by two brothers, three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
Mrs. Venturelli is survived by her son, Alfred of Westchester; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Ms. Grau's survivors include a daughter, Hilda Aguero, six grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sherman K. Edmiston Jr.; two stepchildren, Sherman K. III and Lisa A.  of New York City; three grandchildren; her mother, Mary L. Green,  and two brothers, Reuben Jr. and Eli Green, all of Springfield, Mass.
Mrs. Legendre is survived by two daughters, Bokara Legendre of Manhattan and Mill Valley, Calif., and Landine Manigault of Stonington, Conn.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
; nine grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Daisy and Ruth Mayer, both of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Paul Avila Mayer, and another daughter, Rachael, of Glen Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Frederica Miceli of Manhattan and Ruth Underwood of Studio City, Calif.; a son, Charles Komanoff of Manhattan; a brother, Stanley Winters of Port Charlotte, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
Along the way, Mrs. Marriott also raised a family that now numbers two children, eight grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Glover is survived by a daughter, Christiane, of Ossining, N.Y.; four sons, Derek of Ridgefield, Conn., Brian of White Plains, Renny of Boulder, Colo., and Wayne of North White Plains; and six grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Isaksson is survived by two sons from a previous marriage, Hans Isaksson and Gunnar Isaksson; a sister, Kerstin M. Lundberg; and five grandchildren, all of Stockholm.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Elizabeth Wagman of Brooklyn and Sarah Jacobs of London; two sons, Paul, of Washington, and John, of Berkeley, Calif.; seven grandchildren; two great-grandchildren and a brother, Dr. Oscar Ratnoff of Cleveland.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Austin Aardema of Fort Myers; a daughter, Paula Dufford of Valrico, Fla.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by Maria, of London; another daughter, Christina Dooley, of Cornwall; a son, Valpy Fitzgerald of Oxford, and nine grandchildren.
Mrs. Beardsley is survived by her husband; 20 children; 44 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
Ms. Thornton is survived by two sons, Kenneth Thornton of Detroit and Kelly Glusovich of New York; a daughter, Rose McKinney-James of Las Vegas; and six grandchildren.
      
; six grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan Stern of Washington, D.C., and Rabbi David Stern of Dallas, whose wife, Nancy Kasten, is also a rabbi; a daughter, Elsie Stern, of Brooklyn; her stepmother, Lili Rudin of New York City;  a brother, Stephen Rudin of Manhasset, N.Y.; a stepbrother, Jeffrey Laikind of New York City; four grandchildren; and nieces and nephews.
''
        In addition to her son Drew, she is survived by another son, Tracy, and four grandchildren, all of New Jersey.
      
; a stepdaughter, Eva-Lee Baird of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John M. Angelo of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Lorie Cowen Levy of Irvington, N.Y., and Jill Cowen of Manhattan; a stepson, Tony Cowen of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and a sister, Carol Gruntal of Westchester, N.Y.
      
She is survived by a son, Michael J., of Boston; two daughters, Dr. Margot Onek of Washington and Jane Gilman of South Orange, N.J.; a sister, Jeanne Barnett of Alexandria, Va.; and six grandchildren.
      
; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Susan Harts of Bedford Hills, N.Y.; two sons, Jonathan P. Gilman of Flemington, N.J., and Harrison P. Gilman of Middletown; a stepdaughter, Beatriz A. Guerreiro-Rowe of Darien, Conn.; a stepson, Matthew Guerreiro of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
''
        She is survived by three daughters, Jennifer Manocherian of Scarsdale, N.Y., Susan Morrison of Hingham., Mass., and Victoria Cowal of Mexico City; 11 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Bunny McMunn, of Ormond Beach; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
''
        Ms. Goncalves da Silva is survived by four children, four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her three children, five grandchildren and three sisters.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Adams H. Nickerson; her children, Douglas Bateson, Emily Bateson, William Bateson and Rosina Bateson Barker; a brother, Keith Moffat; and six grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by Sam Wulwick, whom she married in 1988; three daughters, Elinor Wohl of Manhattan, Nancy Drake of Aspen, Colo., and Vicki Greenberg of Lawrence, N.Y.; a son, Larry W. Wohl of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Jaffess of Miami; and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, the actress Marlo Thomas, and Terre Thomas; a son, Tony; five grandchildren and three sisters.
      
She is also survived by nine other children, Barbara Chambers, Suzanne Peterson, Linda Pack, Robert Holt, Mary Last, Christine Russell, Helen Stampe, Paul Holt and Betty Blankenship; three sisters, Beulah Stronczek, Katherine Stanger and Grace Fisher; a brother, William L. Holt; 19 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by four children from her marriage to Mr. Kirsten: Captain Kirsten, of Lodi, Roy Kirsten of Stockton and Warren Kirsten of Sacramento, all military veterans, and Mary Botto of Stockton; 12 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; and 29 great-great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Haefele of Sacramento, and five grandchildren.
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a  daughter, Katherine O'Keeffe of Kent, Ohio, and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Katherine Hocking of Madison, N.H.; and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sagan is survived by three sons: Loring, of San Francisco; Duncan, of Newark, Calif.; and Pico, of London, as well as six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fitzgerald is survived by a son, Dr. Kim Fitzgerald of Cleveland; her mother, Effie Hargett Brown of Fonda; and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Monette Watts of Harvest, Ala., and Barbara Russell of Canton; a son, Andrew, of Omaha; a brother, Garfield Heath of Detroit; 8 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her son Alan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Davis is survived by another son, Michael, of Belvedere, Calif., and four grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Simmons is survived by three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Tania Lichine Crawford of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Sylvia Linguiti of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
Besides her brother the duke, she is survived by four daughters, Serena Balfour of London, Consuelo Russell and Jacqueline Williams, both of Manhattan, and Alexandra Birch of Pennsylvania; a sister, Lady Rosemary Muir of Berkshire, England; a brother, Lord Charles Spencer-Churchill of London; and 10 grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a Cornell professor emeritus, she is survived by two daughters, Judy Salpeter of Berkeley, Calif., and Dr. Shelley Salpeter of Woodside, Calif.; a sister, Naomi Lasher of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by their daughters, Elizabeth Lopukhin, Olga Poloukhine and Xenia Kalinin; their son, George; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
She is also survived by her son, Jimmy Henaghan of Los Angeles; four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
Surviving are her husband, Nathan; a son, Steven, of Albany, Calif.; two grandchildren; and two sisters, Ruth Forsyth of New Orleans and Florence Marx of Bogalusa, La.
      
She is survived by two sons, James, of Manhattan, and Stephen, of Richmond; a daughter, Penelope Yungblut of Round Hill, Va.; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, Michael, of Oakland, Calif.; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Carter, Mrs. Dyk is survived by her son, Timothy, of Washington, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
; a son, Michael, of Oakland, Calif.; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four sons, John and Russell, of Scotch Plains; David, of Boston; and Andrew, of Macungie, Pa.; and by 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sanger is survived by a son, Kenneth E. Sanger, of White Plains,  three grandchildren, and four great-grandsons.
      
He survives her, as do two stepsons, David Wolf of Ridgefield, Wash., and Bill Wolf of New Castle, Va.; a stepdaughter, Louise Chandler of Sweet Springs, W.Va.; six grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
      
She is survived by her son and daughter, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
Mrs. Aresty is survived by a son, Robert, and a daughter, Jane Silverman, both of Princeton; and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Wilkens Michael, a son, Hugh Levey, and five grandchildren.
      
; a stepson, Morgan B. Stark of Manhattan; two sisters, Elizabeth T. Rice of La Canada Flintridge, Calif., and Nancy T. Shepard of St. Paul; and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to Dorothy of Manhattan, Ms. Kauffman is survived by her other daughters, Debra Conigliaro of Rockingham, N.C., and Sherry Holladay of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
