Besides her husband and her daughter, of San Francisco, she is survived by another daughter, Victoria P. Corbett of Manhattan; a son, David W., of Mountain View, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, William; three sons, Thomas, of Summit, N.J., Jonathan Warner of Pelham, N.Y., and William Warner of Buffalo; a daughter, Ann Resmond of San Francisco; a sister, Katherine Homer Fryer of Manhattan, eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Virginia M. Miller of Chula Vista, Calif.; five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
; a daughter, Anne Farber of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      
In addition to Mr. Dessart, she is survived by her mother, Sylvia Field of Fall Brook, Calif.; three stepbrothers, James Truex of New York City and Philip and Barry Truex of California; three sons, Harold Dozier of West Nyack, N.Y.; Aaron Dozier of Los Angeles, and Brendan Dozier of San Diego; a daughter, Shauna Kellin of West Nyack, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two brothers, Paul E. Manheim of New York City and Frank J. Manheim of London; a sister, Louise Espy of Manhattan; three daughters, the former State Parks Commissioner Joan K. Davidson, Elizabeth K. Fonseca and Mary E. Kaplan, all of Manhattan; a son, Richard D. Kaplan of Manhattan; seven grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Molly Finn of Manhattan and Judy Pitt of Leonia, N.J.; two sisters, Rebecca Jarmon of Forest Hills, Queens, and Mina Gudeon of Sunrise, Fla.; a brother, Saul Kamen of North Hills, L.I., eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Tholl is survived by two daughters, Lisanne Fogel of Bellingham, Mass., and Andrea Dente of Vernon, N.J.; two sons, Robert, of Morristown, N.J., and James, of Queensbury, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
In addition to her son, of Concord, Mass., she is survived by a sister, Natalie Barr of Lamoine, Me., and three grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, of Cambridge, Mass., she is survived by her mother, Freda Tabachnick of Manhattan; a son, David Newbro, also of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
In addition to Matilda, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by another daughter, Nancy Mazzola, of Montville, N.J.; three sons, Frank, of Lake Success; Sam, of Syosset, L.I., and Joseph, of San Diego, 15 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Clarinda, of Vierset-Barse, Belgium, and Ellen S. Kean of Weston, Conn.; a son, Lloyd, of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Kate Hooper Gorman of Piermont, N.Y.; Jeanette Williams of Mount Washington, Md., and Queene Hooper Foster of Manhattan; a brother, Dexter Ferry of Detroit, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ries is survived by her daughter, Dr. Jane Ries Pitt Socolow of Princeton, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, of Englewood, Colo., Mrs. Morrow is survived by the three children from her first marriage, Marilou Butler of Valdosta, Ga., Nanci Lee of Hong Kong and Teri Francis of San Jose, Calif.; two stepchildren, Pam Zimmer of El Cajon, Calif., and Randy Morrow of Littleton, Colo., and 10 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a daughter, Phyllis Barbara Lambert of Montreal; two sons, Edgar M. of Manhattan, the chairman of Seagram, and Charles R. of Montreal, co-chairman; 11 grandchildren, and 18 great-grandchildren.
; a sister, Ruth Cooke of Kennett Square, Pa.; a brother, John H. Emerson of Arlington, Mass., and four grandchildren.
When she was born "somewhere about 1910," she once noted, midwives in rural Alabama weren't overly scrupulous about filing birth records for the grandchildren of slaves.
"
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Richard, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., Mrs. Weinberger is survived by another son, Sidney, of Boca Raton, and six grandchildren.
In addition to her husband of 39 years, she is survived by two daughters, Cathy, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Cynthia, of New York City, and two stepchildren, Karen, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Arthur Jr., the publisher of The Times, and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, who was the Lieutenant Governor of Texas from 1973 to 1991 and was recently named chancellor of the University of Houston, and her daughter, Jessica Catto, of San Antonio, she is survived by a sister, Mrs. Loy Loving, of Weslaco, Tex., 8 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
; 11 grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Titus is survived by two children of her first marriage, Louis E. Slesin of Manhattan, and Suzanne Slesin Steinberg of Manhattan, an assistant editor in the Home section of The New York Times; and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her daughter, Carol Davis Evans of Tucson; four grandchildren and three step-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Norman Brooks of Cushing, Me., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Landes's career lasted only three years, but by the time she left a Broadway-bound show in Philadelphia in 1948 to marry Jack Landes, a wealthy silver importer, she had something to tell her grandchildren.
She is survived by her sons, Mark of Potomac, Md., Dan of Brooklyn, Robert of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and Peter of San Rafael, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and a brother, Herbery Wolfson of Wilmington, Del.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jacqueline Coslow of Manhattan, who is also an actress, and by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Winter, she is survived by another daughter, Deborah Herschel, both of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a daughter, Wilhelmine; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Roosevelt is survived by three daughters, Susan Roosevelt Weld of Boston, the wife of Governor Weld; Anna Curtenius Roosevelt of Chicago, and Alexandra Dworkin of Baltimore, and five grandchildren.
      
Beside Mrs. Bunzel of Los Angeles, Dr. Belcher is survived by another daughter, Kate Webster of Bainbridge Island, Wash., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bell is survived by her three children, Cathie, of Manhattan, and Lori and Douglas, both of Staten Island, and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Kidder is survived by her son, Michael R. Kidder of New Hampshire, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Deborah Bradley Donnelly of Roxbury, Conn., and Bonnie Bradley Anderson of Westport; a son, James Peters Bradley of Fairfield, and six grandchildren.
      
"
        Ms. Hsu is survived by four daughters, LiYa Mo, Li Qun Mo and Li Guo Mo, all of New York City, and Li Min Mo of Cambridge, Mass., and two other sons, Lin H. Mo and Chi Mo of New York, and 10 grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a son, Farley, of Portland, Ore.; three daughters, Laurie Welch of Washington, Margaret Welch of Seattle, and Molly Welch of Greenfield, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to Miss Quayle, she is survived by her daughter, Lady Quayle, the widow of the actor Anthony Quayle; two other grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
; two sons, John, of Vero Beach, Fla., and Stewart, of Union, N.J., 9 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, both lawyers, Stephen M. Raphael of Brooklyn and Allan H. Raphael of Oak Park, Ill.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are a son, Michael, of Beacon Falls, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Janice Albert of Rome and Marilyn Albert of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hazen is survived by Mrs. Polsky of Manhattan; four grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; a brother, Walter H. Annenberg of Rancho Mirage, Calif., and three sisters, Mrs. Haupt, Janet Hooker and Evelyn Hall of Manhattan.
Besides her husband of 51 years, Sol Dollinger, Mrs. Dollinger is survived by their son, Ronald, also of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
; 10 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Delafield is survived by two daughters, Clelia D. Carey and Cynthia Delafield, both of Baltimore; a son, Walter B., of New York City; two sisters, Mary B. Henderson of Hunter, N.Y., and Yolanda Jaeckel of Sarasota, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Seymour; two sons, Ralph, of Manhattan, and Victor, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Lois Schmittlinger of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, Bruce; a sister, Helen Huggins; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Michael, who is a resident of Keaau, Hawaii, she is survived by another son, William Snyder of Colorado Springs; a daughter, Jill Goodman, of Manchester, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, whose father was Folke Rogard, she is survived by two sons, John Tabori of Washington, whose father was Henry Hasso, and Kristoffer Tabori of Los Angeles, whose father was Don Siegel, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her brother Joseph; her daughters, Barbara Stein Mallow, a cellist, of Leonia, N.J., and Carol Stein Amado, a violinist, of Merion, Pa., and four grandchildren.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband Dr. Leo S. Palitz and a sister, Pauline Sorkin, all of New York; two grandchildren, and five great-grandsons.
      
She is survived by her son and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bennett is survived by five children, 29 grandchildren and 74 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Edmond, of Hamilton, Ontario, and Bernard, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Harvey Blackston; six children, Marcia Evans of Riverside, Calif., Ronald, Auluavance, Josalyn and Tanya Tillmon of Los Angeles, and Caffie Tillmon of Stockton, Calif.; 20 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Mary Jane Goff of Upper Saddle River, N.J.;  a son, Stanley, of Los Angeles; six grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Chamberlain is survived by four daughters, Alice Baxendale of Clearwater, Fla., Jean C. Mosher of DeWitt, N.Y., Roberta C. Schofield of Cazenovia, N.Y., and Carol Appleby of Columbia, S.C.; 10 grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren, and two sisters, Helen Covell of Tucson, Ariz., and Erma Mowers of Syracuse, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Chamberlain is survived by four daughters, Alice Baxendale of Clearwater, Fla., Jean C. Mosher of DeWitt, N.Y., Roberta C. Schofield of Cazenovia, N.Y., and Carol Appleby of Columbia, S.C.; 10 grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren, and two sisters, Helen Covell of Tucson, Ariz., and Erma Mowers of Syracuse.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Eliza Damiecki  of Bridgehampton, L.I., and Hilary Adams of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Anthony H. and a daughter, Dorothy Smith, both of Jacksonville; 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by the three children of her marriage to Matisse, Jacqueline, Paul and Peter, and by 12 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are another son, Eli, a Manhattan restaurateur; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are another son, Eli, a Manhattan restaurateur; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and business partner, Ms. Boucher is survived by a sister, June Dutton of Sausalito, Calif; two sons, Douglas, of Belvedere, Calif., and Theodore, of Davis, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Geber is survived by two sons, Stephen, the  principal cellist with the Cleveland Orchestra, and David, a cellist with the American String Quartet and chairman of the Manhattan School of Music's string department, and six grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by two sons, Andrew, of Washington, and Robert, of Elizabethtown, N.C., and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Sydney, she is survived by two grandchildren and one  great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Gambee is survived by three sons, Sumner, of San Pedro, Calif., Craig, of Nantucket, Mass., and Robert, of Rye, N.Y.; a daughter, Fay Gambee of Manhattan, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Jane, of New York City; a son, John, an author and a drama critic for The New Yorker, of London, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her stepdaughter, of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass., she is survived by a stepson, Henry Stevenson Livingston of Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, who is on the Superior Court bench in Union County, she is survived by a daughter, Naomi Margolies of Plainfield; a brother, Dr. Morton Bertin of Orlando, Fla., six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, David, a retired corporate lawyer; a daughter, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; two sisters, Annette Bloch of Manhattan and Frances Epstein of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, survivors include two sons, Mark, of Maryville, Mo., and Peter, of Austin, Tex., and two grandchildren.
      
She spent her time reciting the rosary daily, attending Mass celebrated by a priest in her living room on Sundays and sitting on a porch overlooking Nantucket Sound on sunny weekends while her children and grandchildren paid visits and regaled her with their latest adventures.
For Mrs. Kennedy, who had 30 grandchildren and 41 great-grandchildren, the sorrows continued in recent years.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Several of her grandchildren have followed the family tradition of entering politics.
She spent her time reciting the rosary daily, attending Mass celebrated by a priest in her living room on Sundays and sitting on a porch overlooking Nantucket Sound on sunny weekends while her children and grandchildren paid visits and regaled her with their latest adventures.
For Mrs. Kennedy, who had 30 grandchildren and 41 great-grandchildren, the sorrows continued in recent years.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F.  Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Several of her grandchildren have followed the family tradition of entering politics.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy's church, children and grandchildren today celebrated the enduring Catholic faith of the founding mother of a political dynasty at funeral services in the church where she was baptized 104 years ago.
In addition to Ms. Plimpton, of Sagaponack, L.I., she is survived by three other daughters, Joanna, of Manhattan, Mona Espy Schreiber of New Orleans and Cassin Espy-Speziali of Staten Island, six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Besides her son, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Virginia, the Countess of Airlie, who lives in London; eight grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Richard K. Manoff; another son, Dr. Gregory P. Manoff of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Martha Deutscher of New York, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Forrest is survived by three grandchildren.
      
Besides Donald, she is survived by two other sons, Aaron and Marshall, both of Manhattan; a sister, Helen Rachmil of Los Angeles; a brother, Morton Goldman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
"
        She is survived by her husband; two daughters, K. C. Ligon of New York City and Susan Bennett of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 69 years, William Seaman; two sons, Gideon, of Manhattan and Jonathan, of Brooklyn, eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a son, Richard, of Montclair, N.J.; four grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; her daughters, Geraldine Jacobs of Woodstock, N.Y., Sarah Cleary of Warwick, N.Y., and Elizabeth Marino of Great Neck, and seven grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Robert, of Bern, Switzerland; a daughter, Carolyn Hoehn of Heidelberg, Germany; a sister, Helen Sutton Gulick of Sacramento, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 45 years, who is chairman of Straus Communications, Mrs. Straus is survived by her mother, Louise Mayer Blumenthal Sulzberger of Longboat Key, Fla., and Saranac Lake, N.Y.; four children, Diane Tucker of Bedford, N.Y., Katherine Caple of Wellesley, Mass., Jeanne Tofel of Manhattan and Eric Straus of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; two sisters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann Sand, both of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Roy Jr., she is survived by two sisters, Elizabeth Quinlan of San Clemente, Calif., and Dr. Ruth Briles of Sycamore, Ill.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
; John, of Aspen, Colo.; Susie Kayyali of Coral Gables, Fla., and Harriet Fraunfelter of Washington; her brother, John Hauberg Jr. of Seattle; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two other children, John Barlow of Winchester, England, and Joseph Cook of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Catherine, of Pearl River, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Sara Gill, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Dr. William Houlton; three sons, Laif, Joel and Andrew, and four grandchildren, all of Minneapolis, and two sisters, Jewell Kraemer of Wausau, Wis., and Ardeth Becher of St. Paul.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Thomas I. Unterberg of Manhattan, five grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister and son, Mrs. Morgan is survived by three daughters, Saran Hutchins of Chicago, Elisabeth Pendleton of Washington and Margaret Eiluned Morgan of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Feld is survived by her husband of 70 years, Samuel B.; two sons, Dr. Alan, of Las Vegas, and Stuart P., of Manhattan, two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
"
        She is survived by a son, Theodore B. Merrill of Piermont, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, Marvin, she is survived by 14 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Mrs. Brunswick, Mrs. Solomon is survived by a sister, Lisa Dickson of Beverly Hills, Calif.; another daughter, Joan Ash of Elkins Park; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Mr. Rangel, she is survived by a daughter, Frances McDermott of the Bronx; a brother, Percy Wharton of Camden, N.J.; a sister, Sylvia Curtis of Manhattan, seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Michael, of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Henry, of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Lillian Stamler of Stony Creek, Conn., and Jean Krosner of New York City; three grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      
Besides her sons George, of Selvole, Italy, and Antonio, of St. Remy de Provence, France, Mrs. Mercati is survived by her son Louis d'Almeida of Manhattan, five grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
Other survivors include 5 stepdaughters, 14 step-grandchildren and 5 step-great grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. M. Lawrence Furst; a son, Merrick, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura F. Jacobs of Merion, Pa.; her mother, Anne Platzer of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Laszlo Steingisser of Chile, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her daughter Tamar, she is survived by another daughter, Marina Naumann of Norwich, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla. and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla. and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla., and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 57 years, Mrs. Rudnick is survived by two sons, David, of Palm Beach, and Andrew, of Buffalo, and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Elinor Stevens Cloutier of Ashburnham; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Galen, of Berkeley, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gladding, a retired Red Cross executive; a daughter, Sylvia Lucas of Columbia, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jacob E. Goldman; a brother, Rabbi Burton Mehler of the Bronx; three sisters, Jean Kelman of Queens and Gloria Mehler and Mindella Lamm of Manhattan; three sons, Shalom L., of East Thetford, Vt., and Ari L. and Dov E., of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
