; seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Dr. Fryer, a Manhattan resident, she is survived by three other daughters, Dr. Judith Shedden, Anne Eddis and Dr. Sarah Leibowitz, all of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
; a son, Robert C., of Woodbridge, Conn., and three grandchildren.
She is survived by 8 grandchildren, 15 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Atlanta, Miss Bancroft is survived by 6 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Roma Torre of Manhattan, a news anchorwoman; a son, Adam Jeffrey Friedman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Torregrossa of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by four sons, two daughters and more than 30 grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Jane K. Lowentritt of Metairie and Mildred R. Wohl of Mandeville, La., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bouteneff is survived by their son, Archpriest Sergei C. Bouteneff of Trumbull, Conn., rector of St. George Albanian Orthodox Church; a daughter, Dr. Marina Koulomzin of North Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Vera C. Bouteneff; a brother, Dr. Eugene S. Troubetzkoy of Hastings-on Hudson, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Martin, she is survived by another son, Frank, of Staten Island, five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
Mrs. Ganz is survived by a son, Tony, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Victoria DeFelice of Newport Beach, Calif., Kate Ganz Dorment of London and Nancy Wright of La Canada, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kurt Biss; two sons, Paul and Gregory Biss, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 70 years, Clare Robinson, 93; two daughters, Virginia and Diana Baer; five grandchildren, and four great grand-children.
      
''
        Ms. Hahn is survived by her husband; her daughters, Carola, of  Jackson Heights, Queens, and Amanda, of London; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
; Robert, of Dedham, Mass., and David, of Washington; two stepsons, Shaw, of Rumson, N.J., and Harry, of Vero Beach, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Margaret Vernon, of Hamilton, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Mrs. Harriman is survived by her sisters, Sheila Moore of Atlanta and Ireland, and Jaquetta James of the Isle of Mull, Scotland; her brother, Edward, Lord Digby, of Minterne Magna; four grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
In addition to her son, Mrs. Harriman is survived by her sisters, Sheila Moore of Atlanta and Ireland, and Jaquetta James of the Isle of Mull, Scotland; her brother, Edward, Lord Digby, of Minterne Magna; four grandchildren and three great grandchildren.
In addition to her sister, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Julia, who now heads the English Theater; her mother, Anna K. Brinkmann of Delray Beach, Fla.; a brother, Klaus Brinkmann of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
; two sons, Christopher W. Morris of Haverford, Pa., and John B. Morris Jr. of Washington; two sisters, Margaret Cardoza of Brookline, Mass., and Ellen Stoia of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Wertenbaker is survived by a daughter, Timberlake Wertenbaker, a playwright who lives in London, and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Portland, Ore., and her daughter, Mrs. Clark is survived by four grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Nancy Lassalle of Manhattan, who is vice president of the School of American Ballet; a son, Andrew E. Norman of Palisades, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sharp is survived by a daughter, Mary Sharp Cronson of Manhattan, now the president of the foundation; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
There are nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. DeWind is survived by her husband, Adrian W. DeWind, a New York City lawyer, and by her four children and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Mark, of San Miguel Allende, Mexico, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gleason is survived by her husband of 57 years, Frederick B. Gleason Jr.; a brother, Thomas W. Dewart of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Frederick B. Gleason 3d of Savannah, Ga.; a daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar of Riverside, Conn.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
; a sister, Miriam Heins of Ann Arbor, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Peggy Piers, of Portland, Ore.; a son, Matthew, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas O. Warner of Philadelphia, five grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gurwin is survived by their daughter, Laura Flug of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Livingston, N.J.; her twin brother, Murray Brizell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Alvida Jones, Ann Fielder and Cynthia Riggs, all of West Tisbury; 14 grandchildren, and 22 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Greenberg is survived by her husband of 45 years, William; their daughters, Lisa Greenberg of Madison, N.J., and Ellen Greenberg of San Francisco; a son, Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Walter Weintraub of Baltimore, and Robert Weintraub of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 65 years, Mrs. Neuberger is survived by their daughter, Ann N. Aceves of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Roy S., of North Woodmere, N.Y., and James, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Jarvis, Mrs. Monroe is survived by another daughter, Connie Gibson, of Clarksville; six sisters, Vera Gastineau and Lelia Stiers of Lafayette, Ind., Gladys Jones of Merritt Island, Fla., Eula Stone of Jeffersontown, Ky., Flonnie Cope of Lake Worth, Fla., and Christine Witt of Port Clinton, Ohio; nine grandchildren, and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Cruso is survived by her daughters, Ala Reid of York Harbor, Me., Sophia Stone of New Orleans and Thalassa Scholl of Boston; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
; 11 grandchildren, and 1 great-granddaughter.
In addition to her son Morgan of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Nick Delaney of Seattle; a daughter, Topher Delaney of San Francisco; two sisters, Eliane Koevas of Chester, Conn., and Jenny de Kergolay of Paris, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Daniel H. Frank of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Katherine L. Frank of Manhattan; two sisters, Delia H. Cantor and Harriet H. Simpson, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband,  John C. McCabe, the movie biographer; two daughters, Rosina Mo of Bracciano, Italy, and Margaret Romairone of Manhattan; a son, Juvenal L., of Rockleigh, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son; her daughter, Camilla Chandler Frost, eight grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
; Frederic Jennings Truslow of Washington, and John Taylor Howell 3d of Washington Crossing; two daughters, Elizabeth Truslow Russell of Cold Spring Harbor, and Sophia Day LaVerdiere Truslow of Brooklyn; a stepdaughter, Shirley Howell Caracciolo of Rome; a sister, Laura Jennings Ingraham of Hanover, N.H.; 13 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Fleischner is survived by her husband, Peter; a daughter, Julia, of Manhattan; three sons, Robert, of Buffalo; Paul, of Phoenix, and Michael, of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Patrick O'Shaughnessy of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Stillwell is survived by two sons, Roy and Guy, and a daughter, Dadie, all of the Big Bend region; a sister, Glen Harris of Presidio; 9 grandchildren; 15 great-grandchildren and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son James, of Des Moines, she is survived by another son, Dr. Robert C., of East Lansing, Mich.; a daughter, Maggie of Jamestown, Calif.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
''
        Mrs. Henson is survived by a son and a daughter as well as by several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She was a trustee of Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., Smith College, the Greenwich Country Day School and the Gunnery, in Washington, Conn.
        She is survived by a sister, Katherine Scranton Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y.; a brother, William W. Scranton, the Governor of Pennsylvania from 1963 to 1967; five children, Ellen S. Linen and Marion M. Dawson Carr, both of Greenwich, Jonathan S. Linen of Summit, N.J., Christopher T. Linen of Redding, Conn., and Worthington W. Linen of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her son, of Manhattan; a daughter, Margaret Peet Anderson of Hoboken, N.J., and five grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Roy, of Newark, Del., and Edward, of Marlboro, Vt.; a daughter, Peggy Lopata of Francestown, N.H.; five grandchildren; a brother, Philip Good of Somers, N.Y., and a sister, Esther Goffman of Houston.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Westwood is survived by a son, Richard E. Westwood Jr., of Highland, Utah; a daughter, Beth Davies of American Fork; two brothers, John K. Miles of Provo, Utah, and David H. Miles of Orem, Utah; 15 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sallie Tennant, of Bradenton; a son, Ricardo Dellera, of Hawaii; a sister, Josephine Staral, of Barrington, Ill., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Nathalie Friedman; three sisters, Nathalie Herman and Hilda Fischman of Manhattan and Sylvia Lipton of Los Angeles; a brother, Charles Schlang of Scottsdale, Ariz.; eight grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband of 57 years, Mrs. Slewett is survived by two sons, Robert D. and Alan M., both of Miami; a brother, Leon Miller, of Great Neck, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, David S. Gottesman of Manhattan and Milton M. Gottesman of Washington; two brothers, Harold Garfunkel of Manhattan and Julian Garfunkel of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Florence Roswell of Manhattan; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Terry Kingsley-Smith, a novelist and playwright, and Michael Durney, both of Carmel; two daughters, Susan Durney Mickelson of Lake Oswego, Ore., and Christine Armanasco of Carmel, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Titia Dick Ellis of Santa Fe, N.M.; a son, Edison W., of Washington; a sister, Marion Hodgkins of Lake Forest, Ill.; 9 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters from her first marriage, Coco Ramirez Morris of Sarasota, Fla., and Ketty Pelaez and Tina Ramirez, both of Manhattan; a sister, Luisa Lolon of Manhattan; a half brother, Edward Pion of Washington; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, of Normandy Beach, N.J., she is survived by another son, David, of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Marjorie Whitmore, of Pontiac, Ill.; a brother, Sheldon Nichols, of Spring Hill, Fla.; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sarah Douglas of Brooklyn; two sons, James Linkoff of Salt Lake City and Frank Linkoff of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Griswold is survived by three daughters, Sarah Leahy of Chestnut Hill, Mass., Mary Flender of Cambridge, Mass., and Susanna G. Kaleck of Hamden, Conn.; a son, A. Whitney Jr., of West Tisbury, Mass.,  nine grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Daniel, of Manhattan; a daughter, Judith Goode of Boulder, Colo., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Martha M. Pappas of Rowayton, Conn., and Kate M. Upson of New Canaan, Conn.; a son, Thomas J. McMahon of Bridgeport, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Dr. Miller is survived by a son, Joel, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Hannah Lieberman of Phoenix and Rebecca Miller-Randall of Chester, Conn.; four sisters, Elsie Hurst and Edith Sahl of Newton, Mass., Ginger Lanahan of Raynham, Mass., and Dorothy Bearman of London, and six grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by two sisters, Mildred Rosenbaum and Roslyn Klibanoff, both of Florence, Ala., and five grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by three sisters, Beulah L. Smith and Fredrica L. Yates of San Diego and Sue L. Wimberly of Green Valley, Ariz.; a brother, Hunter W. Lewis of Albuquerque, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Katherine Hollingshead of Irvine, Calif.; a stepson, Peter Seymour of Pasadena, Calif., and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her two sons, Gilbert Kahn of Newport, R.I., and Miami, and Donald Kahn of Salzburg and London, she is survived by her two sisters, Enid Haupt of New York and Evelyn Hall of Palm Beach; her brother, Walter Annenberg of Philadelphia and Palm Springs, Calif.;  five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, Mrs. Kelly is survived by a son, William E. 2d, of Spring Lake, N.J.; a sister, Katherine Duryea of Amityville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
; two stepchildren, Edward Mitchell of Puerto Rico and Elizabeth Mitchell of New Zealand; three brothers, Robert Cohen of Flourtown, Pa., Fred Caine of Cherry Hill, N.J., and Richard Cohen of Upper Darby, Pa., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Richard L., of Mamaroneck, N.Y., dean of Pace Law School and a former United States Representative; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by 10 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Iver, of Lawrenceville, N.J., who is a reporter for The New York Times, Mrs. Peterson is survived by two other sons, Eric N.,  of Alexandria, Va., and Lars E., of Washington; a daughter, Karen K. Wilken of Fort Collins, Colo., and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Chubb is survived by five sons, Hendon, of Cornwall, Conn.; Percy 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J., the president of the Victoria Foundation; Joseph, of Lechlade, Gloustershire, England; James, of Ketchum, Idaho, and Caldecot, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Corinne Zimmermann, of Great Falls, Va.; 12 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Jon, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her third husband, Edward Cook; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
