In addition to her daughter Leslie, of Santa Fe, N.M., Dr. Carlson is survived by her daughter Tracy Carlson of Oakton, Va., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Mrs. Stein's survivors include another son, Richard L., co-publisher of The Press; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by a son, James J., also of Columbia; a daughter, Jean Rosenberg of Middlebury, Vt.; a sister, Emily Jack of Washington; and three grandchildren.
Correction:  January 8, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who was a pioneer in perception studies, misstated the number of her grandchildren and referred incompletely to her residence.
She had four grandchildren, not three.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her twin sister, Bertha Freeman of Miami; a brother, David Feinberg of West Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Frances Linderman of Trinidad, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lippert is survived by two sons, Keith L., of Manhattan and Randy S., of Hellerup, Denmark; two sisters; two brothers; and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hirsch is survived by her son, Rudolph, of Washington; three grandchildren, Stephanie Weinstein of Fairfax Station, Va., Andrew, of Coshocton, Ohio, and Claudia, of New York; as well as by four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Jennifer Gerard Maric; three grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin.
      
She is survived by two sons, Henry, of London and Carl, of Frankfurt; a daughter, Deborah Ramsden of Woodstock, N.Y.; two grandchildren; and a sister, Elizabeth Trace of Peekskill, N.Y.
      
The baroness is survived by her husband; two daughters, Nellie Munthe of London and Elisabeth of Paris; a son, Nathaniel of New York City; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
She is survived by a daughter, Maggie McDermott-Walsh of Bernardsville, N.J.; two sons, Burr, of Boston, and Michael, of Beijing; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Redwood City, Calif., she is survived by a daughter, Antonia West, of Stroud, Gloucestershire, England, and three grandchildren.
She also is survived by two grandsons, two stepsons, three grandchildren and a sister.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Sue Lynn Hawkins of Irvine, Calif.; a son, Loren Heacock of Fountain Valley, Calif.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Ellen Toker of Pittsburgh; Elizabeth Chapman of Palo Alto, Calif.; and Susan Finer of Hanover, N.H.; and nine grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Duncan is survived by her husband of 62 years, who lives in New York; a son, Craig Duncan, of Greenwich, Conn; two daughters, Lynn Tarbox of Tampa, Fla., and Gail Simmons of New York; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Clint Formby, who owns the local country radio station, survives her, as do her sons Chip of Hereford, Marshall of Lubbock and Scott of Manhattan; her daughter, Mary Beth Powell of Hereford; and four grandchildren.
She is survived by two grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her daughter, Waverly Scott Kaffaga, of New York City; a stepson, Thomas Steinbeck; four grandchildren; and two sisters, Jean Boone of New York City and Frances Atkinson of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
She is survived by two daughters, Ann Marcus of Manhattan and Dorothy Marcus of the Bronx; a son, Daniel, of Washington; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and two sisters, Marion Epstein of Princeton, N.J., and Helen Joffe of Rochester.
      
Lady Redgrave is survived by three children, the actors Vanessa, Corin and Lynn Redgrave, 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Sunny, of Norman, Okla., and Coral Gables, Fla., and Stormie, of Pacific Grove, Calif., she is survived by another daughter, Dawn, of Pacific Grove; a son, Trails, of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Harold Jones, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
In 1963 she married Mr. Dillman, who survives her, along with their daughter, Dinah Kaufman of Irvine, Calif.; their sons Charles, of Los Angeles, and Christopher, of Encinitas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
; and two grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by her son with Johnny Cash, John Carter Cash; her stepchildren Rosanne, Tara, Kathy and Cindy; and several grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, Phillip Jr., of Baltimore, and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her sons, James, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Andrew, of Lake Forest, Ill.; her brothers, Howard and Donald Fried; and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son David, of Venice, Calif., and Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Nicholas, of Princeton, N.J.; a sister, Eleanor Sheldon of Studio City, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
He and David, another son, survive her, as do six grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her sister, Sheila Cole of Sonoma, Calif., Mrs. Fischbach's survivors include her husband, Herbert X. Fischbach of Sonoma; sons Peter, of St. Petersburg, Fla., John, of New Orleans, and James, of Phoenix; a daughter, Sally Fischbach-Willard of Geneva, Switzerland; and grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, her daughters and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Manavendra, Ms. Chitnis is survived by her sons Benoy and Raj, and by three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
In addition to her husband, whose work is currently on special exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, she is survived by two daughters, Ellen R. Hart of Melrose Park, Pa., and Paula Rogovin of Teaneck, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Forest Park, Ill.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Matthau is survived by her two sons, Charles, known professionally also as Charlie Matthau, of Manhattan, and Aram Saroyan of Los Angeles; a sister, Elinor Pruder of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren.
Her survivors include two daughters, Margaret, of Vineyard Haven, Mass., and Georgia, of South Pasadena, Calif.; three sons, Thomas, of Long Beach, Calif., and Stephen and Benjamin, both of Brooklyn; a brother, George Rowe Jr. of Irvington, N.Y.; and 11 grandchildren.
      
Miss Samuels is survived by her son, Paul Oppenheimer of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, John, a composer who grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Stubin of Passaic, N.J.; a son, David, of Athens, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Hershell H. Nixon; three daughters, Maureen Quinlan of Duluth, Minn., Kathleen Brush of Fort Collins, Colo., and Eileen McGowan of Houston; a son, Joseph, of Houston; two sisters, Patricia Collins of Gloucester, Mass., and Marilyn Lowery of Los Angeles; and 13 grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Frances R. Olivieri of Manhattan; three sons, John R., of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y., George B., of Manhattan, and Alexander S., of Hughsonville; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Anna Hopwell Madge; a son, James Madge; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Jacobsen is survived by a son, Erlend, of Plainfield, Vt.; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
She is survived by a far-flung extended family, including the Duchess of Devonshire, her last surviving sister; four sons, two by each of her husbands; and a large number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
She is survived by six children: Jose, Manny and Cesar, of Detroit; Vincent, of Richmond; and Nanette Magno-Velayo and Carlo, of Manila; three sisters; a brother; 15 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Clarence Grimmer Simpson of Roswell, N.M., and Robert Laybourne of Manassas; a stepdaughter, Phyllis Hallman of Fairfax County, Va.; four brothers; four sisters; two grandchildren; and four great-  grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Clarence Grimmer Simpson of Roswell, N.M., and Robert Laybourne of Manassas; a stepdaughter, Phyllis Hallman of Fairfax County, Va.; four brothers; four sisters; two grandchildren; and four great-  grandchildren.
      
''I'm sure glad I don't have grandchildren,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press last year.
She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Downs, of Newport Beach, Calif., she is survived by a son, Mac Shuttleworth; a brother, George La Fleche; a sister, Janine Helzer; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Foster is survived by her son, James Foster of Indianapolis; her daughter, Rose Davis of Salt Lake City; her brothers, Dr. Sullivan Jackson and Thomas Martin, both of Selma; and three grandchildren.
In addition to June Cross and Lary May, Mrs. Storch is survived by her husband, who lives in Manhattan; her daughter Candace Herman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her husband, Lady Donaldson is survived by a son, two daughters and six grandchildren.
; 9 grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, of Brooklyn, and her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Margaret Heilbrun, of Brooklyn, and Emily Heilbrun, of Eugene, Ore., and two grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Smith; a sister, Gloria Chadima of Minneapolis; four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Jack Brown, of Quincy, Mass., and William Marcus, of Fort Lauderdale; her daughters, Mary Liles and Barbara Marcus, both of St. Petersburg, Fla.; eight grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Charles Thomas, of San Diego; a sister, Frances Martin, of St. Louis; and eight grandchildren.
      
Janet Broderick Kraft and Martha Broderick; a brother, Richard Biow; and five grandchildren.
      
Le Corbeiller is survived two daughters, Suzanne Le Corbeiller of Pocatello, Idaho, and Geneviéve White of Pelham, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her sister, Kathryn Michel, of Washington; two daughters, Gregg Deane Swain and Kathryn Deane-Krantz, both of New York; two sons, Disque D. Deane Jr., of Buenos Aires, and Walter Longstreet Deane, of New York; and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest, of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her children, she is survived by her sister, Rose Scarafoni Millerick of Sonoma; 12 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
Ms. Ovesey is survived by two daughters, Candace, of Danbury, Conn., and Michele, of Manhattan; and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. Blank is survived by her husband of 58 years, Joseph S.; three daughters, Laura, Barbara and Alice, all of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Susan Brown of Manhattan and Laura Maslon of Venice, Calif.; her niece and foster daughter, Francine Ringold-Johnson of Tulsa, Okla.; two grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
; and Katherine K. Fleischman of Baltimore; a son, Robert J., of Manhattan; 11 grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
; and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, William Winant, a musician, of Oakland, Calif.; Scott Winant, a television producer and director, of Santa Monica, Calif.; and Bruce Winant, an actor, of West Milford, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
