In addition to her son, of Sea Girt, she is survived by a daughter, Margaretta J. Friday of Weston, Conn., four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Greeff is survived by her daughter, Anne M. Garrigue of Manhattan; her son, Paul Garrigue of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Evangeline Greeff Michell of Westport, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Lazarus, of New York and Washington, she is survived by another daughter, Carole Avnet Rocherolle of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Jonathan Avnet, a film director and producer of Topanga Canyon, outside Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Shea is survived by a son, William A. Jr. of Manhattan; two daughters, Kathy Shea Anfuso of Portland, Ore., and Patricia Shea Ryan of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by two sons, James S. Jr. of Camden, Me., and Andrew C. of Greenwich; two daughters, Nancy Coop of Germantown, Tenn., and Georgia Rose of Manhattan; 14 grandchildren, and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Ted Lloyd of Phoenix; a brother, Carleton Ralston of Los Angeles; two daughters, Judy Richmond of Mill Valley, Calif., and Mary Baxter of Phoenix; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. Rastelli of Rome, Marjorie Bowden of London and Virginia Gordan of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a son, John D. Gordan 3d of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Field is survived by a son, Robert L. Phipps of Ridgeland, S.C.; a daughter, Fiona F. Kay, a resident of Alicante province in eastern Spain, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Ellen N. Rothchild of Cleveland, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Firestone is survived by a son, John D., of Washington; three daughters, Gay F. Wray and Susan F. Semegen of Paradise Valley, Ariz., and Cinda F. Fox of New York; a brother, Peter Joers of Hot Springs, Ark., and 10 grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband of 63 years; two sons, Eric E., of Anchorage, and Timothy A., of Oakland, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Florence Lawson of Florida; a brother, Thomas Lawson of Sandy Hook, Conn.; three children, Douglas Sloan of Manhattan, Kathryn Roth of Weston, Mass., and Gillis Bolton of Roxbury, Conn., and three grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Boxer is survived by two sons, Adam, of Brooklyn and Nicholas, of Atlanta, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Ann S. Gertler of Montreal and Virginia S. Bersohn of New York; nine grandchildren, and six great-granchildren.
; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her daughter, of New York City, she is survived by a son, George Daubek of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Karyl McKay of Alanson, Mich., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, Peter Harrison of Radnor, Pa., Charles Harrison of Pittsburgh and Douglas A. Bruce of Greenwich; a daughter, Elizabeth Morgan of Princeton, N.J.; a stepson, Leslie Combs Bruce 3d of San Diego; a stepdaughter, Julia Bruce Coyle of Greenwich; 17 grandchildren; 14 great-grandchildren; 8 step-grandchildren, and 8 step-great-grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by a daughter, Melissa Ann Hime; a son, John David Montgomery, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wasson is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth W. Bergstrom of South Harpswell, Me., and Anne Harney Gallagher of Boston; a son, Edward B., of Denver; a sister, Helen Hauser Jordan of Short Hills., N.J.; 13 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Paul, a resident of Baton Rouge, she is survived by a daughter, Donna Jones, also of Baton Rouge; two other sons, Thomas, of Springfield, Va., and Perry, of Baton Rouge, and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sisters Emma, Geneva and Georgie; a daughter, Jacqueline; a son, William; four grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren, all of St. Louis.
      
In addition to her son Benjamin, of Piscataway, N.J., she is survived by another son, Willson Barber of Becket, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Charles Fleischmann 3d of Cincinnati; another daughter, Dorette Fleischmann of The Plains, Va.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger of Manhattan; a son, Jim Lebenthal, the firm's chairman and spokesman, also of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
in theology in 1964 from Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y.
        She was an oblate of St. Gregory's Abbey in Three Rivers, Mich., and an associate of St. Mary's Convent in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ann Hemingway Tarlton of Rumson, N.J.; two sons, John Moon Hemingway of Seattle and Booth Roy Hemingway of Kittery Point, and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Miller, who is the president of Capezio Dance-Theater Shops, she is survived by two other daughters, Cathy Rano, vice president of Federated Department Stores, and Debbie J. Palmer; five grandchildren; four step-grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
; a daughter, Margaret L. Starbird of Tacoma, Wash.; a sister, Alice B. Miller of Fort Belvoir, 13 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband ; a daughter, Barbara Green; three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two children, Roger Anthony Whedon and Susan Whedon, and two grandchildren, Arie Daniel Whedon and Amelia Whedon.
      
; a daughter, Michelle Ogut of Monroe, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and her daughter, she is survived by three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Michelle Ogut of Monroe, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, who maintains homes in New York, Philadelphia and Miami, she is survived by two sons, Robert, of Philadelphia and Alan, of Miami; a sister, Florence Jans of Miami; a brother, Marvin Chaiken of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two sons, Dr. Michael N. Sills of Dallas and David C. Sills of Roslyn, L.I., and three grandchildren.
Black of Keswick, Va.; 15 grandchildren, and 20 great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Grunwald is survived by her son, George, of Benecia, Calif., and four grandchildren.
In recent years Mrs. Onassis had lived quietly but not in seclusion, working at Doubleday; joining efforts to preserve historic New York buildings; spending time with her son, daughter and grandchildren; jogging in Central Park; getting away to her estates in New Jersey, at Hyannis, Mass., and on Martha's Vineyard, and going about town with Maurice Tempelsman, a financier who had become her closest companion.
"
        Mrs. Onassis is survived by her daughter, Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg; a son, John F. Kennedy Jr.; her sister, Lee Radziwill Ross, and three grandchildren, Rose Kennedy, Tatiana Celia Kennedy and John Bouvier Kennedy Schlossberg.
Ms. Gair is survived by a daughter, Patricia Sweeney of Kingston upon Thames, England; two sons, Judd Rose of Manhattan and Roger Rose of Los Angeles; her mother, Rose Gair of Chicago; a brother, Seymour Gair of suburban Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
; her mother, Amy Miller, and a brother, Donald Miller, both of New Port Richey, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son of Bellport; a daughter, Helen Young of Lawrenceville, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Burdick is survived by her husband, John; two sons, Owen of Jersey City and Richard of Manhattan; her brother, Robert Birdsall of Haddonfield, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Barbara Potter of Woodbury, Conn., and Elizabeth Crabtree of Midland Park, N.J.; a sister, Elizabeth B. Ultes of Columbus, Ohio; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
She is survived by their two sons, Jacques-Andre and Yves-Andre; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, William Murray, an author and foreign correspondent, and three grandchildren, all of Del Mar.
      
She is survived by her son, William Murray, an author and foreign correspondent, and three grandchildren, all of Del Mar.
      
Dr. Woititz is survived by two sons, David, of West Orange, N.J., and Daniel, of Roseland; a daughter, Lisa Taub of Allentown, N.J.; two grandchildren, and her companion, Bernard Zweben.
      
Mrs. Milgrim is survived by two sons, Franklin of Miami and Paul of Detroit, a brother, Louis Knobel of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Paepcke is survived by three daughters, Anina Hamilton of Sussex, England, Paula Zurcher of Woodside, Calif., and Antonia DuBrul of Manhattan; a brother, Paul H. Nitze of Washington, the longtime United States arms negotiator who is now retired; eight grandchildren, and two great-granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a son, Joseph R., of Boston; two daughters, Eva M. Grizell of Boston and Nichole Devanna of Ardsley; two grandchildren, and a sister, Barbara Schwab of Mount Laurel, N.J.
      
Mrs. Emery is survived by her husband of 40 years, Charles E.; three daughters, Roxane G. Holmes and Jamie N. Emery, both of Centreville, and Robin E. Loring of Virginia Beach, Va.; three sons, Charles R., of Fayetteville, N.C., Randy B., of Centreville, and Ronald H., of Stafford, Va.; a brother, Sylvestor Janis of Kyle, S.D., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 49 years; two children, Carole Shorenstein-Hays and Douglas Shorenstein, both of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Mary Louise Carpenter of Minneapolis, Carolyn Judd of Los Angeles and Eleanor Quinn of Hartford, seven grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hong is survived by three sons; Alfred of Jamaica Estates, Robert of Syosset, L.I., and Morris of Fresh Meadows, Queens; a daughter, Virginia Wei of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Moy of Chicago; a sister, Mae Wu of Berkeley, Calif.; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter of Lafayette, Calif.; her son, Dan Natchez of Mamaroneck, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Arthur H. of Manhattan and Dr. Francis T. Christy of Washington; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Williams is survived by her son, Robin, of Philadelphia; a brother, Isaac, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two grandchildren, in addition to her son.
      
; three sisters, Judy Green of Cincinnati, Betsy Douglas of Missoula, Mont., and Edith Blair of Alexandria, Va., and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Holgate, who lives in Watervliet, she is survived by two other daughters, Elizabeth Adams, also of Watervliet, and Deborah Studebaker of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Connie Marks of Culpeper, Va., and Jennifer Buchwald of Boston; a son, Joel, of Denver; three grandchildren, five sisters and two brothers.
      
Mrs. Dunscombe is survived by two sons, Herbert S. 3d, of Veneta, Ore., and David C., of White Salmon, Wash.; a daughter, Cynthia D. Bell of Oroville, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Leonard; two sons, Michael, of Falls Church, and Mark, of Alexandria, Va.; two sisters, Barbara Leonard of McLean, Va., and Mary Schmeich of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Richard C. Lemon of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, of Austin, Tex., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. McDonald is survived by a son, Dr. Brian F. of Rockville Centre; a sister, Anna Gordon of Bayside, Queens, and two grandchildren.
; two daughters, Anne Adler Tarbell and Mary Ballard Malhotra, both of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Katherine Turpin Gnugnoli of Washington and Mary Turpin Barradale of Richmond; a sister, Mary Tyler McClenahan of Richmond; a brother, James Douglas Freeman of Richmond, and three grandchildren.
      
Dr. Langer is survived by a son, Seth Rosenberg of Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
; a son, Steven M. of Melrose, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Goldstein is survived by a son, Herbert Samuelson of Metuchen, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fred Kasoff; two daughters, Pamela Ehrenkranz of New York City and Jean LeGrand of Chicago; a sister, Babette Cohen of Rosyln Heights, L.I., and 16 grandchildren.
; a daughter, Deborah Carliner of Washington; a brother, Karl Kalter of Munich, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mrs. Dawe, of Milwaukee, she is survived by a son, Simpson Markson of New Jersey; a brother, the producer and director Edwin Sherin of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nina, and two grandchildren.
Mrs. Hoffstot, whose family has spent winters in Palm Beach for three generations, was born Barbara S. Drew in Pittsburgh, graduated from the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., and attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.
        She is survived by her husband of 46 years, Henry Phipps Hoffstot Jr.; a daughter, Thayer of Westlake Village, Calif.; a son, Henry Phipps 3d of Ligonier, Pa., and New York, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son Paul, she is survived by another son, Carlson Brown Klapthor of Washington; a daughter, Frances Andrews of Baltimore; a sister, Mary Berry Moore of Port Tobacco, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sons Andrew, of Los Angeles, and Peter, of Manhattan, she is survived by another son, Dr. Steven Ungerleider of Eugene, Ore.; three daughters, Jeane Ungerleider-Springer of Boston, Miriam Mayerson-Michael of Manhattan and Clare Benac-Mayerson of Paris; two sisters, Celeste G. Bartos of Manhattan and Miriam G. Wallach of Scarsdale, N.Y., and seven grandchildren
      
Mrs. Parish is survived by her daughters, Mrs. Gilbert of Hot Springs, Ark., and May Appleton Bartlett of Boston; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
They, her daughter Susan, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren survive her, in addition to her husband.
She is survived by a daughter, Kate Witkin, of Harrison, N.Y.; two sons, Dr. Allan Friedlich of Belmont, Mass., and Bruce Friedlich of New York, eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by another daughter, Renee Nemerov Sparkia of Albuquerque, six grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
Ms. Basquette is survived by her daughter, Lita Warner Heller; a son, Edward Alvin Hayes; a half-sister, the actress and dancer Marge Champion, and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Betty Hobin of Palm Beach, Fla., and Hopewell Township, N.J.; five grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and a sister, Margaret G. Finley of Haddonfield, N.J. A son, Paul Roebling, died in July.
      
She is survived by a son, Jason M. Anderson of Boca Raton, Fla.; a daughter, Amy J. Anderson of East Falmouth; a stepdaughter, Sherri O'Grady of Boston; a sister, Pat Hodges of Ashland, Neb., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, a New York art dealer, she is survived by three grandchildren, Kimberly and Justin Nasatir and Amanda Goldberg, and a brother, John Zickel of Carmichael, Calif.
      
She is survived by her four children with Mr. Eldridge -- daughters Yolanda Jones and Djuana Bowers and sons Robert and Xurry -- five sisters and two brothers, and seven grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a second daughter, Rose, and a son, Tony, both of London, and six grandchildren.
      
; eight grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
She is also survived by a son, Harry, of Belchertown, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Leslie Randall of Newton, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      
B. Newman of Chicago, a son, Jon of Glen Rock, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kramer, who survived two other husbands, leaves three daughters, Marjorie Hyman, Geraldine Kory and Cynthia Bernstein, all of New York City; six grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived, in addition to Mrs. Levey, by four grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Kafka, of Manhattan, she is survived by two grandchildren and a brother, Abraham Shapiro, of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Shouse is survived by a daughter, Joan Dodd Tolley of Naples, four grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and three great-great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by a daughter, Martha Orrick of Colorado Springs, Colo.; a son, Nicholas, of Andover, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by two sons, Martin, of Darien, Conn., and Peter, of London; and five grandchildren, Elizabeth, Emily, Justin, Katri and Christopher.
      
Mrs. Jalet is survived by a son, Tuckerman S. Jalet of Westport, Conn.; four daughters, Jacqueline J. Gordon of Greenwich, Conn., Vanessa Jalet-Stanescu of Manhattan, Roberta J. Kurland of State College, Pa., and Frances Jalet-Miller of Queens, and eight grandchildren.
      
; two sons, John of Jamaica Plain and Peter of Littleton, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
