Ms. Winters is survived by her companion of 19 years, Jerry DeFord; her daughter, Dr. Vittoria Gassman of Norwalk, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, the Laurance Rockefeller professor of philosophy at Princeton, who lives in Manhattan and Princeton, N.J., and three daughters, Isabel Endresen, an economist, of Windhoek, Namibia, Adwo Edun, a landscape gardener, of Lagos, Nigeria, and Abena Appiah of Kumasi; and eight grandchildren.
Mrs. Muse is survived by two daughters, Juanita Fenninger and Diane Tax, both of Mahopac, N.Y.; a son, Robert Muse; eight grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
They started a family and moved to a rambling Victorian house in suburban Rockland County, N.Y.
        Ms. Friedan, whose marriage would end in divorce in 1969, is survived by their three children, Daniel Friedan of Princeton, N.J.; Emily Friedan of Buffalo; and Jonathan Friedan of Philadelphia; a brother, Harry Goldstein, of Palm Springs, Calif., and Purchase, N.Y.; a sister, Amy Adams, of New York City; and nine grandchildren.
Besides her son Michael, of Brooklyn, Ms. O'Neill is survived by another son, Brian, of Cascais, Portugal; two brothers, David Dross of Augusta, Ga., and Gerald Dross of Hampstead, N.C.; and four grandchildren.
In addition to her husband and daughter, of Bethesda, Md., she is survived by a son, Jeff, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
When her grandchildren were born, Ms. Stapleton moved to Lenox to be near family, namely her daughter, Katharine Allentuck Bambery, her grandson Max and her granddaughter Alexandra, all of whom survive her, along with her son, Daniel, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, of Troy.
)
        In Lenox she doted on her grandchildren and continued to accept the occasional role, playing a woman dying of ovarian cancer in the television drama ''Last Wish'' (1992) and appearing opposite Armin Mueller-Stahl in the 1994 film ''The Last Good Time.
Survivors include a daughter, Marin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, Bard, of La Jolla, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
Besides her son Richard, of Greentown, Pa., she is survived by another son, Mallory, of Newark; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Susan Woodworth of Summit, N.J., and Elisabeth Williamson of Severna Park, Md., as well as four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Zeck is survived by her daughter, Deborah Zeck Thorne of Nyack, N.Y.; her son, John, of Littleton, Colo.; and four grandchildren.
Ms. Rau, who was divorced, is survived by three sons, Taylor Pattison, George Pattison and Jean-Paul Menard, all of Northport; two daughters, Anne Pattison of London and Stephanie Pattison of Wellington, Fla.; a sister, Roli, and a brother, Forest, both of Louisiana; and four grandchildren.
Besides her son Bobo, she is survived by another son, Justice; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Allen is survived by two grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Connelly is survived by a son, Robert Jr. of Las Vegas; three daughters, Alice Lanzi of Staten Island, Margaret Nicholson of Katonah, N.Y., and Therese Shannon of Goshen, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
According to her manager, Nourredine Gafaaiti, she is survived by her 3 children and 18 grandchildren, all of whom live in Algeria.
; and Elizabeth Glazer of Manhattan; two sisters, Shirley Gorenstein of Manhattan and Caroll Boltin of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; and seven grandchildren.
Brand's survivors include another daughter, Coby Reichstadt of Omaha; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
; and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud of New York City and Leslie Goodman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Brooklyn, she is survived by four grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud, of New York City and Leslie Goodman, of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer, of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter and son, she is survived by a brother, Mark Mosolino of Bethel Hill, Pa., and three grandchildren.
      
Their children, Jacob, of Los Angeles, and Helen, of Brooklyn, survive her, as do three grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, of Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Rosenbaum is survived by her son, Daniel, of Washington, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by three daughters, Catherine Hayden Thurston of Cambridge, Mass., Margaret Cooke of Painted Post, N.Y., and Bobette Thorsen of Lititz, Pa., and 10 grandchildren.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Foster is survived by a daughter, Rachel Kodsi, and a son, Joshua, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Jeanette Katz, of Queens; and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Lawrence Jr., of the Bronx, she is survived by another son, Bruce E. Bailey, a physician, of Norwich, Conn.; a sister, Danetta Black, formerly of White Plains; and three grandchildren.
Other survivors include her husband of 40 years, Reuben Earnest Adams Jr.; their son, Reuben III; a brother, Glodies Jackson; and eight grandchildren.
In addition to her son, she is survived by two daughters, Carol Spund of Glasgow and Susan Habrovitsky of Fontenay-sous-Bois, France; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is also survived by a daughter, Jennifer C. Damsky, of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ovshinsky is survived by a daughter, Robin Dibner, and a son, Steven Dibner, from a previous marriage; three stepsons, Ben, Harvey and Dale Ovshinsky; and four grandchildren.
Ms. Richards is also survived by eight grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her brother Edward and her three sisters, Jean Kennedy Smith, Eunice Kennedy Shriver and Rosemary Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of New York, and three daughters, Sydney, of Washington, Robin, of New York, and Victoria Frances, of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
Mrs. Boegner is survived by a daughter, Dita Douglas Naylor-Leyland of Manhattan; a son, J. Gordon Douglas III of Pawling, N.Y.; three grandchildren; and a great-granddaughter.
      
''
        In addition to her brother Edward, Mrs. Lawford is survived by her son, Christopher, of California; three daughters, Sydney and Victoria Frances, both of Washington, and Robin, of New York; her sisters Jean Kennedy Smith and Eunice Kennedy Shriver; and 10 grandchildren.
Besides her sister, Ms. White, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, Patrick McGivern, of Palm Desert, and two grandchildren.
Ms. Holmes is survived by two daughters, Anne Waxman of Manhattan and Terry Koshel of Mount Vernon, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
Mrs. Harmsen is survived by three sons, William D. Harmsen Jr. of Banamichi, Mexico; Robert J. Harmsen of Arvada, Colo.; and Michael W. Harmsen of Lakewood, Colo.; and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, Eliot Golden of Roslyn, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
Survivors, according to The AP, include her children, Cecile, Daniel, Clark and Ellen Richards, and eight grandchildren.
Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by their two sons, Christopher Ward of Piedmont, Calif., and Michael Ward of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
While at Whitworth, she met and married Nick Chenoweth, and they had two children, Mike and Meg Chenoweth-Keenan, of Boise, Idaho, who survive her, along with several grandchildren.
She is also survived by 11 grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Castanis is survived by her four children: Thaddeus, of New York; Claudius and Augustus, of Los Angeles; and Phoebe Coombs, of Schwenksville, Pa.; and two grandchildren.
; and two grandchildren.
Dr. Levit is survived by two sons, Dr. David Levit of Amherst, a psychoanalyst, and Dr. Harry Levit of New Haven, associate director of undergraduate admissions at Yale; a sister, Sylvia Kaufman of Jerusalem; and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son John, she is survived by her daughters Olga Marlin, who lives in Kenya, and Sheila O'Neill and Elisabeth Paice , who live in Britain; her son Randal Marlin of Ottawa; 18 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
She is survived by their two daughters, Gretchen Banks of Edina, Minn., and Nancy Burke of Golden Valley, Minn.; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Carey is survived by two brothers, Frederick Gilbreth of Larchmont, N.Y., and Robert Gilbreth, of Franklin, N.H.; her children Charles E. Carey of Livermore, Calif., and Lillian Barley of Riverdale, Calif.; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Arkansas, Ms. Marsh is survived by another child from her first marriage, Albert P. Scott Jr., of Colorado; eight grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
She is also survived by two sons, H. Ben, of San Francisco, and Kramer, of Los Angeles; a sister, Alice Barzilay of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Mattus is survived by 2 daughters, Doris Hurley and Natalie Salamore; 2 brothers, Edward and Robert Vesel; 5 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
; five grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Dykeman is survived by their sons, Dykeman Stokely of Manhattan and James R. Stokely III of Boston, and two grandchildren.
It is known that Ms. Tompkins was married and divorced twice; survivors include her mother; several children and stepchildren; and many siblings, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
The other sons and five grandchildren survive her.
She is survived by her husband, James Brooks; her son, Jon Vannerson; her daughter, Cathy Smith; and five grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Michael Benajam of Los Angeles and Jack Webb of Miami; three grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
