; a brother, Reeve Schley Jr. of Whitehouse, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Katharine P. Darrow, who is vice president of The New York Times Company for broadcasting, information services and corporate development; a sister, Marion Schild of Brooklyn, a retired librarian at the Library of Congress, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Frum is survived by two daughters, a son, eight grandchildren, 14 great-grandchildren and seven great-great-grandchildren.
      
Loud is survived by a son, Roger, of Lake Placid, N.Y.; a sister, Elisabeth Harrison of Rumson, N.J.; three brothers, Herbert McAneny of Princeton, N.J., Ernest McAneny of New York City and David McAneny of Newtown Square, Pa.; seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rosenman is survived by two sons, James Rowen and Robert Rosenman, both of Manhattan; five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Provaznik, whose husband, Frantisek, died in 1948, is survived by a daughter, Dr. Alena Polesny, of Altamont, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Besides David, a senior partner in the New York law firm of LeBoeuf, Lamb, Leiby & MacRae, Mrs. Bicks is survived by another son, Robert, a senior partner in the New York law firm of Breed, Abbott & Morgan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Leonard Haber, a New York architectural and industrial designer; three sons and a daughter from her marriage to the Texas businessman Clinton Murchison: Clint Murchison 3d, Burk Murchison and Robert Murchison, all of Dallas, and Coke Anne Saunders of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Adam and Damon, of New York; a brother, Melvyn Harris of Chicago; a sister, Betty Zamore of Ventura, Calif., and three grandchildren.
      
Miss Bry is survived by her son, Dr. Bry Benjamin of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
; two brothers, Monroe Rubinger of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Ralph Rubinger of Palm Beach, Fla.; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Twice widowed, Mrs. Burtin is survived by a son, Thomas Pineles Golden of Stony Point, N.Y.; a daughter, Carol Burtin Fripp of Toronto, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Lucretia Harrison of Port Washington and Margaret Gruger of Anderson, S.C.; a son, Theodore, of Jacksonville; five grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Mary Evangelista of Manhattan and Judith Read of Darien, Conn.; three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a stepson, Donal Borland of Lithonia, Ga., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Elizabeth, she is survived by another daughter, Joan Cook of Princeton, N.J.; 7 grandchildren and 21 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, James, a retired labor mediator; two sons, Lewis, of Staten Island, and Emory, of Seattle; two daughters, Julia, of Mirano, Calif., and Carolyn Lewis of Fort Myers, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Leonardo, of Milan; a sister, Cristina, also of Milan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Thomas, of Manhattan, and Walker Jr., of Boston; two daughters, Mary Shea of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a brother, Thomas J. Watson Jr., the former chief executive of the International Business Machines Corporation, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Rumsey; a daughter, Louise Griggs of Hanover, N.H.; a son, David, of Forest Hills, Queens; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Robert, she is survived by another son, Ward F., of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a daughter, Caroline Mark of Wausau, Wis.; a sister, Harriet Dickenson of Binghamton, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Pamela, a law student at the University of Tulsa, Mrs. Brown is survived by another daughter, Victoria Anne Hunt of Charleston; a sister, Annabelle Brown of St. Albans, W. Va., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Catherine A. Sur of Concord; two sisters, Veronica Lucas and Cathleen O'Hare, both of New York City; a brother, Owen Walsh of Maryknoll, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Hutson of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lehfeldt is survived by her husband, Hans; a son, Richard, of Washington, D.C., and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Jean Friendly of Washington; and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband, Donald, a retired procurement officer for the Grumman Aerospace Corporation; two sons, Donald, of Boston, and Theodore Charles of Brattleboro, Vt.; a daughter, Meredith Ann Brown of Harwinton, Conn.; two brothers, Robert G. Schwartz of Exton, Pa., and Louis Schwartz of Buffalo, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jenny Higginbothan Caldwell of Newton, Mass., five grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      
She is survived by three sons, Ronald E., of North Hollywood, Calif., Edward S., of Westwood, Calif., and Martin B., of Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Florence Britton of Mill Valley, Calif., Penelope Bardel of Manhattan and Marcia Sharp of Washington; a sister, Josephine Brayton of Boston, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Owen Baird of Brooklyn; a son, Buddy Scott also of Brooklyn; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Besides her stepson, Mrs. Whipple is survived by two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kramarsky is survived by two sons, Bernard, of Great Neck, L.I., and Werner, of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Sonia Kramarsky of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and three-great grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kramarsky is survived by two sons, Bernard, of Great Neck, L.I., and Werner, of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Sonia Kramarsky of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and three-great grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Richard, of Minneapolis, and Alan, of Seattle; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two other daughters, Margaret Loiselle of Boardman, Ohio, and Constance Warren of Laurel, Md., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Helen Hartley Mead Platt of Madison, N.J..; a son, Robert Hartley Mead of Norfolk, Conn., and 12 grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Allison Bishopric Jr.; a brother, J. Rawson Collins of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Ernest, a television writer, of Williamsville, Vt., and Arthur of Montclair, N.J., a Rutgers University law professor; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Joseph, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Babette Sonneborn, also of Scarsdale; 10 grandchildren, and 28 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Dorothy Lonergan of Miami, and Eileen Oseroff of Rochester, ; a son, Phillip, of Freedom Plains, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, two sons and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Malcolm Turnbull of Sydney, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Buhler is survived by a daughter, Lucille Ford of Manhattan; two stepsons, Ferdinand Schoettle of Minneapolis, and Michael Schoettle of Rolling Hills, Calif.; two stepdaughters, Joan S. Carville of Point Pleasant, N.J., and Mary Alice Jones-Ohlemann of Lake Oswego, Ore.; and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Allison D., of Little Falls, N.J., and David A., of New Canaan, Conn.; a daughter, Kathryn Clark of Weston; 9 grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and a great-great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Finn, of Andover, N.J., a brother, Abraham Resika of Manhattan; a sister, Lilian Kandel of the Bronx, and seven grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Leonia, N.J. and Amherst, Mass., Mrs. Horch is survived by a brother, Nathan Stone of Lake Worth, Fla., four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a stepdaughter, Mary Cavert Ramsey of Santee, S.C.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Twice widowed, Mrs. Forrest is survived by a son and two daughters from her first marriage, Frederick B. Williamson 3d, Virginia Hutton and Beverly Magill, all of New Hope; eight grandchildren, 10 great-grandchildren and one great-great grandchild.
      
Mrs. Shields is survived by two sons, Robert Ryan of Asbury, N.J., and Cyr Ryan of Oldwick, N.J.; two daughters, Caryn Tuckerman of Manhattan, and Jean Sadler of Manns Harbor, N.C., 17 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are three sons, Frank 3d of Salt Lake City, George, of Washington, and Brooks, of Philadelphia; 11 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Christopher, book critic for The New York Times, she is survived by two other sons, Carl, a graphic artist and painter, and Alexander, a sound engineer, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, David, of San Francisco; Jairus, of Chicago, and Daniel, of Cambridge; a brother, Sidney Alpert, of San Diego; a sister, Sylvia Bernstein, of Lake Worth, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Daniels is survived by two daughters, Leatrice Spitzer and Gloria Gold, both of Oceanside, L.I., five grandchildren and a great-grandaughter.
      
A widow, she is survived by her daughter, Edith Woodruff Kunhardt of Manhattan, four grandchildren and four great-granchildren.
      
; a sister, Gert Mass Unger of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Stephanie Doane and Victoria Villamil; a stepson, Harry Hollins; four stepdaughters, Elizabeth Aldrich, Lilias Outerbridge, Evelina Kats and Angelica Braestrup; a brother, Peter Jay; three sisters, Sybil Waldron, Augusta Huffman and Katharine Bacon, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, H. Clifford Page; a son, Ronald, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Lois Drew of Manhattan; a sister, Alice LeGrand of Fair Lawn, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, of Kew Gardens, Queens, Mrs. Naaman is survived by her husband, Walter; her parents, Doris and William Davis of Plattekill, N.Y.; three brothers, Wilbert Davis of Manhattan and Robert and Frank Davis, both of Plattekill; a sister, Yvonne Ellis of San Diego; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three stepdaughters, Helen Vishniac, a professor at Oklahoma State University; Joan Burns, a writer, of Williamstown, Mass., and Elizabeth Wurr, a psychologist, of Woodside, Calif.; a brother, Robert of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Pat Oldt of Little Switzerland, N.C.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a daughter, Kathleen Wheatman of Fremont, Calif; three sons, David, of Rye, Philip, of Yonkers, and William, of Farmingdale, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, William Randolph Hearst 3d, publisher of The San Francisco Examiner, and Austin, of Manhattan, vice president of Hearst Entertainment and Syndication, a division of the Hearst Corporation, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
; a sister, Bonnie Gottlieb of Equinonk, Pa.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Elena Mezzetti of Perugia, Italy; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stanley R. Katz, the mayor of Deal; four sons, Richard, of West Long Branch, N.J., Steven, of Livingston, N.J., Robert, of Minneapolis, and Jonathan, of Tucson, Ariz.; a sister, Helen Rosengarten of Monmouth Beach, N.J., and 10 grandchildren.
      
; a stepson, Sumner Collins of Medical Lake, Wash.; a brother, Dr. John L. Feldman, a physician of Palos Verdes, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Goldman is survived by a son, Jacob, of Glen Rock, N.J.; two daughters, Ethel Weiner of Elmwood Park, N.J., and Margaret Stager of Paterson, N.J.; 16 grandchildren, and 19 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Carl Uhr, a professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside; a daughter, Alexandra Beatty, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three children from her first marriage: a daughter, Aileen Godsick of Manhattan, and two sons, Richard Lewisohn 3d of Manhattan and Clifford Lewisohn of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Anne F. Kohn of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
; three sons, Robert and James, of Kiamesha Lake, and George, of Tuxedo Park, N.Y.; two daughters, Naomi Friedman of Purchase, N.Y., and Laurie Parker of Kiamesha Lake; 10 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jules Cohen, a New York cardiologist; two sons, David, of Los Angeles, and Michael, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Linda, of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by four daughters, Lucille Buergers of Hampton Bays, L.I., Mary Ehmann of Winnetka, Ill., Jean Schott of Alexandria, Va., and Ruth Ann Howley of Piscataway, N.J.; a son, Charles A., of Des Moines; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Alla Goldberg of Manhattan; a sister, Freyda of Dnepropetrovsk, U.S.S.R.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Richard H. Timpson Jr. of Hamden; six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Del, Mrs. Davis is survived by a daughter, Mona Shorey of Sutter Creek, Calif.; a brother, Edward Ponder of Chicago; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by her mother, Addie Hutchins of Los Angeles; two sons, Darrin and Raymond, and a daughter, Tracey, all of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to Campbell Scott, she is survived by another son, Alexander R. Scott, a theatrical stage manager and writer, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lutzker is survived by three sons, Michael, of New York City; Arthur, of Oakhurst, N.J., and Paul, of Washington; two brothers, David Levine of Margate, Fla., and Robert Levine of New York City; a sister, Miriam Gindin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Carter of Chicago and Charles of Montello, Wis., and five grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her sons, she is survived by two grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Elizbeth W. Goldwasser of Urbana, Ill., and Katherine W. Pollak of Philadelphia; a son, Dr. William P. Weiss of Chester, Vt., 18 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Michael, of Manhattan, and Robert, of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her sons, Michael, of Manhattan, and Robert, of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in New York City, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Lawrence, she is survived by her husband, Bernard L. Gladieux Sr.; two other sons, Bernard Jr. of Gilbertsville, Pa., and Jay A. of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Lowell Skilliter of Toledo, Ohio; a sister, Lois Jones of Harrisburg, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
3d of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, L. Emery Katzenbach, the former chairman of White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm; two daughters, Mrs. Pamela M. Thye of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Caroline N. Sidnam of New York City; a son, Robert D. C. Meeker Jr. of Elizabethtown, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Prelinger is survived by her husband, Dr. Ernst Prelinger, a Yale University psychologist; two daughters, Dr. Katherine Holden of Sharon, Conn., and Edith Holden Roth of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; a stepson, Richard Prelinger of New York City; three stepdaughters, Elizabeth A. Prelinger of Washington, Polly Prelinger of San Francisco, and Jane Rothkopf of New York City; and six grandchildren.
      
; three daughters, Mrs. Anna Shaffner of Fleetwood, N.C.; Mrs. Cortlandt Creech of Winston Salem, and Mrs. Julia McAfee of Jacksonville Beach, Fla.; 15 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
"
        She is survived by her children: Geraldine, the actress; Michael, Josephine, Victoria, Eugene, Jane, Annette-Emilie and James, and 17 grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by a son, John Burnett, of Bali, Indonesia, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by two sons, Peter Florsheim of Sedona, Ariz., and Thomas Florsheim of Milwaukee; 10 grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eugene, of Berkeley, Calif.; a daughter, Frances Commins Bennett of New Haven, five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
; and two grandchildren.
      
"
        She is survived by two sisters, Lessie M. Holloway of the Bronx and Wilma Taborn of Virginia Beach, Va.; a brother, Samuel K. Epps of Brooklyn; a daughter, Phyllis Davis of Baton Rouge, La., and four grandchildren.
      
; four daughters, Mary Ann Troedson of Jackson, Janet Bertino of Bozeman, Mont., Catherine, of Stevensville, Mont., and Ellen Draper of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a sister, Margaret Flinsch of White Plains; 23 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Cahill is survived by five daughters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary E. Cahill of Washington, Regina Blake Keeley of Potomac, Md., Teresa Cahill of Boston and Eileen Campbell of Merchantville, N.J.; two sons, William T. Jr. and John P., both of Collingswood, N.J.; a brother, George Myrtetus of Scotch Plains, N.J., and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by their daughters, Daria, who is institutionalized, and Christina Belmont of Paris; four grandchildren, and a sister, Patricia Byrne of Boynton Beach, Fla.
      
Mrs. Blum is survived by her husband, Robert E.; a son, John R. H., and a daughter, Alice B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville; a brother, Donald Halsey of New Orleans; 10 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Donald J. of Stamford, Conn.; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by a son, James H. 3d, of Jupiter Island; a daughter, Barbara Sweet of Lake Placid; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Casper, of Manhattan a radio and television commentator, and Tom, of Short Hills., N.J.; seven grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Michael, of St. Louis, four grandchildren and a brother, Edward, of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
      
