Mrs. McIntosh is survived by a daughter, Susan Lloyd of Tinmouth, Vt.; 4 sons, James, of Ann Arbor, Mich., R. Carey, of Tyringham, Kenneth of West Newton, Mass., and J. Richard, of Boulder, Colo.; 10 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
; two stepdaughters, Joan-Ellen Jamieson Zucker of Oak Ridge, Tenn., and Margaret Storrow of Brookline, Mass; three stepsons, Gerald Storrow of Somerville, Mass., Peter Storrow of the Isle of Lewis, Scotland, and James Storrow of Stormville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Margaret Gilbert of South Beach, Ore., and Linda Maurer of Turlock; her sons, Michael of Denton, Tex., and Thomas of Plattsville, Wis.; eight grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
''
        She is survived by three daughters, Terri O'Brien, Liz Watkins and Gale Evans; a son, John Feggo; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
; and Mrs. Murkoff, of Santa Barbara, Calif., Mrs. Eisenberg is survived by her mother, Mildred Scharaga of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Victor Scharaga of Washington; and six grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter Barbara, of Oceanside, and her sister, Muriel Merritt, of San Antonio, Mrs. Buck is survived by another daughter, Joan Buck of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Jill and Lynn Nelson of New York; two sons, Stanley Earl Nelson Jr. of New York and Ralph Lewis Nelson of Berkeley, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gwathmey, whose husband died in 1988, is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
''
        Other survivors are another son, Herbert, of Rye Brook, N.Y., eight grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Ms. Lawry is survived by Lillian Wilson, who lives in Spring Valley, N.Y.; two sons, Frank Englander of Manhattan, and Steven Englander of Montgomery, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
The readers of Good Housekeeping magazine voted her one of their 10 most admired women in 1975, when she was 69 and had a flock of grandchildren .
Mrs. Kaufman is survived by another son, James M., of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by five grandchildren.
Her survivors include a daughter, Catherine Levin, and a son, Adam Levin, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Tafoya once said that she learned to make pottery ''just by watching my Grandma,'' and most of her own children and grandchildren learned the same way.
She is survived by six daughters, Virginia Ebelacker, Jennie Trammel, Toni Roller, LuAnn Tafoya, Mary Esther Archuleta and Shirley Tafoya; three sons, Leonardo, Wayne and Phillip; 30 grandchildren; 45 great-grandchildren; and 11 great-great-grandchildren.
William C. Riker of Locust, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
      
Several of her sculptures were commissioned by synagogues, including a 26-foot-long ''Exodus'' for Temple Emanu-El in Yonkers, N.Y.
        She is survived by two daughters, Victoria Tierney of Bandon and Kathe Mayer, of University Heights, Ohio; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James A. Heller of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan K. Heller of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      
He survives her, along with a son, Alexander of Oceanside, Calif.; a daughter, Katherine Irving Stark of South Salem, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Alexander Sandomirsky of Orange, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Gary Cookson, an actor in New York, and Tony Cookson, a writer and director in Santa Monica, Calif.; two stepchildren, Peter Cookson Jr. of Irvington, N.Y., and Jane Coopland of Hawaii; a brother, Michael Straight of Chicago, a former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
; Kim, of Boulder, Colo.; Patricia and Maureen, of Rutherford; Fran White of Dallas; and Jeanne, of Manhattan; their sons, Benedict 3rd, of Ramsey, N.J.; Timothy and Jerry, of Rutherford; and Dan, of East Rutherford; two brothers, Dr. Gerald Rubacky of Monclair, N.J., and Joseph Rubacky of Wyckoff; a sister, Ellen Tobin of Bay Head, N.J.; and 11 grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Frazer; four children from her first marriage, Martin C. Hersey, John R. Hersey, Ann B. Hersey and Baird Hersey; four stepchildren, Frazer P. Dougherty, Rush H. Dougherty, Ariel M. Dougherty and Page D. Delano; and 14 grandchildren.
      
Dr. Davidoff is survived by four children, Helen Hirsch of Englewood, N.J.; Leonore Davidoff of Wivenhoe, Essex, England; Frank, of Philadelphia; and Mary Houts of Hummelstown, Pa.; seven grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Thompson is survived by her three daughters, Hope Kerr of Cedar Grove, N.J., Hilary Kenyon of West Hartford, Conn., and Pamela Sinkler-Todd of Philadelphia; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include two sons, Todd Granville Lee, of Boston, and Charles Tomerlin Lee, of Greenwich, Conn.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
; 11 grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Dance is survived by sons  Francis, of Woodbury, Conn., and Rupert, of Hopkinton, N.H.; daughters Theresa Bennink-Dance of Peterborough, Ontario, and Maria Lindley of Carlsbad, Calif.; sisters Jacqueline Hickson of New Smyrna Beach, Fla., and Doris Barry of Wilton, Conn.;  brother John Gillespie of Toronto; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Estill is survived by her daughter, Barbette Tweed Hunt of Los Angeles and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Margaret McLane of Fond du Lac, Wis., and Polly Smith of Tiburon, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and 19 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sulzberger is survived by two daughters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann S. Sand, both of New York City, and by 7 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Sulzberger is survived by two daughters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann S. Sand, both of New York City, and by 7 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her sons, Mrs. Wirth is survived by her twin sister, Mercedes Bowman of Rome; a brother, Robert Bucher of Geneva; and five grandchildren.
      
She enjoyed weekends at her homes in Virginia and Martha's Vineyard, often in the company of her grandchildren.
Besides her son Donald, she is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Weymouth, known as Lally; her sons William and Stephen; a sister, Ruth Epstein of Bronxville, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Borgenicht is survived by her sister, Shirley Black Cash of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Westport, Conn.; three daughters from her first marriage, Jan Schwartz of Los Gatos, Calif., Berta B. Kerr of Wilmington, Del., and Lois Borgenicht of Baltimore; a stepdaughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen of New York City; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
; three brothers, Makota Yokoyama of Japan, Kyuu Yokoyama of Spring Valley, N.Y., and Masaru Yokoyama of Dallas; and 13 grandchildren.
      
In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a brother, Jack Levin of Omaha; a daughter, Dail Neugarten of Denver; a son, Jerrold, of Hannacroix, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by a son, William S. of Washington; a daughter, Emily McGrath of Manhattan; a brother, Les Honig of California; and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Timothy Kebbe of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Nicola Harvey of London; a stepson, Jonathan Kebbe of Dublin; and six grandchildren.
      
Her children survive her, along with a brother, Justin, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her son Alex, she is survived by two other sons, Lawrence and Steve; a twin brother, Don, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Parkinson III, who was appointed a trustee of the museum in 1976 and is its treasurer; a daughter, the pianist Zaidee Parkinson; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Victoria McKee of London, and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Cincotta is survived by five sons, George and Charles of Delray Beach, Fla.; James of Ottawa, Canada; Theodore of Phoenix and Richard of Oak Park, Ill., eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
''
        Besides Jonathan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Scull is survived by two other sons, Adam, of Miami Beach, and Stephen Paul, of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Kaplan of New York and Florida; and two grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Margaret Dvonch Swingle, of Bainbridge Island; a sister, Faye Popper, of Indianapolis; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her son, Tom Hurwitz, of New York, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Wheeler is survived by five children, Sallie M. Motch of Cold Spring, N.Y., Robert Motch of Carthage, Mo., Kenneth M. Wheeler Jr. of Memphis, Gordon L. Wheeler of Harrodsburg, Ky., and Douglas B. Wheeler of Keswick, Va., and nine grandchildren.
      
Dr. Calloway is survived by her husband of 20 years, Robert Nesheim of Seattle; a son, David, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Candace Calloway Whiting of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sandra Rankin of Danbury, Conn., and Barbara Mowry of Denver; and nine grandchildren.
Mrs. Crawford is survived by Kim, who lives in Dana Point, Calif.; another son, Jay, of Rolling Hills Estates, Calif.; a daughter, Jan Crawford of Torrance, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
; 15 grandchildren; and a sister, Judith Pestronk of Lido Beach, N.Y.
      
In addition to Ms. Waits, of Silver Spring, Md., Ms. Shanahan is survived by another daughter, Kathleen Waits of Tulsa, Okla.; a sister, Dr. Kathleen Shanahan Cohen of Teaneck, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Richard and Ben, both of Dallas, 16 grandchildren, 28 great-grandchildren and one great-great-grandchild.
She is survived by two sons, Richard and Ben, both of Dallas; 16 grandchildren; 28 great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
''
        Besides her daughter, who lives in Wakpala, she is survived by a son, Kevin Locke, also of Wakpala, a performing artist who works to preserve Lakota music; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, James, a resident of Luxembourg; a daughter, Nina Agel of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son and her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Wexner is survived by four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eric Fischman of Boston; two daughters, Sharon Fischman of Bethesda, Md., and Amanda Fischman Henshon of Boston; a stepson, Marc Kleber of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Kleber of Philadelphia and Pamela Shad of Greenwich, N.Y.; her mother, Sarah Weinbaum of Philadelphia; a brother, George Weinbaum of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Ninian and Mungo, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Kenneth S., of Swarthmore, Pa.; six grandchildren; and 13 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Loeb is survived by 2 daughters, Jean Troubh and Betty Levin, both of Manhattan; 7 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
deliveryman who showed up with a package to add to the pile of wrapped Hanukkah presents (she has four grandchildren) in the dining room.
In addition to her four children, she is survived by six grandchildren.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser; five grandchildren; and a sister, Anne Jacobs.
      
