; a brother, Peter E. Haas Sr., and 11 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rorimer-Dushkin is survived by her daughter, Edie Soeiro of Santa Fe, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Andrew von Hirsch of Cambridge, England, and Vinal Haven, Maine, and Frank Weil of Washington; two stepsons, Andrew Romney of Manhattan and Henry Romney of Remsenburg, L.I., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Manz is survived by a son, Gilbert Jr.; four daughters, Bonnie Prieben, Maureen Weigert, Barbara Canapa and Marjory von Hof;  a brother, Carl Schuland, of Green Bay, Wis., 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
In addition to Justice Shea, Mrs. Klau is survived by two other daughters, Lucille K. Carothers of Cincinnati and Paula K. Oppenheim of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, James D. Klau of San Juan; a brother, Dr. Percy Klingenstein of New York City; 13 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Dr. Percy Klingenstein of New York City; 13 grandchildren, and 23 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bernstein is survived by three daughters, Elinor B. Balka of Forest Hills, Queens, Kate L. Bernstein of Manhattan, and Anne L. Bernstein of Seattle; a sister, Alice Lotwin of Peoria, Ill., and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her husband of 65 years, Edward Lewis; two sons, Dr. Jeffrey Lewis of Armonk, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Lewis of Nashville, Tenn.; a  sister, Beatrice Smith of Franklin Square, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Uris is survived by four daughters, Judith Haber of Germantown, N.Y., Susan Halpern of Manhattan, Dr. Linda Sanger of Cambridge, Mass., and Jane Bayard of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles J. Koon; five sons, Christopher, Robin, Gavin, Nicholas and Lachlan; and six grandchildren.
      
; a son, John H., of Ithaca, N.Y; a sister, Barbara Vineyard of Sanibel, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six children, David Jr., Abby  Rockefeller and Neva Goodwin, all of Masschusetts; Peggy Dulany of New York, Dr. Richard of Maine, and Eileen Growald of California; a brother, Sims McGrath of Tenants Harbor, Me., and 10 grandchildren.
Survivors include Mr. Johnson, two daughters, Charlotte Ford of Manhattan and Anne Ford of Southampton and Manhattan; a son, Edsel B. Ford 2d of Grosse Pointe; five sisters, Katherine Sullivan of Arizona, Mary Murnane and Margie Murphy of Florida, Barbara Hennessey of Connecticut and Sheila Collins of California; two brothers, Morgan McDonnell of Chicago and Jim McDonnell of Detroit, seven grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
; four grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Lynne Westmore Bloom and Merle Ann Frost Wybenga; three sons, Merle, John and Christopher Frost; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Alexandria Bay, N.Y., she is survived by two sons, Roy, of Strasbourg, France, and Jack, of Watertown; 11 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by six grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by six grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss Travers, who never married, is survived by an adopted son, Camillus Travers of London, and three grandchildren.
      
Burden is survived by two sons, Hamilton and Ordway, both of Manhattan,  three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Suharto is survived by three sons, three daughters and several grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years and co-worker, Thomas Keehn; a daughter, Deborah Keehn Black of Manhattan; five sons, Jonathan, of Grass Valley, Calif., David, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Benjamin, of Holliston, Mass., Adam, of Queens and Burkina Faso, and Joel, of Peekskill, N.Y.; a brother, William McKee, of Lafayette, Calif.; two sisters, Beatrice Watson, of Barstow, Calif., and Margaret Seder, of Stonington, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
Ms. Shepard is survived by a son, Steven Hanft of Arlington, Va.; a daughter, Laura Korobkin of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by five children, Katherine Schwarz of San Mateo, Calif., Esther Nichols of Riverdale, Md., Warren Smith of Placerville, Calif., Laura Quigley of Bozeman, Mont., and Jacqueline Cleaver of Medford Lakes, N.J.; 22 grandchildren, 31 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Klein is survived by a daughter, Dr. Susan Harris Molnar of Scarborough,  N.Y.; a son, William Harris of Pacific Palisades, Calif., and three grandchildren.
In addition to Mr. Badillo, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, Loren Liebling of Honolulu and Dr. Mark Liebling of Nashua, N.H., and three grandchildren.
      
"
        Besides her husband of 69 years, Mrs. Loeb is survived by their five children: Judith L. Chiara of Manhattan and Purchase, John L. Loeb Jr. of Manhattan and Purchase, Ann Loeb Bronfman of Washington, Arthur Lehman Loeb of Manhattan and Deborah Loeb Brice of London; 14 grandchildren, and more than 30 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Eliza Nichols of Williamsburg, Va., and Kerstin Nichols of Hartford, Vt.; a son, Duncan, of Thetford, Vt.; a brother, Charles Perot, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. George A. Carden; three sons, Dr. George  Alexander Carden of Palm Beach, Fla., William of Manhattan and Timothy of Montclair, N.J.; a daughter, Constance of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a sister, Jeanet Curtis of New Haven.
; a daughter, Rosemary C. Masters of Manhattan; five grandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
She is survived by two daughters, Lily Auchincloss of Manhattan and Patricia  Kind of Huntingdon Valley, Pa.; a son, Henry P., of Manhattan; 6 grandchildren,  and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
She and her husband bought a two-story home in Sarasota where she cared for grandchildren when the rest of the family was touring.
In addition to her daughter, Carla, she is survived by two other children, Jenny Wallenda Anderson and Mario Wallenda; six grandchildren, and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband of 56 years and her sons Peter, of Manhattan, and Rodney, of Morristown, she is survived by another son, Frederick, of Tucson, Ariz.; two  daughters, Beatrice van Roijen of Washington and Adaline Ogilvie-Laing of Manhattan, 13 grandchildren and a sister, Mrs. Anson Phelps Stokes Jr.
      
; a brother, Eugene Darvin of Pearl River, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Judith Gideon of Manhattan; a daughter-in-law, Petra Ewen of Roanoke, Va., and three grandchildren.
      
Had Mrs. Kerouac died without a will, the estate would have gone to her two grandchildren, Jan Kerouac and Paul Blake Jr. Jack Kerouac died in 1969.
Mrs. Weiner is survived by her husband, Charles J., a daughter, Toby White, two sons, Barry and Steve, a sister, Miriam Komesar, and a brother, Saul Weinberg, all of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Randolph is survived by three children from her first marriage, Theodora Hooton of Glen Head, N.Y., Amory Winthrop of Millbrook, N.Y., and Cornelia Bonnie of Prospect, Ky.; five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Marian Sanderson of Queens, Antoinette Perlez of Manhattan, and Gloria Jones, also of Queens; a brother, William Smith of Manhattan; four sisters, Lillie Ruth and Christine of Queens, Sarah of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Eunice of Spartanburg; seven grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Schizer is survived by a son, Zevie B., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Michael, of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Allegra, of Manhattan; a sister, Degna Paresce of Rome, and two grandchildren.
Besides her daughter, Pixley T. Hill, and son, Edward J. Tyler 3d, both of St. Albans, she is survived by 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Joseph Lieberman, two sons, Anthony R. Kovner of Manhattan and Joel W. Kovner of Santa Monica, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Francis C. and Lawrence  S., both of Manhattan; two daughters, Sarah H. Fletcher of Locust Valley, L.I.,  and Susan H. Fisher of Greenwich, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by 10 grandchildren,  16 great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Crain is survived by her two sons, Keith of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Rance of New York City; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Besides Senator Kassebaum, Mrs. Landon is survived by a son, John C.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; a  son, Benjamin Treuhaft of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Deborah Devonshire of Chatsworth, England, and Diana Mosley of Paris, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1936 and who retired from the Supreme Court in 1986, Mrs. Powell is survived by three daughters, Pendleton Bowen of Whidbey Island, Wash., Josephine Smith of Houston and Molly Sumner of Salt Lake City; a son, Lewis F. 3d, of Richmond, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Steven and Danny Feld of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, of Columbia, Md., and her daughter, Anne Allen of East Windsor, N.J., she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son and three daughters from her first marriage: Thomas  Langman of Washington, Betsy L. Schulberg of Westhampton Beach, L.I., Lynn L. Lilienthal of Reston, Va., and Deborah L. Lesser of Berkeley, Calif., and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Irina Ohl of Chester, Vt.; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Jean Hershell of Tinton Falls, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David, of Wayne, N.J.; a daughter, Pamela, of Chicago; a sister, Marlene Bagdikian of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Broverman is survived by a son, Clifford, of Worcester; a daughter, Sherryl A. Broverman-Wray of Stony Brook, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Carl Miller, of Miami, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 46 years, John Dirk Nies; two sons, J. Dirk, of Rockville, Md., and Eric W., of New York City; a daughter, Nancy N. Sloan of Las Vegas, Nev.; her mother, Lida Wilson of Rockville; a brother, George E. Wilson, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Sandra Davidson of France and New York, and Mary Rower of New York and Connecticut; four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a stepdaughter, Elisabeth Ryden of Scottsdale, Ariz.; a sister, Virginia Weaver of Davenport, Fla.; 11 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Zaida De Unamuno of San Francisco; two children, Steve Coty of Stockton, Calif., and Lisa Hansen of Newark, Calif.; two sisters, Hedy Manthey of Delaware and Selma Hurtado of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
Besides  her daughter, who lives in Palm Beach, Mrs. Phillips is survived by a son, Herbert R. Phillips, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Milton Rollins of Brooklyn, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her children,  Richard Haymes Jr. of New York City and Helen Joanna Santos of Monterey, Calif. (a daughter, Barbara Nugent Haymes, died three years ago); six grandchildren; six great-grandchildren, and her brothers, Peter Marshall, the television game-show host, and David Moss of Sedona, Ariz.
      
; Priscilla, of Kenya and Margaret, of Montana; two brothers, Frank Bottomley of Ohio and Bruce, of New Hampshire; a sister, Frances Broomhead of Rhode Island, and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; three daughters, Nina, of Washington, Jill, of Manhattan, and Amy, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and a sister, Louisa Schwartz of Washington.
      
Mrs. Entenmann is survived by her three sons, Robert, of Riverhead, L.I., Charles, of Oak Beach, L.I., and William 3d, of Islip; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her brother Candido, her four children, Silvia, Margarita, Isabel, and Salvador, all of whom live in Mexico City, and 16 grandchildren, Mr. Hidalgo said.
      
She is survived by a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Trocme is survived by a son, Jacques, of Paris, 10 grandchildren and 18 great-grandchildren.
; a sister, Sylvia Goldman of Riverdale, the Bronx; a brother, Alfred Leffel of Syosset, L.I., 10 grandchildren and 24 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Charles H., of Pottersville, N.J., and Perry S. 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J.; a daughter, Esther B. Wilkens of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Anne H. Boynton of Stonington, Conn., and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to Robin, Mrs. Farkas is survived by three other sons, Alexander of Highland Park, Fla., and  Bruce and Jonathan, of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
James, of Providence, R.I., survives her, as do two grandchildren.
In addition to her son, Stephen Jr., of San Diego, she is survived by a daughter, Judith Coldvin, of Marlton, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Philadelphia; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, Rabbi Jonothan Waxman of Eberon, N.J., and David and Hillel Waxman of Great Neck; a brother, Rabbi Albert Bilgray of Tucson, Ariz., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Stephen Brown of Oak Park, Ill., and Joshua Cohen of Chicago; a daughter, Judith Cohen Brown of Seattle; a stepdaughter, Alison Montgomery of Chicago; a stepson, Douglas Montgomery of Libertyville, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Bernard is survived by a daughter, Dorothy Jackson of Washington; two sons, Claude, of Laurel, Md., and David, of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of Bloomington, Minn., Mrs. Knutson is survived by two sisters, Helen Riets of Devil's Lake, N.D., and Crystal Greguson of Edina, two grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, William Diebold; four sons, David Corcoran of Northvale, N.J., John Corcoran of Red Hook, N.Y.; John Diebold of Nyack, and William Diebold of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara Wick of Northfield, Ill.; a brother, Joseph Brody of Indianapolis; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ullmann is survived by a son, Dr. Leonard P. Ullmann of Incline Village, Nev., five grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
In addition to her son, she is survived by three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons,  Charles Kitchell of Osterville, Mass.,  and James Kitchell of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and four great-grandhildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Chester, former director of the Yale University Press; two daughters, Hilary Mills Loomis of Manhattan and Alley Mills Bean of Los Angeles; a son, Tony Mills of Oakland, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Rachel Tilsen of Hudson and Deborah Le Sueur of Graton, Calif.; 8 grandchildren; 27 great-grandchildren, and 2 great-great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Susan Peters of Deer Park, L.I., and Betty Roberts of Stamford, Conn.; five grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Albert B. Ratner, of Cleveland, and 13 grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her son, David, of Washington, and her daughter, Ann Dulles Joor, of Manlius, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Lyle Bettger, an actor; two sons, Frank L., of Los Angeles and Lyle R., of Atascadero, Calif.; a daughter, Paula Newell, of Paia; a sister, Betty Darr, of Seminole, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son Nicholas, of Brooklyn, and her brother of Oakland, N.J., Mrs. Macdonald is survived by another son, Michael of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great grandchild.
; six grandchildren; nine great-grandchildren; a sister, Janet Cooper Dakin of Irvington, Va., and a brother, Dr. William Grant Cooper Jr., of Little Rock, Ark.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Pamela Pulleyn Machold of Princeton; a brother, Gurdon W. Wattles of Oldwick; a sister, Elizabeth Wattles of Hightstown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides her husband of 44 years, Mrs. Freudenehim is survived by two daughters, Jo Frisch of Buffalo and Susan Core of Los Angeles; two sons, John M. and Tom, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her three sons, Jonathan, Richard and Philip, all of Kenya, and by 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Carmen R. de Pinies of Spring Lake;  six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
3d, of Petoskey, Mich., and Jonathan G., of Winnetka, Ill.; a sister, Elspeth B. Furlaud of New York City, six grandchildren and a step-grandson.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Allyson Forsythe; a brother, David Diamant, and two grandchildren, all of Weston.
      
Besides her daughter Alice, Mrs. Albright is survived by another daughter, Dinah Albright Rojek of South Woodstock, Vt.; two sons, Joseph Medill Patterson  Albright of Moscow and Adam Medill Albright of Richmond, Mass., 10 grandchildren and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Davenport's first marriage, to Frank D. Clarke, ended in divorce, as did her 1929 marriage to Russell Wheeler Davenport, a novelist who became a prominent editor at Time Inc.
        She is survived by a daughter, Cornelia Davenport Schwartz of Harrisville, N.H., six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband of 47 years, Mrs. Wofford is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Wofford of Madison, Wis.; two sons, Daniel, of Malvern, Pa., and David, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Kathleen Mortimer of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
Mrs. Benjamin is survived by a daughter, Mary B. Arnstein of Hamden, Conn.; two sons, Robert M. Jr., of Manhattan and Stephen, of Santa Fe, N.M., seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Cameron; a son, Cameron F. MacRae 3d, of New  York City, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Cassie Arnold of Washington; two  sons, Tony Schwartz of New York City and James Schwartz of Boston; a brother, Theodore Nierenberg of Armonk, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by children from two previous marriages: a son, Arthur Debernarde of Minneapolis, and a daughter, Donna Maria  Lynn of Westport, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Chris Maxwell of Los Angeles, and five  grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Needham, Mass., she is survived by a son, Gabriel, a sculptor, of Wood River Junction, R.I., and four grandchildren.
      
