Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Nakamura is survived by her companion, Robert E. Lee of Jackson Heights; a son, Masakatsu Ota of Niigata, Japan; and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son James and three grandchildren.
      
; and 12 grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
      
They married in 1945 and had two children, John S. Brown and Elizabeth D. Charlaff, who survive her, along with Ms. Aiken's sister, Jane A. Hodge, and two grandchildren.
)
        In addition to Ms. Michaels, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Oysher is survived by her son, Michael Sternberg, also of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Carolyn Griffin of San Antonio; and six grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Axton is survived by her sister, Mary Lucille McAlpin; her brother, Mr. Stewart; her daughter, Doris Axton Fredrick; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Trude Wenzel Lash is survived by three sons, Dr. Peter W. Pratt of Bridgewater, Conn., Roger S. Pratt of New Milford, Conn., and Jonathan Lash of Washington; a daughter, Vera C. Pratt, also of Washington; a brother, Heinz Wenzel of Germany; 11 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter Elisabeth, who lives in Boston, Ms. Kornblee is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard V. Kornblee of Weston; another daughter, Mary K. Gabriel, also of Boston; a son, John C. Kornblee of Rocky Hill, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      
Princess Juliana is survived by her husband and four daughters and numerous grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, of Bedford, and three grandchildren.
; two sisters, Brigitte de la Rochefoucauld of Paris and Madame Jacque Bemberg of Lausanne, Switzerland; 12 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter and son, who lives in Pittsford, N.Y., she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son Donald, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Coe of Montevallo, Ala.; two other sons, Charles Jr., of Manhattan, and David, of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Beck is survived by her sister, Catharine Cooper, of Islington, England; her sons Cameron, of Canton, and Gordon, of Larchmont, N.Y.; her daughter, Emily M. Beck, of Larchmont; and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Tishman is survived by a daughter, Pat T. Hall of Santa Fe, N.M.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her, Mrs. Lindsay is survived by two other daughters, Margaret Picotte of Florida and Anne Lindsay of Massachusetts; her son, John Jr. of Connecticut; and five grandchildren.
She is survived by her sons, Leonard A., the chairman of the company, and Ronald S., chairman of Clinique Laboratories; four grandchildren, including William, who will become chief executive of the Estée Lauder Companies on July 1; and six great-grandchildren.
; three sisters, Arlene Swain of St. Paul, Dorothy Shabel of St. Louis and Marjorie Lapic of Seattle; and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Selnick, of Las Vegas, from whom she had separated; a daughter, Milan Reinoehl; a brother, Anthony; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Riese is survived by a son, Roland Villars of Richmond, Va; a sister, Renée Hubert of Long Beach, Calif.; and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lester is survived by a daughter, Virginia Teslik of West Hills, Calif.; her sons Roy Jr., of Long Beach; John, of Mountain Lakes, N.J.; and Patric of St. Louis and San Diego; and six grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Nancy Berman of Los Angeles and Nina B. Schafer of Unionville, Pa.; a son, Steven M. of Mill Valley, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Van Engle is survived by her children Herbert H. Hollon of Zarra, Spain, and Marc S. Hollon of Aurora, Ontario; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fraad is survived by Ms. Henderson and another daughter, Dr. Martha F. Haffey, both of Manhattan; a sister, Janet Bradley of Tulsa; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Schafer, Ms. Manning is survived by another stepdaughter, Sally H. Wiley of Evanston, Ill.; three stepsons, Matthew S. Hunter of Los Angeles; Maxwell Hunter III and David M. Hunter, both of Holidaysburg, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
Besides Ms. Friesen, of New Paltz, Ms. Cunningham is survived by another daughter, Agnes Friesen, of Berkeley, Calif.; three grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      
''
        Born Lillian Trachtenberg, Mrs. Seril is survived by her daughters Barbara and Pearl, her stepdaughter Zena Carp, her sisters Ada Hinden and Gladys Feigenbaum, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      
In addition to her husband and her brother, Karol Kennedy Kucher is survived by two sons, John, of Seattle, and Charlie, of Hailey, Idaho; four daughters, Kathryn Etherington, of Wenatchee, Wash.; Mary Jane Kucher, of California, and Heidi Pray and Suzanne Sanchez, both of Seattle, and five grandchildren.
Ms. Payson is survived by a son, William Blair Meyer Jr. of Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.; two daughters, Joan Curci Meyer of London and Porto Ercole, Italy, and Averil Payson Meyer of New York City and Katonah, N.Y.; two sisters, Payne Whitney Middleton of Manhattan, and Lorinda Payson deRoulet of Manhasset; a brother, John Whitney Payson of Jupiter Island, Fla.; and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Patricia, of Manhattan, Ms. Coleman is survived by three other children: Amy and Anthony Coleman, both of Manhattan, and Nathaniel Coleman of Newcastle, England; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Sanford is survived by two sons and a daughter, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
; and four grandchildren.
Miss Wray is survived by her daughters Susan Riskin of Manhattan and Victoria Riskin of Los Angeles; her son, Robert Riskin Jr., of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
; and two sons, James Garson, of Houston, and Robert Garson, of Pittsburgh; six grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      
After the Weather Girls, Ms. Wash sang, often anonymously, for C and C Music Factory, Black Box and other groups, and Ms. Armstead moved to Germany to found a new Weather Girls group with her daughter Dynell Rhodes, who survives Ms. Armstead, along with six other children and several grandchildren.
      
Dr. Dalton is survived by four children and five grandchildren, according to The Independent, a British daily.
      
He survives her, along with a sister, Magda, of Budapest; three children, Kati, of Manhattan, a journalist; Andrew, of Fort Worth; and Julia Marton-Lefevre of London; and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, a psychologist who serves as the foundation's president, Mrs. Stone is survived by 12 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
''
        In addition to her daughter, of New Paltz, N.Y., Ms. Adair is survived by two sons, Robert, of Pomona, and Douglass, of Thermal, Calif.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Kelly is survived by two sons, Patrick, of Las Vegas, and Francis of Palaiseau, France; a daughter, Florence Shapiro, of Las Vegas; and five grandchildren.
Besides her son Charles, her survivors include another son, John R., husband of the former governor; a daughter, Janet; and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, who lives in Maryland and Manhattan, and Mrs. Greene of Coral Gables, Fla., she is survived by two sons, Neil and John of Baltimore; a sister, Joan B. Katz, also of Baltimore; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her niece, survivors include three sisters, two children and three grandchildren.
In addition to Andrew, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., Ms. Dintenfass is survived by two other children from her first marriage, Dr. John Dintenfass of Manhattan and Susan Subtle Dintenfass of Berkeley, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      
; and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Truitt is survived by her children, Alexandra, of South Salem, N.Y., Mary, of Annapolis, Md., and Samuel, of New York; and by eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ellen Maddow, of New York, Ms. Maddow is survived by another daughter, Emily Dawson of Bolton, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, David and Leonard; two daughters, Miriam and Elaine; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lloyd is survived by a son, Nicholas, and grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son James, of Manhattan, Ms. Chaney is survived by a daughter, Katharine, of Manhattan; another son, Joseph, of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Peter, of St. Augustine, Fla., and Ann Waswo, of Oxford, England; seven grandchildren; and eight great-granddaughters.
      
Ms. Hunter is survived by a sister, Naomi Gill of Newport News, and two grandchildren.
      
; three grandchildren; one step-grandchild; and two great-grandchildren.
      
