She is survived by two sons, Walter Steppaccher of Sarasota, Fla., and John Steppacher of Waccabuc, N.Y.; a daughter, Doris Judell of White Plains; two stepsons, George Naumburg of North Salem, N.Y., and Philip Naumburg of Sante Fe, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Ellen London of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Montgomery, who lived in Philadelphia, was the fiancee of Prof. George L. Farre of Reston, Va. She is survived by her parents, Willard F. and Gladys Dorris Barber of Washington; two sons, DeWitt H. Montgomery 3d of Portland, Ore., and Dr. Owen C. Montgomery of Philadelphia; two daughters, Dr. Mary Montgomery Sickles of Larchmont, N.Y., and Dr. Ruth Rebecca Montgomery of Hamden, Conn., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She was the founder and director of Intimate Concerts Association of Westchester and taught violin at the New York College of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt., and in public schools in New Rochelle and Pelham, N.Y.
        She is survived by a daughter, Gale Bruzzese of New Rochelle, 10 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Stella Wilkinson of London; a son, Michael, of Cambridge; six grandchildren, and a sister, Stella Ednam of Argentina.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Hadassah Tannor of Manhattan and Froma Zeitlin of Princeton, N.J.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Gross of Salem, Ore., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She also worked more than 20 years as an agent for Frank Travel Service
        She is survived by her husband, Henry, senior partner of the Frankenthaler Kohn Schneider & Katz law firm in Manhattan; three daughters, Margaret A. of Washington, Barbara K. Katz of Manhattan and Alice K. Domby of Atlanta, and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Mavourneen, of Cheltenham, England; Colleen King of Cape Town, and Melanie Whetstone of London, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter, of Queens and Ian of Manahttan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Walter Steppaccher of Sarasota, Fla., and John Steppacher of Waccabuc, N.Y.; a daughter, Doris Judell of White Plains; two stepsons, George Naumburg of North Salem, N.Y., and Philip Naumburg of Sante Fe, N.M.; a stepdaughter, Ellen London of Pound Ridge, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and Miss McFadden, of New York, Mrs. Blair is survived by four sons, George McFadden of New York, John H. McFadden of London, Watson B. Blair of Seattle and Wolcott R. Blair of St. Louis, and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, she is survived by four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Adamec is survived by her daughter, Justene Adamec of Los Angeles; her sons, Edward and Paul, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, Geoffrey of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Gregory of Newington, Conn., and Gordon of Sandy, Utah; four grandchildren and a brother, E. Albert Berol of Bedford Hills, N.Y.
      
; eight grandchildren, and two brothers, Alwin M. Pappenheimer of Watertown, Mass., and John R. Pappenheimer of Cambridge, Mass.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Judge Aileen Hirschman Belford of Fall River, Mass., and E. Judith Hirschman Berger of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Richard James Hirschman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
; seven grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, George C., an investment banker; a daughter, Diana, of Manhattan; two sons, George, of Riverside, Conn., and Jonathan, of Manhattan; a sister, Sheila English of New Haven; a brother, Alexander White of Manhattan and Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Dr. William L. of Albany, N.Y., and Dr. Richard H. of Westport, Conn.; seven grandchildren; five great grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Eugene A. Humbert of Atlantis, Fla.
      
She is survived by two sons, Dr. William L. of Albany, N.Y., and Dr. Richard H. of Westport, Conn.; seven grandchildren; five great grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Eugene A. Humbert of Atlantis, Fla.
      
Surviving in addition to her daughter are three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Maria Marr, of Spring Valley, two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by 2 sons, 6 other daughters, 45 grandchildren, 46 great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Forbes is survived by four sons, Malcolm S. Jr., of Bedminster, Robert L., of Manhattan, Christopher, of Far Hills, N.J., and Timothy C., of Manhattan; a daughter, Moira Mumma of Chester Springs, Pa., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Peter Reed Hanchak of Philadelphia, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Mandelbaum is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph Mandelbaum, himself a past president of the League School; two sons, Paul Mandelbaum, of Brooklyn, and Dr. Joel Mandelbaum, of Kingston, N.Y.; a daughter, Jo Travis, of Branchville, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Eric McDonald, of Langhorn, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hazelton is survived by two sons, Dr. Standen and J. O. Standen, a lawyer in San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Milton; three daughters, Elizabeth Hersh, of Washington; Emily Abel, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Margaret Nelson of Middlebury, Vt.; two sons, James, of Takoma Park, Md., and Thomas, of New York; a sister, Joan Aron, of Washington, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Macfadden is survived by a son, Jack of Brooklyn; a daughter, Carol Tumbridge of Denver; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wright is survived by her daughter, Rosalind Wright Harris of New York City; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Elaine Audi Macken of Brooklyn; a sister, Aline Nemir Speer of Austin, Tex., and eight grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Diane Schachter, of Hewlett Bay Park, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      
Guests at the funeral included Miss Dietrich's children and grandchildren, along with politicians, diplomats and a handful of longtime friends, among them Maximilian Schell and Hildegard Knef.
Mrs. Lee died of lung cancer, said Heidi Bulow, one of her grandchildren.
Mrs. Lee is survived by three children, Judith L. Bulow, of New Rochelle, N.Y.; Thomas M. Lee of Woodland Hills, Calif.; and Catherine L. Schmid of St. Thomas, V.I., and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Jeremiah, a lawyer in Manhattan; three daughters, Mara Ferris of Brookline, Mass., and Thea Gutman and Rebecca Menon, both of Manhattan; a sister, Naomi Fatouros of Bloomington, Ind., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Peter, of Manhattan; a daughter, Betty Hess, of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Carola Chase of the Bronx; two sons, Jonathan of Manhattan and Michael of Chicago; a sister, Jean Farr of British Columbia, Canada, and five grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a son, Martin Russ of Oakville, Calif.; two daughters, S. K. Dunne of Rutherford, Calif., and Maggie Geiger Turner of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Dr. Pulaski is survived by her husband of 52 years, Charles A. Pulaski; a son, Charles A. Jr., of Tempe, Ariz.; a daughter, Elizabeth Mertens of Glen Head, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mr. Clark, she is survived by two sons, George Cabot Lodge and Henry Sears Lodge, both of Beverly; 10 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bryce is survived by a brother, Huntington Hartford 2d of Manhattan; a daughter, Nuala O'Donnell Pell of Newport, R.I. and Washington; a son, Columbus O'Donnell of London; eight grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Mara Tapp of Chicago and Kami Olsson-Tapp of San Diego, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Anna Lopin, and a brother, William Mazer, both of Manhattan; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Eleanor Payne of Atlanta; a sister, Harriet Jenkins of Shaker Heights, Ohio; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by her sister, Norah Barr; two daughters, Anna Parrish, of Portland, Ore., and Ms. Wright of Alameda, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Fisher is survived by her sister, Norah Barr; two daughters, Anna Parrish, of Portland, Ore., and Ms. Wright of Alameda, Calif., and four grandchildren.
Mrs. Leavitt is survived by her husband; three children, Lana Rosenfeld of Manhattan, Allen J. Leavitt of Las Vegas, Nev., and David L. Leavitt of Coatesville, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, David, of Arlington, Va.; a brother, Sidney, of Norwalk, Conn.; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, who lives in Philadelphia, Mrs. Sherman is survived by her second husband, Melvin Sherman, a daughter, Barbara Cohen Stanley, of San Francisco, a brother Stanley Silverstein, of Charleston, W.Va., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mr. Clark, she is survived by two sons, George Cabot Lodge and Henry Sears Lodge, both of Beverly; 10 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Gail Weed Westcott, of Simsbury, Conn.; two sons, Jonathan, of Yonkers, and Ethan, of London and Vienna; a brother, Rabbi Herbert Gilner of Chambersburg, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Beatrice Holden Guthrie of Jackson Hole, Wyo., Audrey Holden Charlson Denegre of New Canaan, Conn., and Sonia H. Evers of San Francisco; a son, Michael H., of Greenwich, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
; 17 grandchildren, and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rudin is survived by her sons Jack and Lewis, respectively the chairman and the president of the family business, both residents of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons by Mr. Kruskal, William H. of Chicago, Martin David of Princeton, N.J., and Joseph Jr. of Maplewood, N.J., and a daughter, Rosaly Evnine of Jerusalem; four stepsons by Mr. Oppenheimer, Peter, of Walnut Creek, Calif., Jack, of Sonoma, Calif., Philip, of South Norwalk, Conn., and Herbert, of Manhattan; 26 grandchildren, and 30 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Douglas, of Covelo, Calif.; her parents, Lil and Albert Tarshis of Las Vegas, Nev.; a sister, Lolo Berkoff, and a brother, Stanley Gordon, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Michelle Osborn of Haverford, Pa., and Washington, Patricia Pynchon of New York and Alexandra Whalen Sears of Lima, Peru; a stepson, Walter G. Dunnington Jr. of New York and Gladstone, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Allen D. Ohstrom of The Plains, Va.; eight grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
She is survived by three daughters, Michelle Osborn of Haverford, Pa., and Washington, Patricia Pynchon of New York and Alexandra Whalen Sears of Lima, Peru; a stepson, Walter G. Dunnington Jr. of New York and Gladstone, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Allen D. Ohstrom of The Plains, Va.; eight grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
Mrs. Mohorovicic is survived by her son, Jesse Roper Mohorovic of Scituate, Mass., who was baptized at St. Patrick's Cathedral after being rescued by the destroyer Jesse Roper; two daughters, Vesna Jurick of River Edge and Grace Murray of New York City, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by six children, Clair Haycraft Johnson of Maui, Hawaii, Sara Haycraft Sparrow of North Branford, Conn., Peter Altman of Boston, Leslie Altman Rescoria of Havertown, Pa., Tamar Jacoby of Manhattan, and Oren Jacoby, also of Manhattan; three brothers, Paul Smith of St. David's Island, Bermuda, and Robert and Sidney Smith, both of Los Angeles; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 71 years, Fausto Santolalla Bernal, 101 years old; two daughters, Irene Santolalla Silva and Maria Teresa Santolalla Silva, and a son, Javier Santolalla Silva, all of Lima; nine grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Sharman Douglas of Manhattan; two sons, James of Tucson and Lewis Jr. of Denver; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughters, she is survived by six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Howard; two sons, Robert, of Westfield, N.J., and Barry, of Novato; a brother, Arnold Fassler of Williamsville, Vt.; a sister, Sue Kellerman of San Rafael, Calif., and three grandchildren
      
Ms. Peterson is survived by her husband, Charles; a son, Wesley; a daughter, Ronnie, and three grandchildren, all of Middletown.
      
Mrs. Hunnewell is survived by her husband, Richard F. Hunnewell; six children, Joseph J. Haggerty, of Stowe, Vt., Louis D. Haggerty, of San Jose, Calif., Angela B. Haggerty, of Norwalk, Conn., Lucie B. Cook, of Plaistow, N.H., Bryan Haggerty, of Boston, and Leah Clark, of Waccabuc, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Maida Solomon of Cambridge, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hanes is survived by their daughter, Susan H. Caldwell of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, June H. McKnight of Norwich, Vt., and Ormsby H. Matthiessen of Old Lyme, Conn.; a stepson, John W. Hanes Jr. of Alexandria, Va.; a brother, Lunsford P. Yandell of Scottsdale, Ariz.; 16 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a stepson, Edward C. Chorley of White Plains, 5 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Granowitz is survived by two daughters, Ida Granowitz of Manhattan, and Tina Marks of Hartsdale, N.Y.; a son, Philip of Stanford, Conn.; a brother, Milton Smith of Port Chester, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Philip; two daughters, Alison Buffum of Narrangansett, R.I., and Roo Sheridan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Linda Stack of Darien, Conn., and Gay Samuelson of Los Angeles; a stepson, James Cromwell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sisters, Lynda Stack of Darien, Conn., and Gay Samuelson of Los Angeles; a stepson, James Cromwell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, a Manhattan resident, Ms. Lobsenz is survived by her husband, Dr. Harry Abrahams; a son, Michael Lobsenz of Boyds, Md., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Hugh Jr. of Bernardsville, 11 grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, James W. 3d, of Greenwich, Conn., president and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc., and Peter, of Birmingham; a daughter, Polly Lincoln of West Hartford, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Huttner is survived by a son, Dr. James F. Brodey of West Hartford, Conn.; a stepson, Richard Huttner of Middletown, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Hilary Fylstra of Lake Tahoe, Nev.; a sister, Celia Hartley of New Port Richey, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
      
In her addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter-in-law, Mary Anne MacKaye, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Field McIntyre of London; eight grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
; 13 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jenifer, of Boston; two stepdaughters, Emily Paine of Los Angeles and Rachel Wilson of London, and three grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Viertel is survived by a daughter, Alice Krieger of Manhattan; two sons, Tom of Manhattan, and Jack of Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Joy Golden of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
Her five children earned a total of 13 undergraduate and graduate degrees, and all seven of her grandchildren are college graduates.
; two sisters, Susie Cossey and Carrie Watkins, both of East Chicago; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by her daughter Elizabeth C. Bierman of Manhattan and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Wasey is survived by two daughters, Nina Mortellito of Manhattan and Jebba Handley of Chatham, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Haussamen is survived by a son, Dale Hemmerdinger of Manhattan; a daughter, Lyn Hemmerdinger of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Jeanette Jones Backs of Atlanta; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Yard is survived by a son, Michael Saito, and three daughters, Michelle, Mikiko and Mary Catherine Saito, and her mother, Dorothy, all of Sea Girt; two sisters, Elizabeth Rasmussen, of Chico, Calif., and Victoria Steiner, of Seattle; four brothers, William, of Modesto, Calif., Carl Jr., of Wall Township, N.J., Richard, of Jackson Township, N.J., and Stephen, of Oroville, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Leah Cohen Chatinover of South Windsor, Conn.; Sara Cohen of Kibbutz Ketura, Israel, and Rebecca Cohen Stewart of Bridgewater, N.J.; her mother and stepfather, Florence and Ed Nash of Bridgewater; a brother, Louis Kauder of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Susan Schwirck of Rahway, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter Paula Blasband, she is survived by her daughter Julia Mason of Manhattan; a brother, Arthur Mavity of Indianapolis; two sisters, Marion Greenwald of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Caraway of Watertown, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Whitelaw is survived by her daughter; her brother, Seymour Whitelaw of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
All made it through high school and many went to college, and they rewarded Mrs. Hale with 60 children of their own whom she regarded as her grandchildren.
In addition to her daughter, Lorraine, Mrs. Hale's survivors include two sons, Nathan and Kenneth, and several grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Ellen, of Manhattan; a sister, Julia, of Englewood, N.J., and two grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons, Reinaldo Herrera of Manhattan and Caracas, who is an editor of Vanity Fair magazine, and Luis Felipe Herrera-Guevara of Caracas, and nine grandchildren.
      
Also surviving are two sons, Robin Wallace of Gainesville, Fla., and Alan Wallace of Las Vegas, Nev.; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, an actor whose stage name is Ian Swift, she is survived by a sister, Joan Detweiler of Sarasota, Fla.; four daughters, Sharon Cowling of Vezenobres, France; Kathe Vail, who lives outside Paris; Clover Vail of New York City, and Faith Gude of Boston; 17 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter Joyce, Mrs. Bauer is survived by another daughter, Elaine Goldsmith of Somerset, N.J.; a brother, Irving Rapaport of Los Angeles; four grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bernstein is survived by a daughter, Shirley Anne Bernstein of New York, a son, Burton Bernstein of Bridgewater, Conn., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Professor Lorwin is survived by her husband of 18 years, Alain Virnot; two sons, Tom, of Paris, and Steve, of Plainsboro, N.J; a brother, Boris, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, Anthony, Mrs. Saunders is survived by two stepsons, Michael T. of Toronto, and Mark F. of the Bronx; two stepdaughters, Joan S. Markham of Yonkers, and Frances S. Hoffman of Mercersville, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a sister, Agnes Nessen, of Lincoln, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Albert G., of South Orange; two daughters, Edith Segall of Harrison, N.Y., and Ann Scott of Windsor, Maine; eight grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
; a brother, Bruce F. Roberts of Purchase, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
