; a sister, Jane S. Ramee, of Washington; three brothers, Charles B. Stewart, of Seattle, Gilbert H. Stewart Jr., of Haddonville, N.J., and Hamilton Stewart, of Pompton Plains, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Dr. Peter Schilder of Annapolis; a daughter, Jane S. Knowles of Santa Fe, N.M.; three grandchildren, and a brother, Karl Bender of Milwaukee, Ore.
      
She is survived by her husband, Naphtali Lewis; a daughter, Dr. Judith L. Herman, of Cambridge; a son, John B., of Cambridge, and two grandchildren.
      
; a brother, John A. Gilmore of Osterville, Mass., and six grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Gloria Mae St. Lifer, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Pantaleoni is survived by a brother, Tadeusz Adamowski of New York; by four sons, Michael and Anthony of New York, Guido 3d of Bronxville, N.Y., and Hewitt of Oneonta, N.Y.; a daughter, Nina Hillgarth of Toronto, and 14 grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
; four grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      
; 18 grandchildren, and 9 great-grandchildren.
      
Guy de Brun, of Waxhaw, N.C.; a stepdaughter, Mrs. Laurance Wilson, of Kalamazoo, Mich.; 8 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Laurence Jr., of St. Simon's Island, Ga.; two daughters, Helen Clarke of Atlanta and Katherine Gutelius of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; 21 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
; 9 grandchildren; 13 great-grandchildren, and a sister, Sadie Elswit of Manhattan.
      
; a sister, Sadie Elswit of Manhattan; 9 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Stein is survived by her husband, Dr. Max H. Stein; three sons, Jeffrey, of Hartsdale, N.Y., Ethan, of Irvington, N.Y., and Matthew, of Bayside, Queens; a brother, Irving Sperber of Englewood, N.J.; a sister, Beatrice Leis of Southbury, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Rhoda, of Manhattan; a son, Basil, of Queens; a sister, Anna Stein of St. Petersburg, Fla.; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas E. Huser Jr. of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a daughter, Eleanor H. Kirk of Bronxville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, George of Paoli, Pa., and John of Boulder, Colo; three daughters, Sophia von der Heide of Manhattan, Trita Shortt of Fairfax, Va., and Sylvia March Fitzgerald of Palisades, N.Y.; a sister, Maria Lennig of Frankfurt, and eleven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard W. Lawrence Jr.; three daughters, Ruth Wilson of Moab, Utah; Alida Currey of Grand Junction, Colo., and Elizabeth Lawrence of Burlington, Vt.; a brother, Richard Wadhams, also of Burlington, and two grandchildren.
      
Avery Dulles of Washington, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Howard, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Paul, of Lexington, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Caroline N. Hollyday of New Canaan, Conn., and Sarah N. Clawson of Wayland, Mass., 13 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her son, Anthony Lewis, a columnist of The New York Times, a sister, Frieda Berg of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sisters, Ella Dinkens and Isabelle Read, both of Palm Beach, Fla., and Mary Lillian Haight of Manhattan; three daughters, Lucie Collins of Lakeville, Conn., Gretchen Kingsley of Stony Creek, Conn., and Nancy Berger of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      
When Mr. Sakharov and his wife were sent into internal exile to the Volga city of Gorky in 1980 because of their human rights activities, Ruth Bonner was allowed to go to the United States to live with her grandchildren, who had emigrated in the 1970's.
Survivors include three other children, nine grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are 3 daughters, Mary Jo Ward of Short Hills, N.J., Anne Cloney of Dennis, Mass., and Judith Moser of Glen Ridge, N.J.; a son, Carl, of New Caanan, Conn.; 13 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
; three sisters, Mrs. Frederick H. Robinson of Fredericksburg, Va., Mrs. Elizabeth J. Maguire of Washington and Mrs. Jay Stetzer of Philadelphia, and by nine grandchildren.
Mrs. Stevenson leaves two daughters, Priscilla S. Hunt, of Cambridge, Mass., and Helen S. Meyner, a former member of Congress, who lives in Princeton, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by three sons and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Bernice L. Rudnick of Manhattan, who is vice chairman of the Einstein College board of overseers; a son, Maurice, of Manhattan, four grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Youngman is survived by a daughter, Marilyn; a son, Gary, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Janet S. Sainer of Manhattan, who is Commissioner of the New York City Department for the Aging, and Gladys Kraft, of Washington; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Johannes, of Stowe; two daughters, Eleonore Campbell of Waitsfield, Vt., and Rosmarie Trapp of Pittsburgh; two stepsons, Rupert, of Stowe, and Werner, of Waitsfield; three stepdaughters, Agathe von Trapp of Glyndon, Md., Maria F. Trapp of Papua, New Guinea, and Johanna von Trapp of San Diego, and by 29 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Johannes, of Stowe; two daughters, Eleonore Campbell of Waitsfield, Vt., and Rosmarie Trapp of Pittsburgh; two stepsons, Rupert, of Stowe, and Werner, of Waitsfield; three stepdaughters, Agathe von Trapp of Glyndon, Md., Maria F. Trapp of Papua, New Guinea, and Johanna von Trapp of San Diego, and 29 grandchildren.
Mrs. Stark is survived by her son, Morgan Babcock Stark of Manhattan and North Haven and three grandchildren.
Mrs. Berlin is survived by four children, Brigid, Christina and Ritchie, all of New York, and Richard E. Jr., of Beverly Farms, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Peggy Friedman, and two grandchildren, Matthew and Susannah Friedman, all of Manhattan.
She was born in Westerville, Ohio, and was a graduate of the Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by two daughters, Jule Bogle of Dayton, Ohio, and Sylvia Stehley of Norwalk, Conn.; a son, Jay Birmingham, of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her son James, Mrs. Green's survivors include another son, Richard, of Annandale, Va.; two sisters, Ruth Costello of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., and Mildred Cleaveland of San Andreas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
; and four grandchildren.
      
; her father, Kenneth Burke, the poet and critic, of Andover, N.J.; two sisters, Elspeth Hart, of Brooklyn, and France Burke, of Manhattan; two brothers, Michael Burke of Manhattan, and Anthony Burke of Victoria, British Columbia, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sister, Sarah Edwards Gray, of Harlem; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
Her son, Andrew, of Plainfield, Vt., and two grandchildren survive.
      
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
Among her survivors are a sister and two grandchildren, all of Britain.
      
She is also survived by her husband, Coyt, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jeremy Warburg Russo of Chicago; a son, Jonathan, of Boston; two stepchildren, Geraldine Zetzel of Cambridge, Mass., and Felix M. Warburg 2d of San Francisco; a sister, Lady Bonham-Carter of London; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
and City College; a daughter, Elaine W. Conway of Bronxville, N.Y.; a son, John, of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a son, Daniel, of Washington; a daughter, Susan Lindheim, of El Cerrito, Calif.; a stepbrother, Ralph Colp Jr. of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
; Faith Wing Beiler of Greenwich, Conn., and Lucinda, of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Winston C. Anderson of Lancaster, Pa., and seven grandchildren.
      
; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; nine grandchildren, and one great grandchild.
      
A native of Glen Cove, L.I., she grew up in New York City and attended the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.
        Mrs. Nitze is survived by her husband of 55 years; two sons, Peter and William A., both of New York City; two daughters, Phyllis Thompson of Brookline, Mass., and Heidi Nitze of New York City, 11 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
A native of Glen Cove, L.I., she grew up in New York City and attended the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.
        Mrs. Nitze is survived by her husband of 55 years; two sons, Peter and William A., both of New York City; two daughters, Phyllis Thompson of Brookline, Mass., and Heidi Nitze of New York City, 11 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Cox is survived by her son, Dr. Denton Sayer Cox, of Manhattan; a daughter, Patricia Cox Mansfield, of Weston, Mass., and four grandchildren.
She is survived by a stepdaughter, Mary Esther Whitelaw of Midlothian, Va., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Moe is survived by a son, Christian Hollis Moe of Carbondale, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Clark Warren of Fairfield, Conn.; two sons, Nathaniel, of Manhattan, and Amos H. of San Diego; two daughters, Rebecca P. Goldstein of Denver and Maria Larsson of Gotesberg, Sweden; a stepson, John K. Jr., of Washington, and 10 grandchildren.
; a daughter, Judith Singer of Jacksonville, Fla.; two brothers, Dudley Feit of Brooklyn and Herbert Feit of Jamaica Estates, Queens; a sister, Rose Blau of Brooklyn, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, the Indian writer Santha Rama Rau, of Amenia, N.Y.; four grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, James, of Hampton, N.H., Richard, of Center Ossipee, N.H., and Harold, of Raymond, N.H.; a daughter, Mrs. Noel Robertson of St. Catherines, Ontario; a brother, Roger, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Charles A. Perera; two sons, Donald A., of San Jose, Calif., and John B., of Cleveland; three daughters, Ellen P. Scott of San Diego, Carol P. Weingeist of Hanover, N.H., and Sylvia B. Perera of Sherman, Conn.; a brother, Samuel Brinton, and a sister, Alice Clement, both of Kennett Square; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Samuel M. Melkon Jr., of Paramus, N.J.; four stepchildren, Helen Barnes and Kathleen Mendes of West Palm Beach, Fla., Dr. Haik Kavookjian Jr. of Darien, Conn., and Sarkis Kavookjian of Rumson, N.J., and several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Holland Estill, of Manhattan; a sister, Katharine Bouterse, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Seth L. Schapiro of Manhattan, and a daughter, Cherry S. Krassner of New Rochelle; nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Stephen Wise Tulin of Larchmont, N.Y., and Jonathon Wise Polier of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Trudy Festinger of Manhattan; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons: Llewellyn 3d, of Hightstown, N.J., and Dr. Harvey, of Devon, Pa.; a daughter, Elise W. Gebelt of Seattle; 13 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Allana Chesney of Point Lookout, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two children, Dr. Amy Lowenstein of South Orange and Dr. James Lieberman of Westport, Conn; four grandchildren, and six greatgrandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Peller, who came to the United States from Russia when she was a child, is survived by two daughters and two grandchildren.
      
Miss Bauersmith is survived by a daughter, Jennifer Warren, an actress living in Los Angeles; a son, Paul Warren, dean of the School of Education at Boston University, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, John Schloss Jr., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, James of Schwenksville, Pa., and Dirk of Tenafly, N.J.; a sister, Dorothy C. Parker of Fort Washington, Pa.; seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Julia Knickerbocker, Miranda de Kay and Suzanne Colt, all of Manhattan; a sister, Gerd Sherman, of Manhattan; a brother, Rolf Schjoldager of Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Newtown, Pa.; two daughters, Ann Rhoads of Lower Makefield and Jane Morse of Lawrence, Kan., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Price is survived by a daughter, Claire Krischok of Manhattan; a brother, Sol Westheimer, also of Manhattan; two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Stuart B. Glover; a brother, Allan H. Kalmus of Manhattan; two sons, James D., of White Plains, and Richard K., of Stamford, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hammerstein is survived by a sister, Eleanor Biow of Santa Barbara, Calif.; two sons, Henry Jacobson of Santa Barbara and James Blanchard Hammerstein of Manhattan and London; a daughter, Susan Blanchard of Manhattan; two stepchildren, William Hammerstein of Kent, Conn., and Alice Mathias of Harrison, N.Y.; 10 grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Donald Jr., of Naperville, Ill.; a daughter, Delia A. Mulvaney of Southboro, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Elizabeth Morrill of Beverly, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Phyllis Farley of Manhattan and Carol Noyes of Syosset; 13 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, D. Rex Edwards; two sisters, Marjorie Smith of Rosedale and Bernice Patterson of Jamaica, Queens; an adopted son, Ralph Barkley of Virginia Beach, Va.; an adopted daughter, Freda Muldoon of Newburyport, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Charlotte Van Winkle of Hamden, Conn.; a son, Van Burgess of Summit, N.J.; a daughter, Claire Phillips of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Edwin, of Ghent, a retired Supreme Court justice; a daughter, Elaine Johnson of Somers, N.Y., three grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are Senator Lautenberg, of Montclair, N.J.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Phyllis Farley of Manhattan and Carol Noyes of Syosset; 13 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, John of Belmont, Mass., and Thomas of South Salem; a sister, Mrs. Elaine Ducas Rueff of Pleasantville, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter and son, the actress is survived by an undisclosed number of grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Lawrence O., of Tuckerton, N.J.; two grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by 6 children and 15 grandchildren.
She is survived by 6 children and 15 grandchildren.
      
; seven grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Harriet Heron of Medford Lakes, N.J., Berta B. Walker of New York, and Louise W. Walker of Central Middlesex, Mass., and four grandchildren.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gino; a daughter, Adriana Scalamandre Bitter; seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Joseph Wallace, of New Rochelle; a sister, Zena Wallace of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by one daugther, Mrs. Reagan; one son, Richard Davis of Philadelphia, and seven grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Edith Darby of Rehoboth, Mass., and Johanna McKenzie of Little Compton, and six grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Eleanor Elliot of Manhattan, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Abigail Ives of White Plains and Coletta Bernadino of Westport, Conn.; a son, Thomas Cox of Stamford, Conn.; a brother, James J. Ruch Jr. of Princeton Junction, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
