She is survived by her daughter, Jan Norman, of Ithaca, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sons, Mrs. Eiseman is survived by a sister, Eva Tankel, of Minneapolis, seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
; five grandchildren, and four step-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, James, of Lafayette, La., and Henry Jr., of Manhattan; two daughters, Katherine Cary of Manhattan and Susan Weil of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; 15 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, James, of Lafayette, La., and Henry Jr., of Manhattan; two daughters, Katherine Cary of Manhattan and Susan Weil of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; 15 grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a sister, Eleanor Smaridge of Huntington; a stepdaughter, Doris Waldeyer, and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daugher, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman, several grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daughter, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman; several grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, Dr. John Jr., of Manhattan, Robert F., of New Caanan, Conn., and Dr. William G., of Arlington, Va., and six grandchildren.
      
Also surviving are her mother, Anagusta Colville of New Haven; two brothers, George Colville of Madison, Conn., and Paul Colville of Middleton, Nova Scotia; two sisters, Meta Wyss and Pamela Reycraft, both of Manhattan; two sons, Kevin, of Buffalo, and Brian, of Washington; two daughters, Patricia Inciardi of Novato, Calif., and Moya Keating of Chatham, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, John, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a daughter, Marianne Hatfield of Porterville, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Franco is survived by seven grandchildren and numerous great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by a daughter, Barbara Cramer of Chicago; a son, Robert Goldberg, of Anchorage, Alaska, and six grandchildren.
In addition to her son, she is survived by a daughter, Olivia, of Manhattan; two sisters, Anny Hochschild of Chile, and Elsa Drucker of Riverdale, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Fay Alailima of Apia, Western Samoa; Harriet Hunter of Havertown, Pa., and Gladys Keidel of Arlington, Va., 13 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, William Granger Blair of Manhattan, a reporter for The Times; a sister, Barbara Shepard of Menasha, Wis., and Carefree, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mitchell; two sons, Franklin, of Cambridge, Mass., and Wesley, of Princeton; a daughter, Joanne Peterson of Woodbridge, Conn.; a brother, Joseph Oshiver of Kansas City, Mo., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Williams is survived by a son, Alexander, of Chicago; a daughter, Elizabeth Fox of Philadelphia; a brother, Charles Evans of Jacksonville, Fla., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Grinnell is survived by a brother, John R. Hoopes, of Sarasota, Fla.; a sister, Helen Lapp, of Hatboro, Pa.; a daughter, Nancy G. Barnum, of Washington; three sons, Robert S. Jr., of Guilderland, N.Y., Alexander, of New York City, and Lawrence I., of Waitsfield, Vt., and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Jules Feiffer, the cartoonist, of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Korman of East Meadow, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are three sons, Robert and John, of Manhattan, and Francis, of Riverside, Conn.; a daughter, Beatrice Manice of Manhattan; 10 grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a daughter, Dr. Caroline O. McCagg of Edison; a son, Edward K. McCagg of Seattle; two sisters, Dorothy Love Saunders of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Mary Love Glenn of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
''
        In addition to her son, she is survived by a sister, Mignonne; a daughter, Cappy Carey; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
After his death in 1933, she married George Van Santvoord, the late headmaster of the Hotchkiss School, a private preparatory school in Lakeville, Conn.
        She is survived by three children, John Wilkie Beal of Newburgh, Alger Dresel Beal of Bennington, Vt., and Alice Louise Curten of Hyde Park, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
; a brother, John G. Winchester of Jupiter Beach, Fla., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Eleanor Lohn of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, G. Kingsley Jr., of Portola Valley, Calif., and Alan, of Englewood, N.J.; two sisters, Vivian Wakeman of Sparta, N.J., and Constance Sewalt of Montclair, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
Holly, N.J.; a daughter, Nina Duryee Wood of New Haven, and four grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Maxwell Notkin of Montreal; three grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Novak is survived by her sister, Jane, 2 daughters, 10 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, Varick Bacon of Manhattan, three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Senator Moynihan, she is survived by two sons, Michael of Washington, and Thomas J. Staplefield of Stamford, Conn.; a sister, Julia P. Noe of Louisville, Ky., and 10 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Grant is survived by her husband; three sons, John of New Delhi, James D. of Fairfield, Iowa, and William of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Putnam Henck, and a sister, Anne Stewart, both of Sky Forest, Calif.; a sister, Katherine Lovell of Jakarta, Indonesia, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Herbert and Robert, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by six daughters, three sons, her mother, a brother, a sister and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jane Hughes Bergler of Danville, Calif.; a son, Dr. John, of Tucson; a sister, Lempi Pagnucco of Cincinnati, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Ms. Yoneda's survivors are her daughter from a previous marriage, Joyce Ebangelista, her son, Thomas Yoneda, and two grandchildren.
      
Also surviving are two daughters, Robin Woods of Darien, Conn., and Elizabeth Phillips of Houston; a brother, Edward Steele of North Palm Beach, Fla.; a sister, Libby Rathbun of Palm Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two daughters, Daphne E. M. Nash of Oxford, England, and Marina Yedigaroff of London; a son, Audley George Burnett of London; her mother, Lady Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Mary-Chilton Winslow Mead of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
''
        Miss Abeson is survived by two daughters, Zalia Lipson of Sacramento, Calif., and Alice Tarkeshi of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Elliott C. Arensmeyer and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
; a son, Thomas, of Norwood, N.J., and six grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Walter is survived by her husband, Fred, and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband; two sons, Stephen and Richard; a daughter, Dana Spellman O'Neill, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Richard and Philip, both of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Campbell is survived by a daughter, Elliott C. Arensmeyer and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by a son, Gordon Beckhart, of Haddon Heights, N.J.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Rubin is survived by two daughters, Dr. Nira Silverman of North Haven, Conn., and Edna Sussman of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Rubin is survived by two daughters, Dr. Nira Silverman of North Haven, Conn., and Edna Sussman of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
      
; a brother, Edward Midlam of Lake Charles, La., and eight grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, three children and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fredman was a co-owner of Instant Replay, a clothing consignment store in Harrison, N.Y. She is survived by her husband; two sons, Neil, of Rye Brook, N.Y., and Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Herman Imber and Dr. Irving Imber, both of Reading, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Patricia Cummings of Westport, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Fredman was a co-owner of Instant Replay, a clothing consignment store in Harrison, N.Y. She is survived by her husband; two sons, Neil, of Rye Brook, N.Y., and Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Herman Imber and Dr. Irving Imber, both of Reading, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Elizabeth Martiny, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Palmer, who had lived in Fort Myers Beach since 1959, is survived by two daughters, Dean Hall of Concord, Mass., and Ann Bayliss of Chapel Hill, N.C., six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Harding Mott of Flint and Stewart Mott of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Miss Eldridge is survived by her daughter, Penelope Fantacci of Florence, Italy; five grandchildren; a great-granddaughter, and two brothers, David I. McKechnie, who lives in Oregon, and Cromwell McKechnie, of Carpenteria, Calif.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Elaine St. Johns of Arroyo Grande; two sons, McCullah St. Johns of Thousand Oaks, Calif., and Richard Rogers St. Johns of Los Angeles; 10 grandchildren, 13 great-grandchildren and four great-great-grandchildren.
; a daughter-in-law, Margaret Palmer of Locust Valley, L.I., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a brother, Henry Wise Wood Distler of Tangier and London; two sons, John, of Cambridge, Mass., and Horace, of Menlo Park, Calif.; a daughter, Hope Brock Winthrop of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, Edwin, of Southampton, a former chairman of the Suffolk Republican Committee; two daughters, Audrey Aldridge and Beverly Flanagan, both of Delray Beach, Fla.; 8 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Geyelin is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Antoinette Hoar of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Eames is survived by her daughter, Lucia Demetrios of San Francisco, and by five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. McFarland is survived by two sons, John, of East Hanover, N.J., and Benjamin, of Andover, N.J.; five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, survivors are a son, Douglas, of Seattle; three daughters, Betsy Parker and JoAnn Ficke of Denver and Mary Ellen Grades of Tucson, Ariz., and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Kostellow is survived by a daughter, Adele Morrill of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Richard is survived by two sons, Edward, of Cleveland, and Dr. Jack Richard of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
''
        A widow, Mrs. May is survived by a daughter, Barbara Reinsmith, of Elmira; two grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fredson T. Bowers, of Charlottesville, a former chairman of the English department of the University of Virginia; two sons by previous marriages, William Wertenbaker, of New Haven, Conn., and Mark Hardin; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Joy, of Sedona; a son, Hugh, of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. Henry, of Newport Beach, Calif.; two daughters, Margot, of Washington, and Dr. Ellin Lieberman of Los Angeles; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
; two sisters, Daisy Leen of Great Neck, L.I., and Fanny Anixter, of Woodside, Queens, and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. McGraw is survived by a daughter, Mitzi Wertheim of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
She is also survived by 18 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Melissa Morant of London, Daphne Fairbanks-Kay of Colchester, England, and Victoria Fairbanks of Tappan, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Mary Louise Shepherd of Pittsburgh, and Anne O. Reid of Hilton Head, S.C.; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daugthers, Molly Dolle and Linda Finocchiaro; a son, Christopher, and nine grandchildren, all of the Los Angeles area.
      
Surviving are two sons, David, of Cambridge, Mass., who shared the Nobel Prize in Medicine in 1975, and Robert, of Orange, Conn., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Max, of Alexandria; a daughter, Joan Campbell of Toronto; two stepsons, Wolfgang, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and Ernst, of Vincentown, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Hendrik, of Boston; a daughter, Katrina McClintock of New City, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Feinberg is survived by her father, Albert C. Freeman of Atherton, Calif.; two sisters, Ruth Sevier of San Francisco and Helen Dwane of Redwood City, Calif.; a son, Sheldon, of Danville, Calif.; three grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Moses; a daughter, Naomi Cohen of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Robert, of San Francisco; a daughter, Kathleen, of New Rochelle, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Joan, of Manhattan; a son, Ralph Jr., of London; a sister, Aileen Davis of Washington; a brother, Booker Harris of Hartford, and six grandchildren.
Mrs. Fletcher said survivors included two daughters, Cathron Harris and Thelma Ford, both of Colchester; 9 grandchildren; 39 great-grandchildren; 40 great-great-grandchildren and 1 great-great-great-grandchild.
Vet Boswell is survived by her daughter, three grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Graham is survived by her daughter, Wendy Fairey, who is dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences at Brooklyn College; her son, Robert Westbrook, now living in Khania, Crete; and by three grandchildren.
She is survived by a son, Kelly, of Boston; two daughters, Jeanette Atkinson of Boston and Cynthia, of Washington; a sister, Helen Edey of Martha's Vineyard, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
; three sisters, Renee Feld and Helen Libles, both of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Martha Smith of Oakdale, L.I., and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are three sons, Calvin, Carter and Conrad, all of Washington, and 13 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Barbara Sprogell Jacobson, of New Hope, Pa., and Manhattan; a sister, Mildred Scott Olmsted, of Rose Valley; six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her daughter, Joan Ebenstein Porter of Pipersville, Pa., and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Joseph; two sons, Daniel, of Atlanta, and Frederick, of San Francisco; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Jill, and a son, Stephen, both of Manhattan; her mother, Ida Berger, and a sister, Jean Chimsky, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
; a stepdaughter, Lynn Hargraves of Babylon, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
