She is survived by her sons, Jaime and Peter, both of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
; another son, Edward, who is married to Tricia Nixon, of Manhattan; a brother, Edward Ridley Finch Jr. of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      
Justice Altman is survived by her husband, Herbert I. Altman, a former justice of State Supreme Court; two sons,, Michael T., of Woodmere, N.Y., and Daniel, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Sarah R. Stark of Raanana, Israel; a brother, William Jarblum of Los Angeles; and nine grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, her survivors include two sisters, Susan Winbourne of Sudbury, Mass., and Jessie Roland of Navarre, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a columnist for The Daily News, Ms. Zion is survived by two sisters, Sandra, of San Francisco, and Martha, of Miami; two brothers, Karl, of Portland, Me., and Robert, of Miami; two sons, Adam, of Brooklyn, and Jed, of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Dolbeare is survived by her husband, Louis P. Dolbeare; a sister, Alice Lynd of Niles, Ohio; two children, L. Niles Dolbeare of San Francisco and Mary Dolbeare O'Kane of Seattle; and four grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Billie Carol Austin of Denver; a brother, John C. Austin of Duncan, Okla.; 10 grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
      
; seven grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Clinton, Conn., Miss Wright is survived by her son, Niven Perence Busch of Indianapolis, and two grandchildren.
; and Aram, of Richmond, Calif.; two sisters, Suzanne Caffuzzi, of Manhattan, and Diantha Guessous, of Rabat, Morocco; and six grandchildren.
Besides her son, whom she had with her first husband and who lives in Kiel, Germany, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, Ms. McNulty is survived by a son, John Joseph McNulty of Brooklyn, and four grandchildren.
      
; 11 grandchildren; and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, from her first marriage, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by a sister, Phyllis Kempner; four children from her first marriage: Pamela Davis Kivelson, Nancy Stewart, Alan Davis and Cynthia Kanner; three stepchildren: Bill Beyers, Robbie Beyers and Amy Theorin; and 13 grandchildren and step-grandchildren.
      
Noyes of Hood River, Ore.; and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three sons, John Friede of Rye, N.Y., Robert Friede of Newton, Mass., and Thomas Jaffe of Manhattan; a sister, Enid Haupt of Greenwich, Conn.; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two daughters from her second marriage, Judith A. Claytor of Grand Rapids, and Sharon Claytor Peters of Lansing, Mich.; five grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
Besides her son, of Lovejoy, Mrs. Talmadge is survived by eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Stephen O'Neil, whom she married in 1989; two sons and two daughters from her first marriage, Emile, Kermit, Cathrine and Elizabeth; and three grandchildren.
      
; and seven grandchildren.
Besides her son, of Oakland, Ms. Benedict is survived by a daughter, Ellen Hawley, of Minneapolis; two grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Thomas Kempner Jr. of Manhattan and James L. Kempner of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Adeline Field Kempner of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
He survives her, along with Ms. Scheftel, two grandchildren and one step-grandchild.
She is survived by her sons, Thomas Livingston Hall of San Francisco, and John Kendrick Hall of Jerusalem; her daughters, Margaret Hall Whitfield Courant of Great Barrington and Elizabeth Hall Richardson of Denver; 11 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
Besides Ms. Shepherd, Ms. Washington is survived by two sons, Donald Wylie Jr. of Chicago and Donald Wylie II of Los Angeles; two other daughters, Melanie Blanks of Chicago and Ardelia Smith of Chicago; and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by Ms. Bass of Port Washington; another daughter, Rita Christopher Frank of Madison, Conn.; and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband Stanley Leff; her children, Daniel and Jean Rossner; her sister, Nancy Pike; and three grandchildren.
; eight grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
He survives her, as does their son, Joel III, who lives in Scarborough, N.Y.; three grandchildren; her brother Edmund Baker of Florida; and her sisters Edna Carnegie, Eunice Royster and Marian Green, all of New Haven.
; a son, David, of Kinnelon, N.J.; and two grandchildren.
      
; two stepchildren, David Barnes and Donna Marie Barnes; and two grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, of McDonald, Pa., Ms. Yard is survived by another son, John Garrett, of Fairport, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
Ms. Nikel is survived by her husband, Sam Leiman; her daughter, Ziva Hanan; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren, all of Moshav Kidron; and a sister, Sara Bock, of Rockaway Beach, Queens.
      
In addition to Ms. Segal, Mrs. Groszmann is survived by her brother, Paul Stern, two grandchildren and two great-grandsons.
In addition to her husband and son, Ms. Leslie-Melville is survived by her daughter, Dancy Bruce Mills of Glen Arm, Md., and five grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
Ms. Jones is survived by her son, Michael A. Jones; her daughter, Monica Jones Shareef; three brothers; four sisters; and two grandchildren.
; her daughter, Rainy Smith, of Maryland; and several grandchildren.
''
        Mrs. Raphaelson is survived by her son, Joel, who lives in Chicago; her daughter, Naomi Yocum of Lancaster, Pa.; six grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
Bond is survived by their three children, Jane Clement Bond and J. Max Bond Jr., both of Manhattan, and George Clement Bond of Teaneck, N.J.; a sister, Emma Clement Walker, of Seattle; six grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Nolte is survived by two children from her first marriage, Joyce Jameson of Gold Canyon, Ariz., and Gerald Law of Rancho Santa Margarita; a daughter from her second marriage, Lisa Mulvania, of Huntington Beach, Calif.; a stepson, David Nolte, of Kailua, Hawaii; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandchild.
      
Besides her daughter, of Newton, Mass., she is survived by a son, Michael Silberman, of Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Alberta N. Grossman of Manhattan and Westport; and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Michael, of St. Petersburg, Fla., and Patrick, of Redmond, Wash.; a daughter, Megan Styles of Danville, Calif.; a brother, Joseph Madden of Indian Rocks, Fla.; a sister, Jane Rupp of St. Petersburg; and two grandchildren.
      
''
        Besides her husband of 73 years, and her son Arthur, of Essex, Mass., Mrs. Hodges is survived by two more sons, Fletcher III, of Manhattan, and John A., of Washington; 9 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
