In addition to Ms. Foster, she is survived by three grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
She was the eldest of the 10 grandchildren of John Vernou Bouvier Jr., who spent summers at the family estate in East Hampton, Lasata.
Another of the grandchildren was Jacqueline Bouvier, the future first lady.
Mrs. Lindgren, who was widowed in 1952, is survived by a sister, Stina Hergin; her daughter, Karin Nyman; seven grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Rubinstein is survived by two daughters, Eva and Dr. Alina Rubinstein of Manhattan; two sons, Paul, also of Manhattan, and John, of Los Angeles; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Alan Jr. of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Thomas, of Manhattan; 8 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Dr. Geraint James of London; two daughters, Auriole Sherlock Davis of Canterbury and Amanda Sherlock James of London; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, of Massachusetts; a son, Kim, of Wyoming; a sister, Carol Whitmore of California; and two grandchildren.
''
        Princess Margaret is survived by her son, Lord Linley, her daughter, Lady Sarah, and three grandchildren.
She is survived by two daughters, Angelica Borgese of Manhattan and Turkey, and Dr. Domenica Borgese of Milan; a son, Marcel Deschamps of Halifax; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, daughter and son, Jeffrey Krolik of California, she is survived by two grandchildren.
She is also survived by four sisters, Betty Bassett of Danbury, Barbara Castro of northern Florida, Julie Miller of Danbury and Mary Vitale of Connecticut and Florida; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Castro had six grandchildren, not four, and seven great-grandchildren, not five.
      
''
        In addition to Mr. Yancey, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her son Thomas, also of Philadelphia; three daughters, Lisa Turrentine, of West Chester, Pa., and Pamela and Nicole Turrentine, of Philadelphia; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her son, William, of Manahawkin, N.J.; her sister, Mary A. Francis of Palm Coast, Fla.; her brothers, Wilmote Burton of the Bronx, and Warren Burton of Palm Coast; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Mr. Newhouse survives Miss DeLay, as do their son, Jeffrey Newhouse, of Bronxville, and their daughter, Alison Dinsmore, of Boston, as well as four grandchildren.
She is also survived by four sisters, Betty Bassett of Danbury, Barbara Castro of northern Florida, Julie Miller of Danbury and Mary Vitale of Connecticut and Florida; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Mydans is survived by her husband; their son, Seth, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times; their daughter, Shelley, known as Misty, of Sacramento, Calif.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Georgina Nkulenu; her daughter, Vincentia Canacco; her sons Vincent Malm, Christian Biassey and Stephen Jr., and six grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Crispen, survivors include Mrs. Sawyer's husband of 10 years, George A. Sawyer of Alexandria; three stepchildren, Nancy Sawyer, Jeffrey Sawyer and Debra Moulton; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
; two brothers, David Levitov of Silver Spring, Md., and Joseph Levitov of Boca Raton, Fla.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
      
She is survived by her husband of 63 years; a daughter, Barbara Segal of Los Angeles; a brother, Aaron Mosko of Denver; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
; a daughter, Betty Hillman of Wilmington, Vt.; and three grandchildren.
      
; and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her sons, Randy and Jerry, both of New Orleans, and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Diane Freudenheim Lange of Danbury, Conn.; a son, Milton, who is a reporter for The New York Times; seven grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include a son, Dr. Michael Matzkin; a daughter, Hannah Lavine; four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. de Saint Phalle is survived by a brother, John de Saint Phalle, of Florida; a daughter, Laura Duke, of Paris; a son, Philip Mathews, of New York; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Ms. Paine of Durham, N.H., and Gillette Piper of Coral Gables, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Mimi Thompson of Manhattan; a sister, Carmel Eitt of King George, Va.; a brother, John Michael White of Delray Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Robinson is survived by her son and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sons, she is survived by four grandchildren.
Professor Roswell is survived by a son, Dr. Arthur, of Bridgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Elaine Roswell of New Haven; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
; three grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
; two grandchildren; a sister, Florence Roher of White Plains; and her mother, Shirley Rodkinson, also of White Plains.
      
; and Pamela Manasse, of Manhattan; a sister, Marjorie Weissman, of Queens; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
In addition to Mrs. Robes, of Round Pond, Me., Mrs. Cook is survived by two other daughters, Jean Stevenson, of Lyme, N.H., and Boca Grande, Fla., and Elizabeth Steele, of Burlington, Vt.; six stepchildren; eight grandchildren; 11 stepgrandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include her husband, Waldon Peter Snyder, known as Pete, a former Marine Corps aviator; six children; six grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her daughter, her son, who lives in Belmont, Mass., three grandchildren and three great-granddaughters.
She is survived by her daughter, Anne Marshall of London, who is a doctor, and four grandchildren.
      
; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by five children, all residents of the New York area: two daughters, Maidy Jeger and Gloria Kisch; three sons, Armand and Marcel Lindenbaum and Leonard Stern; 24 grandchildren and 37 great-grandchildren; and two sisters, Esther Mann of Tel Aviv and Sully Selbourn of Manchester, England.
      
; her sister, Noel Train of Washington; 11 grandchildren; and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
She also had 14 grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Natalie Fell Spencer; two stepsons, David T. Schiff and Peter G. Schiff; 13 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York City; and two grandchildren.
Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York; and two grandchildren.
Mrs. Robinson is also survived by seven grandchildren.
Ms. Wyler is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president, and Dr. Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; a brother, Edwin L. Goldwasser; a sister, Joan Schine; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Whitaker, whom she married in 1991, she is survived by three children from her marriage to Kiner, the longtime Mets broadcaster; sons Michael and Scott Kiner, and a daughter, Kathryn Freeman, all of Palm Desert, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      
Ms. Pamela is also survived by a son, Ken Irwin of Palm Springs, Calif.; 12 grandchildren; and 27 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by four children, Gary, of McLean, Va.; Donald, of Columbus, Ohio; Lauren, of Manhattan; and Tracey Barrentine of Annandale, Va.; five brothers, John Lawler of Yonkers; Lawrence Lawler of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; Robert Lawler of Seaford, N.Y.; Brendan Lawler, of Katonah, N.Y.; and James Lawler, of Staten Island; four sisters, Therese Lawler Stevenson of Bedford, N.Y.; Kathleen Lawler Gerard of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y.; Patricia Lawler Odell of Parlin, N.J.; and Joan Lawler Cirone of San Luis Obispo, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
The Furmans are survived by two daughters, Lydia Furman Peter of Cleveland and Tanya Furman Larson of State College, Pa.; and three grandchildren.
The couple had a son, Sean Robert, also of Stamford, and Ms. Hunter is survived by six grandchildren.
She is survived by three children, Edith Good of Charlottesville, Va.; Truxtun Brodhead of Niantic, Conn.; and Charles Brodhead of Alexandria, Va.; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
; and 35 grandchildren.
She was arrested in 1979 on charges of ''anti-Soviet propaganda,'' and a report in the Chronicle around that time detailed official questioning of her sister about her ties to the West, as well as the interrogator's relaying his prisoner's request for a Bible and photographs of her grandchildren.
She is survived by three children, Natalie Babitsky of France, Fyodor Babitsky of Moscow and Yulia Keidan of Italy; 13 grandchildren; two brothers, Andrew Velihan of Northport, N.Y., and Kirill Velikanov of Moscow; and two sisters, Yekaterina Velikanova of Moscow and Mary Velihan Grigorenko of New York City.
      
''
        Mrs. Connelly treasured her family more than anything, and she is survived by her two daughters Jeanne Meehan of Goshen, N.Y., and Elizabeth Reilly of Greenwich, Conn.; 27 grandchildren; 30 great-grandchildren; and 7 great-great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
Her obituary in The Guardian of London said that she advised her children and grandchildren that ''not to study history would be like living in a house with no windows.
She is survived by her husband, Raouf Boudjakdji; four children; three grandchildren; her mother; and a brother.
She is survived by three daughters, Olga Mack of New York City, Carol Schwartz of Denver, and Viki List, of Rosemont, Pa.; 11 grandchildren; and 23 great-grandchildren.
Dr. Labalme is survived by her husband, George Labalme Jr.; three daughters, Jennifer R. Labalme of Indianapolis, Lisa G. Osterland of Montreal and Victoria A. Labalme of Manhattan; a son, Henry G., of Manhattan and West Cornwall; a sister, Ann H. Poole of Princeton; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gregory Jaynes; a sister, Lisa Greenleaf Miller of New Haven; a brother, Newcomb Greenleaf of St. Johnsbury, Vt.; a stepson, Todd Jaynes of Dahlonega, Ga.; a stepdaughter, Whitney Jaynes Laidlaw; and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kinnear is survived by two daughters, Robin Kinnear of Birmingham, Ala., and Susan Kinnear Neul of Summit, N.J.; two sons, J. Wesley Kinnear IV of Mill Valley, Calif., and William Mitchell Kinnear of Wilmette, Ill.; and seven grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lee is survived by two sons, John M., of Bloomfield, Conn., and Hamilton, of Mystic; two daughters, Percy Langstaff of Stamford, Conn., and Frances Heminway of Putney, Vt.; and 10 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
; a son, Roger Bernard Lowe of Arlington, Va.; two grandchildren; four great-grandchildren; and a brother, Irving R. Segal of Philadelphia.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. Haizlip of Los Angeles; Dr. Jewelle Taylor Gibbs of Palo Alto, Calif.; and Patricia Taylor Brown of North Haven; 12 grandchildren; and 3 great-grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Linda Watts of Shelburne; two sons, David Watts of Charlotte, Vt., and Lanny Watts of Burlington, Vt.; and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, whom she married in 1968; a son, Peter Matson; 10 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Mahoney is survived by a son, J. Michael Mahoney of Larkspur, Calif., and grandchildren.
      
