Mrs. Stein is survived by three sons, William Jr., of Greenwich, Conn., David, of Manhattan, and Robert, of Brookline, Mass., and seven grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Nadine Rea of Sharpsburg, Ga.; six grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
; two daughters, Helen Watkins of St. Paul, Minn., and Edith Eddy of Palo Alto, Calif., and nine grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Margaret, of Tallahassee, and Catherine, who is with the State Department in Ndjamena, Chad, and by two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Irina Lasoff of St. Paul, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ryder is survived by 2 sons and a daughter from a first marriage, William and Richard Donnelly and Sister Ann Donnelly, all of Washington; 3 daughters by Mr. Ryder, Susan Skaggs of West Chester, Pa., and Mary Jane Belber and Molly Ryder, both of Washington; 16 grandchildren and 9 great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Florence Snoke of Ann Arbor, Mich.; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her two sons and eight grandchildren, all of London.
      
Survivors include a sister, Amy Blocher, of Springfield, Va.; a brother, Louis, of Westfield, N.J.; two sons, Arnold, of Marlboro, N.J., and Paul, of Wayland, N.J., and three grandchildren.
; a sister, Rose Ficarra of Little Neck, Queens, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Low is survived by a sister, Hortense Mayer Hirsch of Manhattan, who is 101; by two sons, Stuart, of Darien, Conn., and Robert, of Manhattan, a former New York City Councilman and Environmental Protection Administrator; a daughter, Doris Hirsch of Stamford, Conn.; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
; 12 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Margaret Wrench Kuhn of Westport, Conn., and Alis Wrench McCurdy, of Cam Cape Sebastian, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, William Wetmore, of Amenia, N.Y.; two stepsons, Palmer Dixon, of New Canaan, Conn., and Peter Dixon, of New York, and several grandchildren.
She is survived by a daughter, Ruth Reinhold of Tenafly, N.J.; a son, Albert, of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; a sister, Sylvia Robinson of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bruen of East Falmouth, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Dorothy Bruen of East Falmouth, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert K. Greenleaf; a son, Newcomb, of New York City; two daughters, Elizabeth, of New Haven, and Madeline Jaynes of New York City; a brother, William Hargrave of Lansdowne, Pa.; a sister, Nora Bailey of Short Hills, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Johanna Garfield, and a son, Frank Rosengarten, both of Manhattan; a sister, Lillian Schuman, of Los Angeles, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gragg, who lived in Detroit, is survived by a son, J. Robert Gragg, a retired probate judge; and two sisters, Ann Henderson and Marie Moore, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, David Bodansky of Seattle; a sister, Zivia Wurtele of Santa Monica; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Hayes is survived by her son, the actor Peter Lind Hayes; two grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. North is survived by a son, David, of Washington and a daughter, Arielle North Olson of Harding Township, a sister, Edith Buchanan Baker of Zionsville, Ind., a brother, Howard A. Buchanan of Downers Grove, Ill., and six grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Tuchman is survived by her husband, who is an emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine; a sister, Anne W. Werner of Manhattan; three daughters, Lucy T. Eisenberg of Los Angeles, Jessica Tuchman Mathews of Washington, and Alma Tuchman of Cos Cob and Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Myron M. Fuerst; three sons from an earlier marriage, Harris Haertel of Seattle, Richard Haertel of Plymouth, Mich., and Thomas Haertel of Kamloops, Canada; two brothers, Woodrow Swancutt of San Antonio, Tex., and Vernon Swancutt of La Crosse, Wis., eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her son, Eric, of Skillman, N.J.; two brothers, E. Vernon Packard of Edison and Preston K. Packard of Blue Bell, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a daughter, Mary Lefkowitz of Wellesley, Mass; two sons, Peter, of South Londonderry, Vt., and John, of Manhattan; a sister, Janice W. Byfield of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by three daughters, Sharon Doremus of Morristown, Cynthia Robinson of Mendham and Susan Connell of Harding Township; a son, W. Thomas 3d, also of Harding Township, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joseph; a daughter, Christine Bagley of Hampton, Va.; two sons, Vincent, of Minneapolis, and Timothy, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Frederic Armand-Delille, of Faverolles, France; a daughter, Angelique, of West Germany; a sister, Paola, of Parfondeval, and five grandchildren.
      
and Jesse Snyder of Greenwich, Conn.; 28 grandchildren and 32 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Algernon; three sons, David, of Manhattan, Peter, of Syracuse, and Jonathan, of Chicago; a sister, Maxine Aaron of Pittsburgh; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
; three brothers, Lew Trenner of Denver, Cecil Trenner of St. Davids, Pa. and Baron Trenner Jr. of East Stroudsburg; a sister, Mignon Cole, of East Stroudsburg and four grandchildren.
      
Handy, a widow, is survived by two sons, Parker, of Lyme, Conn., and Chalmers, of Little Compton, R.I.; two daughters, Reid Beyer of New Haven and Nancy Hallett of West Hartford, Conn.; 13 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Kevin; a son, Donald, of San Diego; a brother, Eugene Zagat of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
''
        For many years she and Mr. Morton had homes in Beverly Hills and Palm Springs and in Snowmass, Colo.
        Miss Ball is survived by her husband, her daughter, her son and three grandchildren.
; a daughter, Grace Doria of Queens; a brother, Ricardo Miscioscia of Naples; 17 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband, their daughter, Marina Beadleston of Aspen, Colo., and four grandchildren.
      
Survivors include two children, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Gardner Jr., of Berkeley, Calif., and Prentice, of Wakefield, R.I.; seven grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Welles is survived by two daughters, Serena Moss of Coral Gables, Fla., and Merida Welles Holman of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
; three grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Miss Mack is survived by her son, a stepsister and three grandchildren.
      
A widow, she is survived by a stepson, Frank Thomas of Garden City, L.I., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Norval, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Mary Fearey of Chestnut Hill, Pa.; 10 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Anne Bobst-Highley of Manhattan and Stephanie Van den Heuvel of Southampton; five grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Pirone, who raised Arabian horses in Durham for more than a dozen years, is survived by four daughters, a son and 12 grandchildren.
      
Miss Roos is survived by her son, Peter Rickett, of Greenville, S.C., and by four grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
of Doylestown, Pa., both from a previous marriage to Rex Smith; four stepchildren, Fanchon Burnham of Washington, Robert Watkins of Nashville, Stephen Watkins of San Francisco and Jane Watkins of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Dorothy Russell of Rockport; five grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Forrest E. Mars Sr., the former head of the company, of Las Vegas, Nev.; two sons, Forrest Jr. and John; a daughter, Jacqueline Mars Vogel; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughter, Lois Lawrence of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Glasser of Highland Park, N.J.; a sister, Betty Bernstein of Miami Beach; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Edward; five daughters, Angela Weisl and Cassandra, both of Brooklyn, Elizabeth, of Manhattan, Lindsay, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Brooke, of Vienna; a sister, Elinor Hurwitz, and her mother, Gertrude Lander, both of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Albert Haas, retired professor of experimental rehabilitation medicine at New York University; a son, Dr. Francois of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Dr. John Randolph Backman of Encinitas; a daughter, Susan Patricia Niehaus of San Antonio; a sister, Henrietta Lieberman of North Bergen, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jean Putnam of Devon, Pa.; a son, David, of Indian River, Ontario; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Patricia O'Reilly of Falls Church; a son, James, of Bridgehampton, L.I., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Anne K. O'Neil, of Manhattan, and Ailsa Steinert, of Manchester, Mass., five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.ITTd(Sheraton)
      
She is survived by a son, Stimson, and two daughters, Priscilla Collins and Harriet Bullitt, all of Seattle; 10 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a son, Thomas, of Concord; a sister, Theodora Baron, of Miami, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Newhouse presided over several homes, including the couple's 12-room duplex apartment on Park Avenue and their weekend retreat, Greenlands, a rambling early-American farmhouse in Harbourton, N.J.
        She is survived by her two sons, S. I. Newhouse Jr. and Donald E. Newhouse, both of New York City; a brother, Walter Evans of St. Louis; six grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Mary Carol Massoneau of Burlington, Vt., and Betsy Shortell of Paris; 15 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two sons, Michael, of Chicago, and John, of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hayford is survived by two daughters, six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
She is survived by two sons,the rock singer Country Joe McDonald, of Berkeley, and Billy of Oakland; a daughter, Susan Amoroso of Bolinas, Calif.; a brother, Sidney Plotnick of Los Angeles, and 10 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter, of Orlando, Fla., and Paul, of Cincinnati; a brother, Herbert Pinsley of Scarsdale, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Bingham Morris; a sister, Winifred d'Olier Jr., of Villanova, Pa.; three children, Mrs. Onassis and Mrs. Ross, both of Manhattan, and James Lee Auchincloss of Washington; three stepchildren, Hugh D. Auchincloss Jr. of Manhattan and Newport, Nina Straight of Bethesda, Md., and Thomas Gore Auchincloss of Eagle Bridge, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and stepgrandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by two sons, Peter Reznikoff of Manhattan, and Michael Reznikoff of Tokyo; a sister, Cynthia Gillispie of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, J. Marion Nentwig of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Grace Koster-Chase of Park Forest, Ill; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Dorothy Futrell, of St. Albans, Queens; a brother, Johnny L. Jones, of the Bronx, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children, James B. Brickell Jr. of Sykesville, Md., and Allegra Mertz Torrey of Rowayton, Conn.; a brother, Arthur Knapp Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Marina Beach of Rye, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two stepdaughters, Ann Close of Rochester and Frances Rice of Fox Chapel, Pa.; a stepson, Carroll Robertson of Charleston, S.C.; four grandchildren, three nephews and a niece.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Lady de Rothschild of London; two sons, Nash, of Washington, and Steven, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Avis Godbout of Dublin, N.H.; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Mary Wilson of Fort Lee, N.J.; a son, John S., of Alexandria; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Van Voorhis is survived by two daughters, Emily Harris of Rochester, Minn., and Allis D'Amanda of Irondequoit; a son, Eugene, of suburban Webster, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Pamela, of Manhattan; a son, Michael, of Paris, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Van Voorhis is survived by two daughters, Emily Harris of Rochester, Minn., and Allis D'Amanda of Irondequoit; a son, Eugene, of suburban Webster, N.Y.; 13 grandchildren, and 7 great-grandchildren.
      
They include two additional grandchildren - Heather MacIlveen Nemeth of Ringwood, N.J., and Andrew MacIlveen of Plano, Tex.
Surviving are her husband, Marvin; two sons, John, of Princeton, N.J., and Richard, of Randolph, N.J.; a daughter, Barbra London of West Orange, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her two sons, four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Alastair B.; a son, Robin, of Washington; a daughter, Dorothy B. Moore of Greenwich, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived two children, Christopher G., and Fernanda Gilligan, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are the children of the first marriage, Mortimer W. Hall of Millbrook, N.Y., and Adele Hall Sweet, of Manhattan; a daughter from the second marriage, Sarah-Ann Kramarsky, also of Manhattan; 15 grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Margaret Blackwell of Old Field, L.I., and Ruth Berlin of Southport, Conn.; two sons, Frank, of Norfolk, Conn., and David, of Rum Cay, the Bahamas; seven grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frank H.; three children, Judith Thoms of Manhattan, Allan, of Seattle, Deborah, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Judith Rosen of Alexandria; a son, Steven Jacobs of Tucson, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
The widow of Robert Weeks Ferguson, a former state representative, she is survived by two sons, Robert W. Jr. of Fernandina Beach, Fla., and Oliver R., of Bluffton, S.C.; two daughters, Margaret McDowell and Lucy McLaughlan, both of Fernandina Beach; 17 grandchildren and 19 great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to Christina Johnson, Olga is survived by two other daughters, Victoria Foote of New York City, and Mary Rudolph of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Susan Hartman of Carson City, Nev., and three grandchildren.
      
In New York, she became a leader in the senior-adult program of the 92d Street Y. Mrs. Guttmacher is survived by three daughters, Ann Loeb, Sally Guttmacher Holtzman and Susan Gree-Holden, and five grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, who is the wife of Henry A. Kissinger and also has a home in Manhattan, she is survived by a son, David, of Chevy Chase, Md., and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Liotta was an alumna of New York University, Surviving are her husband, Silvester; a daughter, Anita Ness of Bricktown, N.J.; two sons, Michael, of Coram, L.I., and Alfred, of Yonkers, and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Letra Rice of Daytona Beach, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Danica Ridgeway of Summit, and eight grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, she is survived by two daughters, Ella Ferguson of Melville, L.I., and Kathie F. Bushey of Radnor, Pa.; a sister, Katherine Mast of Naples; seven stepchildren, and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Grambs is survived by her husband, Harold; two daughters, Marya, of San Francisco and Sarah, of Philadelphia; a son, Peter, of New York City, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Sally Robinson of Bennington, Vt., and Ernestine Ruben of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry Lewis Winston Jr., of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; 10 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Erich G. Linker; two sons, Erich G. Linker Jr., of Garden City, L.I., and Stephen K. Linker of Flourtown; a sister, Phyllis Bortz, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Laura Goeldlin of Tavel-sur-Clarens, Switzerland, and Beatrice Steinhaus of Hartsdale, N.Y.; two brothers, Joseph and Lewis, both of Scarsdale; eight grandchildren; 15 great-grandchldren, and two great-great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her mother, Leota Bronson of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; two daughters, Melody, of Detroit, and Jennifer Marks of Seattle; a brother, John Bronson of Brewster, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marvin; a daughter, a son, her mother, three sisters, seven brothers and six grandchildren.
      
Dr. Greenacre is survived by a daughter, Ann R. Roy of New Orleans; a son, Dr. Peter Richter of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband and son, Miss McCarthy is survived by two stepsons, Daniel West of Los Angeles and Jonathan West of Lodz, Poland; a stepdaughter, Alison West of Manhattan; two brothers, Kevin, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Preston, of Millsboro, Del., and two grandchildren.
; 8 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Jill, of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Michael, of Berkeley, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
Many of her pupils were the children and grandchildren of the people Cather immortalized in her Nebraska stories.
Surviving are a daughter, Joan Bull of New York City; a son, Peter, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a sister, Harriet Bein of Hanover, N.H., and five grandchildren.
      
Her survivors include a son, Stefan Wolff of Gambier, Ohio; two stepsons, Jean-Pierre Aumont, an actor, and Francois Villiers, a film maker, both of Paris; 13 grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
; nine grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
      
; nine grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
      
; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Francis; a son, John, of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Patricia Phillips of Fairfield, Conn.; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
; three grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Chantal McCarroll of Lawrenceville, N.J., four grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Brown of Washington; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Frances L. Loeb of Manhattan; three sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, Peter, of Philadelphia, and Paul, of Boston; nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      
; two sons, John 3d, of Newtown, Pa., and Benjamin, of Narragansett, R.I.; 22 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Robertson is survived by a daughter, Charlotte, of Berkeley, Calif.; two sons, Cary Jr., of Lexington, Ky., and Henry P. S., of Louisville, Ky., and two grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Frances Pond of Old Lyme, Conn.; 14 grandchildren, and 8 great-grandchildren.
      
; two brothers, James M. Hinton Jr. of Augusta, Ga., and Rodney Hinton of Washington, and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Max; three sons, Jeffrey, of Long Beach, Calif., Paul, of Teaneck, N.J., and David, of Highland Park, Ill., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jesse; two sons, David, of Great Neck, and Louis, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Miriam Harris of Great Neck; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
; a sister, Tzili Mandeli of Haifa, Israel, and two grandchildren.
      
; a daughter, Marina, of Santa Fe, N.M., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two sons, Philip, of Ipswich, Mass., and David of Jailly-Les-Moulins, France, and three grandchildren.
      
; a stepson, Steven Green of Pembroke Pines, Fla., and eight grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by two sons, Richard A., of Manhattan, and Robert D., of Orlando, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are a son, Jeffrey, of Costa Mesa, Calif.; a sister, Shirley Rapp, of Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to Mayor Young, survivors include another son, Dr. Walter Young, eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Barbara Jane Hamburger and Ellen May Baumwoll, both of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Clara Kaplan of Hudson, Fla.; three daughters, Wendy Curts of Hillsdale, N.J., Corrine Gould of New Rochelle, and Victoria Kaiser of Huntington, N.Y.; a brother, Louis Kaplan of Holmes Beach, Fla.; a sister, Lillian Albrecht of Rye, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
