Miss Lee was married five times, but her great love, she acknowledged, was her first husband and collaborator, Mr. Barbour.
Beyond their respective artistic talents, the books were enhanced by his easy access to top figures in culture and other fields and her great facility with languages.
''In the 70's people were making some great films.
Ms. Phillips grew up in Brooklyn; Great Neck, N.Y.; and Milwaukee and attended Mount Holyoke, where she won awards for creative writing.
Upon being handed the Academy Award for best picture by Elizabeth Taylor, Ms. Phillips said, ''You can't imagine what a trip it is for a nice Jewish girl from Great Neck to win an Academy Award and meet Elizabeth Taylor in the same night.
'' She also edited the memoirs of Bolossy Kiralfy, a 19th-century producer, titled ''Bolossy Kiralfy: Creator of Great Musical Spectacles.
''She made everything seem simple and clear, which made her a great teacher and an unrivaled lecturer.
C. Higgins, the Great''; the book also received a Newbery award, the first to a black writer.
The queen announced the death ''with great sadness,'' according to a statement from the palace.
''She was just a great painter, period,'' said Jan Ramirez, director of the New-York Historical Society's museum.
Her recorded output was great, with more than 50 albums as a leader to her credit, most on the Prestige and Impulse labels.
Also among her pupils are members and often founders of some of the world's great chamber groups, among them the Juilliard, the Tokyo, the Cleveland, the Vermeer, the Takacs and the Ying Quartets.
Instead of imposing her views about the great violin repertory on her pupils, she encouraged them to discuss their own interpretive ideas.

        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23.
Her biographers tend to agree that she was a great success as a debutante, flirting wildly and constantly fending off a large coterie of broken-hearted suitors, one of whom reportedly -- and unromantically -- serenaded her by cracking his hunting whip under her bedroom window at night.
Was there any great role that she missed?
As Gielgud wrote forthrightly in one of his books, ''She is a great artist as well as one of my most devoted friends.
''
        In the great artistic tradition, Ms. Worth invented herself.
She became so powerful that she exerted great influence over lighting, camera angles, scenario, wardrobe and other aspects of films usually reserved for producers and directors.
''María has a mythic quality, and she's a great national symbol,'' Mr. Fuentes responded.
She was one of gospel's great performers, regularly stirring crowds into a frenzy with her intense vocalizations and animated physical style.
Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in the school system of Great Neck, N.Y., for 29 years as well as in Vermont and elsewhere.

        Zypora Spaisman, who did everything to keep Yiddish theater alive, from producing plays to selling tickets to sweeping floors to her great love, acting (including not a few Jewish-mother roles), died on May 18 in Manhattan.
She acted in the Yiddish theater in Lodz, working with the great Yiddish comedians Shimen Dzigan and Yisroel Shumakher.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Great Barrington, Mass., and her sister, of Los Angeles, she is survived by her brother, Samuel Abady of Bronxville, N.Y..
In her 1961 book, ''The Life and Death of Great American Cities,'' Jane Jacobs noted the courage of the position taken by Mrs. Hayes and her allies: ''They advocated eliminating the existing road, that is, closing the park to all automobile traffic -- but at the same time, not widening the perimeter roads either.
It is ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' not ''Life and Death.
She explained the great change in the field of children's books that paralleled her career as the lifting of taboos, most of which reflected a sincere wish to protect children.
''
        Still, Ms. Jordan could be a poet of great delicacy, as in ''On a New Year's Eve,'' in which she describes watching a lover sleep: ''and/ as I watch your arm/ your/ brown arm/ just/ before it moves/ I know/ all things are dear/ that disappear/ all things are dear/ that disappear.
''I thought it was a good column, but not great,'' Mrs. Lederer recalled in a 1990 interview.
''I thought it was a good column, but not great,'' Mrs. Lederer recalled in a 1990 interview.
''She was a very dedicated director for a great many years and instilled, particularly in her three daughters, a sense of responsibility for the stewardship of The Wall Street Journal.
Other victories included helping to thwart plans to build a Great America theme park near the historic site.
Who knows, tonight, I might meet a great big beautiful man with a job and an automobile and he might take just one look at me and say, 'Baby, I'm nuts about you,' and I might just take one good look at him and say .
Ms. Fritchey is survived by three sons, Graham Wisner of Great Falls, Va., Ellis Wisner of Washington, Frank Wisner of New York City, a former ambassador to Zambia, Egypt, India and the Philippines; a daughter, Elizabeth Wisner Hazard of Belgrade, Me.
In her 26-year career with Arena Stage Ms. Slaiman designed thousands of costumes for more than 130 productions, including the 1967 premiere of ''The Great White Hope'' with James Earl Jones and Jane Alexander, which alone required more than 230 costumes.
''Oh What a Lovely War'' used war records, memoirs, speeches and the beloved songs of the Great War -- among them ''Pack Up Your Troubles,'' ''It's a Long Way to Tipperary,'' and ''Keep the Home Fires Burning'' -- to, as Ms. Littlewood put it, ''mock the absurdity, the vulgarity of war.
''Like him, I went to Harvard because it was a great opportunity for me as a black female scholar, and I accepted the reality of racial and sex discrimination,'' she wrote.
A great virtuoso, she was praised for her energy, stamina and balance.
I don't get a great joy from running or training or going out and doing all the work.
''I have had a great deal of hurt in the theater both as a Negro and as a woman, but I don't get immobilized by it,'' she said an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1967.
Among the books she edited were ''The Commonweal Reader'' (1949), ''Mothers: A Catholic Treasury of Great Stories'' (1951), ''The Papal Encyclicals in Their Historical Context'' (1956) and ''The Social Teachings of the Church'' (1963).
