Miss Roman was known for her interpretations of the great Italian spinto roles, including Aida, which she sang at her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1941, Tosca, Mimi in "La Boheme," Amelia in "Un Ballo in Maschera" and Desdemona in "Otello.
She is survived by two sons, Dr. William L. of Albany, N.Y., and Dr. Richard H. of Westport, Conn.; seven grandchildren; five great grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Eugene A. Humbert of Atlantis, Fla.
      
"She was the first great model," Miss Colby's longtime friend, Frances Koltun, said yesterday.
"Out of Our Fathers' House," her portrayal of prominent American women like Elizabeth Cady Stanton, was presented at the White House in 1978 and shown on public television's "Great Performances" series.
Throughout the 1930's, she appeared in several films yearly, including "Nana" (1934) and "Great Guy" (1936), which paired her again with Mr. Cagney.
While under contract to Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, she appeared in minor roles in "Annie Get Your Gun" (1950), "The Great Caruso" (1951), "Because of You" (1952) and Singin' in the Rain" (1952).
She represents the golden era when this country was one of the world's great artistic and intellectual centers, when figures like Bertolt Brecht, Walter Gropius and Albert Einstein were shaking the conventional world.
"She risked a great deal when she turned her back on the Third Reich and resisted countless attempts by the Nazis to lure her back," he added.
Newspaper columnists described the decision as scandalous and a blow to Berlin's ambition to rejoin the ranks of the world's great cities.
In Venice even ordinary sole and ugly great skate are striped with delicate lilac lights, the sardines shine like newly minted silver coins, pink Venetian scampi are fat and fresh, infinitely enticing in the early dawn.
"She had a great sense of the seasons and always about life around the table -- the setting, the conversation.
The last three Dietrich-von Sternberg films were "Blonde Venus" (1932), a mother-love soap opera; "The Scarlet Empress" (1934), an opulent and visually stunning melodrama about a lascivious Catherine the Great, and "The Devil Is a Woman" (1935), an erotic tale about a soldier-corrupting vamp in turn-of-the-century Seville.
Mrs. Bryce was a granddaughter of George Huntington Hartford, the founder of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, and she was a longtime trustee of the John A. Hartford Foundation, which donates money for medical research.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by a son, Dr. Noel Nathanson of Great Neck, L.I.
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
" In a review of "As They Were," (Alfred A. Knopf, 1982) for The New York Times Book Review, Raymond Sokolov wrote, "In a properly run culture, Mary Frances Kennedy Fisher would be recognized as one of the great writers this country has produced in this century.
She and Leon Livingston were married in 1930 and in 1933, in the midst of the Great Depression, they went into business together.
She is survived by three daughters, Michelle Osborn of Haverford, Pa., and Washington, Patricia Pynchon of New York and Alexandra Whalen Sears of Lima, Peru; a stepson, Walter G. Dunnington Jr. of New York and Gladstone, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Allen D. Ohstrom of The Plains, Va.; eight grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
She was widely considered an editor of great sensitivity and insight, said Roberta Silman, one of the many writers whose work appeared in McCall's during Mrs. Del Monte's tenure.
'They Couldn't Applaud Any More'
        In a great moment of theater history, Ms. Nelson was the taxicab driver's wife in the original cast of Clifford Odets' "Waiting for Lefty.
'Couldn't Applaud Any More'
        In a great moment of theater history, Ms. Nelson was the taxicab driver's wife in the original cast of Clifford Odets' "Waiting for Lefty.
As a young woman in Chicago, Miss Mitchell became acquainted with the great paintings by Cezanne, Matisse and others.
At the height of her career, in the 1950's and 60's, Miss Kirsten appealed not only to opera fans, who knew her as an attractive, intelligent, thoroughly musical singer and a fine actress, but also to a broader public that knew her from her frequent radio and television appearances or from her performances in the films "The Great Caruso," with Mario Lanza, and "Mr. Music," with Bing Crosby.
Hadassah was also a popular teacher, known for her great warmth, who taught Israeli and Indian dance across the United States and abroad.
She was born in Great Neck, L.I., and was a graduate of Drew University.
John Martin, writing in The New York Times, called "Trend" a "substantial piece of artistry" that "undertakes to deal with a colossal subject" in dance whose "designs appear in great sweeping dimensions, developing out of their own content, unhurried and unfaltering.
"She's a great dame," she said.
They love you to tell them how great they are, how good they are.
"
        After appearing in the Richard Rodgers revival of "A Connecticut Yankee" (1943) and in "Great to Be Alive!
