When she was in her 60's, she hitchhiked on oil-tanker trucks from Iran to India to follow the route Alexander the Great took on his way to invade India.
Letter Added for Luck
        Early in her radio career, she changed the spelling of her first name to Ireene with three ''e's'' when she was told by a numerologist that one more letter would bring her great success.
Mr. Benton, director of ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' and other films, said of her yesterday: ''Helen Scott was a great friend of all film makers.

       Constance D. Sherman, a French instructor, died Nov. 29 at her home in Great Neck, L.I., after suffering a stroke.
Constance D. Sherman, a French instructor, died Nov. 29 at her home in Great Neck, L.I., after suffering a stroke.
''There the great events of the village,'' she recalled, ''were the arrivals of Channel swimmers and German mines, which still washed up on the beach from time to time.
''
        In 1935 she married Vincent Sheean, the noted American foreign correspondent, whose book ''Personal History'' was published to great success that year.
'' 'Words Will Be Read Forever'
        Roger W. Straus, the president and chief executive officer of Farrar Straus & Giroux, which has published works by Miss Yourcenar, said yesterday in a statement released at the Manhattan headquarters of the publishing house: ''Marguerite Yourcenar was without question or doubt one of the great writers of the 20th century.
She is a great loss to the literary community, but her words will be read and remembered forever.
''She was wearing a Valentino suit with a fox collar and all her diamonds - she was in great spirits.
Walter N. Thayer, chairman of Whitney Communications and president of The Herald Tribune, commented, ''She was a great lady and a wonderful person who had friends in all walks of life.
As Poussin, the great French painter of the 17th century, remarked, 'Le fin de l'art est la delectation,' '' - ''The goal of art is delight.
Symbol of Tenacity and Vigor
        Mikhail Baryshnikov, Ballet Theater's current artistic director, said of the ballerina: ''She was undoubtedly a great woman of the theater and a symbol to any dancer of tenacity, vigor and what it means to be a great star.
Symbol of Tenacity and Vigor
        Mikhail Baryshnikov, Ballet Theater's current artistic director, said of the ballerina: ''She was undoubtedly a great woman of the theater and a symbol to any dancer of tenacity, vigor and what it means to be a great star.
Reviewing the ballet at its premiere in April 1942, John Martin, then dance critic of The New York Times, rated Miss Kaye's characterization as among ''the great examples of tragic acting of its generation.
The university's president, Harold T. Shapiro, said yesterday that Mrs. Power's death was ''a great loss for the university, for the state and for those committed to more progressive social policy.
Praised Film's Influence
        ''The great good the film and the play are doing to individual lives is far beyond money,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times shortly after the film's release.
Praised Film's Influence
        ''The great good the film and the play are doing to individual lives is far beyond money,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times shortly after the film's release.
A 'Love Goddess' Emerges
        Beginning in 1941, Miss Hayworth rapidly developed into one of Hollywood's most glamorous stars, inspiring Winthrop Sargent, a Life magazine writer, to dub her ''The Great American Love Goddess,'' a sobriquet that she welcomed and that caught the public's fancy.
''
        A great boost to Miss Hayworth's career was ''Gilda,'' which ran into censorship trouble in some areas because of the so-called strip scene.
; nine grandchildren, and one great grandchild.
      
Mrs. Brimberg, a great lover of music and an accomplished pianist, was born in Brooklyn and married Mr. Brimberg in 1919.
In her own memoirs Miss Negri observed tartly:
        ''A great deal has been written about my relationship with Charlie Chaplin.
Valentino, called by his adoring public ''The Great Lover,'' was indeed the great lover, she wrote, capable of making such romantic gestures as sprinkling rose petals on the bed before they retired.
Valentino, called by his adoring public ''The Great Lover,'' was indeed the great lover, she wrote, capable of making such romantic gestures as sprinkling rose petals on the bed before they retired.
A woman of commanding presence, Mrs. Hammerstein was considered a great beauty throughout her life.
In the same year, 1941, she was a ruthless, egocentric concert pianist battling Bette Davis in ''The Great Lie,'' for which Miss Astor won an Oscar as the best actress in a supporting role.
He ordered her to accompany him to the Waldorf's lobby, where he said, ''You are the great love of my life, and some day I'm going to marry you.
She could no longer dress herself, nor stand unaided, nor travel without a great deal of planning.
''But I have found a great deal to do.
Her last Broadway appearance was in 1928 when she played with Walter Huston and Kay Francis in ''Elmer the Great.
Interest in Tern Colony
        For more than 35 years, she kept a protective interest in the tern colony on Great Gull Island, an uninhabited speck of land in Long Island Sound, which the Federal Government turned over to the Museum of Natural History in 1949.
