''HIV, Mon Amour'' drew a great deal of attention and won several awards, including the James Laughlin Award of the Academy of American Poets.
'' She cited it as ''one of the great, necessary books to come out of the AIDS crisis.
'' She continued, ''Smart, compassionate, witty, courageous, this one not only dares to ask the hard questions  but asks them with humor, exquisite clarity and great fullness of heart.
''
        In the play's bittersweet final scene, Heidi has become a single mother to a new infant -- a path Ms. Wasserstein would herself pursue many years later, ultimately at great physical cost, when she gave birth, at age 48, to her daughter, Lucy Jane, in 1999.
As a rich man's poor mistress in ''The Great Gatsby'' (1949), she was casually run over by her lover's wife.
Two other books remain in print, ''Adventure of Great Dimension: The Launching of the Chicago Assyrian Dictionary'' (2002), and ''Letters from Early Mesopotamia'' (1993), which she edited.
She called upon American women ''to unite and form a solid block of women power to fight the three great evils of racism, poverty and war.
''It's just butter and shrimp, but it requires great butter and great shrimp, and a puddle of that over stone-ground grits,'' he said.
''It's just butter and shrimp, but it requires great butter and great shrimp, and a puddle of that over stone-ground grits,'' he said.
Rising from the ranks to ballerina from 1942 to 1952, Ms. Shearer was identified both with leading roles in the 19th-century classics and works created by the great British choreographer Frederick Ashton.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
''
        Howard once called a great country song ''three chords and the truth,'' and Ms. Walker's life sounds as if it springs from that formula.
But when her strong Italian accent proved to be a barrier to many roles, she returned to Italy, where she worked with great directors like Michelangelo Antonioni, Pier Paolo Pasolini and Bernardo Bertolucci, as well as Claude Chabrol and René Clément.
In her book ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' written in 1961, Ms. Jacobs's enormous achievement was to transcend her own withering critique of 20th-century urban planning and propose radically new principles for rebuilding cities.

        Kathleen Powers Pflueger, owner of one of the world's great collections of 18th-century porcelain and 16th- and 17-century faience, a form of earthenware, died on March 30 surrounded by her pieces in the Park Avenue apartment that she had designed to house them.
''When I began to read, it almost made me ill.'' She cited a passage that asked, ''Why did the Jews commit the great sin of putting God himself to death?
''This was the seed for the great national mobilizations against the war in Vietnam.
''Together they took great risks.
It was typical of the self-effacing Ms. Hunt Lieberson to be drawn to the secondary role of Myrtle in ''The Great Gatsby'' for her Met debut.
''I feel that my going all over America with my show had a great influence on American black women dressing differently and feeling good about themselves,'' Ms. Church said in ''Black and Beautiful.
I'm a great producer of oil.
''
        Her saucy, plain-spoken keynote address, borrowing from the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory, was one of the year's political highlights.
She also began drinking heavily, becoming alcoholic and putting great strain on her marriage, she said later.
She said she was Tokyo Rose, evidently presuming no great notoriety would be attached to that and perhaps hoping to embellish an intriguing story for American readers, having been paid for her account in a magazine article.
''She moves with great beauty and an apparently innate sense of dynamics,'' he continued, describing her performance of her own choreography: ''Few dancers can manage to make sustained, lyrical movement so engrossing simply as movement.
''But golf was the great challenge for me.
Her comments were widely reproduced, and Professor Ramey was soon in great demand in the news media and on the lecture circuit.
''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said, bringing the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory to the national political stage in a way that transformed the mother of four into an revered icon of feminist activism.

        Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song she identified as Blotz's ''Schlumpf'' to demonstrate what it is like to sing with ''no voice but great art,'' died on Wednesday in Bateman's Bay, New South Wales, Australia.
)
        Some American designers, notably Arnold Scaasi, Jane Derby and Norman Norell, had already experimented with the idea of fancy dinner pants for women, but it was Princess Galitzine's appearances in the designs at great society parties that inspired other women to buy them.
And she had a great heart.
''When you think of the great jazz singers, I would think that Anita is the only white woman that belongs in the same breath as Ella Fitzgerald and Billie Holiday and Sarah Vaughan,'' said the jazz critic Will Friedwald in ''Anita O'Day: Life of a Jazz Singer,'' a forthcoming documentary directed by Mr. Cavolina and Ian McCrudden.
''
        Her Sunday afternoon performance at the 1958 Newport Jazz Festival, as captured in Bert Stern's film ''Jazz on a Summer's Day,'' was one of her great offhanded achievements.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
