''Having both a job and a family broadens one's perspective, which in turn makes a great contribution to a happy home life,'' she told the American Association of University Women in 1950.

        Sonia Arova, a Bulgarian-born ballerina who became an international star and was an early partner of such great male dancers as Erik Bruhn and Rudolf Nureyev, died on Sunday in San Diego.
Ms. Fisher described her mother, Ona, as ''a great lady who brought me up to know there's no such thing as 'I can't.
''She was only a student then, but this attracted a great deal of attention.
The historian Geoffrey C. Ward wrote in 1998 that '''Gift From the Sea' became a source of inspiration for a whole generation of wives and mothers -- 'the great vacationless class,' she called them -- who, like herself, were beginning to search for more fulfilling lives once their children had grown and moved away.
And, in a letter, she wrote that she was beginning to feel that Hitler was ''a very great man, like an inspired religious leader -- and as such rather fanatical -- but not scheming, not selfish, not greedy for power.
''To be deeply in love is, of course, a great liberating force,'' she observed in the introduction to ''Hour of Gold, Hour of Lead.
Great guffaws from the group.
''
        The cowboy was Roy Rogers, a rugged, handsome and likable man but, by his own account, ''no great shakes'' as a talker.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
Never a star, Ms. Rutherford was usually the soubrette or a featured performer and a great favorite at Harlem's Cotton Club.
Afterward she invited the great Hopi potter Grace Chapella, then 103, to her home.
The producer of a television remake of ''A Letter to Three Wives'' thought it would be a great marketing ploy to get one of the original stars, Jeanne Crain or Ms. Sothern, to play a cameo role.
I'd like to tap the great reservoir of black interest in Africa, for example.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.
But her wide-ranging taste in songs embraced not only the great craftsmen of the pre-rock era but contemporary writers like Paul Simon, Rupert Holmes and Alan and Marilyn Bergman.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.
But her wide-ranging taste in songs embraced not only the great craftsmen of the pre-rock era but contemporary writers like Paul Simon, Rupert Holmes and Alan and Marilyn Bergman.

        Dr. Rosa Susan Penelope Beddington, an experimental biologist whose research produced insights into the way an embryo becomes a fetus in mammals, died on May 18 in Great Tew, Oxfordshire, England.
She found herself back in London when the Carl Rosa and Sadler's Wells companies merged in 1959, but before resuming her career, she won a scholarship that allowed her to study for six months with the great soprano Eva Turner.
Her band returned at 3:30 a.m. from a concert in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. ''It was a great show,'' she says.
They developed from a single egg before the days of fertility treatments, and became instantly famous, seemingly a cheery miracle in the midst of the Great Depression.
Oral tradition is grander: it says the Lobedu come from ancient Ethiopia and built the stone fortress of Great Zimbabwe.
And Max Liebman, who produced and directed ''Your Show of Shows'' for NBC, said, ''The great thing about Imogene is that one nostril never knows what the other is doing.
''
        She took many young gardeners under her wing, drilling them in the Latin names of plants, and shooing them off for the day to plunge into the great gardens of England.
She was a great networker, or Miss Fix-It, as Mr. Wheeler put it.
Although she had absorbed a great deal over the years from both her father and her husband, she did not feel up to the job as she tried to learn from the top.
She was inducted into the French Legion of Honor and received the Medal of Freedom in 1980, presented, she said happily, by ''one of my great Southern heroes, President Jimmy Carter.
There is absolutely everything in great fiction but a clear answer.
When she returned to La Scala in 1929, under the name Gina Cigna, she had a great success as Donna Elvira in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' and a few weeks later as Elisabeth in Wagner's ''Tannhäuser.
It was no secret by then that she and Portman were not on speaking terms, and it was no great surprise when Ms. Stanley abruptly left the play, blaming Portman for slapping her in one scene with what she said was excessive enthusiasm.
''I want to be involved with the great plays,'' she told an interviewer, and admitted that she missed acting and intended to act again.
She was a regular on numerous 1960's sitcoms, including ''The Beverly Hillbillies,'' playing Flo Shafer, one of the bumpkins' many nemeses; and ''Hogan's Heroes,'' as Frau Linkmeier, the great love of Colonel Klink.
By that time the couple lived in a house in Great Neck, N.Y., bought for them by Mrs. Scull's father.
''
        Among her film credits are ''The Great Gatsby,''  ''Death on the Nile,''
        ''The Age of Innocence,''  ''The Addams Family,''  ''Moonstruck'' and  ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.
''She is mother, conscience, death, negation, tender care,'' he wrote, ''and she manages with great eloquence, to be both cruel and compassionate.

        Pauline Kael, who expressed her passion for movies in jaunty, jazzy prose as the longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died yesterday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass.
She is survived by her daughter, Ms. James, of Great Barrington, and a grandson, William Friedman, also of Great Barrington, and two sisters, Anne Wallach and Rose Makower, both of Berkeley.
She is survived by her daughter, Ms. James, of Great Barrington, and a grandson, William Friedman, also of Great Barrington, and two sisters, Anne Wallach and Rose Makower, both of Berkeley.
She was 42 and lived in Great Falls, Va.
        Ms. Raines was senior vice president for government relations at the Genzyme Corporation, a biotechnology company in Cambridge, Mass.
Walter Kerr, reviewing ''The Night of the Iguana'' for The New York Times, said Miss McGuire played the role of the spinster ''with great charm and intelligence.
She was right; the production was a great success.
''
        Mrs. Dannheisser considered her holdings ''a living collection'' and continually sold off and bought new works, often after pursuing them a great while.
''The Heiress,'' an adaptation of the Henry James novel ''Washington Square,'' brought the Goetzes great success when it opened on Broadway in 1947.

        Etta Jones, a great and permanently underrated jazz singer who for three decades toured constantly with her musical partner, the saxophonist Houston Person, died on Tuesday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 72.
''I don't crave great classic roles.
If Ms. Donovan, the last of a trilogy of great fashion dames that included Mrs. Vreeland and Carmel Snow of Bazaar, reigned in a small world, she now had fans everywhere.
Although Mrs. Dunnett said the novels drew on her own background in music, art and sailing, they also involved a great deal of travel in search of authentic detail as well as dizzying amounts of library research.
She had been trying in vain to help a boy who had great trouble reading.
