In her Hollywood career, Fritz Lang and Marlene Dietrich were her great friends.
She was famed for both her worldly wit and her great composure.
''
        While attending Chapin School in Manhattan as a teenager, Ms. Rothenberg got her classmates interested in raising money for the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation through its annual Great Strides Walk, her father said.
Mrs. Formby had to face a geographic truth: the hall of fame was a great idea but in the wrong place.
Pepper was the last of the four great queens of the modern Harlem balls; Angie Xtravaganza, Dorian Corey and Avis Pendavis all died in recent years.
But she did not want a sex-change operation, explaining that women don't have it so great.
But many reviewers hailed the results of Ms. Winsor's five years of research, saying her descriptions of the Great Fire of London and the Great Plague seemed vivid and accurate.
But many reviewers hailed the results of Ms. Winsor's five years of research, saying her descriptions of the Great Fire of London and the Great Plague seemed vivid and accurate.
''She was a great inspiration to me as a child in Trinidad,'' the dancer and painter Geoffrey Holder said.
Those were great games at that tournament.
''
        Her life and career were dominated by her love affair with Spencer Tracy, which created one of the great romantic legends and brilliant movie pairings of their day.
Later she achieved one of her great artistic triumphs in an unlikely role, as the 12th-century Eleanor of Aquitaine in ''The Lion in Winter'' (1968).
The 1996 film ''Suzanne Farrell: Elusive Muse,'' an Academy Award nominee that she directed with Deborah Dickson, was a revealing portrait of a reticent young ballerina, Balanchine's last great inspiration, whom the choreographer loved deeply but failed to win off stage.
Only when Miss Welch returned to perform in New York in 1980 after a half-century absence did Americans grasp the quality of her work and discover a living link with some of the great names of American musical theater.
The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
She is survived by two stepsons and a stepdaughter, all of whom live in England: Viscount Eccles of Mowlton, Yorkshire; Simon Eccles of London; and Polly Landsdown of Great Coxwell, Oxfordshire.
After the deal is done, ''it's almost like coming to the end of a great book.
A tiny woman of great physical courage and fierce determination, she next took up scuba diving, claiming to be only 51, when she was actually 20 years older, to obtain a diving license.

        Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal player in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in New York City, the Foreign Ministry of Taiwan reported early Friday.

        Madame Chiang Kai-shek, a pivotal figure in one of the 20th century's great epics -- the struggle for control of post-imperial China waged between the Nationalists and the Communists during the Japanese invasion and the violent aftermath of World War II -- died on Thursday in Manhattan, the Foreign Ministry of Taiwan reported yesterday.
Born in Chicago to Russian parents, Ms. Mara trained with some of the great ballet figures of the 20th century, among them Adolph Bolm, Olga Preobajenska, Nicholas Legat and Michel Fokine.
In fact, there's a great deal of poll-taking at all times these days, but Mrs. Hicks had to recognize that she was taking a position during that time at odds with what the opinion molders certainly felt.
Peter Nichols, in The Times Literary Supplement, called Ms. Cornelisen ''a great recorder.
She had not worked as an actress in two years, but her audition was a great success.
They were an inspiration to the current gospel great Bill Gaither, who included the Goodmans in more than 60 of his Gaither Homecoming videos, a popular series that was a precursor of music videos.
