They were an inspiration to the current gospel great Bill Gaither, who included the Goodmans in more than 60 of his Gaither Homecoming videos, a popular series that was a precursor of music videos.
It tells of two girls in a great English country house, and it leavens suspenseful Victorian melodrama with tongue-in-cheek humor.
''
        ''I should add,'' he said, ''she was a great anti-hypocrite, and a superb cook -- not a bad friend to have.
'' Immediately she agreed to do it, and when she met the playwright she told him the play was ''like a great modern Bosch canvas.
''The common thinking is about Hillary Clinton, but there are other women, great women governors out there,'' says Ms. Wilson, a Democrat.
One of her great successes was her performance in 1957 in Debussy's ''Martyrdom of St. Sebastian,'' a work that combines music, dance and drama.
''
        Mrs. Schott had no children, to her great regret.
She bestowed great affection on her dogs and delighted in parading with her St. Bernards around the Reds' ballpark and rubbing the dogs' fur on her players.

        Estée Lauder, the last great independent titan of the cosmetics industry, who convinced generations of women that her beauty creams were ''jars of hope'' in their quest for the eternal look of youth, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Lester, whose photographic credits used her maiden name, Darby, recorded images that have helped define the memory of some great productions.
''No great men call me,'' she said, proudly.
The Vietnam War was her great passion, and it framed her coverage of the 1968 presidential campaign, particularly the insurgent antiwar candidacy of Eugene J. McCarthy.
In 1967, Erik Bruhn, the great Danish dancer, asked Ms. Oliphant to reorganize the Royal Swedish Ballet School, and she helped reorganize the Royal Danish Ballet School in 1978.
Both studied with the great English choreographer Antony Tudor and with Marie Rambert, one of the pioneers of modern British ballet.
She grew up in Great Neck, on Long Island, where her father was an internist and her mother a historian and educator.
Her fearlessness made great television: she roasted ducks, sautéed sweetbreads and stuffed sausages into casings with grunts of effort.
''
        Her life sparkled with acquaintances like Churchill and Garbo, and the great Paris designers, including Christian Dior, gave her their latest couture when she was a slim Parisian socialite.
In her diary, she tells of an encounter in Baghdad during which a woman wishes that some great catastrophe would ''envelop the U.S. and swallow the whole continent.
The award is presented annually for reporting, often at great personal risk, in the public interest.
They are still the featured act at the Lido, on the Champs-Élysées, performing in glittering clouds of sequins, ostrich feathers, voluminous headgear and not a great deal else.
Risqué even by Paris standards, the Bluebell Girls were in great demand.
The island was considered crucial in the development of the art and architecture of the Hellenistic period, which lasted from the death of Alexander the Great in 323 B.C.
Samothrace was the center of one of the most famous mystery cults of Greek antiquity; its rituals were carried out in the group of imposing buildings known as the Sanctuary of the Great Gods, erected between the fourth and the second centuries B.C.
'' ''The great surprise of 'Aleko' was the superb Zemphira of Alicia Markova,'' Robert wrote.
''The experiences of Camp are based on the great discovery that the sensibility of high culture has no monopoly on refinement,'' Ms. Sontag wrote.
When Ms. Herscher received a special Tony Award in 2000, she modestly credited her long career to forces beyond the control of someone like her, a would-be actress born to Eastern European immigrants of no great means.
''She had a remarkable ability to put together the pieces that make great theater,'' Mr. Herman said in a telephone interview.
In one poem, for example, she compared her work to home canning, writing:
        Oh, I know, I know that, great or humble, the arts
        in their helplessness can save but a few selves
        by such disguises from Time's hideous bite,
        and yet, a sweating Proust of the pantry shelves,
        I cupboard these pickled peaches in Time's despite.
