She was the author of "Great Pianists Speak with Adele Marcus.
"
        Mrs. Kaplan was known for her great style as a hostess, entertaining at her homes in New York City and East Hampton, L.I.
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
Her great strength is that when she achieves insight, one believes -- because one has witnessed the struggle that preceded the knowledge.
The fact that she did not go to college was, she said, "a great piece of luck; this way, I'm ignorant but I'm fresh.
Dr. Swap is survived by her husband, Walter; a son, Clifford; a daughter, Alison, all of Winchester; her parents, John and Pauline McAllister of Fairfield, Conn.; two sisters, Joan Howard of Winterville, Ga., and June McAllister of Stratford, Conn., and a brother, Jef McAllister of Great Falls, Va.
      
"
        Her performance in an Equity Library Theater production of "The Great Big Doorstep" (1950) led to a job as an understudy for "The Happy Time" on Broadway.
Over the next decade, critics increasingly hailed Miss Lupino as one of the great film actresses.
Like hundreds of other stage-struck singers, dancers and actors who have passed through Broadway's revolving door over the years, she had a scrapbook proving that she had been a part of a great tradition.
Born on June 16, 1912, in the central Russian city of Tambov, she had been married twice and was considered a great beauty when she met Pasternak in 1946.
Ms. Welch wrote "Networking: The Great New Way for Women to Get Ahead" (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, 1980) in an era when more women were competing for jobs traditionally dominated by men.
Mrs. Hazen had what her daughter, Cynthia Hazen Polsky, called "a great passion for family" and took a personal interest in the activities she supported.
Dr. Richard A. Lerner, president of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif, said: "She, like Mary Lasker, was one of the great ladies of American science.
Her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, is a major benefactor of art institutions, and a sister, Enid Haupt of New York, has devoted much of her fortune to public gardens and horticultural institutions, as well as museums and libraries.
After high school, Ms. Graves made great progress under Helen Hodam, a renowned voice teacher, first at Oberlin Conservatory, and then at the New England Conservatory.
(Mrs. Cahill later took great pains to correct what she saw as the implications of the activity.
But I had great rapport with young students.
"
        At such festivals, she continued, students are exposed to the three fundamentals of dance education: technical training, watching great performers and participating in good talk.
She also played and recorded the great concertos of Mozart, Beethoven, Brahms and Tchaikovsky.
Cast in "The Great White Hope" at the Arena Stage in Washington, she decided to forgo that play, and paid the Arena the equivalent of two weeks' salary so she could return to New York to join the new black theater  company.
"History isn't just great political events," she said in 1955.
As a former daughter-in-law of Henri Matisse, the widow of Duchamp and a close friend of John Cage and Jasper Johns, she was in her later years the unquestioned doyenne of the survivors of a great age in art, dance and music.
Her biographies included "George Mason: Constitutionalist" (1938), "Captains From Devon: The Great Elizabethan Seafarers Who Won the World for England" and "Colonel Parke of Virginia: The Greatest Hector in Town" (1990).
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
"
        The Cardinal read a letter of condolence from President Clinton and an apostolic blessing from Pope John Paul II, and called Mrs. Kennedy "a woman of great strength and deep faith, who is unequaled in the way her life was at the service of the commonweal.
Born in St. Petersburg, Russia, Miss Tikanova trained in France with the great Russian teachers Olga Preobrazhenska and Nicolas Legat.
"It means a great deal to know Negroes are making a success in every phase of life," Mrs. Taylor said in 1967.
She was 78 and lived most of her life in Great Neck, L.I.
She is survived by her husband; her daughters, Geraldine Jacobs of Woodstock, N.Y., Sarah Cleary of Warwick, N.Y., and Elizabeth Marino of Great Neck, and seven grandchildren.
      
"It will be a great loss.
In addition to George, she is survived by two other sons, Francis T. P. Plimpton Jr. of Ormond Beach, Fla. and Oakes A. Plimpton of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Plimpton of New York; a brother, Amyas Ames of Syosset, L.I., seven grandchildren and two great grandchildren.
      
Mr. and Mrs. Bingham, always known as "the Binghams," were great hosts, especially at Kentucky Derby time, when their invitations were among the most coveted.
Mrs. Twyne, a longtime resident of Great Falls, Va., moved to Boise in 1993.
She is survived by her husband, Hugo Mareno and her daughter of Manhattan; her parents, Harlow and Roslyn Hermanson of Belmont, and two sisters, Emily Hermanson Levin of Great Neck, L.I., and Julie Hermanson Ratner of New York City.
