"
        Mrs. Rose was born in Brooklyn and brought up in Great Neck, L.I.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Rose is survived by her father, Nathan Kupin of Great Neck, L.I.
After several less-than-flattering biographies were published about "The Great One," Miss Meadows wrote, with Joe Daly, her own "Love, Alice: My Life as a Honeymooner.

        Frieda Sandberg Lewis, a champion of Jewish causes and past national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Feb. 29 in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 85, and a former resident of Great Neck, L.I., and Manhattan.
"
        Ms. Hawkes's books included "A Woman as Great as the World," a collection of  fables and a science fiction novelette; "Journey Down a Rainbow," a personalized account of a visit to the United States written with Mr. Priestley; "Providence  Island: An Archeological Tale"; "King of the Two Lands: The Pharaoh, Akhenaten," and "Dawn of the Gods," a study of Greece in the Bronze Age.
In the 1970's she wrote "The First Great Civilizations: Life in Mesopotamia, the Indus Valley and  Egypt," and atlases of ancient archeology and early human life.

        Lola Beltran, the soulful Mexican singer whose achingly emotional renditions  of mariachi ballads made her known as Lola the Great to generations of Latin Americans, died on Sunday night in Mexico City.
She would halt her orchestra in mid-measure with an authoritative wave of the hand, or in moments of great emotion clutch the rebozo, or shawl, that was her trademark.
"It can tell the story of a great love or of a tremendous sadness, but it has to have emotion and truth.
" Another, "A Memory," begins, "James did all right for a man on his own," and ends, "Under a weight of bitterness too great to be borne, his face was pressed  into the wet leaves and, when he gulped for breath, the rotted leaves were sucked into his mouth.
"Her great thing was E. M. Forster's wonderful phrase 'Only connect,' " Jenny Koralek, a children's writer and longtime friend, said by telephone from London  yesterday.
Her father was a sugar planter, and Miss Travers recalled growing up near  the Great Barrier Reef in a tropical world of sugar cane, shells and mangoes.
She was 85 and the last member of the original four-member Great Wallendas high-wire troupe.
" Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern, said Mrs. Auchincloss was "one of the great, great trustees of our museum and involved with every aspect of its life.
" Glenn D. Lowry, director of the Modern, said Mrs. Auchincloss was "one of the great, great trustees of our museum and involved with every aspect of its life.
Great Diction And Vocal Agility
        Miss Fitzgerald was renowned both for her delicately rendered ballads and her pyrotechnical displays of scat improvisation.
Two years later, when Decca released her sensational be-bop version of "Lady  Be Good," Downbeat magazine proclaimed her "as great a master of bop as she has  been of swing.
The couple didn't marry until 1934, when they began what friends recall as one of the great love matches, which lasted until Mr. Hummert's death in 1966.
In addition to her daughter Elizabeth, of Ithaca, Ms. East is survived by another daughter, M. Victoria East of Seattle; a brother, Charles D. Shipe of Great Falls, Va., and a granddaughter.
      
But her name was listed in the Manhattan telephone book, and despite her great age and infirmities -- she was legally blind -- she granted several interviews.
''
        And Mr. de la Renta called it ''the end of a whole era'' and Mrs. Phillips ''the last of the great ladies of retailing with a true grasp of the luxury business and a tremendous sense of quality.
The City of Montreal proclaimed her a ''Grande Montrealaise (Great Montrealer)'' in 1978, and the headquarters of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens is called La Maison de la Danse Ludmilla Chiriaeff in her honor.
Late in life, even after nearly all her family's stock in the Waldbaum's supermarkets was sold to the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company in 1986, Mrs. Waldbaum  liked to keep an eye on the stores.
'' Her husband ''had more to say than I and a great deal more resonated from what he wrote.
She had suffered injuries in a fall at her home in Great Neck, L.I., earlier that week, her family said.
Mrs. Waxman was the wife of Rabbi Mordecai Waxman of Temple Israel in Great Neck.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, Rabbi Jonothan Waxman of Eberon, N.J., and David and Hillel Waxman of Great Neck; a brother, Rabbi Albert Bilgray of Tucson, Ariz., and five grandchildren.
      
Later she said, ''I was no great shakes as an actress.
In addition to her son Nicholas, of Brooklyn, and her brother of Oakland, N.J., Mrs. Macdonald is survived by another son, Michael of Manhattan, two grandchildren and one great grandchild.
''She was one of the world's great originals,'' said Dr. Alan Walker, an anatomist at Pennsylvania State University who has long excavated fossils with the Leakey family.
The work gave her ''a great sense of happiness and well-being,'' she wrote in her autobiography, ''Disclosing the Past,'' published in 1984, because the drawings afforded a glimpse of the lives of the hunter-gatherers who painted them.
''I ended by losing my professional respect for Louis; and it had been very great indeed,'' she wrote.
Mrs. Davenport's first novel, "Of Lena Geyer" (1936), was recalled by one reviewer in the 1980's as a "a vivid portrayal of a great opera singer.
The work that brought Miss Chukovskaya the prize was "The Akhmatova Journals," a recollection of her friendship with the great Russian poet Anna Akhmatova (1889-1966), who lost two husbands to Soviet repression.
"
        The semi-autobiographical novel, set down while the memory of Stalin's Great  Purge was still fresh, conveyed the atmosphere of fear and terror that engulfed  the Soviet Union as the crackdown gathered force.
She was descended on her father's side from the great 18th-century dramatist Richard Brinsley Sheridan and was a Guinness on her mother's side.
