She was a great clown who learned early how to ''play'' an audience.
With great ease she seemed able to contort and mold that face into a thousand shapes.
Mrs. Lillie, who enjoyed a modest reputation as a concert singer, had great expectations for her daughters - Muriel would be a concert pianist, Beatrice a soprano - and their musical training began early.
In 1914, she was hired for a minor role in ''Not Likely,'' produced by Andre Charlot, a Frenchman who had brought to London, with great success, the concept of the little revue of fast-paced, sophisticated songs, skits and blackouts.
Under the name of Ruth Moore, Mrs. Garbe was the author of books that included ''Man, Time and Fossils'' and ''The Coil of Life: The Story of the Great Discoveries in the Life of Sciences'' published in 1953 and 1961 by Alfred Knopf & Co. She also wrote a biography of Nils Bohr, published by Knopf in 1966.
On Broadway Miss Coonan acted in ''Seidman and Son,'' ''A Taste of Honey,'' ''The Great White Hope,'' ''Red Roses for Me'' and ''The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie.
Surviving are two daughters, Ann Connolly, of Norwalk, Conn., and Harrigan Logan, of Los Angeles; a son, Thomas Heggen Logan of Manhattan; three granddaughters, and a great grandson.
      
'' An Interest in the Mystical
        ''I am not the great brilliant person to decide about how good a book is,'' she said once.
As a girl she spent a great deal of time with her maternal grandparents, who instilled in her a deep family loyalty and a commitment to hard work.

       Anne Sorele Williams Glushien, an artist and translator, died of Alzheimer's disease Sunday at her home in Great Neck, L.I.
Anne Sorele Williams Glushien, an artist and translator, died of Alzheimer's disease Sunday at her home in Great Neck, L.I.
She was Lord Custodian of the Great Shrine of Ise, a major Shinto shrine in western Japan, for 14 years.
But when Miss Milanov settled down after a few performances and demonstrated what she could do, it became clear that the great Ponselle had a worthy successor.
Milka Ternina, a great Wagnerian soprano at the turn of the century, heard the young soprano and took her as a pupil for three years.
''Has anyone ever written a great love letter on a typewriter?
''A great suicide note?
After her freshman year at Bryn Mawr College, where, she said, ''I flunked every single course, which is pretty hard to do,'' she set her heart on Richard B. W. Hall, a handsome socialite, though lacking in great wealth.
These classics include ''Of Human Bondage,'' ''Dark Victory,'' ''The Corn Is Green,'' ''The Letter,'' ''The Great Lie,'' ''A Stolen Life,'' ''Now, Voyager,'' ''Mr.
But in her first three years at Warners Miss Davis made 14 films, including Edna Ferber's ''So Big,'' with Barbara Stanwyck starring, and ''20,000 Years in Sing Sing,'' which was, she was to say, ''my only film with the great Spencer Tracy, to my everlasting regret.
Years later she was to ruefully confess that before she left, Jack L. Warner, the studio head, offered her a chance ''to play one of the great screen roles of all time, but I didn't know it.
''
        The memorable Davis roles continued in swift order: The murderous and unfaithful planter's wife in Maugham's ''The Letter'' in 1940, quickly followed the next year by ''The Great Lie'' and ''The Little Foxes,'' in which she played the scheming Regina Giddens.
''
        She played Margo that way, and brilliantly, and with the aid of a witty, literate script, sharp direction by Mr. Mankiewicz, and a sparkling cast that included Anne Baxter, Celeste Holm, George Sanders, Marilyn Monroe (in a supporting role), and Thelma Ritter, the movie became one of the all-time great Hollywood films.
A great measure of personal attractiveness and a high degree of romantic singularity are necessary to step free of the mundane, the governessy, the threat of earnestness and dryness.
''  'Dickensian Cruelty'
        In fact, both he and his wife died in the great flu epidemic of 1918, and the 6-year-old Mary and her three brothers were sent to live with their great-aunt Margaret and her husband in Minneapolis.
Some backers of Franco would even say privately that La Pasionaria, though in error, was ''a great Spaniard.
; nine grandchildren and four great grandchildren.
      
Miss Terris performed a one-woman show of impersonations of great musical-comedy stars, donating the proceeds to the center.
'Fundamental Values'
        ''She was a woman of great spirit and fundamental values - human rights, decency and the quality of individuals,'' said Oscar M. Ruebhausen, a longtime neighbor and retired partner of Debevoise & Plimpton, the firm that defended Mr. Hiss.
She was 81 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
She was 81 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
Mrs. Kahn was active in civic affairs and was co-founder of the Great Neck Cooperative Nursery School in the early 1930's.
She is survived by her husband, Jesse; two sons, David, of Great Neck, and Louis, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Miriam Harris of Great Neck; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jesse; two sons, David, of Great Neck, and Louis, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Miriam Harris of Great Neck; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
