''When we saw Susie in action  we were all amazed at her great sensitivity,'' Mr. Strasberg said at the time.
Her principal teachers were Isidore Philipp and Marguerite Long, through whom she met and worked with several great French composers of the time, among them Faure, Saint-Saens and Ravel.
''Indrani was an exquisite dancer, a great teacher and a true rasika, in the largest spirit of that word, meaning a lover of the arts,'' Rachel Cooper of the Asia Society said yesterday.
Her great pleasure in reading, and her early attempts to write stories led to the conviction, which she formed as a child, that she would become a writer.
If ''Elegy for Iris'' offers a moving evocation of a great love story, it also provides a grim record of watching the personality of a loved one gradually dwindle under the burden of fear, bafflement and grief.
'' Speaking of the character in an interview in The New York Times last year, Ms. Bentley probably inadvertently described her own great charm best.
'' Speaking of the character in an interview in The New York Times last year, Ms. Bentley probably inadvertently described her great charm best.
Mrs. Hallinan, the widow of Vincent Hallinan, a fiery socialist lawyer who died in 1995, made a multi-million-dollar fortune by buying apartment buildings during the Great Depression.
She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines on May, 8, 1933, are the sole visual record of the great Diego Rivera's ill-fated Rockefeller Center fresco with its doomed depiction of Lenin.
If anybody was going to stop him it was John D. Rockefeller Jr.'s son, Nelson A. Rockefeller, who had commissioned Rivera to paint a 1,000-square-foot fresco, ''Man at the Crossroads,'' in the great hall of the new RCA Building, the soaring Rockefeller Center capstone now known as the G.E.
Largely because Rivera spoke little English and no one else spoke Spanish, the 22-year-old Miss Bloch, who spoke French, a language Rivera also knew, was seated next to the great man.
The achievement, noted by many newspapers, magazines and broadcasters, was a tour de force of pure physics, and it may also herald great practical applications.
Denmark has a long scientific tradition that included the great Niels Bohr, one of the founders of quantum theory.
It's a great wake-up call.
Yet when American ballet companies began to flourish, she gave authoritative performances in some of the great classics.
She collaborated with Dione Lucas on ''The Gourmet Cooking School Cookbook'' (1964) and edited ''A Treasury of Great Recipes'' (1965) by Mary and Vincent Price.
''That trip to Vietnam meant a great deal to the national society,'' said Sarah King of Murfreesboro, Tenn., who was president general of the D.A.R.
''She was a great romantic, with the highest expectations of life.
And in 1992 the land of Christmas holly recognized her contributions when the Royal Horticultural Society of Great Britain gave her the Reginald Cory Memorial Cup.
She is survived by a son, Frederick L. Meserve Jr. of Kennett Square, Pa; two daughters, Anne Davis of Winnetka, Ill., and Marcia Poutiatine of Vero Beach;  seven grandchildren and a great grandchild.
      
Initially, she gathered wild fruits, nuts and greens for Chez Panisse, Alice Waters's now-famous restaurant in Berkeley, and with Julia Child she organized the Great Chefs of France cooking program at the Robert Mondavi Vineyards.
On a segment of ''20/20,'' Ms. Brandel, a mischievous but soft-spoken storyteller, regaled the audience with tales of her curious shopping adventures to supply the Great Chefs of France.
Byrd became in the Clinton supporters' depiction a great Roman statesman, a man beyond reproach -- a living, walking, breathing toga.
She had recently completed a fable, ''The Great Petrowski,'' that was to be published with her own illustrations.
She was a member of the boards of the Great Northern Nekoosa Corporation in Stamford, Conn., and the Independent Petroleum Association of America in Washington.
Her husband, whose real name was James Alfred Wight, vividly depicted his wife as the endearing and supportive Helen Herriot in his memoirs, beginning with ''All Creatures Great and Small.
''
        ''All Creatures Great and Small'' became the basis for a long-running television series, which was originally a BBC-TV production and later a cable television series in the United States.
Although ''All Creatures Great and Small'' became a best seller, it was not reviewed until months after its publication, when strongly positive word-of-mouth reports had begun to make it famous.
''A characteristic scene comes in the final chapter of 'All Creatures Great and Small,' '' Mr. McCormack said.
We are really friends, or if you prefer, we have great complicity.
When another great Egyptian belly dancer, Samia Gamal, died in 1994, her funeral was officially ignored,  Morocco said.
She was 80 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
For 35 years, Mrs. Hirschland taught art history in the adult education program in the Great Neck public schools.
Restaged to great acclaim in 1958 for American Ballet Theater, ''Miss Julie'' was a triumph for Violette Verdy in the title role, as the Swedish aristocrat who seduces a butler, and for Erik Bruhn as Jean, the butler.
Reuters reported that Mr. Guterres said: ''It is a moment of great sadness.
Mrs. Durufle, a technically formidable organist, was generally considered the last great exponent of the French Romantic school of organ playing, which valued elegant grandeur, textural clarity and rhythmic freedom.
''My husband was a very great virtuoso at the organ,'' she said, ''but once he became my husband, I worked at it more than he did.
For unexplained reasons, she continued this piece to the end of her life, despite the great inconvenience and, one supposes, even greater rudeness.

        Dr. Naomi Bluestone, a medical writer, a practitioner, a teacher and a ''Dear Abby'' to a generation of aspiring doctors, died Nov. 13 at her home in Center Barnstead, N.H. She was 63 and had moved there from Great Neck, N.Y., in 1991.
'' That no-nonsense approach to life was mixed with steely determination, a great personal warmth and humor and an unsentimental humanity that made her a much-loved figure on the national dance scene.
''This poet was the beacon for our great language movement and liberation war, and inspiration for all democratic movements of the nation,'' Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh said at the ceremony.
The press had an immense appetite for even the slightest tidbits of news about the great Caruso's daughter.
''Certainly Dorothy Allison caused a great deal of -- I'm sure unintended -- mischief,'' he said.
Miss Francine made her Broadway debut in 1954 with Shirley Booth in ''By the Beautiful Sea'' before going on to work with Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne in ''The Great Sebastians'' the next season.
I made a patterned yoke sweater that not only looks great, but fits as well.
She expressed her view in ''Learning to Read: The Great Debate'' (Harcourt Brace, 1967), recognized as a definitive analysis of reading research.
