Ms. Costello joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute in 1962, and taught harpists who eventually took positions in many of the world's great orchestras, including the Berlin Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony and the National Symphony.
The once prosperous neighborhood had descended into poverty, but Food Stamps and other Great Society programs had all but eliminated hunger in Bedford-Stuyvesant and elsewhere, so much so that by 1980 only about 50 small soup kitchens were being operated in New York City.
''Her footwork didn't have to be great.
''She knew her way around in sophisticated circles; friendships with men like Randolph Churchill counted a great deal to the ambitious Paley.
''At a moment of great despair among Arab-Americans,'' Dr. Maksud said yesterday, ''she helped mobilize and organize the community.
Her grandmother, who had been a slave, had worked in the kitchen of a great big house.
''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference.
''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference.
By the time she got to the University of Wisconsin, Mrs. Kampen, who was born in Brooklyn and later lived in Great Neck, N.Y., was funny enough to become editor of the campus humor magazine.

        Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby.
She also rode her bicycle at breakneck speed around the great hall, and during World War II, when the house was shuttered, she maintained, tongue in cheek, that she kept America safe through her volunteer work as a plane spotter on the roof of a boys school in Newport.
Invited by a friend to meet the great man, she was so disconcerted when Jung mentioned a patient who lived on the moon that the brash young woman piped up and said surely he meant the woman acted ''as if'' she lived on the moon.
She said the dream had brought her great joy.
      
She inherited the bulk of one of the great American fortunes when Jock Whitney -- sportsman, financier, publisher of The New York Herald Tribune, philanthropist, political mover and shaker, and Ambassador to Britain -- died in 1982.
After her 25th-anniversary gala at the Met, Ms. Rysanek returned almost every season, singing a particularly memorable Kundry in 1985 to the great Parsifal of the tenor Jon Vickers.
Most of the details she related over the years came from her mother, Alice, but Mrs. Shuman insisted she recalled the screams and the sight from a great height of a sea of hands reaching up for her from a lifeboat below.
In addition to her daughters, Eve and Liz, Ms. Abzug is survived by her sister, Helene Alexander of Great Neck, N.Y.
        ''I've been described as a tough and noisy woman, a prizefighter, a man hater, you name it,'' Ms. Abzug said of herself in ''Bella.
Lady Lestor had two great causes in her life: the fight against racism and the fight for the rights of children, and was never afraid to criticize her party when she disagreed with its policies.
Her mother, Esther, had been a machinist in a textile factory in East London who, as a teen-ager, became a shop steward for the garment workers' union; her father, Charles, a journalist and actor, was a leading member of the Canadian Socialist Party and later, when the family returned to England, of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.
And she exerted a great influence on the group of musicians who created the ''Bakersfield sound'' in the late 1950's, including Buck Owens, Tommy Collins and Merle Haggard.
''She had a great flair for the numbers side of the business, but saw the human implications of the numbers like no one I have ever known,'' said Daniel Yankelovich, a partner of Ms. Skelly at the opinion research firm that bore their names.
''She was a wonderful, witty person, very funny but serious at the same time, which is a great combination,'' Mr. Yankelovich said.
)
        The notion that she had been born a lady took a startling turn when Dame Catherine, then known as Katie McMullen, read in a novel that it was a lady's duty to be educated, which she took to heart, beginning a lifelong habit of reading great books.
Ms. Merritt acted in several films, including ''They Might Be Giants'' (1972), ''The Goodbye Girl'' (1977), ''All That Jazz'' (1979), ''The Great Santini'' (1979), ''The Best Little Whorehouse in Texas'' (1982) and ''The Serpent and the Rainbow'' (1988).
Her experiences, which became a case study for the Harvard Business School, exemplified how someone involved in social entrepreneurship could overcome  great odds.
Her books, ''The Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' ''The Further Prophecies of Nostradamus'' and ''The Final Prophecies of Nostradamus,'' in which she claimed to have found predictions of the execution of  Charles I, the Great Fire of London, the Apollo 13 catastrophe and the spread of AIDS, sold in the millions.
''It's all there -- beautiful sets, great costumes, great music,'' she said.
''It's all there -- beautiful sets, great costumes, great music,'' she said.

        Betty Carter, one of jazz's great singers and a composer and arranger whose groups were virtual schools for generations of jazz musicians, died at home in the Fort Greene section of Brooklyn on Saturday.
Her improvisations were explosive, tumbling out in great leaps at a velocity that expressed unfettered artistic freedom.
An author, conservationist and wildlife biologist, she died three days after her last foray into the grassy fields near her rural home in Plainfield, Wis., which she shared with a great horned owl that assisted her in attracting hawks.
Her television work included a role in the popular series ''All Creatures Great and Small,'' based on the James Herriot books, and a part in the comedy series ''Young at Heart,'' in which she played a bickering retiree opposite John Mills, who had been her co-star in ''The History of Mr.
Dr. Calderone served for some years as a school physician in Great Neck, L.I.
With the Great Depression at full strength in the fall of 1931 and newspapers vying for stories to take their readers' minds off their miseries, the lurid details of the Judd case proved irresistible.
''
        The British critic W. A. Darlington wrote in The New York Times that in the musical her singing voice ''was true and clear'' and ''besides the great good looks which had taken her on to movies, she proved to have a warm and charming personality.
''She had a great determination to get things done, but she was always very feminine, very pretty.
The poem ''Change'' from the ''Onions and Roses'' collection is a favorite of her admirers:
        I can remember the sun as a great golden eagle spreading its wings to my will.
She was born with cerebral palsy and always had great difficulty walking and talking.
Five years later Jean Renoir, the  French director, made ''The River,'' recognized as one of the great color films, an adaptation of Ms. Godden's novel about English children growing up in Bengal.
Ms. Beriosova was a very young witness to the development of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, where her father danced in the 1930's and where she saw the work of some of the great emigre Russian dancers and choreographers of the time.
In the moonlight and even when there was no moon, amid the chalk-white and gray polished marble sentries guarding the dead of a great city, Gloria Marie De Martini Stradtner looked only for life in the necropolis.
It was entitled ''Weep Not'' and began this way:
        Do not weep for me when I am gone
        For I have friends in the great beyond.
They will purr and bark in great delight,
        And I will hold and hug them tight.
Oh what a great day that will be
        When my furry friends all welcome me.
      
In the warm, lofted air,
        Soft lips together pressed,
        Soft wispy hair,
        She stops to rest,
        And stops to breathe,
        Amid the summer hum,
        The great white lilac bloom
        Scented with days to come.
Frequently she had solicitations to join major talent agencies, but she remained fiercely independent and placed great emphasis on personal loyalty.
