The magazine Jazz Times named her biography ''Straight, No Chaser: The Life and Genius of Thelonious Monk'' (1997), one of the top jazz books of the year
        Her many books for children included at least six musical surveys along the lines of her 1998 book for young adults, ''Deep Down in Music: The Art of the Great Jazz Bassists.
There she encountered Fokine, the great reformer of 20th-century ballet, who personally coached her in many of his productions.
Of both Russian and Scottish ancestry, she danced in Great Britain under the name of Nathalie Leslie.
''Jarman had talked to her at great length about her vision for the store,'' Ms. Rosenberg said.
With their sharp focus, luminous colors and dimensions as great as 60 by 90 inches, her paintings have a hyper-realistic visual impact rarely encountered in the medium of watercolor.
Great music gives us spiritual sustenance and gives us hope.
Her death was announced by Judith Monachina, spokeswoman for the college, in Great Barrington, Mass., which is now part of Bard College.
She later attended public and private schools in the Great Barrington area.
She is survived by her sons, Thomas Livingston Hall of San Francisco, and John Kendrick Hall of Jerusalem; her daughters, Margaret Hall Whitfield Courant of Great Barrington and Elizabeth Hall Richardson of Denver; 11 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
Ms. Spivack was rejected by law firms, in part because of the Great Depression, but also, she maintained, because she was a woman and Jewish.
She was not a great success, but the experience led her and Ms. Sosenko to take off for Paris to learn the art of cabaret.
She was not a great success, but the experience led her and Sosenko to take off for Paris to learn the art of cabaret.
It was a quality Hitchcock used to great effect, notably in ''Vertigo,'' in which Ms. Bel Geddes played Midge, the steadfast, unglamorous ex-fiancée of Jimmy Stewart, who watches his painful descent into obsession and madness.
Guide to Great African American Children's Books.
''
        Ms. Levi-Tanai is survived by a daughter, Michal, and a son, Yaacov, and several grandchildren and great grandchildren.
Although some of the great piano-playing accompanists, including Hank Jones and Jimmy Jones, were hired to play on her records, and although ''Loads of Love,'' from 1962, showcased her voice well -- she could sound like a quieter, subtler version of Dinah Washington -- the situation made her uncomfortable.
They are featured in several books, among them ''Soft Covers for Hard Times: Quiltmaking and the Great Depression'' (Rutledge Hill Press, 1990), by Merikay Waldvogel.
Her death was announced by the Great Gull Island Committee, a conservation group of which Ms. Pessino was a past chairwoman.
She was also known for her intensive studies of terns on Great Gull Island, a bird sanctuary off the eastern tip of Long Island.
During these years, Ms. Pessino was also closely involved with the Great Gull Island Committee.
Until the mid-19th century, Great Gull Island was home to vast colonies of nesting terns.
Today, about 1,600 pairs of roseate terns and about 9,500 pairs of common terns nest there, according to Helen Hays, the current chairwoman of the Great Gull Island Committee.
In other words, as the patent explains, ''The nature of the cell structure and overall texture of the dried bread crumb employed in this invention is of great importance if a stuffing which will hydrate in a matter of minutes to the proper texture and mouthfeel is to be prepared.
''It gives me great pleasure to help some of them make their way at this early stage.
But she had great curiosity, and McRae had a dance library, which Ms. Cohen devoured.
