While Dr. Ray was Governor, the power of her intellect and her skill as a speaker gave her an aura of great competence.
As associate curator of painting and sculpture at the institute, Mrs. Kuh worked with Rich to organize the first public exhibition of the great modern art collection of Mr. and Mrs. Walter Arensberg in 1949.
In the 1960's Mrs. Avnet owned a gallery in Great Neck, L.I., and later was a private art dealer in New York and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Avnet was born in New York and attended Hunter College.
" That year Downes also praised her "great" Violetta at the Met: "She conceived the music, from first note to last, dramatically, and portrayed the character with an aristocratic sensibility and simplicity.
During the course of her career, she appeared in Hollywood films ("The Great Caruso," "The Search"), on Broadway (as an unscrupulous concert singer in the 1953 drama "Sherlock Holmes") and on television (as Kim Stanley's mother in a postwar drama set in France).
The foundation has often been quick to recognize significant new research, and its awards have great prestige.
Their 55-room residence, Firenze House, is one of Washington's great estates, set on 22 acres in the northwestern section of the city.
She also spent a great deal of time off the screen promoting the cause of consumer justice.
"
        Mr. White recalled: "So the epitaph on the Kennedy Administration became Camelot -- a magic moment in American history, when gallant men danced with beautiful women, when great deeds were done, when artists, writers and poets met at the White House and the barbarians beyond the walls were held back.
Mr. Auchincloss had been substantially better able to weather the Great Depression; his mother and benefactor was the former Emma Brewster Jennings, daughter of Oliver Jennings, a founder of Standard Oil with John D. Rockefeller.
After the divorce, Jacqueline remained in touch with her father, but later she also spent a great deal of time with the Auchinclosses, who had a large estate in Virginia called Merrywood and another in Newport, R.I., called Hammersmith Farm.
She had great taste, a sense of culture, an understanding of art.
Admiration From Her Writers
        In an industry where editors often have little time for their authors, Mrs. Onassis's spoke admiringly of her curiosity, her interest in their work and her great attention to detail.
Doctorate from Rutgers
        Dr. Woititz was born in Great Neck, L.I., and graduated from Antioch College.
Her other biographies of women included "Catherine the Great" (1977), "Lucrezia Borgia" (1954) and "Lady Hester Stanhope" (1936).
When she returned to the United States, she appeared in such stage productions as "Run, Little Chillun," "Great Day," "Singing the Blues," "Mamba's Daughters," "Lysistrata" and "A Long Way From Home" (an all-black production of Gorky's "Lower Depths").
"She has great personal force," wrote Brooks Atkinson in The New York Times.
Miss Tandy triumphed on Broadway in 1947 as Blanche Dubois in Tennessee Williams's "Streetcar Named Desire," and was still a great star more than 40 years later when she played the title character in the 1989 film "Driving Miss Daisy.
She is survived by a son, H. Erich Heinemann of Great Neck, L.I., chief economist at Ladenburg, Thalmann & Company, investment bankers; a daughter, Marianne Russo of Oxford, Pa., and Wilmington, Del.
She was an avid dog lover: from 1947 to 1974, she ran Honey Hollow Kennels in Bucks County, Pa. She became one of the best-known breeders and handlers of champion Great Danes in American dog-show history, and also wrote several books on dog breeding.
"
        The New York Times critic Brooks Atkinson, in his review of the Anouilh play in 1957, characterized her performance as "protean" and one that "rides the whirlwind with a great sweep of venomous extravagance.
In the early 1950's, her family joined with three others to found a congregation, Temple Emanuel in Great Neck, L.I., of which she served as administrator.
"It's a great loss," Philippe de Montebello, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said yesterday.
And she placed a number of great objects, both through sale and gift in the Metropolitan Museum and elsewhere.
She taught me a great deal about writing and was a wonderful woman.
"I have chosen to write historical novels, chiefly, I think, because I enjoy sharing with young people my own ever-fresh astonishment at finding that men and women and boys and girls who lived through the great events of the past were exactly like ourselves, and that they faced every day the same choices, large and small, which daily confront us," she wrote in the New York Times Book Review in 1961.
She was Clara in "The Great White Hope" in Washington and, as a replacement, on Broadway with Yaphet Kotto.
"
        A stately, elegant woman almost 6 feet tall, Mrs. Hilson was dressed by several of the great couturiers.

        By all appearances, this was a great year for Alix Gres, the French fashion designer.
Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times: "A nonagenarian, she is one of the great female designers who dominated haute couture in Paris until after World War II, when the men took over.
The park opened in 1971 and since then has been home to performances by some of the world's great musicians, dancers, singers and actors.
Reviewing "Hello, Out There," Brooks Atkinson wrote in The Times that together they gave "a lyrical performance of great enchantment.
