''There are no great problems solved here, nor great adventures,'' a New York Times reviewer, Phyllis Fenner, wrote about ''Snowbound With Betsy'' (1962).
''There are no great problems solved here, nor great adventures,'' a New York Times reviewer, Phyllis Fenner, wrote about ''Snowbound With Betsy'' (1962).
However, in 1982 the Motion Picture Academy awarded her an honorary Oscar for being ''an artist of impeccable grace and beauty, a dedicated actress and one of the great ladies of Hollywood.
Some of Her Other Films
        Other memorable Stanwyck films were ''The Bitter Tea of General Yen,'' which opened Radio City Music Hall in 1933, ''Annie Oakley'' (1935), ''Banjo on My Knee'' (1936), ''The Plough and the Stars'' (1937), ''Union Pacific'' (1939), ''Golden Boy'' (1939), ''Remember the Night'' (1940), ''The Great Man's Lady'' (1942), ''Lady of Burlesque'' (1943), ''Clash by Night'' (1952) and ''Titanic'' (1953).
''Ruth would have been a great diplomat,'' said Representative Benjamin Gilman of New York, a close friend of Miss Washington.
But in 1982 the Motion Picture Academy awarded her an honorary Oscar for being ''an artist of impeccable grace and beauty, a dedicated actress and one of the great ladies of Hollywood.
Some of Her Other Films
        Other memorable Stanwyck films were ''The Bitter Tea of General Yen,'' which opened Radio City Music Hall in 1933, ''Annie Oakley'' (1935), ''Banjo on My Knee'' (1936), ''The Plough and the Stars'' (1937), ''Union Pacific'' (1939), ''Golden Boy'' (1939), ''Remember the Night'' (1940), ''The Great Man's Lady'' (1942), ''Lady of Burlesque'' (1943), ''Clash by Night'' (1952) and ''Titanic'' (1953).
Besides her husband and brother, she is survived by her parents, Harry and Jean Dinnerstein of North Miami Beach, Fla.; two sons, David, of Pomona, N.Y., and Jay, of Anaheim, Calif.; a daughter, Bonnie Friehling of Great Falls, Mont., and six grandchildren.
      
'' Other early starring roles were in a musical, ''One Touch of Venus'' (1948); a melodrama, ''The Great Sinner'' (1949), and a fantasy, ''Pandora and the Flying Dutchman'' (1951).
She had previously auditioned for the prima ballerina Anna Pavlova, who told the child that she had no technique but sufficient grace to become a great dancer.
The Grounds were among the Blackfeet who worked for the Great Northern Railway and greeted tourists at Glacier National Park in the summers.
A pupil of Enrico Cecchetti, the great Italian ballet pedagogue, Miss Craske danced for a short time with the Diaghilev Ballets Russes and toured with Ninette de Valois, founder of the Royal Ballet, in a small group that performed in English variety theaters during the 1920's.
A pupil of Enrico Cecchetti, the great Italian ballet pedagogue, Miss Craske danced for a short time with the Diaghilev Ballets Russes and toured with Ninette de Valois, founder of the Royal Ballet, in a small group that performed in English variety theaters during the 1920's.
From all of them, Mrs. Sulzberger gained a unique view of the great events and personalities of the 20th century and of the paper's growth in covering them.
She also wrote droll letters to the editor on issues great and small, asking that they be thrown out if judged foolish, or published with only a pseudonym, usually the name of a dead relative or friend.
''He was a great walker.
''She showed the world that you didn't have to be a man to be a great cook, and she was so generous in advancing women in the restaurant business.
If someone in Great Neck or somewhere had ordered a dress and needed it for a special party, she'd take a car and deliver it personally.
The Screen's Great Sufferer
        The finest element in a Garbo film was Garbo.
Like so many great actresses, she may never have possessed a particle of intellectual power, but she had genius before the camera because she was guided by a secret, sublime, infallible instinct to do the right thing in the right way.
''
        Powers Model and Ziegfeld Girl
        Paulette Goddard was born Marion Levy in Great Neck, L.I., on June 3, 1911, according to major film refererence works.
''She was witty, sharp, but with a quixotic approach to life, a great concern for others.
1: Great Jazz Years, 1954-56; (Mercury 826320; all three formats)
        The Divine Sarah Vaughan: The Columbia Years, 1949-53; (Columbia 44165; all three formats)
        The Duke Ellington Songbook, Vols.
Seriously, just say that I'm a great believer in simplicity in clothes.
''
        Years later, Katharine Hepburn, who had understudied Miss Williams on Broadway and recreated the ''Holiday'' role in the 1938 movie that also starred Cary Grant, offered this tribute: ''I stole a great deal from Hope.
''She was the last of the great elegant, aristocratic beauties,'' said Mr. Avedon, who photographed them all.
''She was a very sparkly girl, and her pictures were great.
The cause of death was complications from kidney failure, said her husband, Bob Cooper, whom she met when he was a saxophonist for the Stan Kenton Orchestra, the band with which Miss Christy first gained great popularity in 1945.
A novel by Professor Schor, ''The Great Letter E,'' was published by North Point Press earlier this year.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Perls is survived by a son, Dr. Stephen R. Perls, a psychologist in Albuquerque, N.M.; a brother, Robert Posner, of Providence, R.I.; four grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
She attended Finch College in New York City, and adopted the name Joan Whitney in 1934 when she played a showgirl on Broadway in ''The Great Waltz.
Like Jelly Roll Morton, the great jazz pianist, who was fond of saying that he changed everything he played ''to Jelly Roll'' (as, in truth, he did), everything Miss Bailey sang came out ''Pearlie Mae style.
Saw Use for 'Talkies'
        Dr. Goodykoontz was with the Office of Education, a precursor to a Cabinet department, in the crisis brought on by the Great Depression and later by World War II.
Like Jelly Roll Morton, the great jazz pianist, who was fond of saying that he changed everything he played ''to Jelly Roll'' (as, in truth, he did), everything Miss Bailey sang came out ''Pearlie Mae style.
'
        ''They will remember her as a great entertaineer.
''
        Miss Dunne chose her vehicles with great care and won even greater popularity in effervescent and urbane madcap comedies.
In addition to her son, of Lewes, Del., she is survived by four grandchildren and three great grand-children.
      
Under contract to Paramount, she appeared in a series of forgettable roles in forgettable films, including "The Great Victor Herbert," "Rhythm on the River," "Love Thy Neighbor," "New York Town," "Birth of the Blues," "Kiss the Boys Goodbye," "Happy Go Lucky" and "True to Life.
" Several months later, the 1960 television version of "Peter Pan" was shown again, with great success.

        Miriam M. Comer, a founder of two community agencies in Great Neck, L.I., died on Monday at a nursing home there.
In the early 1950's, Mrs. Comer was a founder of what is now the United Community Fund of Great Neck and the United Neighborhood Activities Center, an after-school program for poor children that is no longer operating.
She was 73 years old and had lived in Great Neck, L.I., for many years.
We have lost a great friend and a great editor," said The Herald's publisher, David Lawrence.
We have lost a great friend and a great editor," said The Herald's publisher, David Lawrence.
