Considered a pioneer in her field, she built her reputation on her ability to combine great style with a keen sense of business.
'Strong-Minded Vision'
        "Mrs. Brown was a great Victorian lady with amazing taste yet she had a clear, strong-minded vision," said Mark Hampton, the New York interior designer who worked for her for five years.
Among the productions she worked on were the mini-series "Hemingway"; the NBC television movie "The Great Wallendas"; a young people's series for CBS, "Henry Winkler Meets William Shakespeare," and "Secret of Charles Dickens.
Dame Margot was also known as the muse of England's great choreographer, Sir Frederick Ashton, who created many of his major works for the young dancer whom he helped develop.
She also sang on the CBS Radio program "Great Moments in Music" from 1942 to 1946.
Mrs. Kramarsky is survived by two sons, Bernard, of Great Neck, L.I., and Werner, of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Sonia Kramarsky of Manhattan; nine grandchildren, and three-great grandchildren.
      
Always curious about dance forms, Miss Page studied with Mary Wigman, the great German Expressionist choreographer, in 1930.
In 1986, when the Yonkers schools were desegregated under a court order, she was prominent as spokeswoman for the district at a time of great tension.
Frequently ranked with Picasso, Stravinsky and James Joyce for developing a form of expression that broke the traditional mold, Miss Graham was initially acclaimed as a great dancer.
In 1976, Mrs. Taylor said, "I think we'll be a great success, because we have a superb collection and people are becoming more and more aware of how design relates to the quality of life.
In 1976, Mrs. Taylor said, "I think we'll be a great success, because we have a superb collection and people are becoming more and more aware of how design relates to the quality of life.
" The family was stranded by the Great Depression and Ms. Lansbury graduated from North Sydney Girls High School, a selective institution, and entered the University of Sydney at age 15.
Mrs. Jastrow was 82 when her first book, "A Time to Remember: Growing Up in New York Before the Great War," was published in 1979 by W. W. Norton.
Dutton, 1941); "Lunacy Becomes Us," quotations from Hitler and other top Nazis (Liveright, 1939); "Jean de Reszke and the Great Days of Opera" (Minton, Balch, 1934).
She is survived by two sons, Gilbert, of Roslyn Heights, L.I., and Sidney, of Great Neck, L.I.
She also married or lived with at least two men in this period, and in later years she went to great effort to cover up her early romances and failures.
" Her arrival on the economic scene came at a propitious time: the public was slowly recovering from deep disillusionment with a Wall Street community that many blamed for plunging the country into the Great Depression.
Subsequent film roles included "Baby the Rain Must Fall" (1965), "Loot" (1972), "Sometimes a Great Notion" (1972) and "The Europeans" (1979).

        Oona Chaplin, the daughter of one of the great tragic playwrights of the century, Eugene O'Neill, and wife of one of the screen's greatest comic geniuses, Charles Chaplin, died yesterday at the age of 66 in Corsier-sur-Vevey, Switzerland.
In a brief citation, the Swedish Academy, which confers the awards, referred to her as "Nadine Gordimer, who through her magnificent epic writing has -- in the words of Alfred Nobel -- been of very great benefit to humanity.
Though a great classical actress, Sir Peter said, Dame Peggy was also devoted to contemporary theater and, in her later years, "developed an intense and wonderful passion with the camera.
In these pictures, she used the tools of modernist photographic style -- including dynamically framed compositions, flattened pictorial space, high angles, and great detail -- to capture the enormous energy and variety of the city.
Assistant to Man Ray
        Atget's photographs, which combine straightforward description with great formal beauty, have exerted a great influence on the development of American photography.
Assistant to Man Ray
        Atget's photographs, which combine straightforward description with great formal beauty, have exerted a great influence on the development of American photography.
By 1932, though, she had switched to a large-format camera that produced 8-by-10-inch negatives capable of recording great detail.
