''She had a very great stage presence,'' Ms. Britton said.
Eddie Jaffee, Mrs. Ferraro's publicist for many decades, once asked the membership requirements of a women's luncheon group called Great Old Broads that she attended.
''First, you have to be a great young broad.
Mr. Mandl was upset by the film and spent a great sum of money tracking down and purchasing prints of ''Ecstasy'' so that nobody would see it.
As the story goes, Miss Lamarr recalled hearing some conversations that had occurred between her first husband, Mr. Mandl, and the Nazis, who seemed to place great value on creating some sort of device that would permit the radio control of airborne torpedoes and reduce the danger of jamming.
''It was great to be with someone who just poured out love to me.
''She would say, 'The Apollo Theater takes great pleasure in presenting Duke Ellington' or Cab Calloway, or whoever,'' he said.
John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, devoted an article to Ms. Reed in 1954: ''Janet Reed is adorable, all right, and that unquestionably brings a great many customers to the box office; but she is also an artist of very high attainments, and a performer among performers.
She created, Virgil Thomson once said, ''far-out music of great delicacy, originality and beauty of sound.
''She pondered great problems -- between good and evil, between men and women.
Ms. Abramowicz had a formidable memory, and not only for those who peopled her cherished birthplace, Vilna, Lithuania, the great center of Yiddish culture now known as Vilnius, where the YIVO collection originated.
She was 65 and lived in Great Barrington, Mass.
Do you know what the great stars were?
Ms. Sosenko was also a theater archivist and historian who in 1976 mounted an exhibition at the Museum of the City of New York of 75 years of the great stars who appeared on Broadway for the Shuberts -- Lillian Russell, the Barrymores, Al Jolson, Josephine Baker, the Marx Brothers.
''I've probably had the biggest people in show business work for me,'' Ms. Sosenko once said, referring to her benefits and the galaxy of stars she enticed to participate, among them Julie Andrews, Rex Harrison, Liza Minnelli, Sid Caesar, Natalia Makarova and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ''They know when I do a show, it's going to be a great show because I only do great things,'' she said.
''I've probably had the biggest people in show business work for me,'' Ms. Sosenko once said, referring to her benefits and the galaxy of stars she enticed to participate, among them Julie Andrews, Rex Harrison, Liza Minnelli, Sid Caesar, Natalia Makarova and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ''They know when I do a show, it's going to be a great show because I only do great things,'' she said.
''If they're not great, I'm not interested.
She traveled a great deal, but settled in a cottage left her by an aunt at Winchelsea, from which, on a clear day, you can see France.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
''She didn't try and put on any great airs,'' recalled the folk singer Pete Seeger, a longtime friend who occasionally performed with her.
She was also the author of ''Athol Fugard and Barney Smith: Bare Stage, a Few Props, Great Theater.
''It reminds me of all the great help you gave to me and my family while I was in prison,'' he wrote.
It is ''Athol Fugard and Barney Simon: Bare Stage, a Few Props, Great Theater,'' not ''Athol Fugard and Barney Smith.
''
        Norman Moss, author of ''Klaus Fuchs: The Man Who Stole the Atomic Bomb'' (1987), said that Vyacheslav Molotov, Stalin's chief aide, set up the Soviet atomic bomb project in 1942 as a result of the information transmitted by Mr. Fuchs and Ms. Werner, and that the information saved the Soviet researchers a great deal of time.
''She had a great publishing gut'' -- an instinct for what books would be successful, he said.
''She was much more interested in developing talent than taking over the great names,'' said Mr. Wasserman, who had contracted with Ms. Dispeker in 1977, when she was almost 75, to succeed her as the company's president.
The company became a home for enthusiasts on both sides of the footlights: amateur singers (and some who became professionals) go there to learn and perform the great works and occasional rarities, and opera lovers on tight budgets go there to hear their favorite scores.
Mrs. Breasted is survived by two sons, James, of Carbondale, Colo., and John, of Great Barrington, Mass.
Drenka Willen, a senior editor at Harcourt Brace, said Frau Ritzerfeld was influential in her field because ''for one thing, Suhrkamp publishes high-quality books, so she sold the rights to books of great consequence.
''The great Walter Benjamin project we have going at the Harvard University Press -- some 3,000 pages -- was made possible by her,'' he said.
They also gave buildings to the National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey and to Community Mainstreaming Associates of Great Neck, N.Y., which provides homes for the disabled.
The daughter of a West Texas cattleman, she was reared on her father's tales of frontier life on the Great Plains.
Of the movie, she said, ''It was great fun, especially because I could change the lines.
''
        Ms. Richards's films included ''Hurry Sundown,'' ''Drugstore Cowboy'' and ''The Great White Hope'' (as the mother of the boxer Jack Jefferson, played by Mr. Jones).
Though never considered one of Hollywood's great actresses, the green-eyed, fresh-faced Ms. Peters had a straightforward naturalness on camera that made her a favorite leading lady of some of the top stars of the period.

        Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico.
Reflecting on their years together in an interview before Fosse's death, she said: ''I was a great dancer when he got hold of me, but he developed me, he created me.
She starred as an alcoholic singer in the 1956 film ''The Great Man.
Miss Rawls performed in Lillian Smith's ''Strange Fruit''; with Jose Ferrer in ''The Shrike''; with Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne in ''The Great Sebastians''; in Noel Coward's ''Private Lives''; and in Tennessee Williams's ''Glass Menagerie.
''She wrote about the city and City Hall as if it were a passing parade, with a great sense of irony and wit,'' said David Remnick, the editor of the New Yorker.
''If you had worked years to do it, if you believed in it, if you thought great things were going to come out of it -- great in terms of the position of women in our culture, position of women in jobs, position of women everywhere -- and this was going to improve that .
''If you had worked years to do it, if you believed in it, if you thought great things were going to come out of it -- great in terms of the position of women in our culture, position of women in jobs, position of women everywhere -- and this was going to improve that .
But reading up on the world's great faiths, she became convinced that they all, in one way or another, shared basic humane principles.
During more than 20 years as program director, Mrs. Sanger oversaw the staff that selected the symphonies and operas for each day's broadcast, published a program guide, hired announcers, and arranged for live radio performances by many great musicians, including Vladimir Horowitz and Van Cliburn.
All done with seeing her fat little form
        Burst out of the basement door;
        And with seeing her African son-in-law
        (Rightful heir to the throne)
        With his great white strong cold squares of teeth
        And his little eyes of stone;
        And with seeing the squat fat daughter
        Letting in the men
        When majesty has gone for the day --
        And letting them out again.
Earlier this year, Robert Hurwitz, its director since 1984 and a great admirer of Ms. Sterne, issued a two-disc recording in tribute to her, containing highlights from favorite albums she had produced and live recordings of performances she gave in her early years as a piano prodigy.
      
''The translator,'' Mrs. Martin wrote in The Times in 1948, ''derives a great degree of satisfaction from helping to present an opera to American audiences in the way both the composer and his librettist intended, namely, as a drama set to music, which may be enjoyed without reference to the libretto in intermissions.
Her principles formed a critical transition in American garden history between the great estate era and the explosion of suburban and town gardens that followed World War II.
She made a great virtue of the serpentine line to give the illusion of length and breadth.
''Every great photographer wanted to work with her.
''She was our seal of approval, the first really, really great star,'' said Mrs. Ford.
She acted in the first film that the Spanish director Luis Bunuel made in Mexico, ''The Great Casino,'' and appeared in some 60 other films.
''
        One of her proudest possessions held no recipes but instead contained an encomium in rhyme by Frederick the Great of Prussia, imprinted in 1772.
She also contributed articles to children's magazines and cookbooks and wrote a novel for young adults, ''The Great Venture'' (1963).
''She did great good and it had a national impact,'' said Patrick V. Murphy, the New York City police commissioner in the early 1970's, who knew her.
I had great admiration for her.
All done with seeing her fat little form
        Burst out of the basement door;
        And with seeing her African son-in-law
        (Rightful heir to the throne)
        With his great white strong cold squares of teeth
        And his little eyes of stone;
        And with seeing the squat fat daughter
        Letting in the men
        When majesty has gone for the day --
        And letting them out again.
