'' In her recordings, she describes her decision to undergo a lung transplant in July 2001 and the many health problems that followed -- pneumonia, lymphoma, diabetes, a broken hip.
''
        In recent years, as her health began to fail, Ms. Simone performed less and less, although she continued to draw enthusiastic crowds wherever she appeared.
The police report said she had been experiencing health difficulties.

        Lucille Roberts, a businesswoman whose ambition to create ''the McDonald's of health clubs'' inspired a chain of bargain-basement gyms for women, died yesterday at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
''It is only the upper classes who are into exercise for health,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1997.
We have tried health classes.
By continually adding more gyms, she was able to keep down the cost of advertising -- a significant and critical expenditure for health clubs -- on a per-member basis.
The Robertses also invested heavily in real estate, buying whole shopping centers as well as individual buildings for health clubs.
After years of research at U.C.L.A., New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the National Institutes of Health, she joined the Yale faculty in 1979.
'' It represents the direction in which she wants to take the association, to become more active in voter registration and community health.
In 2002 she transferred to the World Health Organization in Geneva, where she took charge of external relations for Gro Harlem Brundtland, then the director general.
Gibson, who had been in poor health for many years, died at East Orange General Hospital, where she was treated for an infection and respiratory illness, said Dr. Duane J. Dyson, its senior vice president for medical affairs.
      
When another black woman, Zina Garrison, made it to the Wimbledon final in 1990 before losing to Martina Navratilova, Gibson was there to cheer her on, but she soon receded from the limelight once again with health and financial problems.
She was said to credit her religious faith for her good health.
She was said to credit her religious faith -- she told friends she rose at dawn for an hour of prayer each day -- for her good health.
Over the years, Madame Chiang's health wavered, and in 1976 she was diagnosed with breast cancer and had a mastectomy, and later, a second one.
He said she was stopped by a combination of health and marital problems, as well as by disputes with Nashville producers.
Plagued by poor health, she then left local politics.

        Sheila Smythe, a former head of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield and dean of the school of public health at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center.
Ms. Smythe was appointed dean in 1990, when she also became professor of health policy and economics at the school.
From 1987 to 1990, she was chief health policy adviser in the United States General Accounting Office.
Throughout her career Ms. Smythe advocated for the improvement of health care through education and public health programs.
Throughout her career Ms. Smythe advocated for the improvement of health care through education and public health programs.
She served as an adviser on several task forces for health care reform.
Last year, she was forced by deteriorating health to withdraw from the Broadway revival of ''Dinner at Eight.
Last year she was forced by deteriorating health to withdraw from the Broadway revival of ''Dinner at Eight.
Mrs. Sebastiani, who was also the author of a cookbook of family recipes, had given up day-to-day control of the Sebastiani winery several years ago because of failing health.
The Konopka Institute for Best Practices in Adolescent Health, named for Dr. Konopka, is at the university.
