Although an avid reader, she did not go to school regularly until high school, because of her uncertain health.
But even with young children, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was a 4-H leader, served on the library and school boards and was one of the organizers and directors of the Public Health Nursing Association.

        Helen Wills Moody, arguably the most dominant tennis player of the 20th century and the first American-born woman to achieve international celebrity as an athlete, died Thursday at a convalescent home in Carmel, Calif.
        She was 92 and had been in failing health for several years.

        Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington.
''It bores me, all that health stuff,'' she said.

        Barbara Benson Crowther, a business manager of a law firm and a volunteer in mental health, died yesterday at her home in Palmyra, Va. She was 60 years old.
She was a former chairwoman of a community board in Fluvanna County, Va., that provided services for mental health, mental retardation and drug addiction.

        Dr. Mary Catherine Raugust Howell, a pediatrician who championed medical careers and better health care for women and who was the first woman to become an associate dean at Harvard Medical School, died yesterday at her home in Watertown, Mass.
Dr. Howell was also active in the women's health movement.
She was  a founding member of the National Women's Health Network, which was formed in the 1970's to lobby for better health care for women.
She was  a founding member of the National Women's Health Network, which was formed in the 1970's to lobby for better health care for women.
''By 1975,'' said Cynthia Pearson, the network's executive director, ''there were over 2,000 community-based women's health groups that either provided direct services and education and an alternative to traditional male-dominated medical care or were engaged in efforts to change the system.
Mary helped organize the first national women's health conference, which brought individual women and representatives of grass-roots women's health groups to the Harvard campus.
Mary helped organize the first national women's health conference, which brought individual women and representatives of grass-roots women's health groups to the Harvard campus.
Based on her experiences there, she wrote another book, ''Healing at Home: A Guide to Health Care for Children'' (Beacon Press, 1978) She returned to the Boston area to practice pediatrics and psychotherapy.
and National Council of Negro Women, died on Thursday at the Health Clinic of Westminster Shores in St. Petersburg, Fla. She was 90 and a resident of St. Petersburg.
In recent years, in failing health, Mrs. Whitney, a prominent philanthropist in medicine and art, spent most of her time at Greentree, one of the most magnificent private residences in the country, situated on 438 acres in Manhasset, on Long Island's Gold Coast.
During her tenure as Director of Finance, she created an important indicator of the city's economic health, the New York City Excise Tax Guide, as a resource for businesses, lawyers and individual taxpayers, as well as for the city administration.
She had been hospitalized for weeks, and had been in poor health for several years, he said.
She wanted national health insurance, money for  day-care centers and housing, and more money for New York City, all to be paid for with billions siphoned from the Pentagon's budget.
During the next decade, Ms. Abzug suffered from ill health, including breast cancer, but continued to practice law and work for women's groups.
Despite continuing health problems since the 1960's -- stomach ulcers, several heart attacks and kidney trouble -- she performed up until the summer of 1997.

        Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.

        Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Over the years, Dr. Lukomnik held teaching, medical and administrative positions at Columbia University's School of Public Health, the United States Public Health Service, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jersey City Family Health Center, among others.
Over the years, Dr. Lukomnik held teaching, medical and administrative positions at Columbia University's School of Public Health, the United States Public Health Service, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jersey City Family Health Center, among others.
Over the years, Dr. Lukomnik held teaching, medical and administrative positions at Columbia University's School of Public Health, the United States Public Health Service, Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Jersey City Family Health Center, among others.
She was on many committees and boards of the American Public Health Association and was elected chairwoman in 1995.
Her other associations included the National Conference on Primary Care, sponsored jointly by the Federal Public Health Service and the Kellogg, Kaiser and Robert Wood Johnson Foundations.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
Dr. Bernard's writings also addressed topics like children and adolescents and their position in family, community and the law; mental health and the schools; community and social psychiatry and training, and the dynamics of psychiatry among the poor, particularly among minorities.
Ms. Wynette had a history of health problems.
Ms. Wynette, who had a history of health problems, is believed to have died of a blood clot, said her publicist, Evelyn Shriver.
The idea of team nursing sprang from her doctoral dissertation, and in the decades afterward, the concept made her a mentor and teacher to generations of health professionals around the world.
It also praised her efforts to improve the nurses' relationship with other health care professionals.
She was named to the New Jersey State Advisory Council on Alcohol Problems in 1975, and in the 1980's she served on the advisory board of the United States Alcohol, Drug Abuse and Mental Health Administration.

        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore.
''I provide a full range of women's medical care and counseling to women who largely have no other access to health care,'' she wrote in a letter to the editor of The New York Times in 1995, ''yet I am forced to wear a bulletproof vest, to outwit my harassers and to hire security to protect my clinic and staff.

        Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia.
The couple were on their way to meetings of the World Health Organization in Geneva.
She also received a doctorate in tropical medicine from the University of London in 1975 and a master's degree in public health, specifically epidemiology, from Johns Hopkins in 1979, the year she first joined the staff at the university's school of medicine.
Earlier in her career she served as a special epidemiologist on the World Health Organization's smallpox program in Uttar Pradesh, India.
In the early 1980's she was associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore and  was chief of the clinical studies section in its Center for Vaccine Development in 1985 when Johns Hopkins named her an associate professor in the Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health.
In the early 1980's she was associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore and  was chief of the clinical studies section in its Center for Vaccine Development in 1985 when Johns Hopkins named her an associate professor in the Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health.
She advanced to tenured professor in the department of international health in 1990 with a joint appointment in the department of molecular microbiology and immunology.
At a meeting of cancer researchers at the Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Science Center in Toronto, she made a dry presentation of metastatic medical issues vivid with her presence and words.
The cause was not officially determined as of yesterday, though Ms. Frann, whom friends reported had been in good health, apparently died in her sleep.

        Dr. Helen Winthrop Edey, a philanthropist and psychiatrist who was active in the field of women's reproductive health and rights, died on Sept. 15 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts.
) The association is based in New York and works in the United States and more than 40 other countries to provide training and other support to health care professionals in the fields of family planning and reproductive health.
) The association is based in New York and works in the United States and more than 40 other countries to provide training and other support to health care professionals in the fields of family planning and reproductive health.
Dr. Allan Rosenfield, dean of the Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University, said, ''Dr.
Edey became a psychiatrist after her four children were born and had a remarkable professional career, both as a psychiatrist and as an individual who was very much concerned about women's reproductive health and rights.
Working through the association and on her own, she also played a role in persuading a growing number of health care institutions in the United States to provide voluntary surgical contraception.
Though initially reluctant to give up her nursing career, Mother Cleusa tended her mother and the Gantois temple during her mother's final years of ailing health, eventually agreeing to succeed her, if that were to be her fate.
degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester and a master's degree in public health in 1942 from the Columbia University School of Public Health.
degree in 1939 from the University of Rochester and a master's degree in public health in 1942 from the Columbia University School of Public Health.
While at Columbia she met Dr. Frank Calderone, then a district health officer on the Lower East Side who would soon become deputy commissioner of health for New York City and her second husband.
While at Columbia she met Dr. Frank Calderone, then a district health officer on the Lower East Side who would soon become deputy commissioner of health for New York City and her second husband.
Attended by sociologists, religious leaders, educators and public health professionals, the conference highlighted the suffering of thousands of people because of ignorance about frigidity, impotence, homosexuality and contraception.
Better known by its acronym Siecus, the council was created to help teachers, therapists and other professionals establish human sexuality as an integral part of health and health education.
Better known by its acronym Siecus, the council was created to help teachers, therapists and other professionals establish human sexuality as an integral part of health and health education.
Her marriage to Dr. Calderone, who later became chief administrative officer of the World Health Organization, produced two more daughters, Dr. Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist, and Dr. Maria Calderone, a veterinarian in Galena, Ohio, born almost 20 years after her oldest daughter, Linda Hodes, a psychotherapist in Albuquerque, N.M.
The list of survivors also misidentified the public health degree held by a daughter, Francesca Calderone-Steichen, a gerontologist.

        Dr. Marcia L. Storch, an innovator in women's health care, died Nov. 9 at her home in Tenants Harbor, Me.
Phyllis Chesler, a co-founder of the Women's Health Network and author of ''Women and Madness,'' called Dr. Storch ''both a pioneer and role model in feminist medicine.

        Dorothy Bird Nyswander, who was widely regarded as a primary promoter of public health education in this country, died on Dec. 18 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 104.
Dr. Nyswander (pronounced nice-wonder) was a founder of the School of Public Health at the University of California at Berkeley after World War II.
Earlier, in the Depression, she pursued her interest in public health at the Works Progress Administration and after the war started, she served with the Federal Works Agency, playing an important role in setting up nursery schools and child care centers in 15 Northeastern states to accommodate young mothers working in defense plants.
In 1939, she served as director of the City Health Center in Astoria, Queens, and promoted the idea that New York City should keep close tabs on the health of its children through records that would follow them when they moved to new schools.
In 1939, she served as director of the City Health Center in Astoria, Queens, and promoted the idea that New York City should keep close tabs on the health of its children through records that would follow them when they moved to new schools.
Her written analysis of the health problems of New York youngsters was called ''Solving School Health Problems,'' and is still studied in public health education courses.
Her written analysis of the health problems of New York youngsters was called ''Solving School Health Problems,'' and is still studied in public health education courses.
Her written analysis of the health problems of New York youngsters was called ''Solving School Health Problems,'' and is still studied in public health education courses.
She came to Berkeley in 1946, where she pioneered the application of behavioral sciences in public health.
She was a professor of public health there until her retirement in 1957.
She enjoyed good health until recently.
Dr. Nyswander was married for more than 20 years to George T. Palmer, former director of research for the American Child Health Association in New York.
In 1947, she joined the Postgraduate Center for Mental Health in Manhattan, where she was director of psychoanalysis.

        Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver.
Mr. Stern said yesterday that Ms. Arron's health in the last two weeks had been ''touch and go'' but that her eight-and-a-half-year battle with cancer had been ''a miracle'' and a victory of ''will and heart over doctors and medicine.
