Her health had deteriorated recently, partly because of complications from injuries in a 1977 car accident, The Associated Press reported.
She collaborated with her husband, the writer Edward Maisel, on ''Tai Chi for Health.
With her husband, she founded a series of primary and secondary schools in Uganda, and maintained four village development projects in Maharashtra state in India that served as training facilities in agricultural techniques, public health services and the development of local handicrafts.
She also was associated with the American Heart Association as an investigator and with the biochemistry section of the National Institutes of Health, which gave her its N.I.H.

        Edele Nielsen Holtz, who helped create the Clark Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan and played an important role in Alvin Ailey's early career, died on May 20 at the Asheville Health Care Facility in Swannanoa, N.C. She was 82 and lived in Swannanoa.
She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
''The collection chronicles the history of this medical center and looks in depth at every aspect of medical and nursing education and the delivery of health care,'' said Dr. Pat Moholt, associate dean for scholarly resources in Columbia University's health sciences division, which includes the medical center.
''The collection chronicles the history of this medical center and looks in depth at every aspect of medical and nursing education and the delivery of health care,'' said Dr. Pat Moholt, associate dean for scholarly resources in Columbia University's health sciences division, which includes the medical center.

        Nora Kahn Piore, a New York economist and health policy expert, died Saturday at New York Hospital.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.
Until the late 1980's, she continued consulting for health-related foundations and agencies and was a director of the Health Services Improvement Fund of Blue Cross-Blue Shield.
She worked for many groups devoted to health care, education and the arts, notably the theater.
She graduated with a bachelor of arts degree from Vassar College in 1943, and became a journalist, then wrote on health and social policy for the federal government.
In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
She held leadership positions in the Orange Association for the Help of Retarded Children, the County Health Organization and local branches of the N.A.A.C.P.
She attended Boston College at night, and then, for 39 years, was a gym and health teacher in the Boston public school system.
)
        Dr. Martin went with Mr. Belfrage to London, where she qualified to work for the National Health System; while there, she treated W.E.B.
A member of the committees on agriculture, children and families, health, insurance, and social services, she was an advocate of allocating more state money to provide mammographies for detection of  breast cancer in women.
Mental Health Clinic of Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital.

        Sybil H. Milton, a leading scholar of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and a senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died on Oct. 16 in the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
Miss London, who lived in the San Fernando Valley, suffered a stroke five years ago and was in poor health, a spokesman for Encino-Tarzana Regional Medical Center told The Associated Press.
One obstacle she saw was inadequate welfare benefits for the poor, which, she said, made it '' very difficult to provide adequate counseling to families and their children'' who lacked ''the basic needs of food, shelter, good health care.
As her health failed, her spirit did not.
