Professor Meiman said last month that he did not think officials might relent and let him follow his wife now that her health had become precarious.

       Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office of Mental Health, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office of Mental Health, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan.
According to Princess Yasmin, Miss Hayworth's health had steadily deteriorated over the years and she lapsed into a semicoma in February.
And ultimately, the once-idolized star's health was ravaged by Alzheimer's disease - senile dementia, a devastating mental illness that affects the brain, brings on loss of memory, and ravages bodily functions - which left her ''utterly helpless,'' according to Princess Yasmin.
She was an expert on health and environmental factors in hospital design and had directed a design team to remodel Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx.

       Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
The lawyer, Dick DeGuerin, said Mrs. Leija's 10-year probation called for her to remain under the care of Harris County Mental Health and Mental Retardation officials.
They were beset by bad weather, ill health and numerous wrong turns.

       Helen S. Burgess, a founder and former vice president of the Westchester County Mental Health Association, died Sunday at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 81 years old.
Helen S. Burgess, a founder and former vice president of the Westchester County Mental Health Association, died Sunday at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 81 years old.
Mrs. Inman died Sept. 30, the day she was to have entered a nursing home after weeks of failing health, friends said.
Miss Johnson, whose cancer was diagnosed about a month ago, is survived by a sister, Maria Johnson, with whom she lived at the Herman M. Wilson Health Care Center of the Asbury Methodist Retirement Center in Gaithersburg.
Dr. Mumford was professor of clinical sociomedical sciences in psychiatry and public health at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University and chief of the division of health utilization and policy research at the New York Psychiatric Institute.
Dr. Mumford was professor of clinical sociomedical sciences in psychiatry and public health at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University and chief of the division of health utilization and policy research at the New York Psychiatric Institute.
She resigned only recently because of ill health.
Mrs. Davis, who went by the name ''Lucky,'' had been in poor health for the last several years.
Mrs. Davis performed volunteer work in various areas of health care for more than 50 years.
She was also a member of the boards of Mercy College and the Westchester Mental Health Association.
It conducts social research, policy analysis and public education in family planning, reproductive health and population matters.
