An early champion of birth control, she helped establish the Greenwich Maternal Health Center in 1935.
During Spain's short-lived second Republic, she became Minister of Health in the coalition Government of Prime Minister Largo Caballero in 1936, at the outbreak of the Civil War, which pitted the Republicans against the Franco's forces.
Mrs. Simon served for more than 30 years on the board of directors of the Riverdale Mental Health Association.
Besides supporting medical research and health programs, it has also given its backing to efforts to beautify New York and to activities in the arts.
She worked to persuade Congress to increase appropriations for the National Institutes of Health and to set up additional research centers concentrating on specific diseases.
"
        Her passionate interest in medicine was fueled partly by illnesses of people around her and by her own health; she repeatedly had ear infections during her Wisconsin childhood.
One notable success was the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
A Health Sciences professorship at the Harvard School of Public Health was named for her in 1989, and a new variety of pink tulip was named for her in 1985.
A Health Sciences professorship at the Harvard School of Public Health was named for her in 1989, and a new variety of pink tulip was named for her in 1985.

        Ida Parkinson Bruce, a ballet dancer who performed in this country in the 1920's, died on Sunday at the Pine Run Health Center in Doylestown, Pa. She was 93 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Palm Beach, Fla., before she moved to Doylestown in 1984.

        Aurelia Schober Plath, an educator and the editor of the correspondence of her daughter, the poet Sylvia Plath, died on Friday at the North Hill Health Center in Needham, Mass.
In 1945 she received a master's degree in nursing supervision from Teachers College of Columbia University and in 1952 she received a master's of public health and two years later a doctor of science, both from Johns Hopkins University.
For years, she put in full workweeks checking the day's municipal offerings and dealing with clients by telephone until, at 92, a fall put her in failing health.

        Dr. Gordon G. Wallace, a sociologist and expert on women's reproductive health, died on Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington.
Since 1980 Dr. Wallace had been the director of the African women's health project at Population Action International and was an authority on female genital mutilation.

        Margery Beukema Leonard, who was a civic leader and charity volunteer in Seattle, died on Monday in Fort Belvoir, Va., at the Fairfax Retirement Community's health care center.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
She was on the board of Consumers Union, which publishes Consumer Reports magazine, from 1969 until she retired for health reasons in 1993, and she worked for Common Cause.
Fighting Against Alzheimer's
        She said of her career as a Cadillac spokeswoman on television, which she amplified to include health and fashion tips, that she never studied a script in advance.
Mrs. Onassis, who had enjoyed robust good health nearly all her life, began being treated for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in early January and had been undergoing chemotherapy and other treatments in recent months while continuing her work as a book editor and her social, family and other personal routines.
She was the hospital's chief executive during the institution's greatest period of growth, which included the addition of an addiction recovery center, a hospice, family health centers and home health care outreach operations.
She was the hospital's chief executive during the institution's greatest period of growth, which included the addition of an addiction recovery center, a hospice, family health centers and home health care outreach operations.
Sister Lawlor was also instrumental in the creation of the Eastern Mercy Health System of 13 hospitals and nursing homes from Maine to Florida.
Before her involvement in health care, Sister Lawlor was a teacher and administrator at Catholic schools in Albany and Troy.
Dr. Berezin served as an assistant commissioner and director of child and adolescent services for the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services from 1971 to 1978.
They were even denied the disability and health benefits available to male pilots.
Mrs. Bernstein was active in community health programs in Brooklyn and in 1982 was given the Mayor's Volunteer Action Award for her work in health education and preventive medicine.
Mrs. Bernstein was active in community health programs in Brooklyn and in 1982 was given the Mayor's Volunteer Action Award for her work in health education and preventive medicine.
Issued by Health Communications Inc. in 1983, the book won a grass-roots following and made best-seller lists around the country in 1986 and stayed on them for about a year.
She taught at Indian schools in South Dakota and Montana until 1970, when she was recruited as an administrator of educational programs for what was then the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
She produced numerous books and studies on health, welfare, employment and, later, higher education.
She had been in declining health for some time, said her daughter, Alexandra Rose.
She was a past president of the Junior League of Long Island; the Family Service Association of Nassau County; the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, and United Way of Long Island.
She was also a consultant to the State Division of Higher Education, the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare and the Governments of Egypt and Greece.
Dr. Langer, who had a Ph.D. in sociology from New York University, was on the boards of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, in Washington, and the National Coalition Against Censorship.
She was the author of "Life in the Ward" (1962) and was involved as a contributor to or editor of "Sociological Studies of Health and Sickness" (1960), "Studies in the Hospital" (1963) and "The Family, Its Structure and Functions" (revised in 1974).
In 1980, Mrs. Carliner was appointed to direct the Woman's Action Program of the Department of Health and Human Services.

        Dr. Margaret Olds Strahl, a retired New York psychiatrist and analyst known for her research on the clinical treatment of schizophrenia, died on Monday at the William Hill Health Care Center in Easton, Md.

        Ann Schreiber, a regional administrator in the Northeast United States and the Caribbean for the Department of Health and Human Services, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.

        Barbara Fassbinder, one of the first health care professionals to be infected with the AIDS virus while on the job, died on Tuesday at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics in Iowa City.
Dr. Michael Osterholm, an AIDS expert and epidemiologist with the Minnesota Department of Health who became a friend of her family, said she "helped bridge the gap between the worlds of the health care provider and the AIDS patient in need of competent and compassionate care like no one else could.
Dr. Michael Osterholm, an AIDS expert and epidemiologist with the Minnesota Department of Health who became a friend of her family, said she "helped bridge the gap between the worlds of the health care provider and the AIDS patient in need of competent and compassionate care like no one else could.
She testified about AIDS before Congress, and in 1992 she was recognized by the Surgeon General and the Department of Health and Human Services for her work.
A native of Marion, Ohio, she also served on the National Health Care Reform Committee set up by Hillary Rodham Clinton and was a member of the Iowa State Commission on AIDS, Dr. Osterholm said.

        Sister Mary Margaret Johanning, a lecturer and consultant on theological affairs and the former international community leader of the School Sisters of Notre Dame, died on Saturday at St. Marys Health Center in Jefferson City, Mo.
She was involved in mental health work in Nebraska and was a former executive director of the state Office of Mental Retardation.
Ms. Carmen was an organizer of the People With AIDS Health Group.

        Dr. Lucy Shields Morgan, a groundbreaking educator in public health and an adviser to the World Health Organization, died on Friday at the Deerfield Episcopal Retirement Center in Asheville, N.C. She was 93.

        Dr. Lucy Shields Morgan, a groundbreaking educator in public health and an adviser to the World Health Organization, died on Friday at the Deerfield Episcopal Retirement Center in Asheville, N.C. She was 93.
She had suffered a long illness, said the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she had been professor emeritus of health education since 1966.
In 1942, Dr. Morgan established the nation's first graduate training program for teachers in public health at Chapel Hill.
She founded the university's health education department and was its first chairman.
While at Chapel Hill, she was also director of health education for 15 years at North Carolina College at Durham, now North Carolina Central University.
In addition to her teaching, Dr. Morgan worked with the World Health Organization and traveled abroad to help develop educational programs.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia University, a master's at Tennessee and a doctorate in public health at Yale University in 1936.
Early in her career, she worked as a health-education specialist and consultant at the University of Tennessee and the Tennessee State Health Department.
In 1938 she became executive director of the Hartford Tuberculosis and Public Health Society.
      

        Katherine Elliott, an advocate for simpler and more practical methods of health care for poor people, died on Saturday at the Hospital of St. John and St. Elizabeth in London, where she lived.
Dr. Elliott was among those professionals in an emerging medical field in the 1950's and 60's who stressed that the technology used to meet the health care needs of any population must be appropriate to their own resources and skills.
Dr. Elliott, whose work took her to Pakistan, Thailand, Indonesia, Bangladesh and Iran, also advocated greater reliance on trained medical workers to see to the health needs of people in remote areas.
She received a medical degree from the University of London's School of Medicine for Women and after World War II she joined the National Health Service.
A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health.
A month ago, the Columbia University School of Social Work established a Helen Rehr and Ruth Fizdale Professorship of Health and Mental Health.
The center also co-sponsors lectures and conferences on topics like women's health, professions and the arts.

        Beatrice Kneeland, who helped to establish the Hartford College for Women in 1939 and had served as a trustee since then, died on Sunday at the Cherry Brook Health Center in Canton, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Bloomfield.

        Jeanne Sumner Newman, a public health specialist who worked to improve medical services in developing countries, died on Oct. 24 at West Virginia University Hospitals in Morgantown, W.Va. She was 65 and lived in Baltimore.
As a consultant to the United States Agency for International Development, she evaluated health care in rural clinics and recommended revisions in supervision and training.
In her work, she expanded the role of nursing technicians, who often were the only health workers in isolated places.
She had been in poor health for five years, her granddaughter, Wendy Levey, said.
