An earlier book was ''Kathy: A Mother's True Story of a Young Girl's Fight to Regain Health'' (Dutton, 1956).
She retired in 1967 after a brief stint with the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
A son, Alfred (Chappy) Morris, said she had been in failing health for several years.
But when her health took a turn for the worse in November, her successor, William Mason, took over as director.
But at the same time, Fox resigned because of poor health, and the Lyric Opera board offered the general directorship to Ms. Krainik.

        Marie Torre, a former television columnist for The New York Herald Tribune who was jailed for refusing to disclose a source in a libel action, died on Friday at Health South Rehabilitation Hospital of Greater Pittsburgh in Monroeville, Pa. She was 72 and lived in Salem, N.J.
        She died of lung cancer, said her son-in-law, Ed Lopez of Manhattan.
When Harriman's health deteriorated, his wife worked assiduously to keep him occupied, making sure he had visitors to keep him company when she was away.
Her health had deteriorated after heart surgery last fall, he said.
Her health had deteriorated after heart surgery last fall, he said.
Mrs. Sulzle was a supporter of civic, health-care and cultural institutions, including the SUNY Health Science Center at Syracuse, which received an endowed visiting professorship, the B. G. Sulzle-Richard Burleson Memorial Lecture Series in surgery.
She was 86, and a family spokesman said she had been in failing health for several years.
Songs, games and health lessons helped ready children for the first grade.
The Hadassah Medical Organization comprises, besides Hadassah-Hebrew University Center, the Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus in Jerusalem and 10 other medical school, institutes and health care centers.
As national board chairman, she stayed in Israel to mesh Hadassah's medical and child-care centers of Palestine with the public health and sanitation programs being charted by the new state.

        Anna Scarpova Youskevitch, a prominent ballet teacher and a former member of the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's, died on Thursday at the Broadview Health Facility in West Hartford, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan.

        Thelma Biracree Schnepel, who danced with Martha Graham in 1926 in her first concert, died on May 12 at the Harborside Health Care center in Fort Wayne, Ind.
Dr. Hibberd, the Suffolk County Health Commissioner, is making an abrupt and highly publicized career change in a life that has never worked out quite the way she planned.
She says she was ousted because she would not play patronage games; her detractors disputed her health policies and said she was a poor manager.
''
        Mr. Gaffney said his decision stemmed from a growing rift with Dr. Hibberd over health policies.
''My duty is to protect the public health, not to engage in politics,'' she said.
''Mary is credible, and the rest of them aren't,'' said Maxine Postal, a Democrat and chairwoman of the County Legislature's Health Committee.
Growing up in Upper Darby, Pa., Dr. Hibberd never envisioned that she would some day be at the helm of a $275 million-a-year health agency.
''
        She earned a master's degree in public health and took a residency in community and preventive health at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
''
        She earned a master's degree in public health and took a residency in community and preventive health at the State University of New York at Stony Brook.
A stint at the Suffolk Health Department prompted a job offer, and she became director of reproductive care for six years.
County Executive Patrick Halpin named her acting health commissioner in 1991, and Mr. Gaffney made the appointment permanent.
About the last thing to come down from Dr. Hibberd's office wall was a display of 13 color snapshots of beaming mothers and their babies from Project Hope, in which health workers monitor infants through their critical first year.

        Dr. Jenny R. Bramley, the first woman to receive a doctorate in physics in the United States, died on May 26 at the Manor Care Health Facility in Lancaster, Pa., where she was a resident.
Declining health had kept Dr. Trell away in recent years, but she would be pleased to know that the three surviving members are currently finishing up Polybius, a Greek historian from the second century B.C., and plan to take up Hesiod or Homer next.

        Rachel Gillett Fruchter, the Brooklyn biochemist who died in a bicycle accident on Saturday, was known for her research in gynecological cancer, as well as her commitment to women's health issues.
She was an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn.
She maintained a tumor registry at the SUNY Health Science Center.
She also was a founder of Health Right, an independent women's organization in New York.
Compiled and updated by the Boston Women's Health Collective, the 25th anniversary edition was published last year.
She graduated in biochemistry from Oxford University and earned a Ph.D. in biochemistry from Rockefeller University in 1966 and a master's degree in public health from Columbia University in 1973.
Her research established that immigrant women without access to adequate health care suffer higher rates of cervical cancer.
One of her principal concerns was the health care provided for women from the Caribbean islands and other immigrant populations throughout central Brooklyn.
Jean-Marie Robine, a public health researcher who is one of the authors of a book about Mrs. Calment, said she had been in good health, though almost blind and deaf, as recently as a month ago.
Jean-Marie Robine, a public health researcher who is one of the authors of a book about Mrs. Calment, said she had been in good health, though almost blind and deaf, as recently as a month ago.
The indictment was later dropped because of her deteriorating health.
After Mr. Lopata died of liver disease in 1991, Mrs. Lopata and her children gave $1.5 million to the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington, Conn.
Confronting one of society's darkest secrets, infanticide, Dr. Munk created a program for the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation with a twofold objective: to help mentally ill mothers who were threatened with losing custody of their children, while protecting the infants and toddlers from neglect and abuse.
''The child is the one who needs to be protected,'' Dr. Munk would often remind her staff of clinical social workers in the Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, an affiliate of the New York University School of Medicine and member of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
Initially financed as a pilot project in 1986 by the New York State Office of Mental Health, Dr. Munk's program drew referrals from private and public agencies in all five boroughs of New York City.
In 1969, Ms. Keeton helped Mr. Guccione establish Penthouse in the United States and co-founded the science magazine Omni in 1979 and the health magazine Longevity in 1989, both of which are now published only on the Internet.
Mother Teresa was hospitalized several times last year with heart, lung, kidney and other problems, and also suffered ill health in earlier years.
As her health deteriorated over the past year, Mother Teresa stepped aside and her order, the Missionaries of Charity, chose a new leader, Sister Nirmala, in March.
She set up mobile health clinics, centers for the malnourished, rehabilitation hospices for lepers, homes for alcoholics and drug addicts, and shelters for the homeless.
By 1988, her order was operating 600 mobile health clinics where almost four million people received treatment.
Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Dr. Oettinger served four administrations.
After her work in Scranton, she became director of community services in the Pennsylvania welfare department, working to improve mental health clinics and the training of welfare workers and ministers.
Ms. Dickerson suffered from declining health after being stricken by a heart attack, and then the stroke.
With the assistance of Mrs. Church's husband, Dr. Charles F. Church, a Harvard-trained public health specialist, Miss Bowes in 1936 began publishing nutrition tables based on commonly used portions of a variety of prepared foods.

        Annie Dodge Wauneka, who broke custom and became the Navajo Nation's first female legislator and a health crusader, died on Monday at Flagstaff Medical Center in Arizona.
For many years starting in the 1950's, Mrs. Wauneka traveled to villages and clinics, covering the 24,000-square-mile territory of the Navajo to preach public health standards.
Mrs. Wauneka was in the council for nearly 30 years, serving as the chairwoman of the health committee.
Her concern with public health could be traced to her grade-school days, when the influenza pandemic at the end of World War I killed many Navajos.

        Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69.
She was a senior staff writer of MD Medical Newsmagazine for more than 20 years and the ghostwriter of some 20 books on medical, health and child care as well as educational subjects.
Although Mrs. Hooker bought a house in Newport, R.I., in 1992, her health began deteriorating and she never lived in it.
She worked at the Huntington Memorial Laboratory of Massachusetts General Hospital and at Harvard University, the United States Public Health Service and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before Dr. Holley recruited her to join Cornell.
As Francois Duvalier rose through the Haitian bureaucracy, becoming Minister of Public Health and Labor in 1949 and winning election to the presidency in 1957, Simone was right beside him.
Mrs. Rockefeller was president of the National Mental Health Association and the Arkansas Association for Mental Health.
Mrs. Rockefeller was president of the National Mental Health Association and the Arkansas Association for Mental Health.
She served on the national board of the Urban League and the White House Commission on Mental Health under Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
That move, again with her encouragement, led to the establishment of a separate National Eye Institute in the National Institutes of Health.
