Among the issues she studied were foster care, the effect of welfare on family stability, obstacles to drug treatment for addicts, impoverished Jews, day care, obstacles to employment for welfare recipients, mental health care, welfare spending, family budgets and prenatal care.
The institute studied welfare, housing, health care, child neglect and abuse and services for the aged.

        Ann Osterhout Edison, a pharmacist and daughter-in-law of Thomas Alva Edison, died on Monday at the Caleb Hitchcock Health Center at Duncaster in Bloomfield, Conn. She was 91 and lived in West Orange, N.J.
Born in Oakland, Calif., Mrs. Edison was a 1935 pharmacy graduate of Rutgers University and earned a master's degree in public health at Columbia University in the 1950's.
She was a past member of the Central Jersey Blood Bank, the Monmouth County Mental Health Board, the Monmouth County Juvenile Conference Committee and many other organizations.
She was a former president of the Freehold Board of Education and a trustee of the New Jersey Mental Health Planning Commission and Freehold Hospital.
Miss Gish, though not always in excellent health, was accustomed to hard work and took a no-nonsense view of her physical attributes.
The interwoven themes of her career were social change, group action, women's rights, health and writing.
She also wrote many newspaper and magazine articles, mostly on health and women.
She was the editor of the National Women's Health Network Series for Pantheon Books and president of Healthright, a nonprofit organization.
Ms. Eagan was active in local and national efforts for abortion rights and other health and women's issues.
She became a board member of the Metropolitan Center for Mental Health, a psychiatric clinic on the Upper West Side that helps people unable to afford private treatment.
Later, in Delaware, she was the founding chairman of that state's Mental Health Association and an officer and fund-raiser in the National Association for Mental Health, of which she was a past president.
Later, in Delaware, she was the founding chairman of that state's Mental Health Association and an officer and fund-raiser in the National Association for Mental Health, of which she was a past president.
After 13 years with Levine Huntley, she left the organization, because of her health, in 1991, shortly before the agency closed.
She had been in poor health for some time.
Dr. Berle, who ran a neighbhorhood health clinic in East Harlem from 1953 until 1962, took a pioneering approach to family medicine by treating the entire family for the effects of heroin abuse by a member.
Dr. Berle worked in the United States Public Health Service in Washington from 1943 until 1944.
She said former President Nixon and the Nixons' two daughters, Tricia Nixon Cox and Julie Nixon Eisenhower, were with Mrs. Nixon when she died at 5:45 A.M. She also said that Mr. Nixon, who visited Russia in February and China in April, was "in excellent health as evidenced by his recent travel schedule.

        Eileen Nic, a lobbyist on environmental and health issues and longtime consultant to Consumers Union, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She began her career on the staff of the Philadelphia Department of Health.
Daughter of Dentist
        She was also a consultant to the National Institute of Health and the American Fund for Dental Health.
Daughter of Dentist
        She was also a consultant to the National Institute of Health and the American Fund for Dental Health.
She earned her certificate in dental hygiene at Columbia, a bachelor's degree in health education at New York University and a master's in administration at Columbia.
She was a consultant to the International Council on Radiation Units and to the New York City Health Department for more than 20 years.
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
She was director of health services for the Children's Aid Society and director of the AIDS Training Institute in the New York City Department of Health.
She was director of health services for the Children's Aid Society and director of the AIDS Training Institute in the New York City Department of Health.
She received a Ph.D. in 1988 from the human-sexuality program in the Department of Health Education at New York University, which entailed studies in Sweden, Japan and Kenya.
John R. Taylor Jr., one of Mrs. Draper's grandnephews, said she had been in declining health for the last four years.
Among them was the first Helen Award, created by a State Commissioner of Mental Health, Alan Miller, and named after her.
She practiced at the mental hygiene clinic of the Student Health Service starting in 1935 and was appointed an instructor in the department of psychology three years later.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.
She trained in biology and public health at M.I.T.
She later worked for the Oklahoma State Tuberculosis and Public Health Association.
Correction:  August 13, 1993, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about a retired public health worker who lived in Cambridge, Mass., gave her name incorrectly.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.
She had been in declining health for almost a year, said Maureen Ridder, a great-granddaughter.
In the 1960's she directed a study of schools and mental health with a $1 million grant from the National Institutes of Mental Health.
In the 1960's she directed a study of schools and mental health with a $1 million grant from the National Institutes of Mental Health.
She later filled leading editorial positions at Look, Family Circle, Family Health and American Home magazines and became managing editor of Harper's Bazaar in 1977.
After a stint as a public-health nurse in East Harlem for New York City's Health Department, she worked as head nurse at Francis Delafield Hospital in Washington Heights and as a school nurse with the Board of Education in Newark.
At the same time she was pursuing a bachelor's degree in nursing and then a master's degree in public health at New York University.
She spent the summer of 1965 at the University of Oslo in Norway studying the Scandinavian health system.
After heading Sydenham Hospital and Martland Hospital, she left the Northeast to serve from 1976 to 1980 as director of hospital and health services at Meharry Medical College in Nashville, a historically black school that has produced many of the nation's black doctors.
From 1980 until 1984, she was director of the West Philadelphia Community Mental Health Consortium in Philadelphia.
She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970.
In 1939, Dr. Hardy became college doctor and head of health education at Radcliffe College in Cambridge, where she developed an interest in women's growth and physical fitness.
But after she retired because of her health, she discovered that her $1 million policy had been reduced to $250,000.
Her pressure led to a pilot needle-exchange program by the New York City Department of Health.
At the time, the City Health Commissioner, Dr. Stephen C. Joseph, who supported a pilot needle-exchange program, said he could not condone an illegal action.
"
        Today, the tide against needle exchanges has turned, and Adapt is one of five groups in the city that have received contracts from the State Department of Health to exchange needles, in part because intravenous drug users and their companions now represent the fasting-growing groups at risk of AIDS.
For years Mrs. Serrano and volunteers from such groups as Act Up and the Gay Men's Health Crisis combed alleys and abandoned buildings in the worst areas of the city seeking to talk addicts into exchanging their needles for clean ones.
She was vice president of the Hispanic AIDS Forum, secretary of the Latino Commission on AIDS and a member of the Health and Human Services H.I.V.
In addition, she was the president of the Doris Duke Foundation, based in Somerville, whose areas of interest have ranged from social and health services to cultural programs.
Denied Re-Election
        She was working an assistant professor of health at Lehman College of the City University of New York when she was appointed as the second woman ever to serve on the Board of Regents, which supervises all education in the state.
She developed a program for the retraining of therapy aides, which was the subject of a film distributed by the New York State Department of Mental Health.
She collaborated with Dr. Benjamin Spock to develop treatment centers for children in Westchester, which did not exist in the 1940's, and to organize the Mental Health Association of Westchester.
In 1971 the Citizens Union presented Dr. and Mrs. Logan with awards for outstanding public service for their prominence in campaigning for civil rights and better public health.
Over the years, she worked at the Maimonides Community Mental Health Center, the Mayor's Office for the Aging, community groups assisting the elderly and the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies.

        June Mellies Reno, a nationally known magazine writer about family and health issues, died on Thursday at the Linda Manor Nursing Home in Northampton, Mass.
A native of Rye, N.Y., Mrs. Callahan was active in education, health care and the arts, in the United States and abroad.
She recently founded the Malta Volunteer Services Program at the Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan.
He said she had been in poor health.
For almost 30 years Dr. Ingalls was associated with a variety of medical and scientific groups, including the Columbia School of Public Health, where she was an adjunct associate professor from 1958 to 1964, and the Albany Medical School, where she taught bacteriology from 1936 to 1943.
She also worked as a liaison officer between the World Health Organization and the United Nations, conducting surveys of health services in developing countries.
She also worked as a liaison officer between the World Health Organization and the United Nations, conducting surveys of health services in developing countries.
