
        Dr. Leona Baumgartner Langmuir, a public health official who was New York City's Commissioner of Health from 1954 to 1962 and later was an assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Tuesday in Chilmark, Mass.

        Dr. Leona Baumgartner Langmuir, a public health official who was New York City's Commissioner of Health from 1954 to 1962 and later was an assistant administrator of the Agency for International Development, died on Tuesday in Chilmark, Mass.
Dr. Baumgartner, as she was known during her career, joined the Department of Health in 1937 and rose to become its first female commissioner.
Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.
Family Planning Advocate
        In her career at the Health Department, Dr. Baumgartner was a strong proponent of improving public-health education and of modernizing government programs, particularly in family planning and in maternal and children's health.
In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe.
In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe.
She was credited with persuading President Lyndon B. Johnson to reverse a policy that had prevented the agency from including birth control in its support of health programs in underdeveloped countries.
After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position.
After internship and residency at New York Hospital she spent a year with the United States Public Health Service before joining the New York City Health Department, where she started as an instructor and served as director of the Bureau of Child Hygiene on her way to the department's top position.
Safeguarding Public Health
        She left for 18 months in the late 1940's to become associate chief of the United States Children's Bureau, returning to the Health Department in 1950 as assistant commissioner.
Safeguarding Public Health
        She left for 18 months in the late 1940's to become associate chief of the United States Children's Bureau, returning to the Health Department in 1950 as assistant commissioner.
A woman of seemingly boundless energy, Dr. Baumgartner raced about the city on inspection tours and spoke out on sanitary failures of restaurant kitchens, day nurseries and anywhere else she felt the public health could be safeguarded.
After the war she undertook a thorough revision of the city's sanitary code and expanded a public health laboratory that had already won acclaim in the field.
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
Dr. Baumgartner was an early advocate of the Salk vaccine to immunize the public against polio, and one of her last achievements as health commissioner was to win a political battle to fluoridate the city's water supply to prevent tooth decay.
Among the honors Dr. Baumgartner received were the Sedgwick Medal and the Lasker Award of the American Public Health Association and the Public Welfare Award of the National Academy of Sciences.
Miss Stuart had been in poor health for years, said her son, Peter Warwick.

        Aryness Joy Wickens, an economist and statistician who played the crucial role in developing the Government's cost-of-living index, now the Consumer Price Index, died last Saturday at the Lakeland Health Care Center in Jackson, Miss.
Mrs. Louchheim, who had been in failing health for the last few years, died of pneumonia, her family said.
Mrs. Folinsbee was involved in civic activities in her community and was a founder of the New Hope Public Health Association.
Ill health forced her to stop working last year.

        Florence Ford Schumann, a founder of a major philanthropic foundation in New Jersey and a generous contributor to health, education and community development causes, died on Friday at her winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mrs. Schumann, who also lived in Montclair, N.J., and Madison, Conn., was 99 years old.

        Sister Martha Christine Eber, a Lutheran deaconess, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.
Miss King had been in ill health since injuring her hip six weeks ago, a colleague, Mino Nicholas, said.

        Katherine Z. W. Whipple, former director of health education for the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, died yesterday at a continuing care home in Medford, N.J. She was 97 years old.

        Katherine Z. W. Whipple, former director of health education for the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, died yesterday at a continuing care home in Medford, N.J. She was 97 years old.
After working for the American Red Cross, Mrs. Whipple joined the association's staff in 1922 and helped to develop its vast health education program.

        Katherine Warren, a research scientist and former grants administrator for the National Institutes of Health, died March 23 at Greater Laurel Beltsville Hospital in Laurel, Md.
A graduate of Columbia University with a doctorate in zoology and genetics, Dr. Warren retired in 1971 after working at the National Institutes of Health for 10 years.
Brand, the medical director of the Sidney Hillman Health Center, who died in 1968.
" Edited Design Series
        Mr. McFadden said Mrs. Taylor retired in 1987 for reasons of health and to work on the final volumes in a series of books she edited.
"
        Edited Design Series
        Mr. McFadden said Mrs. Taylor retired in 1987 for reasons of health and to work on the final volumes in a series of books she edited.
Besides helping her husband, Olaus, build the Beneficial Loan Society, now known as the Beneficial Corporation, into one of the nation's largest consumer-loan concerns, Mrs. Caspersen was the director of the Beneficial Foundation and chairwoman of the O. W. Caspersen Foundation, a major contributor to health and educational programs.
She sued Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for more than $1 million, claiming that the studio had failed to safeguard her health in Africa while the movie was being made.
Ms. Jiang was in Moscow for health treatment, for example, when Mao made a state visit to the Soviet Union.
From 1977 to 1988, she was director of the Family Center of the Passaic County Mental Health Center.
Teresa Hicks, an aide who helped care for Dr. Seibert at the home, said she had been in declining health in the last two years and suffered from complications from childhood polio.
The test was adopted as the standard by the United States in 1941 and by the World Health Organization in 1952, and is still in use today.
A Public Health Consultant
        During her career Dr. Seibert taught and did research at the University of Chicago and the Sprague Institute in Chicago, and at the Henry Phipps Institute of the University of Pennsylvania.
She was also a consultant to the United States Public Health Service.

        Barbara Ewing Ylvisaker, a registered nurse who in the 1960's helped to create one of the nation's first federally financed neighborhood health centers, in Trenton, died Sunday at New England Baptist Hospital in Cambridge, Mass.
Mrs. Ylvisaker, who lived in Cambridge, became a consultant on nutrition after working for several years at the Trenton Neighborhood Health Center, which was financed by the Office of Economic Opportunity.

        Shirley Steinman Katzenbach, a philanthropist and volunteer in several health and cultural institutions in New York City, died on Monday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Katzenbach had been a trustee at St. Luke's and the New York Zoological Society, a board member of the Manhattan Mental Health Association and a member of the City Hospital Inspection Committee under Mayor John V. Lindsay.
Her health improved, and members of the dance world occasionally visited her.

        Catherine M. Prelinger, a Yale lecturer, author and historian, died on Saturday at the Yale Health Plan Care Center in New Haven.
Even as her health began to fail in recent years, she kept playing.

        Hallie Burnett Zeisel, a novelist, college teacher and co-editor of Story magazine from 1942 to 1971, died on Wednesday at the Steward Health Center in Raleigh, N.C. She was 82 years old.
In 1973 she established Women's Health Services in Pittsburgh and served as its executive director for 11 years.

        Jean Wade Rindlaub, one of the first American women to become a major advertising executive, died on Thursday at the Courtland Garden Health Center in Stamford, Conn. She was 87 years old and lived in Stamford.
Her scientific photographs won her new acclaim both before and after the textbook "Health" was published in 1960.
