A graduate of Hunter College in 1941, she went on to Yale to receive master's degrees in nursing in 1946 and in mental health in 1954.
There were rumors that her health was fragile, but she remained robust for many years.
"
        Her son Tom said that over the last four to six weeks her health went into a  significant decline.

        Esther Rome, co-author of the best seller "Our Bodies, Ourselves" and women's health advocate for more than 25 years, died at her home in Somerville, Mass., on Saturday.
The committee's work led to a partial ban on implants and Ms. Rome led a support group for women with implants who had health problems.
Until days before her death, she was working on her latest book, "Risking Health for Love," with her co-author, Jane Hyman, that examines the health risks of choices that women make, covering breast implants, sexually transmitted diseases and domestic violence.
Until days before her death, she was working on her latest book, "Risking Health for Love," with her co-author, Jane Hyman, that examines the health risks of choices that women make, covering breast implants, sexually transmitted diseases and domestic violence.
Ms. Rome was among 12 young professional women who were not medical experts but who were concerned about health issues who gathered in a lounge at M.I.T.
in 1969 to exchange the information about doctors and other health topics.
The group later formed the Boston Women's Health Book Collective.
They formed support groups and grappled with women's health issues made more immediate by the availability of birth-control pills and the legalization of abortion.
In 1961 she started a Civil Service career as an administrator of Federal-state programs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, later the Department of Health and Human Services.
In 1961 she started a Civil Service career as an administrator of Federal-state programs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, later the Department of Health and Human Services.
Dr. Wortis was born in New York City, the daughter of Dr. Haven Emerson, a former City Commissioner of Health.
Early in her career, she worked as a doctor at the Bronxville School in Bronxville, N.Y. She was later visiting physician at Goldwater Memorial Hospital, on Roosevelt Island, and, in the 1970's, a doctor in the Suffolk County Outreach Unit's mobile health clinic.

        Mary Polak Oenslager, a philanthropist who supported the city's cultural institutions and helped causes from women's health to the visually impaired, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She endowed programs at several institutions that provide health care for women, like the Maternity Center Association on East 92d Street and Long Island College Hospital.

        Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston.
Her post did not have full Cabinet status when she was sworn in, but it was soon elevated to that rank and its name was changed to the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
She had been in poor health since suffering a stroke about 18 months ago, her son, Bruce, said.
The judges demanded that schools in hard-pressed cities like Newark, Camden and Paterson be provided preschool programs, health services and smaller class sizes.
Her stage career ended when her father's health faltered and the arrival of talking pictures diminished the appeal of traveling stage troupes.
Before her appointment, Dame Nita, who was a nurse and public health expert, served as the Barbados representative at the United Nations and was previously president of the World Y.W.C.A.

        Mildred Barry Hughes, who in 1965 was the first woman elected a state senator in New Jersey, died on Jan. 11 at the Cranford (N.J.) Health and Extended Care Center.
If God were to take away all His blessings, health, physical fitness, wealth, intelligence and leave me with but one gift, I would ask for faith -- for with faith in Him and His Goodness, mercy and love for me, and belief in everlasting life, I believe I could suffer the loss of my other gifts and still be happy.

        Nora Dunfee, an actress who taught for many years in the graduate acting program of the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University, died on Dec. 23 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan.
In conjunction with her work for the league, she served on the board of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, a coalition of social-welfare agencies and service organizations serving the poor.
She also served on the executive board of the Nassau / Suffolk Coalition for a National Health Care Plan.
In conjunction with her work for the league, she served on the board of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, a coalition of social-welfare agencies and service organizations serving the poor.
" Yet for the last two decades of her life, she was in chronic ill health.

        Marjorie Kahn Unterberg, a philanthropist and volunteer in the health care field, died yesterday at Lennox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
No one who knew Miss Kuhn was surprised that in last year's health care debate her organization championed what was widely seen as the most radical of the various proposals: health insurance paid totally by the government, a position that had been on the Gray Panthers' official agenda since 1977.
No one who knew Miss Kuhn was surprised that in last year's health care debate her organization championed what was widely seen as the most radical of the various proposals: health insurance paid totally by the government, a position that had been on the Gray Panthers' official agenda since 1977.
Mrs. Foster, who retired in 1957, was also a founder and treasurer of the Brooklyn Association for Mental Health.
In the early 1950's she was moderator of a popular television program called "How Did They get That Way?," which dealt with psychiatry and mental health.
She also served on the boards of several civic and philanthropic organizations, including the World Federation for Mental Health and the Menninger Foundation.

        Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta.
"She really brought us into health care," the current president, Eugene Lehrmann, said yesterday, recalling that she had often built support for her views even as she formed them, in informal chats with fellow board members.
Not one to shrink from confrontation, she once told a meeting of the American Medical Association that high costs had created a form of rationing of health care.
In 1986, Ms. Lopez was appointed mental health administrator for the New York City region of the State Department of Mental Hygiene, coordinating hospital and community services for the mentally ill.
In 1986, Ms. Lopez was appointed mental health administrator for the New York City region of the State Department of Mental Hygiene, coordinating hospital and community services for the mentally ill.
Ms. Hermanson was also an active member of the national board of the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship, which provides support to cancer survivors, their friends and families and health care providers.
