In the early 50's, she began a research study in which she examined the health histories of 837 children born to 427 of her former patients and discovered that 10 percent of the children had congenital heart abnormalities.
On Oct. 22, 1971, inspectors from the Suffolk County Health Department raided the house and discovered that it violated every known building regulation.
Health Department officials said they would evict the women unless the house was cleaned.
Princess Margaret's traumatic private life had long taken a toll on her health.
Bullied by his parents and overshadowed by his handsome and charming older brother, David, the Prince of Wales, Bertie suffered from delicate health, crippling shyness, an array of nervous tics, a terrible stutter, an unpredictable temper, a tendency to melancholy and what today would be described as a serious case of low self-esteem.
''
        Another duty was bucking up the flagging spirits of her husband, who hated the spotlight but who was required to make many public appearances, particularly as his father's health waned and his older brother proved more interested in a racy social life than in boring regal duties.
''
        The king's always fragile health was not improved by the stresses of the war or by his lifelong smoking habit, and after victory was declared in 1945, he began the long, slow decline that would result in his death, from lung cancer, in 1952.
Her health problems over the years always became a cause for concern in a country that simply did not want her to die.
The premise was simple: more than education, health care or family planning, women in poor countries need money in their pockets.
She had long been in declining health, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter, Sydney Gurewitz Clemens.
Mr. Negrete's health was failing, and Ms. Félix, called again to film in Europe, left him behind.
In an interview with New Orleans magazine in 1997, she insisted that the beef business was virtually impervious to health trends.
Most deputize a relative or an acquaintance to act if the patient is incapacitated, and health care proxies, their formal name, are recognized as binding in many states.
She had a master's degree in business administration and had become a highly regarded management consultant with McKinsey & Company, which she had to leave in 1985 after her health deteriorated.
Ms. de Saint Phalle returned to the United States in 1994 to settle in La Jolla, in San Diego, partly because of her frail health.
The election brought Clement Attlee to power and led to the creation of the National Health Service and the nationalization of large swaths of British industry.
Before the bill's passage, Ms. Gelman and other advocates said that expanding the nurse practitioners' role would improve health care in underserved rural and urban areas.
Mrs. Cook was 90 and had been in failing health for a decade, said a daughter, Martha Robes.
''
        Dr. Stewart was also at the center of a 14-year battle with the Department of Energy, which cut off her access to its records on the health of nuclear-weapons workers after she and her colleagues found that low doses of radiation had increased the number of cancers among workers at the Hanford nuclear weapons plant in Washington State.
Though Mrs. Robinson herded cattle at 65, climbed trees at 75 and drove until she was 85, her health had gradually deteriorated in recent years, her son Keith said.
In Houston, Mrs. McCollum's charitable activities included fund-raising for Orbis International, an organization that promotes eye health around the world.
A founding member of the Actors Studio whose screen career was temporarily derailed by the Hollywood blacklists of the 1950's, Ms. Hunter was recently hospitalized for a fall and had been in declining health.
On her doctor's recommendation that she swim for her health, she joined the celebrated Women's Swimming Association team in New York.
Many people thought women should not dive at all because it would injure their health.
Relatives, fearing the girls might contract tuberculosis, later moved them to a ''preventatorium,'' in New Jersey, where children were boarded to improve their health.
Before her death Dr. Kilbourn had herself been in charge of protecting the health of these animals.
From 1996 to 1998 Dr. Kilbourn worked in Malaysia with a Wildlife Health Fellowship from the Wildlife Conservation Society, helping protect free ranging orangutans and elephants.
Her athletic success was remarkable considering her health.
DeBus coached her from 1983 to 1988, but he said her health prevented her from completing half her workouts.

        Josephine S. Billings, a longtime volunteer advocate of improving health care in New York City, died on Nov. 14 in Bloomfield, Conn., where she had been living recently.
For six decades she was a prominent volunteer in New York City in the realm of not-for-profit health care and hospitals, notably as a member of the board of the United Hospital Fund of New York.
She had been in declining health since she suffered a broken hip in a fall last month, said her daughter, Martha Doerr Toppin.

        Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington.
Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services through which the federal government finances medical research.
Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services through which the federal government finances medical research.
''It is hard to realize today that government-subsidized research in the 1940's, when Florence Mahoney started her efforts, actually was controversial,'' said Judith Robinson, author of ''Noble Conspirator: Florence S. Mahoney and the Rise of the National Institutes of Health'' (The Francis Press, 2001).
With charm and persistence, Mrs. Mahoney and Mrs. Lasker pressed powerful politicians to support research on health issues.
''
        Eventually, the women focused on specific areas, with Mrs. Mahoney taking a special interest in aging and mental health.
