After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Mott established her own charitable organization, the Ruth Mott Fund, which for the last 20 years contributed more than $1 million a year to hundreds of local and national organizations concerned with the arts, the environment, health and international affairs.
In 1940, she joined the Children's Bureau, an agency that was then part of the Department of Labor and is now part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
She was the bureau's deputy chief from 1958 to 1964 and became assistant to the director of the Public Health Service in a reorganization in 1969.
Speaking to 500 child health and welfare experts in 1948 in Chicago, she said that a survey had found ''that 1,000 children in Illinois have on an average day twice as much medical care as 1,000 children in Alabama.
''
        The honors Dr. Bain received included an award in 1960 from the New York Infirmary for work she had done in pediatrics and public health.
Dr. Kestenberg, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical School, taught generations of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts on development, mental health and dance-movement therapy.
The cause was heart failure, and she had been in declining health, a daughter, Leslie H. Lowe, said.

        Dr. Hildegard Elizabeth Peplau, a nursing educator who played a major role in developing the theory and practice of psychiatric and mental health nursing, died on March 17 at her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. She was 89.
A longtime resident of Eugene, Ore., Mrs. Waddy moved to Las Vegas in 1998 to live with a friend, Barbara Connolly, when her health declined.
Miss Sapir, who had been in poor health for some time, died of cardiac arrest, her niece Jeannette Bernstein said.
Her reputation for frankness reached into the pages of Glamour, where -- along with the standard fare of women's magazines, like frothy fashion spreads and light service articles -- she published articles about sexuality, politics and women's health issues that other women's magazines had generally avoided.
She received a master's degree in economics at the University of Chicago in 1953 and a Ph.D. in history at Howard University in 1971, with a dissertation on national health insurance.
Ms. Wight's health slowly declined after her husband died in 1995 at age 78, said Thomas McCormack, the former editor in chief of St. Martin's Press, which published the first five Herriot books.
In 1981 she relocated to Santa Fe  and continued work as a visual artist until her health began to decline in recent years.

        Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa.
        A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulkeways Continuing Care Community in Gwynedd after a stroke in 1980.
She then worked as a public health nurse in the Visiting Nurse Service with babies and new mothers in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn into the 1950's.
'' She said the sale was prompted by the poor health of some of Vanguard's investors.
One show, called ''Meat,'' featured meatloaf draped with strips of bacon, lamb stew, fillet of beef and, perhaps as a nod to health fanatics, a pan-fried chicken dish.
Ms. Dickson Wright agreed, although she credited the success of the show to a backlash against what she called the health police.
She went on to be a special assistant for public relations to  Oveta Culp Hobby, the Eisenhower Administration's Secretary of  Health, Education and Welfare.
She died from complications from breast cancer, said Meg D'Incecco, the public relations director of Self, a health and fitness magazine for women.
Though she continued to write until her death, Ms. Bradley's poor health in the early 1990's limited her activities.
In the 1990's she had heart surgery and retired from singing because of poor health.

        Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.
Her main interests were in social and public health and psychiatry, and she continued to write about them to the end.
She was also  the city's assistant commissioner of health for chronic and long-term care in the 1970's.
As an editor she was associated with The New York State Journal of Medicine and The Journal of Community Health.
Mrs. Hofmann was the widow of Philip B. Hofmann, a retired chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the health care products company.
She collaborated with her husband, Edward Maisel, on ''Tai Chi for Health,'' published in 1972.
The United States Public Health Service would start a program to attract young women at schools throughout the country into nursing.
''
        In 1949, Ms. Leone became the first woman to direct a division of the United States Public Health Service, the Division of Nurse Education.
''
        Ms. Iotti, who campaigned to legalize divorce and abortion in Italy, resigned from Parliament last month, citing ill health.
Ms. Bird emphasized consumer protection and worker health and safety, moving to ban the use of a short-handled hoe that forced farm laborers to spend hours stooped in the fields.
