She was a director of the Mount Zion Health System and former president of the Mount Zion Hospital and Medical Center.
Declining health prompted her to relinquish the presidency in 1991, but she remained chairwoman until her death.
Mrs. Weil worked in the General Counsel's office of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, and with what is now the Washington law firm of Fried, Frank, Harris, Shriver & Jacobson before joining the United Nations in 1952, rising to the post of director of the world body's General Legal Division in 1980.

        Bernice Lotwin Bernstein, a former New York regional director of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, died on Wednesday at the Group Health Hospital in Seattle.

        Bernice Lotwin Bernstein, a former New York regional director of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, died on Wednesday at the Group Health Hospital in Seattle.
She also supervised the operations of the Health Services and Mental Health  Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Office of Education, the Social and Rehabilitation Service, the Office of Child Development and the Food  and Drug Administration.
She also supervised the operations of the Health Services and Mental Health  Administration, the Social Security Administration, the Office of Education, the Social and Rehabilitation Service, the Office of Child Development and the Food  and Drug Administration.
This awareness led to her founding the Women's Talent Corps, which prepared numerous women for careers in such fields as social work, mental health services, occupational therapy and paralegal work.
Her own experiences in taking care of patients for the Army in Washington, and later as a public health nurse there and in New York in the 1920's, informed and inspired her work.
Still, Miss Henderson, who lobbied hard for a system of universal health care, was well aware that the largely female nursing profession had not reached  the level of acceptance that doctors enjoy.

        Phyllis Smith Vineyard, a corporate communications and customer service consultant who was also involved in health, family planning and social welfare,  died of cancer on March 16 at her home in Blue Point, L.I.
She was also a past chairwoman of the New York Statewide Health Coordination  Council and a member of the New York Planning Commission.
In recent years her health failed and she lived in a nursing home.
For many years, she struggled with alcoholism -- a subject she frequently addressed in her writings -- and her health was further shattered by emphysema.
"
        In recent years, as her health began to decline, Miss Travers was confined increasingly to her home, a white Georgian town house with a bright pink front door in London's Chelsea section.
and society's rejection," she said, noting  that she had spent years working as a staff lawyer for Gay Men's Health Crisis not because of her own infection but because of the many friends in the theater  who had died of AIDS.
In 1990, the Loebs pledged $70.5 million to finance new faculty positions and scholarships to Harvard College, as well as programs and positions in the schools of design and public health.
She had been in declining health after suffering a stroke, The Times of London reported.
At her death, she had been working on a 40-year study of the women she had written about in "Youth Into Maturity: A Study of Men and Women in the First 10 Years After College" (Mental Health Materials Center, 1970).
Her husband, who died in 1966, formed the van Ameringen Foundation in 1950 to support programs in mental health.

        Mollie H. Beattie, who resigned as director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service on June 6 because of failing health, died on Thursday at Grace  Cottage Hospital in Townsend, Vt. She was 49 and lived in Grafton and Alexandria, Va.

        Dr. Constance B. Wofsy, a medical professor and clinician who created a program to educate health workers about advances in AIDS treatments, died on Monday at her home in San Francisco.
She also created and directed a program that has attracted hundreds of health professionals to the hospital from around the world to learn about the latest techniques in AIDS care.
Dr. Wofsy was the founding chairwoman of the Women's Health Committee of the  AIDS Clinical Trials Group of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
Dr. Wofsy was the founding chairwoman of the Women's Health Committee of the  AIDS Clinical Trials Group of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
Despite ill health, she continued to perform at least once month into the early 1990's.
A former neighborhood worker in the mayoral campaign of John V. Lindsay, she was later executive secretary of what is now the city's Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services.
Her writings on esthetics, dance and theater arts and exercise and health have been published in China, in Europe and in American journals that include Dance Observer, the Theater Drama Review and the Journal of Aesthetics and Art Criticism.

        Sarah Powell Huntington, who spent her life in social service, dealing with mental health issues and, particularly, the fate of women released from prison,  died on June 23 at her home in St. James, L.I.
Mrs. Huntington, a native of Manhattan, was a past chairman of the Suffolk County Mental Health Board.
She also worked with related local and state agencies, including the State Association of Community Mental Health Boards, of which she was a former president.
She was a director of the Youth Foundation, the N.Y. Genealogical and Biographical Society and the Child Health Foundation.
'' A director of the Screen Actors Guild from 1990 until her death, Ms. Besch served on many of the organization's committees, among them the national communications committee, the women's committee, the agents relations committee and the women's health task force.
General Johnson, a brigadier general during World War II, was chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the international health care company, from 1932 to 1963.
He was also the founder of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation, a health care philanthropy in Princeton.
Dr. Squire retired in 1993 as Distinguished Service Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
''
        Besides leading the Networking Project, which is paid for by the city's Youth Services Department and private donations, Ms. Perez designed and oversaw a study of the accessibility of health services for disabled women.
Called ''Breaking Down Barriers: Eliminating Obstacles to Reproductive Health Care for Women With Disabilities'' and financed by the New York State Department of Health, the study is continuing.
Called ''Breaking Down Barriers: Eliminating Obstacles to Reproductive Health Care for Women With Disabilities'' and financed by the New York State Department of Health, the study is continuing.
The findings and recommendations are to be presented by its board -- health care professionals, disability advocates and corporate and public officials -- at a conference in the spring.
The Ullmanns established the college's Research Center for Health Sciences and a chair in molecular genetics.
Miss Kitchell remained in vigorous health until her 100th birthday.
Dr. Hooker, who spent 30 years teaching at the University of California at Los Angeles, began studying homosexual men in the late 1940's, a period in which they were considered maladjusted -- at best -- and generally ignored or anathematized by the medical and mental health professions.
''
        At the peak of the McCarthy period, in 1953, she applied for and received a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health.
''
        In 1967, Dr. Hooker was appointed to head a study group on homosexuality for the National Institute of Mental Health.
Perk as director of community development and, later, director of public health and welfare.
Over the years, she worked for the Community Service Society, the State Department of Social Services, the city's Human Resources Administration and the Ryan Community Health Center in Manhattan.
In the 1960's, while working at the National Institute of Mental Health, she developed a training program for middle-aged women seeking to pursue careers in psychotherapy.
