She had been in declining health for more than a decade, said her husband, Maurice Carroll.
Mrs. King had been in failing health after a stroke and a heart attack last August.
She added that Ms. Butler had suffered from severe hypertension and other health problems in recent years.
In 1999, Ms. Caldwell accepted a post as distinguished professor of music at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, but left within several years because of poor health.
Most recently, Ms. Cosman's interest in health care policy led her to study the effects of illegal immigration on the United States health-care system.
In 1977, Mrs. Connelly was appointed chairwoman of the Assembly Committee on Mental Health, Mental Retardation, Developmental Disabilities, Alcoholism and Substance Abuse.
In the early 1980's, Dr. Roberts and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, began to experiment with the protein, called T.G.F.-beta, short for transforming growth factor beta.
When Mr. Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1999 -- he towered over her as they hugged -- he said, ''A tenacious and effective union activist, she has been a force for social justice and improved labor conditions by working for increases in the minimum wage, health care reform, family and medical leave, and pay equity for women.
After she nursed him through years of ill health, her husband died at 91.
''
        Mrs. Foster taught at the Columbia School of Social Work and was director of mental health for the Children's Aid Society.
Ms. Juda died after nearly a year of declining health, said Michael Michaeledes, an artist and friend of the family, who has exhibited with Ms. Juda's gallery since 1963.
In 1995, Dr. Miller and others set up the Jean Baker Miller Training Institute at Wellesley College to teach the theory to mental health professionals.
The Postal Service hired an artist, Howard Koslow, to copy it -- telling him to leave out the dangling cigarette, in the interest of public health.
In 1985, she was appointed to a federal panel of physicians and administrators assembled to advise the secretary of health and human services about the safety of antirejection drugs in transplant surgery.
In later years, Dr. Hodgson remained a public champion of abortion rights, speaking widely on the subject and founding several reproductive health care clinics.
In the 1970s, '80s and '90s, Dr. Smith, a hematologist, led several studies that were financed by the National Institutes of Health and contributed to changes in federal recommendations in screening for and aggressively treating sickle cell anemia and related diseases.
Dr. Clarice D. Reid, a pediatrician and chief of the sickle cell disease branch of the National Institutes of Health from 1975 to 1994, praised Dr. Smith's expertise in evaluating clinical trials and said that her ''keen diagnostic acumen'' had led to ''a no-nonsense approach to tackling sickle cell anemia and other challenges, including advocating for patients and informing them about the disease.
She later received a master's degree in public health from Columbia.
The couple lived in Englewood, N.J., where Dr. Smith was president of the Board of Health in the 1980s.
