
        Lucy Freeman, a reporter and an author whose early coverage of psychiatry and mental health for The New York Times led to wider reporting on the subject, died on Wednesday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx.
She also studied mental health and welfare programs in the city hospital system.
The hospital admitted in 1987 that it had failed to provide adequate care for her, and the State Department of Health fined it $13,000.
In 1989, the jury found the Texas Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation guilty of negligence and awarded Ms.
She is survived by a son, Dr. David Lathrop, a physiologist at the National Institutes of Health, of Gaithersburg, Md.
Six weeks before her death, she appeared in Washington to promote a book of which she was co-editor, ''Toward an Evangelical Public Policy: Political Strategies for the Health of the Nation.
That film, along with her later ones about AIDS, was distributed to schools and youth groups by the World Health Organization.
She developed a special exercise program to help survivors recover and maintain their health after surgery.
She had formal training in ballet and modern dance and earned many certifications in health and fitness instruction.
In 1987, Dr. Mondy's research created a public stir when she and a graduate student, Barry Gosselin, released a study suggesting that a naturally occurring toxic compound found in potatoes could be hazardous to human health.
In the 1990's, she reported other potential health hazards from potato skins.
She was also executive secretary of the city Department of Labor and later held executive posts with the city's Community Mental Health Board.
''
        She loved to read fiction and sometimes went dancing in salsa and jazz clubs with her second husband, Arthur H. Barnes, senior vice president for external affairs of HIP Health Plan of New York.
She received a master's degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Education in 1987 and taught high school science and health classes in the Bronx for five years.
That was in 1981, and little has been written about her since, although a German newspaper took note of her release, for health reasons, in 1996.
Mrs. Littauer's scholarly career did not begin until her mid-50's, when her husband's health would no longer permit him to maintain his standards of horsemanship.
As a young woman, she was a volunteer courier in the Frontier Nursing Service, which provided health care in rural Kentucky.
