At the time of her death, Ms. Kushner was lobbying to encourage the Federal Government to require that health insurance companies cover mammograms.
Miss Stanwyck's press agent, Larry Kleno, said she died shortly before 5 P.M. at St. John's Hospital and Health Center, where she had been admitted about a week ago.

       Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous star of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley,'' died of congestive heart failure late Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif.
        Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous star of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley,'' died of congestive heart failure late Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 82 years old.

       Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous star of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley,'' died of congestive heart failure late Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif.
        Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous star of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley,'' died of congestive heart failure late Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 82 years old.
Earlier she had been executive director of the National Council for a Permanent Fair Employment Practices Commission and assistant to Oscar R. Ewing, Administrator of the Federal Security Agency, now part of the Department of Health and Human Services.
She was 79 years old and had been in poor health for several years.
She was 79 years old and had been in poor health for several years.
Survivors, besides her brother, who is a public health officer for the Peace Corps in the Dominican Republic, include nieces and a nephew.

       Grace O'Brien O'Neill, a child psychologist who developed innovative programs for the New York City Department of Health in the 1950's, died of cardiac arrest on Feb. 15 at Reston Hospital in Virginia.
Grace O'Brien O'Neill, a child psychologist who developed innovative programs for the New York City Department of Health in the 1950's, died of cardiac arrest on Feb. 15 at Reston Hospital in Virginia.
Mrs. O'Neill, working for the Health Department, was a pioneer in ''well baby'' treatment, in which pediatricians monitor the development of healthy children.
She later became director of the World Federation of Mental Health.
Miss Hughes, who was born in Dallas, retired from Bergdorf's in 1978, then went back to work at Martha's in the early 80's until her health failed.
Dr. Willner had been an ophthalmologist with the New York City Health Department from 1955 to the late 1970's, when she retired.

       Alice Lake, a writer whose specialty was health and education issues, died Wednesday at New York Hospital from complications following surgery for lung cancer.
She was 73 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        Alice Lake, a writer whose specialty was health and education issues, died Wednesday at New York Hospital from complications following surgery for lung cancer.

       Jean Childress Lee, the director of biostatistics for the New York City Department of Health, died of cancer on Monday at Beth Israel Hospice in Manhattan.
Jean Childress Lee, the director of biostatistics for the New York City Department of Health, died of cancer on Monday at Beth Israel Hospice in Manhattan.
Mrs. Lee, a graduate of the Columbia University School of Public Health, was the daughter of Alice Childress, the actress and author.
Mrs. Lee spent her entire professional career with the city's Health Department and was responsible for compiling and publishing the city's official vital statistics.

       Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in Hendersonville.
Her brothers were Gen. Robert Wood Johnson, who built the family-owned business into a large, diversified health care company, and J. Seward Johnson, whose will was the subject of prolonged litigation in Manhattan.
Mrs. Dunham was a founding member of the Westchester Adoption Service and a former vice president of the Westchester Children's Association and the Westchester Mental Health Association.
Mrs. Dunham was a founding member of the Westchester Adoption Service and a former vice president of the Westchester Children's Association and the Westchester Mental Health Association.
She was also a past president of the Citizens Advisory Group of the New York State Mental Health Association and past president of the Broome County Mental Health Association.
She was also a past president of the Citizens Advisory Group of the New York State Mental Health Association and past president of the Broome County Mental Health Association.
After retiring in the late 1960's she became active in a retired teachers' group, working on a supplementary self-insured health program for retirees.
In the late 1970's Miss Harwood's health declined.
In the early 30's, the New York City Health Department selected her to establish one of the first prenatal clinics in a settlement house.

       Lois Moran Young, a star of Hollywood's silent films and Broadway musicals who began charming audiences as a dancer at the Paris Opera at the age of 13, died Friday at the Kachina Point Health Center, a nursing home in Sedona, Ariz., near Flagstaff.
Lois Moran Young, a star of Hollywood's silent films and Broadway musicals who began charming audiences as a dancer at the Paris Opera at the age of 13, died Friday at the Kachina Point Health Center, a nursing home in Sedona, Ariz., near Flagstaff.
She was president of the New Jersey Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance in 1948 and president of the New Jersey Association of Colleges and Universities in 1950.
Dr. Bennett served on several peer review committees for the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation in Washington.
Dr. Shorb, a native of Wahpeton, N.D., held a bachelor's degree from the College of Idaho and a doctorate in immunology from Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health, where she was a researcher from 1929 to 1932.
In addition to gifts to Montefiore, she established the Lucy G. Moses Cardiothoracic Center, an advanced research and training institution, at the Mount Sinai Medical Center, She also contributed to health programs in Burma, Israel and South Korea.
Mrs. Hirsch and her husband established the Henry and Myrtle Hirsch Foundation, which provides grants in education and health care, mostly for young people and immigrants, primarily in the United States and Israel.
A leading proponent of good nutrition, Mrs. Roth wrote ''The Mood Control Diet,'' ''Reversing Health Risks,'' ''The Executive Success Diet'' and ''Aerobic Nutrition,'' among other books.
She also wrote a nationally syndicated newspaper column, ''Special Diets/Nutrition Hotline''; appeared on radio and television and contributed articles on food and health to national magazines.
Mrs. Ascoli's principal interest was promoting health services for children.
She was active with the Citizens Committee for almost four decades and served as its president from 1960 to 1962 and chairwoman from 1962 to 1964, when she stepped down and became head of the committee's health section, a post she held until 1981.
During a career as a volunteer that began in the early years of the century, she was active in many organizations, including the Welfare and Health Council, now the Community Council of Greater New York; the National Urban League and the American Red
        Hortense Hirsch, a volunteer for social-welfare, educational and civic organizations and a trustee of Mount Sinai Medical Center for more than half a century, died on Tuesday at her suite in the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan.
During a career as a volunteer that began in the early years of the century, she was active in many organizations, including the Welfare and Health Council, now the Community Council of Greater New York; the National Urban League and the American Red Cross.
She taught physics at Illinois and at North Carolina State University and did research at Stanford University and with the United States Public Health Service.

        Mathilde Ferro, a writer of television plays and serials including "The Guiding Light," "Leave It to Beaver" and "Dr. Kildare," died on Monday at the Thousand Oaks (Calif.) Health Center.
When she applied to play in the national amateur championship at Forest Hills in 1936, the tournament committee refused to accept her entry, saying she was unfit to play and might permanently jeopardize her health.

        Marjorie Montrose Christiansen, a college administrator, died on Friday at Springmoor Health Center in Raleigh, N.C. She was 65 years old and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C.
        She died of cancer of the lung and brain, her husband, Elliot, said.
She died of lung cancer, said a daughter, Katherine Knapp of Stamford, Conn.
        Mrs. Falise retired as an assistant vice president at the Bank of New York in 1984 because of ill health.
She was active throughout her life promoting education and child welfare through many organizations, including the New York Section of the Council of Jewish Women, the National Maternal Child Health Council and the National Scholarship Service Fund for Negro Students.
