Dr. Horstmann died as the World Health Organization was on the verge of eradicating polio and four days after the death of Dr. Joseph L. Melnick of Houston, another polio pioneer with whom she worked and wrote scholarly papers.
Dr. Horstmann made significant scientific, educational and public health contributions, and her major scientific achievement was showing that the polio virus reached the brain by way of the blood, a finding that upset dogma and helped make polio vaccines possible.
But in 1959, Western scientists were skeptical about the favorable findings reported by Russian, Polish and Czech health workers.
The World Health Organization then asked Dr. Horstmann to study the incidence of polio in the vaccinated areas.
She was also one of the leaders of the effort to establish the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke at the National Institutes of Health, in 1950.
Though her brother's health progressively weakened until his death in 1973, the organization Ms. Lawry founded gathered momentum.
Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that her mother had suffered adverse effects from her advancing age and from strokes and was ''often confused in her mind, and in fragile health.

        Denny Griswold, founder and former editor of the newsletter Public Relations News, died on Feb. 7 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 92 and in recent years had lived at the Wilton Meadows Health Care Center in Wilton, Conn.
''
        On behalf of the federal Public Health Service, she investigated the effect of conditions in a wartime boom town on the mental health of workers.
''
        On behalf of the federal Public Health Service, she investigated the effect of conditions in a wartime boom town on the mental health of workers.
For this, she documented overcrowded living quarters and a dearth of education, health and recreation centers.
In 1954 she assessed the role of women in America and wrote that women seeking to combine marriage with a career need strong mental health and an ability to solve problems.
Until her health prevented it, she worked every day in her office at the museum on a manuscript about ''Los Caprichos,'' Goya's politically charged suite of etchings.
A practitioner of pediatrics for nearly 50 years, Dr. Hofmann was a leader in a movement to redefine how health professionals treated minors.
The next year she founded the Section on Adolescent Health as a unit within the American Academy of Pediatrics; the section now gives an award in her name.
In the early 1960's, the Kushis moved from New York to Boston, where they formed discussion groups on health and world peace.
Her cookbooks included ''Aveline Kushi's Complete Guide to Macrobiotic Cooking for Health, Harmony and Peace'' (Warner Books, 1985) and ''The Changing Seasons Cookbook'' (Avery Publications, 1987).
She was plagued by health problems and had been confined for some time to her home, where she had lived since high school and where she wrote most of her stories, novels, essays, memoirs and book reviews.
She was an emeritus professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago's Center on Aging, Health and Society.
She became fully trained in the British method of midwifery, eventually earning a master's degree at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health in Calcutta.
Herpes takes many forms, infecting large numbers of people but often causing no discernible health problems.
The book grew from her work as a reporter in Europe writing on health and medical matters.
They were directed by Dr. Calloway with Dr. Sheldon Margen, now an emeritus professor of public health.
She formally retired in 1990 but continued her work until her health failed well into the 1990's.
She was a speechwriter for the Treasury Department in the Kennedy administration and assistant secretary for public affairs in the Health, Education and Welfare Department under Jimmy Carter.
She sold it in 1996 because of poor health.
Mrs. Ash had been in frail health since she suffered a stroke in 1996.
Mrs. Ash had been in frail health since she suffered a stroke in 1996.
In the mid-1980's, the visits ceased as she fell into ill health.
It is part of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System.
