The film was not shown in theaters, but was a hit on the bachelor party and smoker circuit.

        Shelley Winters, who once described her life as a ''rocky road out of the Brooklyn ghetto to one New York apartment, two Oscars, three California houses, four hit plays, five Impressionist paintings, six mink coats and 99 films,'' died yesterday.
She formally joined the Actors Studio (she had sat in on classes a few years earlier) and starred on Broadway with Ben Gazzara and Anthony Franciosa in the Studio-created hit play ''A Hatful of Rain,'' about the taboo subject of drug abuse.
He then hit on the idea of burying her alive.
Her book ''Boss Lady'' (1979) was an introduction to the trials and tribulations women faced in business; it made a hit on college campuses.
''
        The title song was a hit for Eddy Arnold in 1956, Ray Charles in 1962 and Mickey Gilley in 1981, and was re-recorded by Mr. Charles with Diana Krall for his best-selling 2004 album of duets, ''Genius Loves Company.
From 1942 to 1944, she wrote 39 songs for Wills's western movies; was a movie actress herself; and, in 1944, wrote her first Top-10 country hit, ''You're From Texas,'' which Wills performed.
She also recorded a hit herself in 1944, ''When My Blue Moon Turns to Gold Again,'' a song she did not write.
Ms. Walker did not consider herself a feminist pioneer; she often said that the music industry would welcome a potential hit written by anyone, even an orangutan.
At its premiere in 1963, Allen Hughes, writing in The New York Times, called it ''an instant hit.
Mr. Sinatra threw his support behind Kennedy, and his hit song ''High Hopes,'' with lyrics by Sammy Cahn, became the Kennedy campaign song.
She hit the ball solidly, she hit the ball high.
She hit the ball solidly, she hit the ball high.

        Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles.
''
        Correction:  October 6, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the missionary who falls in love with a gambler in the Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' misstated the name of the organization she represented.
She achieved a breakthrough of sorts in 1933 when she succeeded Margaret Sullavan in ''Dinner at Eight,'' the hit comedy by George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber, and then toured in the show, leading to a contract offer from Universal and her Hollywood debut in ''One More River'' (1934), based on John Galsworthy's last novel.
She stood on crutches in 1949 to record her first session for Atlantic, and the bluesy ballad ''So Long'' became a hit.
She was a radio host on the public radio shows ''Harlem Hit Parade'' and ''BluesStage.
Her first big break came with the Gene Krupa Orchestra, and it was with that band that she had her first hit, a duet with the trumpeter Roy Eldridge called ''Let Me Off Uptown.
They were still wedded to Broadway, however, and their stage work during the next few years included the Jule Styne musical ''Two on the Aisle'' (1951), a revue with Bert Lahr and Dolores Gray; ''Wonderful Town'' (1953), an adaptation of the 1939 comedy hit ''My Sister Eileen,'' with music by Mr. Bernstein and starring Rosalind Russell and Edie Adams as two sisters from Ohio trying to make it in the Big Town; and, most notably, ''Bells Are Ringing.
The show was a hit and brought them Tony Awards for their book and score.
Her father was an oil wildcatter who moved from town to town searching for a gusher that he never hit.
Her ''Loch Lomond,'' a swing version of a Scottish air that was later a hit for Maxine Sullivan, received one of the evening's largest ovations.
