She contended that Mr. Agca had "come to Rome as a professional hit man, hired by a Bulgarian spy ring.
But from the moment she hit town in the 1930's and took New York by storm, the woman from Georgia who called everybody Honeychile was never called anything but that herself.
" Unhappy with her roles, she tried her luck on Broadway, and succeeded with the George S. Kaufman-Edna Ferber play "Stage Door" (1936) and the hit Ethel Merman musical "Panama Hattie" (1940).
A 1900 birth date would also have meant that Miss Dickson was only 16 on Feb. 20, 1917, when she opened as a featured dancer in "Oh Boy!," a Jerome Kern hit that ran for 463 performances at the Princess Theater in New York.

        Maxene Andrews, "the one on the left" in the trio of sisters whose string of hit songs in the 1940's made them the dominant radio voice of the home front and an inspiration to American servicemen, died on Saturday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass.

        Florence Greenberg, a one-time New Jersey housewife who parlayed an unlikely  hit record by a teen-age group known as the Shirelles into an improbable career  as the proprietor of a leading independent label of the 1960's, died on Thursday at the Hackensack University Medical Center.
Their names were Shirley Alston, Addie Harris, Doris Kenner and Beverly Lee,  but they called themselves the Shirelles, and as soon as Mrs. Greenberg persuaded them to sing for her, she knew that their song, "I Met Him on a Sunday," had the makings of a hit.
Partly because of the long line of hit Warwick releases that followed, Gulf & Western offered $6 million for Scepter in 1965, but Mrs. Greenberg declined to sell.
Mrs. Taylor was fatally injured when she was hit by a truck last Friday while crossing a street in Crown Heights.
Ms. Frantz died of injuries received on Jan. 27 when she was hit by a truck near her home in Princeton.
"
        Selena's hit "Fotos y Recuerdos" ("Photographs and Memories") is No.
When Miss Rogers was 18, they went to New York, where she sang with two bands and in a musical and starred in the Gershwins' 1930 Broadway hit "Girl Crazy," introducing the songs "But Not for Me" and "Embraceable You.
