
        Doris Troy, the big-voiced soul singer of the 1963 hit ''Just One Look,'' whose life story was the inspiration for the long-running musical ''Mama, I Want to Sing,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Las Vegas.
She also wrote her own songs, and one of her first, ''Just One Look,'' released by Atlantic and written with Gregory Carroll, became a Top 10 hit in 1963.
The first singers to record at the studio were Rufus Thomas and Carla Thomas, father and daughter, and their rhythm-and-blues song ''Cause I Love You'' became the label's first regional hit, followed by Carla Thomas's ''Gee Whiz.
''
        The label's third hit, ''Last Night,'' was an instrumental by the Mar-Keys, a group including Ms. Axton's son, Charles (nicknamed Packy) Axton, on saxophone.
That label's big hit, in 1976, was the Rick Dees novelty song ''Disco Duck.
Her first hit with Buddy was ''Please, Mr. Johnson'' in 1940, and she continued to record and perform with him into the 1960's.
She also sang ''When My Man Comes Home,'' ''Hittin' on Me,'' ''Did You See Jackie Robinson Hit That Ball?
Ms. Schreuder came to believe she might be disinherited, and her simmering resentment blossomed into a murder plot that at one point involved hiring what turned out to be a bogus hit man for $5,000.
''Hugh Grant might hit it off with Edna Cabbagehead,'' she said, making up a name.
The song, which had first been an R & B hit for Roy Hamilton in 1953, was later sung by Elvis Presley and Juice Newton.
The sisters appeared together when Doris made her Broadway debut in the 1940 hit musical ''Panama Hattie.
Mrs. Hansen followed suit and soon hit upon the unlikely idea that constructing puzzles might be easier than doing them because you knew all the answers.
It included ''Gloria,'' which became a hit, lasting on the pop charts for 36 weeks.

        Izora Rhodes Armstead, one half of the disco-pop duo the Weather Girls, who sang the flamboyant and enduring club hit ''It's Raining Men,'' died on Sept. 16 at a hospital in San Leandro, Calif.
46 on the pop charts when it was released in 1983, but hit No.
The two sang on four Sylvester albums, including the hit songs ''Dance (Disco Heat)'' and ''(You Make Me Feel) Mighty Real.
' Batters would see a big space in right field, hit toward it.
