''
        Ms. Strasberg was born in Manhattan, and her birth announcement heralded her as ''a four-star hit.
''
        The play was an enormous hit, running for two years and winning the Pulitzer Prize for drama and the New York Drama Critics award and Tony Award for best play.
Ms. Verrill sang ''That Old Feeling,'' which became a hit.
Soon after George's death in 1937, the couple moved to Westport, Conn.,  where Mrs. Godowsky, who had begun sculpturing in Rochester, hit her own artistic stride.
''
        But if her co-workers barreled into posterity as hit playwrights, movie directors and 2,000-year-old men, Ms. Kallen was, in Mr. Reiner's words, ''a real writer'' -- the profession's most dignified accolade -- who possessed a finely honed ear for dialogue.
Her career was briefly rejuvenated in 1987 when the English duo the Pet Shop Boys (Neil Tennant and Chris Lowe), who were longtime fans, produced her Top Five hit, ''What Have I Done to Deserve This?
The country-soul ballad ''Son of a Preacher Man,'' her Top 10 hit from 1969, won her new respect and her second Grammy nomination after being prominently featured in the 1994 movie ''Pulp Fiction.
From 1964 and 1967, when she left Philips, 11 of her singles hit the American pop charts.
But ''Dusty in Memphis'' was not a big hit, reaching only No.
'
        ''The young woman had hit it right on the nose: six months.
''A man in front of my father fell asleep so he hit the chap with the toastmaster's gavel.
'' He called on her again for his next show, the hit ''Fiddler on the Roof.
In the 50's and early 60's, the group joined the Grand Ole Opry and performed on bills with Elvis Presley and Johnny Cash, recording the hit ''Busted'' with Mr. Cash.
In the 60's, she recorded a hit duet with Waylon Jennings, ''I Got on You,'' and recorded singles and albums for the labels RCA, United Artists and, in the 70's, Capitol.
The show, featuring the two unashamedly corpulent and opinionated eccentrics, is a hit in Britain and the United States and has been syndicated in other countries following its debut on the British Broadcasting Corporation in 1996.

        Ella Mae Morse, the sultry, swinging pop-jazz singer whose 1942 hit, ''Cow-Cow Boogie,'' became the first million seller for the fledgling Capitol Records and helped establish the label, died on Saturday at the Western Arizona Regional Medical Center in Bullhead City.
Among her other hits were ''Shoo-Shoo Baby,'' ''Mister Five by Five,'' ''No Love, No  Nothin,' '' ''Milkman, Keep Those Bottles Quiet,'' ''The Patty-Cake Man'' and her million-selling 1952 comeback hit, ''The Blacksmith Blues.
She provided the voices of most of the female characters on ''South Park,'' the irreverent hit television series on Comedy Central.
She was not successful in those cases, but her supporters insist that she hit the mark on others.
