Five-year-old Norma was brutally abused by her stepmother, who would hit her over the head with an iron skillet, beat her with a razor strap and drag her around by her hair.
'' She made at least 30 films in the United States and Europe, but had a singular triumph in New York in 1954 as Don Ameche's co-star in the Cole Porter hit ''Silk Stockings.
Her first recordings were with Davis, and she played with him on a number of classics, including his ''Cookbook'' albums and the 1958 hit song ''In the Kitchen.
She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor of art history at Brandeis.
''
        Ms. Coates joined the Gospel Harmonettes, a well-known Birmingham group, and in 1951 the group cut its first hit, ''I'm Sealed,'' and quickly rose to fame on the gospel circuit.
Although the show was far from a hit, the song she introduced in it, ''Here's That Rainy Day,'' by Jimmy Van Heusen, with lyrics by Johnny Burke, later became a standard.
Her early career reached a height in 1954 when she appeared opposite Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye singing Irving Berlin songs in the hit musical ''White Christmas.
In 1950 she attracted favorable attention with an appearance on the ''Songs For Sale'' television show and with her recording of ''Beautiful Brown Eyes,'' her first real hit for Columbia.
Dancer was the first in the league to hit two homers in one game, stole 108 bases in 1948 and was described as a fly-catching genius by the sportswriters of the day.
Davis said she first noticed her in elementary school when an errant soccer ball went whizzing by her head and hit another girl in the stomach.
She became one of America's best-known popular singers in 1951 with a novelty called ''Come-on-a-My House,'' which became a huge hit record, and followed that with other novelties like ''Botcha-Me,'' ''Mambo Italiano'' and ''This Old House,'' songs that her audiences always wanted to hear long after she was pursuing a less-flamboyant repertory.
Her early career reached a height in 1954 when she appeared opposite Bing Crosby and Danny Kaye singing Irving Berlin songs in the hit musical ''White Christmas.
In 1950 she attracted favorable attention with an appearance on the ''Songs for Sale'' television show and with her recording of ''Beautiful Brown Eyes,'' her first real hit for Columbia.
In an exhibition softball game at Madison Square Garden, she hit a home run that went 260 feet.
She decided she could produce independent films as well as distribute them, and hit upon the idea of making films about nudist camps.
''The Age of Love,'' about the frustrated loves of a famous singer and a millionaire, directed by Julio Saraceni in 1954, was perhaps her biggest movie hit abroad.
She did, and the result, ''Swinging the Boogie,'' became her first hit, in 1945.
A year later, ''Trumpets of the Lord,'' Ms. Carroll's musical adaptation of seven sermons, became a runaway Off Broadway hit.
