She was a guest of honor last August on a pilgrimage cruise to the spot 400 miles off the Newfoundland coast where the liner, on its maiden voyage, hit an iceberg on the night of  April 14-15, 1912.
During a visit to New York she was introduced to Leland Hayward, the Broadway producer of such hit musicals as ''South Pacific'' and ''The Sound of Music.
But through the 1950's, she was a consistent hit maker.
Ms. Bernstein was hit by a car as she crossed a street on the way to a speaking engagement, the police said.
As a recording artist, Ms. Nyro never had a gold album or a hit single, but many of her songs were hits for others.
Ms. Botwin's book ''The Love Crisis: Hit and Run Lovers, Jugglers, Sexual Stingies, Kinkies and Other Typical Men Today'' has been described as a field guide for dealing with the contemporary male and was the precursor to such 1990's best sellers as ''Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus.
Miss Weston may not have been the most accomplished athlete of her generation, but there surely were not many others who hit eight home runs in a single college softball game.
But, she liked to recall, the nuns, in a gesture of sublime sportsmanship and Christian compassion for the team's hapless junior college opponents, told her that if she hit a ninth one out of the park, they would excommunicate her on the spot.
And oh, yes, the woman who once hit eight home runs in a single game became a fixture in Bay Area softball leagues.
The song ''Rosie the Riveter'' by Kay Kyser, inspired by a Long Island woman named Rosalind P. Walter, was already a hit.
She danced in ''Paramount on Parade'' (1930), featuring Maurice Chevalier, and appeared in ''Connecticut Yankee'' (1931) with Will Rogers, ''Disorderly Conduct'' (1932) with Spencer Tracy and the 1935 MGM hit ''Reckless'' with Jean Harlow.
''
        It was in 1977 that the hit series ''Three's Company'' had its debut on television.
When Willie Wilson, a Scottish professional who settled at the Pinehurst Country Club in North Carolina, was asked about her driving, he said: ''Why, mon, she could hit a ball 240 yards on the fly while standing barefoot on a cake of ice.
Once, as she was about to hit a 9-foot putt on the 17th hole at the Sheringham course in Norfolk, a train rumbled by within 100 yards.
Ms. Hubert and Mr. Allison, who married in 1984, needed to raise $10,000 for a new camera, and they hit on the idea of inviting their friends to buy weekend meals in their three-story house in Cobble Hill.
''
        Her early advocacy of ''Flashdance'' (1983), an unlikely blue-collar musical that turned into a huge hit grossing $95 million in the United States, solidified her position at Paramount.
''Flashdance'' was followed by ''Footloose,'' another hit.
