''She hit the ball harder than most, except maybe Steffi Graf,'' Budge said.
She would control the play because she hit the ball so hard.
Last spring she rejoined ''Cats'' in time to be playing Grizabella when the show surpassed ''A Chorus Line'' as Broadway's longest-running hit.
More recently Mrs. Shuman had acquired other souvenirs, photographs showing her and James Cameron, the director of the current hit movie ''Titanic,'' at the Chicago premiere last December.
She may never have made it to the Met or even had a popular hit record in the United States, but she was not a complete unknown in the world of music.
Buddy Clark had a hit with the song that year, and it was later recorded by Perry Como and Jan and Dean.

        Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died yesterday in her sleep at her home in Nashville.
Nine'' and the uptempo ''Your Good Girl's Gonna Go Bad,'' her first Top 10 hit, in 1967.
In 1992, she had an unexpected international hit when she sang ''Justified and Ancient'' with the English electronic dance group, the KLF; the song reached No.

        Tammy Wynette, whose 1968 hit ''Stand By Your Man'' established her as a queen of country music, died on Monday in her sleep at her home in Nashville.
Working with the producer Billy Sherrill, with whom she wrote her biggest hit, she also became the standard-bearer of an elaborately orchestrated Nashville sound, with pedal steel guitars underlined by strings and backup choruses.
1 country hit singles in her career.
Nine'' and the uptempo ''Your Good Girl's Gonna Go Bad,'' her first Top 10 hit, in 1967.
In 1992, she had an unexpected international hit when she sang ''Justified and Ancient'' with the English electronic dance group, the KLF.
After making her Broadway debut in 1926 in a small role in ''The Squall,'' she soon became known for playing eccentric characters and was in one hit after another.
''
        Woody Allen gave Ms. O'Sullivan her most luminous screen role, when she was 75, in his 1986 hit ''Hannah and Her Sisters,'' in which her children included her daughter Mia.
Her first book appeared in 1965 and became an immediate hit, as did the other two.
Helen Carter was a songwriter as well, writing ''Poor Old Heartsick Me,'' a hit for the singer Margie Bowes in 1959.
''
        ''Newhart'' is perhaps best remembered for its wildly original concluding episode, which ended with Dick Loudon getting hit in the head with a golf ball, losing consciousness and waking up in bed.
''Only a split second later, the next bomb hit the cornice of the hotel and went off, and almost immediately after that the other one hit the rear of the building.
''Only a split second later, the next bomb hit the cornice of the hotel and went off, and almost immediately after that the other one hit the rear of the building.
Then came the inevitable night that the club's Spanish dancer became ill. Miss Parla volunteered to take her place, and, well, she was such a hit and gained such confidence that when the celebrated Cuban band leader Don Azpiazu issued a call for a rumba dancer for a gig at the Paramount a few weeks later, Miss Parla tried out, along with 150 other hopefuls, and got the job.
It was the Paramount engagement that helped make the Azpiazu recording of ''El Manisero'' (''The Peanut Vendor'') a national hit and the foundation of the rumba craze of the 1930's.
'' She starred as Aunt Meg in the hit series ''Honey West'' with Anne Francis and received an Emmy nomination for a guest appearance on ''My Three Sons.
