While singing in the chorus of nuns in "The Sound of Music" in 1960, Ms. Brooks decided to leave that Broadway hit and switch to opera.
Two of her most famous songs were written for the 1930 hit musical "Fine and Dandy," which had lyrics by Paul James (the pen name of her husband, James Paul Warburg, a banker) and was the first Broadway show for which all the music was composed by a woman.
" was introduced in 1929 in the hit revue "The Little Show," where it was sung by Libby Holman to Clifton Webb.
I picked up a child, said goodbye to him and walked away -- only I didn't know how to hold the child so that it wouldn't be hit if the Ukrainian shot at me.
" Despite the high admission price, the picture was a great hit.
"I knew Charlie wouldn't marry me unless he had a hit.
I ran to the fire escape and shouted, 'It's a hit!
Her First Queen: 'Mary of Scotland'
        When Miss Hayes returned to Broadway in "Mary of Scotland," she was such a box-office draw that for many months it was difficult to buy tickets; the Maxwell Anderson drama, about the 16th-century Mary Queen of Scots, was a tremendous hit.
"  A Sassy Teen-Ager
        In 1941, when she was 17, she made her Broadway debut at the Lyceum Theater in the hit comedy "Junior Miss," after having been discovered in an audition by the play's director, Moss Hart.
"
        Starting in 1984, she had a small, recurring role in the hit CBS television series "Dallas.
" Beginning in 1925, she appeared in three editions of the Theater Guild's "Garrick Gaieties," a hit musical revue that spoofed Broadway.
Subsequently, she acted in "Hit" (1973); "California Split" (1974), directed by Robert Altman, and Mr. Altman's "Nashville," in which she played the part of LouAnn, who finds that a supposed singing engagement is actually a stag party.
' "
        Because of her small stature, Farr could not hit the ball as far as many of her peers.
Mrs. Mitchell, who had been suffering from brain lymphoma, was hit by a car early last month, said her husband, Jan, the New York businessman, art collector and former owner of Luchow's restaurant and the Longchamps restaurant chain.
" Spunky, unflappable and appropriately cool or warm, she was the ideal marital partner of the dapper William Powell in the 1934 hit comedy-mystery "The Thin Man.
" The director shot the film in 21 days, and the "quickie" was a hit.
" Spunky, unflappable and appropriately cool or warm, she was the ideal marital partner of the dapper William Powell in the 1934 hit comedy-mystery "The Thin Man.
" The director shot the film in 21 days, and the "quickie" was a hit.
