In ''The Concert'' (1956), Robbins's big comic hit, she was a daffy heroine who struck a serious note with a long introspective solo.
Mrs. Nauts was the daughter of Dr. William B. Coley, a surgeon and cancer specialist who, trying to help seriously ill patients for whom he had been able to do nothing, hit on the idea of injecting them with a mixture of live bacteria.
''I used to kick 32 times across the stage, and my legs would hit my nose,'' Ms. Rutherford told Jean-Claude Baker, who was reared by Josephine Baker and who is a student of black entertainment.
'' In 1989, 28 years after ''The Ann Sothern Show'' went off the air, the actress sold the rights to the cable channel Nickelodeon, where the show became an unexpected hit.
Her only big hit was the 1978 collaboration with Bruce Springsteen, ''Because the Night.
Unseasonable rains hit Johannesburg on Thursday and continued this evening.
This novel was adapted for the stage by Joseph Fields and Jerome Chodorov and became a hit when it opened on Broadway in 1956.
With guest appearances by Missy Elliott and Slick Rick, it presented Aaliyah, then 17, as a hip-hop temptress and included the hit single ''If Your Girl Only Knew.
1 rhythm-and-blues hit in 1998 with the song ''Are You That Somebody'' from ''Dr.
''
        Aaliyah was featured in the movie ''Romeo Must Die'' in 2000 and was an executive producer for its soundtrack album, which included her hit single ''Try Again.
Generally, when I'm really rough, it's on something that I know is going to be a big hit, and that everybody is going to go for it, and I think it's an atrocity -- that's fair game.

        Lisa J. Raines, one of the earliest and most prominent lobbyists for the biotechnology industry, died on Tuesday in the crash of the hijacked airplane that hit the Pentagon.
In 1938 she got a break of sorts, when she was selected to be Martha Scott's understudy in Thornton Wilder's hit play ''Our Town.
''Claudia'' was a hit, and so was its sequel, ''Claudia and David,'' in which Claudia becomes a mother.
Younger hipster audiences were later introduced to Ms. Foster in the 1999 hit ''The Matrix,'' in which she played the Oracle, a mystical seer who sends the movie's hero (played by Keanu Reeves) on his reality-bending mission.
'' Other reviews were favorable, and the play became a Broadway hit, running for 410 performances.
Finally, in 1960, she was contracted by Prestige Records, and recorded ''Don't Go to Strangers,'' which became a Top 40, million-selling hit, changing her weekly income, as she once put it, from $50 to $750.

        Diana van der Vlis, the blond-haired, blue-eyed actress who caused a stir on Broadway in the 1950's hit ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Missoula, Mont., where she had a home.
