The idea, they decided, was to defeat jamming efforts by sending synchronized radio signals on various wavelengths to missiles, which could then be directed to hit their mark.
The original trio had their breakthrough hit in 1954, with ''Teach Me Tonight,'' by Sammy Cahn and Gene de Paul.
The album was a hit in Europe and Asia, and was released in the United States in 1987.
In 1930 she landed a contract with Metro Goldwyn Mayer, appearing first as a chorus girl in ''Whoopee,'' Eddie Cantor's Broadway musical hit.
The spicy dishes were a hit, and the Marriotts quickly opened more Hot Shoppes.
She recalled that she fired repeatedly once the landings began, but could not be certain whether she hit anyone.
      
These appearances led to starring roles in two Broadway plays, ''Whistling in the Dark,'' a hit, and ''The Party's Over,'' a flop.

        Vicki Sue Robinson, the vivacious pop-gospel singer whose 1976 hit ''Turn the Beat Around'' became a signature anthem of the disco era, died on Thursday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 46.
More recently, a single, ''House of Joy,'' became a major dance hit in Britain.
Her biggest hit, ''Somewhere in the Night,'' came a year later; it had been the theme of the television series ''Naked City,'' and she found herself singing it on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and other variety programs.
In her own words, the only things Ms. Mitchell didn't have to worry about were ''singing the hit song or selling orange drink in the lobby.

        Dr. Susana Rotker-Martinez, director of the Rutgers Center for Hemispheric Studies, was hit by a truck and fatally injured Monday while crossing a road in Piscataway, N.J. She was 46 and lived in Highland Park.
Reuters reported that her manager, Kevin Nixon, said that she was believed to have been hit by a speedboat in an area reserved for swimmers.
Her first single under her own name, ''They Don't Know,'' was released by Stiff in 1979; it later became a major hit for Tracey Ullman.
Ms. MacColl had a Top 20 hit in  Britain in 1981 with ''There's a Guy Works Down the Chip Shop (Swears He's Elvis),'' followed by the album ''Desperate Characters.
She had a British hit single with her version of the Kinks' song ''Days'' in 1989; the album that included it, ''Kite'' (Virgin), also featured songs written with the guitarist Johnny Marr from the Smiths, a frequent collaborator.
Ms. MacColl sang with the Pogues on ''Fairytale of New York,'' a 1987 British hit, and on the AIDS-relief  album ''Red Hot and Blue.
''We were taught very early in the game that we didn't have to respect the teachers, and if they threatened to hit us, we could act as if they weren't anybody we had to pay any attention to,'' she wrote.
It said local authorities believed a 19-year-old driver had lost control on the rain-wet road and hit the car carrying her head-on.
