Among Ms. Fisher's songs, all written with a co-author, were ''Whispering Grass (Don't Tell the Trees),'' a hit for the Ink Spots in 1940; ''Angelina (the Waitress at the Pizzeria),'' sung by Louis Prima; and ''Tutti-Frutti,'' written with Slim Gaillard, a hit in 1938 that was eclipsed by Little Richard's wildly onomatopoeic song of the same title in 1956.
Among Ms. Fisher's songs, all written with a co-author, were ''Whispering Grass (Don't Tell the Trees),'' a hit for the Ink Spots in 1940; ''Angelina (the Waitress at the Pizzeria),'' sung by Louis Prima; and ''Tutti-Frutti,'' written with Slim Gaillard, a hit in 1938 that was eclipsed by Little Richard's wildly onomatopoeic song of the same title in 1956.
In 1944 they wrote ''You Always Hurt the One You Love,'' a million-selling hit for the Mills Brothers that was No.
1 for five weeks that year and later a hit for Spike Jones; ''Good Good Good (That's You -- That's You),'' for Bing Crosby and the Andrews Sisters; ''That Ole Devil Called Love,'' for Billie Holiday; and ''Into Each Life Some Rain Must Fall,'' which was a No.
1 hit for Ella Fitzgerald and the Ink Spots.
The show was a hit, with sketches ranging from ''Hamlet'' performed as a musical comedy to a location rehearsal for a film sequence in which one of the characters, a trained ape, turns out to be smarter than the glamorous actress who is the star of the film.
Sometimes people thought her questions were off the wall, but other times, she hit them right in the eye.
Arthur Hammerstein, the producer, ordered it written especially for her, and long before Jeanette MacDonald's hit version of ''Indian Love Call'' from the 1936 film adaptation, critics universally hailed Miss Ellis's highly trained singing.
She went on to win excellent reviews for a string of postwar roles, including a leading part in Terence Rattigan's hit drama ''The Browning Version.

        Sylvia Regan Ellstein, who wrote a two-act comedy, ''The Fifth Season,'' a Broadway hit in 1953, died Jan. 18 in Manhattan.
She apparently hit her head in a fall in her bathroom, where her housekeeper found her, The Associated Press reported.
Ms. Simone had only one Top 20 hit in her long career -- her very first single, ''I Loves You, Porgy,'' released in 1959 -- but her following was large and loyal and her impact deep and lasting.
'' It was helped immeasurably when the Hays Office, the morality board for the movie industry, condemned the book even before a movie deal was signed; it became a hit in 1947 with Linda Darnell as Amber and Cornel Wilde as her truest love.
Of all her accomplishments, the best known is probably the hit song ''Ring of Fire,'' which is about falling in love with Johnny Cash, and which he performed.
She crossed over to the pop charts with a hit song, ''Baby It's Cold Outside,'' recorded in 1949 with the comedy duo Homer and Jethro.
1 pop hit and won a Grammy.
1 hit; the version of the song that became a hit on the Billboard top 40 chart was recorded by Nancy Sinatra and Lee Hazlewood, also in 1967.
      
1 hit; the version of the song that became a hit on the Billboard top 40 chart was recorded by Nancy Sinatra and Lee Hazlewood, also in 1967.
      
Her acclaimed performance helped make the play a hit in London in 1935 and on Broadway in 1936.
The play was a hit, and Miss Hepburn owned the rights to it because Howard Hughes, a sometime beau, had bought them for her.
She got Cary Grant as her former husband, James Stewart as the reporter, and a hit movie.
She soon made three hit films -- ''Kangan,'' ''Bandhan'' and ''Jhoola'' -- with Ashok Kumar, who became one of India's top male stars.
She realized she had set a pattern, repeatedly singing what turned out to be a show's hit song and often nothing else.
Four years ago, two 11-year-old children died when they were struck by vehicles along the parade route, and a teenager died afterward after being hit by a parade sound truck.

        Gisele MacKenzie, the Canadian singing star of the 1950's television show ''Your Hit Parade,'' died on Friday in Burbank, Calif. She was 76.
On ''Your Hit Parade,'' she sang the most popular tunes of the week with her fellow cast members Snooky Lanson, Dorothy Collins and Russell Arms.
The attention she gained with Mr. Benny won her a spot on ''Your Hit Parade,'' replacing June Valli.
''It was a trooper who hit me,'' she said, adding that it happened just as she crossed the bridge near the head of the column of about 525 demonstrators.
As a singer her style was likened to Patsy Montana, and one of her most successful recordings was a version for RCA Victor of Montana's hit ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart.
'' ''We just didn't know what had hit us.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died yesterday.

        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday.
''How Did He Look?,'' which she wrote with Abner Silver, was her first hit and her most frequently recorded song.
