Mrs. Jones's husband, William J. Jones, died in 1965.
It was as a Democrat that Dr. Ray was elected in 1976 to one term as the only female Governor her state has had, becoming the nation's second woman to be elected Governor without succeeding her husband.
She is survived by her husband, William Salchow, and a daughter, Allison Shumsky, both of Golden's Bridge, and two sisters, Rosemary Glyde of Boulder, Colo., and Wendy Klopfenstein of Mobile, Ala.
Her husband, James Stillman Rockefeller, is a former president and chairman of Citibank and is a grandnephew of John D. Rockefeller.
Her former husband is Joseph F. Cullman 3d of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband; her mother, Sadie Murray, and her brother, Paul Murray, both of Newport Beach, Australia.
      
Mrs. Gordan's association with the library dated to 1940, when her husband, John D. Gordan, joined its staff and became curator of its Berg Collection of English and American literature.
Her husband, the Right Reverend J. R. H. Moorman, an ecclesiastical historian who retired in 1975 as the Anglican Bishop of Ripon, died in 1989 after 59 years of marriage.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert M. Wohlforth.
"
        She is survived by her husband of 63 years; two sons, Eric E., of Anchorage, and Timothy A., of Oakland, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, the choreographer John Taras.
      
The cause was cancer, said her former husband, Howard Sloan.
The cause was massive pneumonia, said her husband, John Boxer.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Boxer is survived by two sons, Adam, of Brooklyn and Nicholas, of Atlanta, and two grandchildren.
      
But having served in the House from 1945 to 1947, she was the first American woman to precede a husband to Congress.
She introduced legislation for bookmobiles to bring library services to rural America, and such a bill eventually passed after her husband's election as the Hill-Douglas Act.
During her husband's 18 years on Capitol Hill, Mrs. Douglas was an advocate of civil rights and marched with the Rev.
At various times she practiced law in Manhattan with her husband, David Justin, who died in 1982.
In addition to her sister Evelyn, she is survived by her husband, of Los Angeles; two brothers, Richard Ricco of Minneapolis and Emil Moses Jr. of Tucson, Ariz., and two other sisters, Laura Thompson of New Orleans and Rose Napue of Minneapolis.
      
The Met invited her to sing in 1928, but she did not want to be separated from her future husband, the Baron George Daubek, whom she married in 1931.
Miss Novotna moved from Vienna to New York after her husband's death in 1981.
Her husband, Richard L. Simon, was a co-founder of Simon & Schuster, the publishers.
In addition to her husband and her parents, Clarence and Nellie Keller, she is survived by twin daughters, Augusta Nell and Miranda Hope; a stepson, Blake; a stepdaughter, Skye; four sisters, Jacquelyn Gilbert and Barbara Wilkens, both of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; Patricia Button of Peeksill, N.Y., and Sarah Ann Filippini of Reston, Va., and two brothers, Clarence Christian Keller Jr. of Golden, Colo., and Stephen Lee Keller of Newark, Ohio.
      
She and her late husband, Michel Yardney, also endowed a scholarship fund for young pianists through the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.
Co-Founded Lasker Awards
        Mrs. Lasker and her husband Albert Davis Lasker, a pioneer advertising executive who died in 1952, established the Lasker Foundation in 1942.
During World War II she managed the large McMillan family farm in Maryland while her husband served in the Navy in the Pacific.
Mrs. McMillan is survived by her husband of 60 years, William, a retired architect; a daughter, Eleanor McMillan of Bethesda, Md.
Her husband, John Lancaster, said she had died of metastatic breast cancer.
She is survived by her husband.
      
Mrs. Saunders's husband, Leonard, died in 1967.
Dr. Hunter is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Cheryl,, of Los Angeles; a son, Robin, of Santa Monica; a sister, Dorothy Horner, of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Phillip Barber, was the New York director of the Federal Theater, and Ms. Frankel was one of those involved in founding the Group Theater in the 1930's.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, the director Grover Dale.
An appearance in the chorus of "Jesus Christ Superstar" in 1972 led to roles on Broadway in "Seesaw" (1973) and "The Magic Show" (1974), in which she was directed by her husband.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Dr. J.
She and her husband, Julius Fleischmann, whose family made its fortune through yeast, were benefactors of many cultural and civic groups, including the New York Public Library, the Metropolitan Opera and the Council on Foreign Affairs.
Earlier in her career she worked as advertising director of Harvey World Famous Comics Inc., which had been founded by her future husband, Alfred Harvey.
Lorne-Harvey Publications was formed in 1988 to re-issue some of her husband's earliest characters.
Mrs. Harvey is survived by her husband; four sons, Alan, of Larchmont, Russel, of Manhattan, Adam, of Mamaroneck, N.Y., and Eric, of Larchmont; a stepdaughter, Shulamis Bush of Brooklyn; a sister, Ruth Korten of Winter Park, Fla.; a brother, Eric Lorne Sr. of Inverness, Fla., and three stepgrandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Julian Greenspan; two daughters, Gail W. Strickler and Debbye Strickler, both of Manhattan, and a son, Dr. Howard Strickler of Washington.
      
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Robert Scranton.
Besides her husband she is survived by a son, Peter, and a daughter, Karen, both of San Jose, and her father, William R. Yeack of Gainesville, Fla.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jacko Peniazek; a daughter, Ana, and two sons, Pablo and Eduard, all of Rosemont.
      
Mrs. Lebenthal was a newlywed when she and her husband, Louis S. Lebenthal, set up shop in a tiny office with second-hand furniture and no rugs.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her husband, Booth Hemingway.
in theology in 1964 from Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y.
        She was an oblate of St. Gregory's Abbey in Three Rivers, Mich., and an associate of St. Mary's Convent in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ann Hemingway Tarlton of Rumson, N.J.; two sons, John Moon Hemingway of Seattle and Booth Roy Hemingway of Kittery Point, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 48 years, Robert W. Wallace of Washington, and three sons, Randall, of Manhattan, Scott, of Washington, and Bruce, of Tinicum Township, Pa.
      
In 1988, she joined the overseers board of the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., which named a studio in honor of her and her husband.
She is survived by her husband, Charles F. Leonard Jr., a retired major general; three sons, Michael, of Washington, Col. Henry A., of Fort Riley, Kan., and Prof. Herman B., of Cambridge, Mass.
Mrs. Fulcher's husband, Dawson L. Fulcher Jr., died in 1961.
      
Her success led her husband to try his hand, as well.
Mrs. Wolff, who was regarded by her colleagues in the international book world as the grande dame of letters, published greatly acclaimed and successful works under the imprint "A Helen and Kurt Wolff Book," which she established with her husband at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1961.
After her husband's death in a traffic accident in West Germany in 1963, she remained as the imprint's sole publisher at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich without losing any authors to other publishing houses.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Wolff was responsible for such notable novels as Italo Calvino's "Invisible Cities," a retranslated edition of Giorgio Bassani's "Garden of the Finzi-Continis," Mr. Grass's "Flounder," Mr. Oz's "My Michael" and Mr. Eco's "Name of the Rose.
The movie was directed by Jules Dassin, her close companion and later her husband.
" Of marriage, she remarked: "If you take a European woman's husband, she has nothing.
But if you take an American husband, you make the wife rich.
In exile, Miss Mercouri and her husband lived mainly in Paris.
She is survived by her husband and by a brother, Spiros Mercouris.
      
Mrs. Schwartz is survived by her husband of 30 years, Stanley; two daughters, Blair and Kim; her mother, Blanche Rosenzweig Levine of Bal Harbour, Fla.; a sister, Carol Nussbaum of Charleston, S.C., and a brother, Lawrence Rosenzweig of Manhattan and Bal Harbour.
      
In the 1940's she lived in Hamilton, N.Y., where her husband, Edward C. Rowe, was a lawyer at Colgate University.
She was 78 and lived in New York City and Hartsdale, N.Y..
        She had been treated for cancer for three years, said her husband, Leslie Midgley.
She is survived by her husband ; a daughter, Barbara Green; three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
Her New Orleans accent unaltered despite half a century in New York, Mrs. Whedon was a bustling mother hen for thousands of children at the Whedon School of Art, which she and her husband, Daniel Whedon, a sculptor, operated.
She is survived by her husband; two children, Roger Anthony Whedon and Susan Whedon, and two grandchildren, Arie Daniel Whedon and Amelia Whedon.
      
She and her husband, Dr. Frederic S. Weil, came to the United States from Switzerland in 1940 and settled in Manhattan.
Her husband, also a psychoanalyst, died in 1959 after 22 years of marriage.
Mrs. Lord is survived by her husband, Edwin Jr., of Cambridge; a son, Edwin 3d, of Frankfurt, Germany; a daughter, Mary, of Washington, and a brother, Ted Allen of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      
Mrs. Kheel died of cancer, said her husband, Robert.
She is survived by her husband and sons, Daniel and David, all of Manhattan; her father, James O. Dungan of Rochester; two sisters, Laura Dungan of Pompano Beach, Fla., and Dr. Bonnie Dungan of Philadelphia, and two brothers, James Dungan of Binghamton, N.Y., and Kelly Dungan of Rochester.
Ms. Ichiyasu is survived by her husband, Michael Clancey; her father, Harry T. Ichiyasu, and a brother, Alan, both of Chicago.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Stanley Milberg.
She is survived by her husband and four sons, Daniel of Northampton, Mass., David of Charleston, Ill., William of New York and John of Seattle.
      
Dr. Liskin is survived by her husband, Dr. Vincent Bonagura; twin daughters Elizabeth and Rebecca; her parents, Anita and Louis Liskin of Englewood; two brothers, David, of Carmel, Calif., and Max, of Nashville, and two sisters, Diana Chapman of Tokyo and Alisa Clausen of Aabenraa, Jutland, Denmark.
      
The cause was stomach cancer, said her husband, Leslie Midgley.
In addition to her husband and her daughter, she is survived by three stepchildren, Leslie Midgley, Andrea Connors and Peter J. Midgley, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Eugene Zuriff; her daughter, Jennifer Reisman of Atlanta; two stepsons, Laurence Zuriff of Washington and Bryan Zuriff of Los Angeles, and a sister, Judith, who lives in Florida.
      
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her husband, Victor Potamkin.
Three years after her husband founded Potamkin Cadillac in 1972, Mrs. Potamkin and other members of her family appeared in television commercials that featured the line: "If this nameplate isn't on the back of your car, you probably paid too much.
She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000.
In addition to her husband, who maintains homes in New York, Philadelphia and Miami, she is survived by two sons, Robert, of Philadelphia and Alan, of Miami; a sister, Florence Jans of Miami; a brother, Marvin Chaiken of Tucson, Ariz., and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was cardiac arrest, said Alfredo de Palchi, her collaborator and former husband.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Stanley S. Sills.
She is survived by her husband; two sons, Dr. Michael N. Sills of Dallas and David C. Sills of Roslyn, L.I., and three grandchildren.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said her husband, William H. Donaldson.
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of the New York Stock Exchange, a daughter, Kimberly Donaldson-Plym, and a son, Matthew, all of New York.
      
An elegant woman of stately demeanor, Ms. Goya was much in demand as a teacher and at her death was preparing to teach in Spain with her husband, who survives.
Mrs. Bissell's husband, Alfred E., died in 1975.
She and her husband, Marcus, managed to flee to France, where she played a role in helping thousands of homeless refugee children.
Her husband died in 1949 after a long illness contracted in a concentration camp in Germany.
      
"
        But the images of Mrs. Kennedy that burned most deeply were those in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963: her lunge across the open limousine as the assassin's bullets struck, the Schiaparelli pink suit stained with her husband's blood, her gaunt stunned face in the blur of the speeding motorcade, and the anguish later at Parkland Memorial Hospital as the doctors gave way to the priest and a new era.
The conversation, he said in a 1978 book, "In Search of History," swung between history and her husband's death, and while none of J.F.K.
She said that at night before bedtime, her husband had often played it, or asked her to play it, on an old Victrola in their bedroom.
" and, "Do you think a wife should let her husband think he's smarter than she is?
The Royal Aura Of the Kennedys
        After Mr. Kennedy was elected President in 1960, the mystique and aura around Mrs. Kennedy began to grow rapidly, especially after she and her husband made the state visit to France in 1961.
" Mrs. Richard M. Nixon had the plaque removed after she and her husband moved in in 1969.
From her perspective, Mr. Manchester was commercially exploiting her husband's assassination.
She is survived by her second husband, Douglas Seale, who is an actor and stage director.
She is survived by her husband, Walter Gans; two sons, David of Scarsdale and Erik of Cambridge, Mass., and her mother, Mildred Goldhagen of Deerfield Beach, Fla.
      
After she received her diploma in 1930, Mrs. Albers and her husband, whom she had met at the Bauhaus and married in 1925, stayed on as teachers, he in design, she as a part-time instructor in textiles and as the acting director of the weaving workshop.
In 1933, after the Gestapo had padlocked the doors of the Bauhaus, Mrs. Albers met the architect Philip Johnson, then at the Museum of Modern Art, who was visiting Berlin and asked her if she and her husband wished to come to the United States.
Judge Forer is survived by her husband, Morris L. Forer; two sons, Stuart, of Warwick, R.I., and John, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Hope Forer Ross of Manhattan; a sister, Marion Schott of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandsons.
For more than 40 years she also served as the office manager for her husband, Dr. David Bernstein, a surgeon who practiced medicine in Brooklyn until his death in 1988.
Mrs. Burdick is survived by her husband, John; two sons, Owen of Jersey City and Richard of Manhattan; her brother, Robert Birdsall of Haddonfield, and two grandchildren.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Dennis McHugh.
Her husband, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent of World War II, died in 1991.
      
Miss Nelli and her husband opened a restaurant near Poughkeepsie, N.Y., in 1955.
Her husband, Andre Istel, an investment banker in Paris and New York, died in 1966 at the age of 78 when the couple lived on the Upper East Side.
In addition to her stepson, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, Herbert R. Silverman, and a stepdaughter, Karen Mayers of Washington.
      

        Sally Milgrim, a designer of women's apparel who with her husband, Charles, owned the Milgrim fashion store on 57th Street for many years, died on Saturday at St. Francis Barry Nursing and Rehabilitative Center in Miami.
One of Mrs. Milgrim's best-known designs was a light blue gown worn by Eleanor Roosevelt to her husband's first inaugural ball, in 1933.
Her husband died in 1967.
Mrs. Paepcke (pronounced PEP-keh) collaborated with -- and often inspired -- her husband, Walter, a Chicago industrialist, in the development of what was nearly a ghost town by the 1940's.
Once a rich silver-mining town with a population of 15,000, Aspen was largely dilapidated in the 1930's, but its natural setting and faded charm caused her to return in 1946 with her husband.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Robert Kotlowitz.
In addition to her husband, a novelist and a former editor and executive of WNET, she is survived by two sons, Daniel, a theatrical-lighting designer, of Manhattan, and Alex, an author, of Oak Park Ill., and a sister, Peggy L. Snyder of Manhattan.
      
She advised the center about the commercial potential of the products and, with her husband, George Corey, founded Environmental Concepts Products to market them.
Her husband died last year.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a son, Joseph R., of Boston; two daughters, Eva M. Grizell of Boston and Nichole Devanna of Ardsley; two grandchildren, and a sister, Barbara Schwab of Mount Laurel, N.J.
      
In addition to her son, of Fort Wayne, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Dr. Lester D. Rothman; a brother, Matthew, and a sister, Josephine Bono, both of Kansas City, and a grandson, Wilson J. Rothman.
      
Mrs. Baan is survived by her husband, Leslie, and a daughter, Natalie.
      
Mrs. Emery is survived by her husband of 40 years, Charles E.; three daughters, Roxane G. Holmes and Jamie N. Emery, both of Centreville, and Robin E. Loring of Virginia Beach, Va.; three sons, Charles R., of Fayetteville, N.C., Randy B., of Centreville, and Ronald H., of Stafford, Va.; a brother, Sylvestor Janis of Kyle, S.D., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mayor Frank Jordan of San Francisco, in a tribute, said that Mrs. Shorenstein and her husband had contributed much to the city's cultural, social and civic life and had "consistently helped make this city a better place for all of us.
She is survived by her husband of 49 years; two children, Carole Shorenstein-Hays and Douglas Shorenstein, both of San Francisco, and six grandchildren.
      
She danced under the name Henrietta Greenhood until 1945, when she professionally adopted Gentry, her husband's surname.
Dr. Gordon's husband, Robert A. Gordon, who died in 1978 after the couple had been married 42 years, was also a Harvard-educated ecomonics professor, as were her two sons.
Her husband was also a professor of economics at Berkeley.
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
"
        In addition to her daughter, of Clinton, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Tom Helmore.
      
She also was a drama editor and columnist for The People's Voice, a New York weekly newspaper published by Adam Clayton Powell Jr., her sister's husband at the time.
Her second husband, Dr. Anthony H. Bell, died in the early 1980's.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Alan Woltz.
She is survived by her husband and a son, William Leroy, both of Manhattan.
With her husband she also wrote, "It's Your Wedding," a guide to planning weddings.
      
The cause was a heart attack, her husband, John Robbins, said.
Besides her husband, Ms. Blair is survived by a daughter and three sons from a previous marriage: Elizabeth Hillard of Pleasant Hill, Calif., Harper Sibley Jr. of Portland, Me., Blair Sibley of Miami, and Durbin Sibley of Corpus Christi, Tex.
The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said her husband, Dr. Dudley Winn Smith, a surgeon.
She is survived by her husband, who lives in the Solvang Lutheran Home in Solvang, and a brother, Clyde Lubbock of Pensacola, Fla.
      
During the 1930's and 1940's she lived in Italy with her husband, Vittorio Pietrasanta.
Her second husband, Donald C. Malcom, died in 1971.
But in 1974, after Mr. Lazar agreed to try to sell the memoirs of former President Richard M. Nixon, Mrs. Buchwald ended her partnership, citing a conflict of principle because her husband had written many satirical columns about Watergate and Mr. Nixon.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Connie Marks of Culpeper, Va., and Jennifer Buchwald of Boston; a son, Joel, of Denver; three grandchildren, five sisters and two brothers.
      
Her husband, Herbert S. Jr., a lawyer, died in 1982 after 57 years of marriage.
She is survived by her husband, Jack Sonenberg, who is also an artist, and a daughter, Maya Sonenberg of Seattle.
      
She is survived by her husband, Leonard; two sons, Michael, of Falls Church, and Mark, of Alexandria, Va.; two sisters, Barbara Leonard of McLean, Va., and Mary Schmeich of Gaithersburg, Md., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Meyer is survived by her husband, Richard W. Meyer, a retired vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company; a daughter, Charlotte Meyer-Arnold of Los Angeles; two sons, Richard W. Jr. and Douglas C., both of Locust Valley, L.I.
The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Julius Stulman.
"
        She is survived by her husband.
      
The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Dr. Richard E. Peschel.
She and her husband wrote "When a Doctor Hates a Patient and Other Chapters in a Young Physician's Life" (1986).
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Colette, also of Woodbridge, and a sister, Nola Royce of Delmar, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter, Dr. Cserr is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert Cserr of North Dighton; her mother, Ruth FitzGerald of Missoula, Mont.
Her husband of 34 years, F. Joseph McDonald, died in 1983.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Nathan Woodard.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a granddaughter, Marilyn Alice Lee of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, A. Royall Turpin Jr. of Richmond; her son, of Takoma Park, Md.
Nancy Lancaster's first husband was Henry Field, a grandson of Marshall Field, the department-store magnate.
Dr. Coser is survived by her husband of 52 years, Dr. Lewis A. Coser, also a sociologist; a daughter, Dr. Ellen C. Perrin of Brookline, Mass.
She left Spain largely because her husband, Timoteo Perez Rubio, had been active on the Republican side, and her sympathies were also with the Republic.
Miss Chacel's husband died in 1977.
Mrs. Price is survived by her husband, Kenneth W., of Waccabuc; a daughter, Darcy Lee Price of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Timothy of Port Jervis, N.Y.; and a sister, Barbara Lee Crowder of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband, the mystery writer Eric Ambler.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband, Robert Kaylor; a son, Ross; two stepdaughters, Robin and Sarah, and three brothers and a sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Fred Kasoff; two daughters, Pamela Ehrenkranz of New York City and Jean LeGrand of Chicago; a sister, Babette Cohen of Rosyln Heights, L.I., and 16 grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, George W. Bahlke; a son, Conrad D., of Hoboken, N.J.; two daughters, Catherine B. Hornstein of Brooklyn and Margaret B. Diskin of West Chester, Pa.; two brothers, Michael Worth of Swarthmore and Douglas Worth of Newton, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      
Her husband died in 1974.
Mrs. Lehman and her husband, Charles, founded Lehmans & Associates, which became a successful interior design firm.
Mrs. Carliner is survived by her husband of 50 years, David; a son, Geoffrey, of West Newton, Mass.
Mrs. Williamson is survived by her husband, James G., and two daughters, Anne W. Holman of Short Hills and Christina Williamson of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, William E., died in 1974.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the Broadway artist Al Hirschfeld.
" The film was directed by Hans Brahm, who became Miss Haas's first husband.
On occasion, Miss Haas's portrait appeared in the background in her husband's drawings.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nina, and two grandchildren.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Sol Schreiber, a former Federal magistrate in Manhattan.
"My biggest fear was how the community would react to me and my kids and my husband," she said at a news conference in Iowa City in which she told her story in the hope that it would warn other health-care workers.
She is survived by her husband, David; two daughters, Eva and Emily, and a son, Joel, all of Monona; her parents, James and Ethel Herring, of Marion, Iowa; three sisters, Kathryn Fassbinder, of Elgin, Iowa, Mary Walston of Kewaunee, Wis., and Susan Valleire of Rock Island, Ill.; four brothers, J. Stephen Herring of Idaho Falls, Idaho, Edward Herring, of Rockford, Ill., Mark Herring, of Manitowoc, Wis., and John Herring of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and a grandmother, Martha McElroy of Creston, Iowa.
      
Ms. Dehner's second husband, Ferdinand Mann, whom she married in 1957, died in 1974.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, Max; a stepson, Lem Dobbs of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Dominie Kitaj of London; her father, Gene, of Tucson, Ariz.; her mother, Ethel, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Margaret, of Emeryville, Calif., and a stepgrandson, Joe Kitaj of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her husband, Raymond A. Wolff Jr., the leader of the Dutch Wolff Orchestra, a society band; two daughters, Margaret, of Seattle, and Melora, of Oneonta, N.Y., and a sister, Beverly Earle Knapp of New York City.
      
Mrs. Hoffstot, whose family has spent winters in Palm Beach for three generations, was born Barbara S. Drew in Pittsburgh, graduated from the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., and attended Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla.
        She is survived by her husband of 46 years, Henry Phipps Hoffstot Jr.; a daughter, Thayer of Westlake Village, Calif.; a son, Henry Phipps 3d of Ligonier, Pa., and New York, and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Frank Edward Klapthor, died earlier this year.
" Decorating a Farmhouse
        After her marriage, she and her husband had a home on East End Avenue in Manhattan -- which had been done by a decorator -- and a farmhouse in Far Hills, N.J., which Mrs. Parish herself decorated, with gusto.
Hard times were coming upon her husband and her father, both blue-blooded stockbrokers.
In the mid-1960's, she acquired a batch of turn-of-the-century golden oak furniture at a bargain basement price, the story goes, then painted it white and used it in decorating a house that she and her husband had bought in Maine.
Decorating for the Kennedys
        Mrs. Parish met Jacqueline Kennedy socially in the late 1950's and helped her decorate the house in the Georgetown section of Washington where she and her husband, John F. Kennedy, lived while he was a Senator.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Barry Magid; her parents, Peter and Ruth Norden, of Hartsdale; a sister, Linda Norden, of Manhattan, and a grandmother, Margaret Norden, of Forest Hills, Queens.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harold L. Korn; two brothers, Lawrence, of Brunswick, Me., and Philip, of Auburn Hills, Mich., and a sister, Beth, of Carlisle, Iowa.
      
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, the actor Hume Cronyn.
" The Academy Award came one year after she won an Emmy for her performance in the television adaptation of "Foxfire," of which her husband was was a co-writer.
They, her daughter Susan, five grandchildren and three great-grandchildren survive her, in addition to her husband.
"
        Miss Tandy co-starred with her husband in 10 plays on Broadway and dozens of Off Broadway and regional productions during their 52-year marriage.
" She burst out laughing and recalled Dame Sybil Thorndike's response when asked whether she ever considered divorcing her husband, with whom she had long shared the stage.
Her husband, J. P. Davis, whom she married in 1920, died in 1980, and her son, James, died in 1986.
She is survived by her husband, Robert A., and two daughters, Amanda, of Manhattan and Susan, a student at the University of Colorado at Boulder.
      
She is survived by her husband and her daughter.
      
Ms. Fedicheva died of cancer, said Martin Fredmann, her former husband and the artistic director of the Colorado Ballet in Denver.
But after she married Mr. Fredmann, an American dancer studying at the Kirov, in 1974, Soviet authorities, saying she was not divorced from her first husband, blocked her exit visa to the United States for a year.
Her husband, Hans Heinemann, an investment banker, died in 1967.
      
She was bequeathed a large block of Trenton Trust stock by her millionaire second husband, Siegfried Roebling, whose family had long been prominent in engineering and cable manufacturing.
She took her husband's seat on the bank's board and, on Jan. 21, 1937, was elected president.
Among the works donated to the Metropolitan Museum by Mrs. Blumka and her husband, Leopold, were a 15th-century silver tabernacle produced for the Monastery of St. Peter at Salzburg and a rare enameled devotional cradle made in the Netherlands in the 15th century.
After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Blumka donated other objects, including, in 1991, a German 15th-century tapestry from the altar of a Nuremberg church.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Joseph, and a son, Kenneth A., all of New York City, and three brothers, Jeff Miller and Jack Miller of Delphos, Ohio, and Tom Miller of Arlington, Va.
      
Mrs. Speare is survived by her husband, Alden, and a daughter, Mary Elizabeth Carey of Shaker Heights, Ohio.
She practiced in New York for 33 years and was working in the city's juvenile justice system when her husband, Maxwell Lewis, died in 1957.

        Janet Ahlberg, who created the illustrations for a series of memorable children's books written by her husband, Allan, died on Tuesday in Leicester, England.
Together, Mrs. Ahlberg and her husband produced more than 40 books for young readers.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Jessica.
      
In addition to her sister, of New York City, and her son Paul, of Baileys Harbor, Wis., she is survived by her third husband, Robert Kolmus Greene; another son, William Sills of Oakland, Calif.; seven grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rathgeb is survived by her husband of 34 years, Donald Sr.; three daughters, Elizabeth Pratt of Amesbury, Mass., and Laura Rathgeb and Mary Jo Balaskas, both of Manhattan; a son, Donald Jr. of Burlington, Vt.; a sister, Laura Mae Hellrung of Alton, Ill.; a brother, Howard Ellspermann of Cape Coral, Fla., and one granddaughter.
      
"
        She is survived by her husband, Paul Bryson.
      
The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Charles.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Charles, of Cliffside, N.J., and her sister, Norma Kramer of New York City.
      
Her survivors include her husband, Sandy Miller, and a daughter, Nell Miller, also of Carroll Gardens.
      
Before she became a dealer, Mrs. Poindexter collected the works of both abstract and figurative painters with her husband, George, a commodities broker.
Her husband, Henry Tracy Kneeland, died in 1986.
      
Dr. Newman had been traveling to an American Friends Service Committee Retreat in Charleston, W.Va., with her husband, John Brown Newman, who was also injured.
She was co-editor with Howard Gardner, her former husband, of many books, including the multivolume series "Classics in Psychology" and "Classics in Child Psychology" published by Ayer.
In 1949, Mrs. Kramer and her husband, Benjamin Abrams, the founder and chairman of the Emerson Radio Corporation, visited Israel.
Professor Bozeman is survived by her husband of 44 years, Dr. Arne Barkhuus; a daughter, Anya B. Taylor of South Nyack, N.Y.; a brother, Bodo von Bruemmer of Colares, Portugal, and two grandsons.
      
Poses and her husband, Jack I.
Her husband died in 1982.
Gres was the name taken by her husband, Serge Czerefkow, a Russian painter she married in the 30's.
Her husband of 62 years, Jesse Lewis Orrick, died in 1992.
Her husband, Maceo W. Hubbard, a Justice Department official, died in 1991.
With the director John Houseman she guided the development of the Acting Company, a theater group of drama graduates that her husband established when he was the president of the Juilliard School.
Her husband, Donald Stralem, a New York banker, died in 1976.
The cause was heart failure, said her husband, Romeyn.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Susan Clippinger and Rosalind Everdell, both of Jamaica Plain, Mass.
She came to Greenwich in 1932 with her first husband, Joseph Wilshire, a future chairman of Standard Brands.
She also lectured in programs drawn from her husband's many books.
In 1988, drawing on connections made through her husband, Mrs. Glaser helped to found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation with two friends, Susan DeLaurentis and Susan Zeegen.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
She is survived by her husband and son; by her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and by a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      
In 1988, drawing on connections made through her husband, Mrs. Glaser helped to found the Pediatric AIDS Foundation with two friends, Susan DeLaurentis and Susan Zeegen.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
She is survived by her husband and son; her parents, Edith and Max Meyer of Sarasota, Fla., and a brother, Peter, of Worcester, Mass.
      
Mrs. Julianelli, whose career spanned 40 years, won the Coty American Fashion Critics Award in 1950 with her husband and partner, Charles Julianelli, for artistry and craftsmanship in shoe styles.
In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      
