Mrs. Stein's husband of 45 years, Dr. William H. Stein, who died in 1980, shared a Nobel Prize in chemistry in 1972 for his pioneering studies of the enzyme ribonuclease.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Gray H. Twombly; a son, Robert, of Austin, Tex.
Surviving are her husband, William; two daughters, Stephanie, of Bangkok and San Francisco, and Allison Krebs-Khalil, of Stony Point, N.Y.; two sons, Christopher, of Newton, and Anthony, of Seattle; a brother, Frederick Boucher, of Jacksonville, Fla., and one grandson.
      
Her husband was virtually penniless, a man who was never able to hold down a job and a gambler as well.
''It was fortunate that I could trek back and forth across the Atlantic, earning a living for my son and husband,'' Miss Lillie said.
Miss Averino's husband, Paul Fedorovosky, who died in 1958, was a violinist with the Boston Symphony Orchestra.
'' In the Humphrey Bogart-Ingrid Bergman classic ''Casablanca,'' she was the woman whose husband's pocket was picked.
In 1921 she was divorced from her first husband, a noted poet named Hsu Chih-mo, in a highly publicized case that came to be regarded as the first modern dissolution of marriage in China.
She lived in Hong Kong from 1953 until the death of her second husband, C. C. Soo, in 1976, then she came to New York.

       Beatrice Blackmar Gould, co-editor with her husband, Bruce, of the Ladies' Home Journal from 1935 until their retirement in 1967, died of Alzheimer's disease yesterday at their home in Hopewell, N.J. She was 90 years old.
Beatrice Blackmar Gould, co-editor with her husband, Bruce, of the Ladies' Home Journal from 1935 until their retirement in 1967, died of Alzheimer's disease yesterday at their home in Hopewell, N.J. She was 90 years old.
With her husband, whom she married in 1923, she wrote two plays, ''Man's Estate,'' which the Theatre Guild produced in 1929, and ''The Terrible Turk,'' which appeared in 1934.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Gould is survived by a daughter, Sesaly Kraft of Federalsburg, Md.

       Pegeen Fitzgerald, who, with her husband, Edward, conducted a radio talk show for 42 years and pioneered the at-home radio format, died of breast cancer Monday at her Manhattan home.
She stated her age as 78 and also had a home in Kent, Conn.
        Pegeen Fitzgerald, who, with her husband, Edward, conducted a radio talk show for 42 years and pioneered the at-home radio format, died of breast cancer Monday at her Manhattan home.
'' The husband often asked civility of the wife, and she responded by ''listening very carefully to him, correcting details, switching topics intuitively, reading the commercials elegantly and accurately.
She, meanwhile, was the advertising manager of McCreery's department store but, after several years, also joined WOR, where she had a talk show and then, in 1940, joined her husband and began broadcasting from their home.
In 1987 she and her husband, Raymond W. Garbe, since deceased, donated $1 million to Harvard University to endow a professorship in urban design.
She was born in Brooklyn and received a bachelor's degree from St. John's University and a master's degree from New York University, Surviving are her husband, Joseph; four daughters, Julie Bellow, Irene LoBosco and Francesca and Teresa Mattone, and three sons, Carl, Joseph Jr. and Michael, all of Douglaston; a brother, Henry Ficarra of New Hyde Park., L.I.
Her second husband, Palmer Dixon, died some years ago.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Marjorie Luyckx, and two brothers, Conrad and Peter Fried, all of Freeport, L.I., and a stepdaughter, Lisa, of Springs, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel Newman, of Chicago.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert K. Greenleaf; a son, Newcomb, of New York City; two daughters, Elizabeth, of New Haven, and Madeline Jaynes of New York City; a brother, William Hargrave of Lansdowne, Pa.; a sister, Nora Bailey of Short Hills, N.J., and seven grandchildren.
      
Most of her work was conducted at the University of Rhode Island's Naragansett Marine Laboratory in Kingston, which was founded by her husband, Dr. Charles Fish.
Fish, whose husband died in 1979, is survived by their daughter, Marilyn Munro of Westport; a sister, Margaret Tongue of East Orange, N.J.; three grandchldren and five great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Herbert, died in 1987.
She and her husband, James, also opened a headquarters for the Association of Colored Women's Clubs, an organization that later elected her national president and president emeritus.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Sol, and a brother, Martin Grad, of Skokie, Ill.
      

       Gladys Buchanan North, who helped her husband, Sterling North, write popular and award-winning children's books, died of a stroke early yesterday morning at Morristown Memorial Hospital.
She was 81 years old and lived in Harding Township, N.J.
        Gladys Buchanan North, who helped her husband, Sterling North, write popular and award-winning children's books, died of a stroke early yesterday morning at Morristown Memorial Hospital.
With Nazi Germany looming, she later wrote, her husband ''not unreasonably felt at that time that the world was too unpromising to bring children into.
''After the war, when my husband came home, we had two more children, and domesticity for a while prevailed,'' she wrote later, ''combined with beginning the work I had always wanted to do, which was writing a book.
''
        Mrs. Tuchman is survived by her husband, who is an emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine; a sister, Anne W. Werner of Manhattan; three daughters, Lucy T. Eisenberg of Los Angeles, Jessica Tuchman Mathews of Washington, and Alma Tuchman of Cos Cob and Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
After her husband died in 1970, she co-founded the Alliance for Displaced Homemakers, later the Displaced Homemakers Network, for women who had spent their careers as homemakers and had lost their husbands, and thus their incomes, through divorce or death.
She is survived by her husband, Myron M. Fuerst; three sons from an earlier marriage, Harris Haertel of Seattle, Richard Haertel of Plymouth, Mich., and Thomas Haertel of Kamloops, Canada; two brothers, Woodrow Swancutt of San Antonio, Tex., and Vernon Swancutt of La Crosse, Wis., eight grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, John Slingerland.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joseph; a daughter, Christine Bagley of Hampton, Va.; two sons, Vincent, of Minneapolis, and Timothy, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard; three sons, Stephen, of San Francisco, Robert, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and Philip, of Montgomery, Ala.; a sister, Catherine Everett of Stony Brook, L.I., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Fletcher McDowell, a neurologist; her father, Dunbar W. Bostwick of Shelburne, Vt.; two sisters, Dundeen Catlin of Concord, Mass., and Elliot Wood of Novato, Calif.; three daughters, Electra and Linn of Manhattan and Laura of Shelburne.
      
In recent years, she and her husband have been working on a historic excavation in New Mexico.
She is survived by her husband, John.
      
She is survived by her husband, William; a son, Louis, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Dr. Gily Bard Starobin of Stamford, Conn., and Nuri Relis of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Norman; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Manhattan; a son, Daniel, of Claremont, Calif.; her father, Louis Ginsberg of Brooklyn, and a granddaughter.
      
Miss Griffin is survived by her husband, Spencer Jackson.
      
Surviving are her husband, Algernon; three sons, David, of Manhattan, Peter, of Syracuse, and Jonathan, of Chicago; a sister, Maxine Aaron of Pittsburgh; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Leon; a son, Stephen, of Northampton, Mass.
Surviving are her husband, Kevin; a son, Donald, of San Diego; a brother, Eugene Zagat of Manhattan; four grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      
Later, fulfilling a childhood dream, she and her husband moved into the mansion that had served as the setting for her novel.
Once, when a caller asked how she might kill a tree without her husband's knowledge, Miss Hall replied, ''Well, you could kill your husband first.
Once, when a caller asked how she might kill a tree without her husband's knowledge, Miss Hall replied, ''Well, you could kill your husband first.
She was predeceased by her husband, Joseph S. Kornfeld.
In 1978, she established a foundation in the name of her husband and herself, which awards grants in medical research and related fields.
Her husband, Howard B. Adelmann , a scholar in the the history of science, died in 1988.
      
Her husband, who was ill and lived in a nursing home in Gig Harbor, Wash., died Monday.
Her husband, who was ill and lived in a nursing home in Gig Harbor, Wash., died Monday.
Miss Ball, noted for impeccable timing, deft pantomime and an endearing talent for making the outrageous believable, was a Hollywood legend: a contract player at RKO in the 1930's and 40's who later bought the studio with Desi Arnaz, her first husband.
The series, on CBS, chronicled the life of Lucy and Ricky Ricardo, a Cuban band leader played by Mr. Arnaz, who was Miss Ball's husband on and off screen for nearly 20 years.
Also, starting in 1968, she and her second husband, Gary Morton, a former nightclub comic, headed Lucille Ball Productions.
'' A Regular on the Radio
        In radio, Miss Ball did regular stints on Phil Baker's and Jack Haley's comedy-variety shows in the late 30's and 40's and, from 1947 to 1951, she played the precursor to Lucy: the hare-brained wife of a Midwestern banker (Lee Bowman and later Richard Denning) in the CBS radio comedy ''My Favorite Husband.
''
        For many years she and Mr. Morton had homes in Beverly Hills and Palm Springs and in Snowmass, Colo.
        Miss Ball is survived by her husband, her daughter, her son and three grandchildren.
Ms. Klein is survived by her husband, Erwin Fleissner; two daughters, Jennifer and Katherine; her brother, Victor; and her mother, Sadie, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Willliam; her mother, Sheila Brodie of Manchester, Vt.; a son, Andrew Hultkrans of Manhattan, a brother, Franklin Driggs of Brooklyn, and a sister, Jean Pfister of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, Chet Gierlach, of Pelham, N.Y.
      
With her husband, Louis, she worked in the family's first store on Greenwich Avenue, opened in 1946.

       Natasha Galitzine Romanov, whose husband was a nephew of Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, died March 28 in Woodside, Calif. She was 82 years old.
Natasha Galitzine Romanov, whose husband was a nephew of Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, died March 28 in Woodside, Calif. She was 82 years old.
Survivors include her husband, their daughter, Marina Beadleston of Aspen, Colo., and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Glushien is survived by her husband, Morris; two daughters, Minna Taylor, of Los Angeles, and Ruth Wedgwood, of Darien, Conn., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Poliak and her husband, Saul, president of Kotch & Poliak Inc., a New York concern that produces industrial expositions and conferences, donated $3 million to establish the Columbia center in 1983.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Poliak is survived by a brother, Edmund Perls of Miami.
      
Her late husband, Gardner, was the seventh president of the museum.
She and her husband, Adolph, came to the United States through the Netherlands in 1941.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Welles is survived by two daughters, Serena Moss of Coral Gables, Fla., and Merida Welles Holman of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      

       Marian Tyler Chase, co-author of several books with her husband, the economist Stuart Chase, died of pneumonia May 4 at a nursing home in Danbury, Conn. She was 92 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Marian Tyler Chase, co-author of several books with her husband, the economist Stuart Chase, died of pneumonia May 4 at a nursing home in Danbury, Conn. She was 92 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Mrs. Chase, a native of Detroit, was a violinist who performed with the Danbury Symphony Orchestra.

       Marian Tyler Chase, co-author of several books with her husband, the economist Stuart Chase, died of pneumonia May 4 at a nursing home in Danbury, Conn. She was 92 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Marian Tyler Chase, co-author of several books with her husband, the economist Stuart Chase, died of pneumonia May 4 at a nursing home in Danbury, Conn. She was 92 years old and lived in Redding, Conn.
        Mrs. Chase, a native of Detroit, was a violinist who performed with the Danbury Symphony Orchestra.
She later abandoned acting to write scripts for her husband, the producer Louis Lewyn.
Dr. Conkey is survived by her husband, Dr. Sidney B. Rosenbluth.
      
Her husband, Dr. William Crawford White, died in 1962.
Her husband, Elmer Walton Bobst, died in 1978.
Her husband of five years, the actor and filmmaker Gene Wilder, was at her side.
In Several Films
        After ''Saturday Night Live'' she appeared in several films, including ''First Family'' and ''The Woman in Red,'' a 1984 hit written and directed by her co-star and future husband, Mr. Wilder.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert; two sons, Jonathan, of Tenafly, and Joseph, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Rachel, of San Francisco, and a brother, Michael Bernstein, of Murray Hill, N.J.
      
Collaborated With Her Husband
        In 1957, she and another Fulbright student, Harvey Fischtrom, were married and began a children's-book collaboration that was to last until her husband's death in 1974.
Collaborated With Her Husband
        In 1957, she and another Fulbright student, Harvey Fischtrom, were married and began a children's-book collaboration that was to last until her husband's death in 1974.
Correction:  May 26, 1989, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about Maggi McNellis Newhouse, former host of radio and television talk shows, misidentified her late husband, Clyde Newhouse.
She is survived by her husband, C. Hooker,; a son, Douglas, of Darien; two stepsons, Niall and Oisin, both of Manhattan, and her mother, Dorothy Black of Darien.
      
She is survived by her husband, Allen Solomon; a daughter, Laurie Rudach of Kyoto, Japan; her mother, Dina Heiblum of Brooklyn, and a sister, Claire Kotchmar of Thiells, N.Y.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Izetta Jewel Smith of Portland, Ore.; a son, Rex W. D. Smith 3d.
Her husband died in 1966.
      
Miss Milanov left the Met from 1947 to 1951, returning to Yugoslavia with her husband.
She is survived by her husband.
      
After her first husband's death in the early 1950's, she married Roger Griswold in 1960.
Mrs. Waldman is survived by her husband, Walter, and her mother, Frieda S. Berg, also of Riverdale.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Sidney L. Tamarin.
      
Mrs. Waldman is survived by her husband, Walter, and her mother, Frieda S. Berg, also of Riverdale.
      
Surviving are her husband, Forrest E. Mars Sr., the former head of the company, of Las Vegas, Nev.; two sons, Forrest Jr. and John; a daughter, Jacqueline Mars Vogel; 10 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Edward; five daughters, Angela Weisl and Cassandra, both of Brooklyn, Elizabeth, of Manhattan, Lindsay, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Brooke, of Vienna; a sister, Elinor Hurwitz, and her mother, Gertrude Lander, both of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Haas and her husband had been active in the French Resistance in World War II and were arrested by the Gestapo and sent to separate German concentration camps for the duration of the war.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Albert Haas, retired professor of experimental rehabilitation medicine at New York University; a son, Dr. Francois of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Howard, a chairman of First National City Bank of New York, now Citicorp, and founding chairman of WNET, died in 1980.
Surviving are her husband, Benedict; two stepdaughters, Jane Yedlin of Providence, R.I., and Nancy Yedlin of New Haven; a stepson, Charles, of Princeton, and her parents, Jan and William McCartin of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michael, and her parents, Sigmund and Sophie Goracy of Staten Island.
      

       Elsa Adler Bass, who with her first husband, Dr. Clarence Adler, operated a summer music colony at Lake Placid for almost 40 years, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Elsa Adler Bass, who with her first husband, Dr. Clarence Adler, operated a summer music colony at Lake Placid for almost 40 years, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Adler's second husband, John Bass, died in 1978.
Surviving are her husband, Myron; two daughters, Toni and Jane, of Manhattan, and her parents, Herman and Alice Levine of Bayside, Queens.
      
She is survived by her husband, James; two sons, Matthew and Joshua; a daughter, Margaret, of Monmouth Hills, N.J., and a brother, Dawes Walter of Wilton, Conn.
      
'' Studied at Parsons School
        Mrs. Newhouse, who stood 5 feet tall - only 3 inches shorter than her husband - was the former Mitzi Epstein.
Although her husband was not noted for gregariousness, Mrs. Newhouse managed to involve him in her world of society and high fashion, and they were inveterate first-nighters at New York theaters.
She was born in Baltimore and was a co-founder, with her husband, Carl W. Buchheister, of the Audubon Camp on Hog Island, Maine.
Mrs. Buchheister's husband died in 1986.
Her husband, Russell K. Jones, retired vice president of the now-defunct advertising agency Cunningham & Walsh, died in 1986.

       Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberties advocate and writing assistant to Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, her former husband, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Saturday after suffering a stroke.
Jane Cheney Spock, a civil liberties advocate and writing assistant to Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, her former husband, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center Saturday after suffering a stroke.
Surviving are her husband, Bingham Morris; a sister, Winifred d'Olier Jr., of Villanova, Pa.; three children, Mrs. Onassis and Mrs. Ross, both of Manhattan, and James Lee Auchincloss of Washington; three stepchildren, Hugh D. Auchincloss Jr. of Manhattan and Newport, Nina Straight of Bethesda, Md., and Thomas Gore Auchincloss of Eagle Bridge, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and stepgrandchildren and a great-granddaughter.
      
Ms. Naylor's late husband was the painter Misha Reznikoff.
Mrs. Tanner, who lived in Santa Cruz, is survived by her husband, Jim Moore; two daughters, Elna Brunckhorst of Berkeley and Elizabeth Brunckhorst of Felton, Calif.; a stepmother, Edith Tanner of Green Bay, Wis.; a brother, Tom Tanner of Yorkville, Ill., and a grandson.
      
Survivors include her husband, the Rev.
Survivors include her husband, the Rev.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. F. Mitchell Cummins; a daughter, Rosamond Mitchell Cummins of Boston, and a son, Christopher K. Cummins, of Manhattan.
      
Miss French is survived by her husband, Jerry Hammer, of Manhattan, and her stepsons, Michael, of Boston, and Todd, of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Mertz, who lived in Rye, N.Y., had traveled to Seattle with her husband, James M. Mertz, for a Navy reunion.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children, James B. Brickell Jr. of Sykesville, Md., and Allegra Mertz Torrey of Rowayton, Conn.; a brother, Arthur Knapp Jr. of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Marina Beach of Rye, and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, R. L. Ireland 3d; her mother, Julia Armstrong Kaufman of New Orleans; two sons, Thomas and Robert of Manhattan; two daughters, Julia of Manhattan and Nancy Stahl of Millbrook; a brother, Zeb Mayhew of Atlanta, and four granddaughters.
      
She and her husband, Jack, were founders in the mid-1960's of Prism, a literary review, and were also co-founders this year of the Stadler Center for Poetry at Bucknell University.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Anne Klass of Washington; a son, John, of Hanover, N.H.; two sisters, Elizabeth Rosenfeld of Larchmont, N.Y. and Bernice Newmark of West Palm Beach, and one grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband.
      
For many years, Mrs. Messmore helped her husband, Carman, an art dealer, establish many notable collections of old masters.
She is survived by her husband, Dragoljub Trailovic.
      
Her husband, Tom, the deputy director of the United States Agency for International Development in Ethopia, was also killed in the crash.
Mr. Worrick and her husband went to Africa with the Peace Corps in 1971 and stayed on, pursuing their own careers.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Lester; a daughter, Judith Aviva Lyons of New Rochelle; a son, George David Lyons of West Harrison, Ind., and one granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Varese wrote a biography of her husband, ''Varese: A Looking-Glass Diary,'' which was published in 1972.
She is survived by her husband, Robert; two children, Sarah M. and David, both of New Canaan, and two sisters, Eleanor M. Crowe of Granby, Conn., and Georgiana M. Baker of Cary, N.C.
      
With her husband, Lewis, a retired executive, Mrs. Schott supported the University of Florida and its law school, from which she graduated.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Lady de Rothschild of London; two sons, Nash, of Washington, and Steven, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
After Mrs. Keats spent several years doing freelance editing for publishers including Bantam, Pyramid and Henry Holt, she and her husband, Nathan, started Keats Publishing, which concentrated on health-care publications.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Ivy Alvorado of Stamford.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Pamela, of Manhattan; a son, Michael, of Paris, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stanley, a retired civil court judge, and two children, Elizabeth and Marc, both of Manhattan.
      
''Over at Uncle Joe's,'' published in 1947, was a personal account of her life among the Russians in wartime and postwar Moscow in the 10 months she spent there with her husband.
Surviving are her husband, Marvin; two sons, John, of Princeton, N.J., and Richard, of Randolph, N.J.; a daughter, Barbra London of West Orange, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      
She was born around the turn of the century in Paris - she was never very specific about her birth date - to the former Emily Key Hoffman, an American, and her husband, Frederick Y. Dalziel, who was Scottish.
''Her thought process was very original,'' said Bill Blass, who became a friend of Mrs. Vreeland and her husband, who died in 1966.
She is survived by her husband, Alastair B.; a son, Robin, of Washington; a daughter, Dorothy B. Moore of Greenwich, Conn., and six grandchildren.
      
Weak Competitor in '39
        Mrs. Schiff bought a controlling interest in The Post in 1939 from J. David Stern at the urging of her second husband, George Backer.
After Mrs. Schiff's parents died in 1931, she said, she told her husband: ''My God, I'm rich at last!
Mrs. Hanfield is survived by her husband, DeWitt C.; a stepdaughter, Drew, of Jackman, N.H.; two brothers, Vincent Russo of Brooklyn and Ralph Russo of Staten Island, and a sister, Anna DeMaio of Toms River, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband Rabbi Arthur J. Zuckerman; a daughter, Carla Friedman of Toms River, N.J.; a son, Stephen Crohn of Manhattan; a sister, Betty Goren of Washington; a brother, David Goren of Philadelphia; three stepchildren, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frank H.; three children, Judith Thoms of Manhattan, Allan, of Seattle, Deborah, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Webster Aitken, a concert pianist, died in 1981.
      
She is survived by her husband, Tom Ewell; two daughters, Carly and Courtney; her mother, Mary Shickert of Wilmington, N.C.; a sister, Denise Simpson of Durham, N.C., and a brother, Ken Simpson, of Washington.
      
She met her husband in the Sevastopol railroad station, she often recalled, when she was trying to escape with her family's jewels.
In 1928, with her husband's support, she opened a shop on Madison Avenue stocked with 13 dresses from her own wardrobe.
Her husband died in 1974.
Surviving are her husband; the two children of her first marriage, Mark West of Rochester and Francesca Watson of the Philippines ; her mother, Eleanor Ruetz of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Vera McKenna of Portland.
'' A Rented Sewing Machine
        The designer had immigrated to California from her native Krakow, Poland, in 1941 with her husband, Jan Erteszek, a lawyer.
With Olga designing and her husband directing the business, the Olga Company reached a volume of $67 million when it was sold to Warnaco in 1984.
In addition to winning many industry awards, Olga and her husband were honored for their community and humanitarian work.

       Genia Nemenoff, a pianist who toured widely in the 1940's and 1950's as part of a duo with her husband, the pianist Pierre Luboshutz, died of heart failure on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Genia Nemenoff, a pianist who toured widely in the 1940's and 1950's as part of a duo with her husband, the pianist Pierre Luboshutz, died of heart failure on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Nemenoff and Mr. Luboschutz began to curtail their performing career in the early 1960's, when they accepted teaching posts at the New England Conservatory and Michigan State University, and Miss Nemenoff continued to teach privately after her husband's death in 1971.
She is survived by her husband, A. Gary; a son by a previous marriage, Leonard O. Baron of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Susan Hartman of Carson City, Nev., and three grandchildren.
      
In the early 1970's, she and her husband, George, a physician, formed Asphalt Green Inc. in an effort to salvage the abandoned Municipal Asphalt Plant at York Avenue and 90th Street.
She is survived by her husband, David Farrell; her mother, Susan Paduano of Queens, and two sisters, Susan DeLuca of Bethpage, L.I., and Teresa Gentile of Queens.
      
Dr. Brown leaves her husband, Dr. Edward E. Shev, a neurologist; a daughter, Ann Elizabeth Shev-Dearborn of Tilton, N.H.; two stepchildren, Randall Shev of San Jose, Calif., and Karen Dunn of Ithaca, N.Y., and two sisters, Kay Cunningham of Phoenix and Barbara Holekamp of St. Louis.
      
But for decades afterward, Miss Davis publicly battled with the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, insisting that she had bestowed her first husband's middle name on the Oscar.
I named it after the rear end of my husband.
''
        Miss Davis's second husband, Arthur Farnsworth, a businessman, died of head injuries suffered in a fall in 1943.
She is survived by her husband, Denis Nahum; a daughter, Angela, of Bogota; her parents, Maurice and Beatrice Lernoux of Hemet, Calif.; and a sister, Lisa, of San Diego.
      
Mrs. Liotta was an alumna of New York University, Surviving are her husband, Silvester; a daughter, Anita Ness of Bricktown, N.J.; two sons, Michael, of Coram, L.I., and Alfred, of Yonkers, and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Letra Rice of Daytona Beach, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Danica Ridgeway of Summit, and eight grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was suicide, said her husband, Richard.
The cause of death was suicide, said her husband, Richard.
Dr. Grambs is survived by her husband, Harold; two daughters, Marya, of San Francisco and Sarah, of Philadelphia; a son, Peter, of New York City, and two grandchildren.
      
In 1966, after the death of her first husband, she married Dr. Barnett Malbin of Detroit, who died in 1985.
She is survived by her 83-year-old husband, Franz Josef II, the world's longest-ruling head of state.
Dr. Izenzon founded the rehabilitation program in 1974 with her husband, David Izenzon, an artist and musician who died of a heart attack in 1977.
She is survived by her husband, Erich G. Linker; two sons, Erich G. Linker Jr., of Garden City, L.I., and Stephen K. Linker of Flourtown; a sister, Phyllis Bortz, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marvin; a daughter, a son, her mother, three sisters, seven brothers and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sidney Hill; two stepsons, Lawrence, of Boca Raton, Fla., and James, of Manhattan, and four step-grandsons.
      
These novels also included sharp-edged portraits of many of Miss McCarthy's friends and lovers: her second husband, the critic Edmund Wilson, was portrayed as a loud, unappealing intellectual in ''A Charmed Life''; and Rahv, her roommate and mentor as editor of The Partisan Review, turned up in ''The Oasis'' (1949).
''  'Dickensian Cruelty'
        In fact, both he and his wife died in the great flu epidemic of 1918, and the 6-year-old Mary and her three brothers were sent to live with their great-aunt Margaret and her husband in Minneapolis.
In addition to her husband and son, Miss McCarthy is survived by two stepsons, Daniel West of Los Angeles and Jonathan West of Lodz, Poland; a stepdaughter, Alison West of Manhattan; two brothers, Kevin, of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Preston, of Millsboro, Del., and two grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Richard Larson; her mother, Eva Schmir of Passaic, N.J.; three sons, Bruce of Washington and Philip and Gordon of Oak Park; and two brothers, Gaston Schmir of Hamden, Conn., and Dr. Maurice Schmir of York, Me.
      
She is survived by her husband, Pierre; two sons, John, of Paris, and James, of Rochester; a daughter, Juliet, of Watertown, Mass.
She was co-author with her husband, Jacques, the Benjamin F. Barge Professor of French at Yale University, of ''The Modern French Theater from Giraudoux to Genet,'' published by Yale University Press.
She is survived by her husband and a brother, Robert Beckelman of Yardley, Pa.
      
Surviving are her husband, Elton Fax, an artist, and her brother, Edward Murrell, of Fayette, Me.
Her husband, Fritz C. Staupers, died in 1949.
She is survived by her husband, Richard Noyes Viets, an American diplomat; three daughters, Alexandra, of Manhattan and Katrina and Marynka of Middleburg, and by a son from a previous marriage, Mark Grabowski of Baltimore.
      
''
        During her retirement, she and her husband, the late Harold Cash, a sculptor, maintained the Cash family farm.
Surviving are her husband, Alan; a daughter, Laurie, and a son, Gordon, both of New York, and a sister, Alice Glass of Plano, Tex.
      
Mrs. Bennett is survived by her husband, Wilbur.
      
In her memoirs, ''The Only Way,'' published in Paris, Havana and Mexico in 1962-63, La Pasionaria wrote curiously little about her husband, by whom she had six children, including three girls born as triplets in 1923.
She was separated from her husband, Mr. Ruiz, in the 1930's.
She also wrote the text for a book of drawings from a hospital bed by her husband, Vittorio Scarpati, an artist who died of AIDS in September.
She is survived by her husband, Walter Beinecke Jr., and four daughters: Melissa Gilbert of Whitman, Mass.
She is survived by her husband and by their son, Nicolas H. Ekstrom.
      
She is survived by her husband, Walter Beinecke Jr., and four daughters: Melissa Gilbert of Whitman, Mass.
Mrs. Serger was born in Silesia, now part of Poland, and collected art in the 1930's with her husband, Frederick, an artist.
She is survived by her husband, Francis; a son, John, of Salt Lake City; a daughter, Patricia Phillips of Fairfield, Conn.; six grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Albert D. Firestone.
      
Mrs. Ross is survived by her husband, Frank.
      
Leader in Philadelphia
        Mrs. Alexander practiced law with her husband, Raymond Pace Alexander, a Harvard Law School graduate, until he became a judge in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia.
She is survived by her husband, Jay Talbott, of Shaker Heights; her son, Jeffrey Farrar, of Kitty Hawk, N.C., and her mother, Alice Farrar, of Nashua, N.H.
      
In a typical ''our crowd'' twist, one of her husband's partners wed her sister, and the firm later merged with Lehman Brothers, the family firm.
Mrs. Buttenwieser and her husband frequently opened their home to foster children.
When asked how she had been able to accomplish so much, she often credited ''a good husband.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Frances L. Loeb of Manhattan; three sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, Peter, of Philadelphia, and Paul, of Boston; nine grandchildren and one great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Roy; three daughters, Abigail and Letitia, both of Manhattan, and Cordelia Laverack of Darien, Conn.; a son, Roy Jr., of Manhattan, and a grandchild.
      
Her husband, the late Cary Robertson, was the longtime Sunday editor of The Louisville Courier-Journal.
She came to the United States in 1940, when the Nazis invaded Belgium, with her American husband, Sylvain, a diamond merchant, and their infant daughter.
Her husband died in 1968.
She is survived by her husband, Harvey Dzodin, a vice president of Capital Cities/ABC Inc.; her parents, Francis and Marjorie Northrop of Bridgeton, Mo., and a brother, David, of Redlands, Calif.
      
She is survived by her husband, James L., a judge on the United States Court of International Trade; two daughters, Karen Allen and Kris, both of Manhattan; a son from a former marriage, Norman A. Jenkins, also of Manhattan; a sister, Novella Turner of Portland, Me.
She is survived by her husband, Max; three sons, Jeffrey, of Long Beach, Calif., Paul, of Teaneck, N.J., and David, of Highland Park, Ill., and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jesse; two sons, David, of Great Neck, and Louis, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Miriam Harris of Great Neck; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
With her husband, Alister, she was instrumental in getting news out during the military overthrow of Maurice Bishop in 1983.
Along with her husband, she is survived by two daughters and a son.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Henry; a daughter, Anita Greenbaum-Brush of Auburndale, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Schnitzer, of Weston.
      
She was born in Colorado, She moved to South Florida with her husband, Webster (Doc) Robinson, because of her health.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, head of the Peter Tishman Real Estate Company; three stepchildren, Linda, Anita and Steven Tishman, all of Manhattan; her mother, Evelyn Rothenberg, also of Manhattan, and a brother, Donald Rothenberg of Babylon, L.I.
      
Her husband, Walter Reade Jr., a theater impresario, died in 1973.
Mrs. Robinson, a native of Colorado, moved to South Florida with her husband, Webster (Doc) Robinson, for health reasons.
      

       Leda Anchutina Eglevsky, who danced in George Balanchine's first American ballet companies and founded the Eglevsky Ballet with her husband, Andre Eglevsky, was found dead yesterday morning in bed at her home in Massapequa, L.I.
Always reluctant to give her age, Miss
        Leda Anchutina Eglevsky, who danced in George Balanchine's first American ballet companies and founded the Eglevsky Ballet with her husband, Andre Eglevsky, was found dead yesterday morning in bed at her home in Massapequa, L.I.
Like her husband, whom she married in the late 1930's, Miss Anchutina drew on training with Fokine and Balanchine for her stagings of ballets for the Eglevsky Ballet, which was founded in 1961.
In addition to her father, she is survived by her husband, Robert, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, at Stanford University, and by their children, Laura, 21, and John, 20.
      
In addition to her father, she is survived by her husband, Robert, a senior research fellow at the Hoover Institution on War, Revolution and Peace, at Stanford University, and by their children, Laura, 21, and John, 20.
      
During their 33-year marriage, Mrs. Hammer regularly traveled with her husband, the 91-year-old founder and chairman of the Occidental Petroleum Corporation, on trips to foster business, East-West trade, benefactions and art collecting.
The couple had been acquainted for many years and were married in early 1956, after the death of Mrs. Hammer's first husband, Dr. Elmer Tolman, of Lake Forest, Ill., and Dr. Hammer's divorce from his second wife.
Mrs. Hammer was also a charter board member of the Armand Hammer United World College of the American West in Montezuma, Colo., and a frequent participant in conferences on world peace and human rights sponsored by her husband.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Hammer is survived by three sisters, Margaret Vandergrift, of Los Angeles, Catherine Barrett, of Chicago, and Helen Andrews, of New York City.
      
She became a freelance writer and, with her husband, was the co-author of several books, including ''Borderlands'' published in 1962 by Alfred A. Knopf.
She is survived by her husband, Jules L. Green of Manhattan; a son, Morley Anthony Stern of Los Angeles; a daughter, Susan Cookson of Southfield, Mass.
''
        Miss Gibbons's second husband, the actor and singer Allan Webb, died in 1959.
      
She was active in the fight for the passage of the Equal Rights Amendment and was supported in this by her late husband, the Rev.
Mrs. Bachner, a graduate of St. Lawrence University, and her husband, Lester, a Manhattan lawyer who died in 1976, were avid tournament bridge players and won the National Mixed Team Championship in 1932.
Mrs. Wood and her husband, Peter, a writer, bought The Times, a weekly newspaper, in 1986.
Her husband, Donald Briggs, an actor, died in 1986.
She is survived by her husband, Thomas; a son, John, of Brookfield, Wis.; a brother, Thomas Cronyn of Plandome; a sister, Nancy C. Knox of Darien, Conn., and one grandson.
      
Mrs. Wolberg and her late husband.
