'' When Barnard officials referred to her in news releases as ''Dr.,'' she chided them, saying, ''There is only one doctor in our family,'' referring to her husband, Dr. Rustin McIntosh, a pediatrician who taught at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons.
After her retirement in 1962, she and her husband moved to their farm in Tyringham, Mass.
Her husband died in 1986.
''
        As she balanced career and home, Mrs. McIntosh acknowledged both her husband's support and good household help (which at one point included a governess, a cook and two daily helpers).
Her husband died in 1952.

        Chrissie Collins, who with her husband devised and promoted what became the MedicAlert bracelet as a way to provide emergency medical information, died on Jan. 8 in Turlock, Calif. She was 94.
In 1953, Mrs. Collins and her husband, Marion, were vacationing away from Turlock, in the Central Valley of California, when their daughter Linda, a high school sophomore, cut her finger while playing with an air rifle.
Her husband died in 1977.
The cause of death was liver cancer, said her husband, Frank Ball.
In 1986, Ms. Ball and her husband formed the retail management company Ball Group Inc.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ball is survived by her mother, Lillian Harwell Carter of Pulaski, Tenn.; a sister, Paige Carter Garner of Nashville; and a daughter, Jayne Denison Ball of the Marshall Islands.
      
Umberto and Maria José moved to Portugal even before the results of the referendum were made known, and she left her husband after a year and set up home in an 18th-century villa near Geneva, where members of the ousted dynasty spent their exile.
She will be buried next to her husband in Hauntecombe Abbey, in France, where many rulers of the Savoy dynasty are interred.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband, Timothy DeWitt, an architect, of Mariposa, Calif.; and two sons, Noe, of Manhattan, and Jeremy, of Seattle.
      

        Kate Born Schaeffer, a longtime partner with her husband at Schaeffer Galleries in Manhattan, which became known for selling art by old masters to museums and collectors, died on Dec. 20 at her home in Manhattan.
For three decades Mrs. Schaeffer and her husband, Dr. Hanns Schaeffer, ran the New York Schaeffer Galleries, which was founded in 1936 and has been at 983 Park Avenue in Manhattan for more than 50 years.
Her husband opened an art gallery in 1921 in Berlin and later operated galleries in London and San Francisco.
Her husband, William Boone Nauts, who died about a decade ago, was a banker, and Mrs. Nauts raised her children, did volunteer work and some landscape design.
''
        In the years that followed, Mrs. Nauts wrote thousands of letters to doctors and patients who had used her husband's methods, seeking specifics about their cases.
While in law school, she met her future husband, Herbert Burstein.
They married in 1937, and Justice Burstein became an associate at her husband's law firm when she finished law school.
She was 81 and had chronic heart disease, said her husband, Peter Geach.
Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.
'' Her husband said that may have been an overstatement.
Miss Anscombe and her husband were a well-known philosophical duo.
Diary items about the royal couple identified them simply as ''HRH Princess Margaret and her husband.
In addition to her husband and her son (also a writer), both of Manhattan; Mrs. Hathaway, of Newton, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Frank Steindler; a daughter, Catherine Steindler; a son, Frederick Steindler; and two sisters, Elizabeth Baker and Anne Baker, all of New York.
      

        Kitty Buck, who with her husband, Otto, ran Cake Masters Bakery, an institution on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that made cakes for Liberace, President Kennedy and Elizabeth Taylor -- and for less famous families' celebrations -- for more than half a century, died on Jan. 9 in Oceanside, N.Y.
        She was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
''This is my husband's sweat and blood,'' she said, according to family lore.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ariane Sutowski of San Diego, and a sister, Jeanette Errio of Vence, France.
      
Mrs. Gwathmey, whose husband died in 1988, is survived by her son and two grandchildren.
After her husband's death, in 1959, she went back to work to support her three children, two of whom had polio.
Ms. Letheren is survived by her husband, Michael, and a son, Dan.
In 1992, she and her co-authors, Jorgen Randers and Dr. Dennis L. Meadows, her former husband, published an update, ''Beyond the Limits: Confronting Global Collapse, Envisioning a Sustainable Future.
She and her former husband founded the International Network of Research Information Centers, in which they organized training programs and workshops in resource management in Europe, Central America, Africa, Asia and the United States.
Her former husband lives in Durham, N.H.
In addition to her son, of Chicago, Dr. Vermeule is survived by her husband, the archaeologist Cornelius Clarkson Vermeule III of Cambridge, and a daughter, Blakey Vermeule of Chicago.
      
Mrs. Colbert moved to the United States from Berlin in 1936 and started her management company with her husband, Henry Colbert, in 1948.
Her other sister, Lillian, and her husband, Stanley Wilson, founded one of the first local chapters, in the Bronx.
'' Some friends said they thought Mrs. Lindbergh had written the book at least partly to please her husband, who at that time was an ardent advocate of the United States' staying out of the war.
Mrs. Lindbergh herself later acknowledged that she and her husband had been ''both very blind, especially in the beginning, to the worst evils of the Nazi system.
''
        In her diary volume called ''War Within and Without'' (1980), she said she experienced a ''profound feeling of grief'' over what her husband had said and decided it was ''at best unconsciously a bid for anti-Semitism.
Mrs. Lindbergh went with her husband, who was active in commercial aviation and scientific research, on many aerial journeys to Europe, to Asia, and to the Caribbean, where he was charting airplane routes.
That same year she was co-pilot and navigator when her husband broke the transatlantic speed record.
She accompanied her husband on his visits to aviation-industry plants in France and in Nazi Germany.
Mrs. Lindbergh accompanied her husband to gatherings of isolationists and did not take public exception to his views.
A. Scott Berg's 1998 biography of her husband, ''Lindbergh'' (Putnam), which drew on previously inaccessible family papers provided by Mrs. Lindbergh, showed that she was more aware of the flaws in Charles Lindbergh's character than had been thought.
Mr. Berg reported problems in Mrs. Lindbergh's marriage that were painful for her, among them her husband's frequent absences, his bossiness, argumentativeness and emotional remoteness.
But she did not leave her husband for Saint-Exupéry, who already had both a wife and a paramour.
Mrs. Lindbergh suffered from depression and in defiance of her husband had daily psychotherapy sessions for a time, wrote Susan Hertog, a freelance journalist and photographer, in her biography ''Anne Morrow Lindbergh'' (Doubleday, 1999).
My husband switched off the motor.
'' said my husband, not knowing whether to laugh or not, as he looked at the four lone houses.
We must be open to all points of the compass: husband, children, friends, home, community; stretched out, exposed, sensitive like a spider's web to each breeze that blows, to each call that comes.

        Dale Evans, who won the hearts of millions of Americans as she rode alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the early years of television, died yesterday at her home in Apple Valley, Calif., east of Los Angeles.
Miss Evans was no señorita -- at the time, she was married to her second husband, Robert Dale Butts, a pianist.
''
        Miss Evans wore outfits of fringes, satins and studs that were every bit as sartorially splendid as those sported by her husband.
More recently she was active as a supporter of the Mount Sinai Hospital and Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she and her husband established a scholarship fund in memory of their son Robert H. Kaufman.
Ms. Converse played feature roles in plays like ''Othello,'' ''Wuthering Heights,'' ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' ''The Corn Is Green'' and ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' in summer stock companies from Tarrytown, N.Y., and Weston, Conn., to Santa Fe, N.M., and Carmel, Calif. She and her husband, the actor Don Porter, appeared together in the national touring companies of ''Any Wednesday,'' ''The Best Man'' and ''Love and Kisses.

        Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Ms. Roth, a television producer, contracted multiple sclerosis 30 years ago and died of complications of the disease, her husband, Michael Tompane, said.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
She is survived by her husband; her mother, Phyllis Feigenbaum of East Norwich; and her brother, Richard Roth of Seattle.
''
        A writer of light verse and memoirs that plumbed her own life, Mrs. Bevington wrote about her world travels, her romance and marriage to her husband, Merle M. Bevington, and even the small-town love affairs of her Methodist minister father.
There she met her husband in a class in romanticism in 1927.
Eventually the couple settled in Durham, N.C., where her husband also joined the Duke University faculty.
She joined the editorial staff at Business Week, where her first husband, Glenn Griswold, was the editor and publisher.
; her parents, Harold and Marcia Bernhardt, of Iron River; and by her husband, Jonathan Bloom, and her children, Alexander and Sonia, all of Brooklyn.
Mrs. Levin, the widow of Philip J. Levin, a lawyer and real estate developer, took over her husband's business after his death in 1971.
Ms. Rutherford, weary of being beaten, surreptitiously relieved her husband of $100, then struck out on her own.
She left show business in the 1950's and in 1953 married her fifth husband, Septimus Rutherford, chief steward for the Moore-McCormack Lines.
When her husband died in 1980, Ms. Rutherford had her name carved into the headstone she and her husband would share, as well as a birth date, Mr. Baker said.
When her husband died in 1980, Ms. Rutherford had her name carved into the headstone she and her husband would share, as well as a birth date, Mr. Baker said.
At first she and her husband took her pottery to cities and fairs to sell.
Mrs. Harding is survived by her husband, John Mason Harding; three sons, the Rev.
In ''Come Dance With Me,'' an autobiography published in 1957, she noted that she was married in 1935, but not once in the book did she mention her husband's name: Dr. Arthur Connell, a physician who died in 1987.
Her husband, William B. Heller, died in 1991.
She is survived by her husband, Capt.
Mrs. Matisse made frequent loans to exhibitions from the collection of modern art she inherited from her husband.
Ms. Karnilova met her husband, the actor George S. Irving, in the cast of ''Call Me Mister'' and married him in 1948.
''
        Surviving are her husband and son, both of Cambridge, and her daughter, Larissa, of Brooklyn.
      
Ms. Straight's husband died in 1990.
Her husband, Bryon O'Leary, an actor who had been a childhood friend and was often thrust aside by ''Forsyte'' fans eager to meet Irene, died in 1970 of an overdose of whiskey and barbiturates.
Believing that the women's movement was overshadowing motherhood, Mrs. Willis and a few like-minded women formed Mothers Matter, an educational group, in Rutherford in 1975, in the home where she and her husband, Benedict, raised six daughters and four sons.
But she and her husband, Benedict P. Willis, also started a series of seminars for fathers, which she continued after his death.
Her husband died in 1988.
The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. William Krakauer.
After leading classes under the sponsorship of René Garmy, a luthier in Aix, Mrs. Krakauer, her husband and Jeaneane Dowis, the pianist, founded their own summer music program in Vaison-la-Romaine, France.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Krakauer is survived by a son, the clarinetist David Krakauer; a daughter, Lisa Schultz, of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Theodore Lieberman of New York; and her mother, Jean H. Lieberman of Florida.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frazer; four children from her first marriage, Martin C. Hersey, John R. Hersey, Ann B. Hersey and Baird Hersey; four stepchildren, Frazer P. Dougherty, Rush H. Dougherty, Ariel M. Dougherty and Page D. Delano; and 14 grandchildren.
      
Her husband died last May at 93.
Dr. Beddington's survivors include her husband, the Rev.
Her husband, Justin O'Brien Haynes, a businessman, died in 1973.
After that she went to her husband's teacher, Redvers Llewellyn, and began to get important roles at Sadler's Wells, including Senta in ''The Flying Dutchman'' in 1964, her first Wagner.
Her husband died in 1994.
Her husband, Howard G. Hymer, predeceased her.
Ms. Berkman founded the American Tractor Corporation with her first husband, Marc.
She was a member of the dean's advisory board at the Harvard Law School, where she established, with her second husband, Jack N. Berkman, the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, a research center on legal issues in the online era.
She gained early recognition with a sociological study conducted in Marienthal, near Vienna, with Hans Zeisel and her first husband, Paul Lazarsfeld.
She met her husband, Tom Lee, in 1937 when she joined Bonwit Teller, where he was then display director.
Mrs. Lee's career changed direction after the death of her husband in an automobile accident in 1971.
At Columbia, she also met her future husband, John Porter Foley Jr., an industrial psychologist.
Ms. Dance -- who often worked  with her husband, the jazz historian and record producer Stanley Dance -- began as a pioneering female jazz critic in the 1930's but soon began to play a role in exposing a wider American audience to jazz.
The family moved to Rowayton, Conn., and from 1964 to 1982, while her husband managed Hines, Ms. Dance ran Hicue, the music publishing company for Hines and Hodges.
And in the 1960's she began a piano duo with her husband, Joel Ryce.
''
        At the height of her influence, she and her first husband, Daniel Bernstein, became known in leftist circles as the place to go for ''the loot,'' as she called it.
According to a daughter, Katharine Bernstein of Brattleboro, Vt., she had not initially been leftist but became increasingly persuaded by her husband's increasingly leftist opinions.
The cause was liver cancer, her husband, Harry Moses, said.
Mrs. Moses, a Fulbright scholar, was an adjunct professor of journalism at the New York University Graduate School of Journalism last year and had taught in 13 African countries since 1991 as part of the United States Information Agency's Visiting Scholars Program, her husband said.
Since 1989, Mrs. Moses had been a principal in the Mosaic Group, a media company she founded with her husband in 1985.
After studying on a Fulbright scholarship in Germany, she worked as a translator, then began her career in news as an associate producer at ABC News, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, a producer for ''60 Minutes II,'' she is survived by their daughter, Anne Moses, and a granddaughter, both of San Francisco.
      
Then, in the 1980's, she essentially checked out of the music business for 16 years when she moved with her husband to his hometown, Detroit, became a homemaker and started a family.
Her husband's death in 1994 was followed a month later by that of her brother Todd, who died of a stroke.
Ms. Moyer and her husband, Britt Bell, founded it in 1984.
Ms. Moyer is survived by her husband; a daughter, Ana Bess; a son, Niall; her parents, Dr. Reed Moyer and Sue Moyer of Palo Alto, Calif.; and two sisters, Dr. Patricia Moyer of Watertown, Mass., and Ellen Moyer of Oakland, Calif.
      
Her first love was the stage, where her Broadway credits included ''All That Glitters'' (1938), ''The Walking Gentleman'' (1942), ''The Overtons'' (1945) and ''The Little Blue Light'' (1951), in which she appeared with Melvyn Douglas, Burgess Meredith and her husband, Martin Gabel.
The sketches were never about very much, often just an idea: a wife trying to hide the fact that she has just smashed up her husband's car, a roof leaking on an elegant dinner party, a catered boardroom lunch that lurches into chaos over who gets the chopped liver as a slavering chairman lusts after a pickle wagged by his vice chairman.
In another, Ms. Coca was a wife posing for her amateur photographer husband, who could not quite satisfy himself about her face.
Mr. Long remembers staring longingly at the slides of the neo-Classical temple that Mrs. Verey's husband, David Verey, an architectural historian, had dismantled in an English park and rebuilt himself, stone by stone.
Her husband laid the path beneath, a mosaic of colorful stone and pebbles collected from the Pembrokeshire beaches.
''So her husband gave her a book on mandrakes that piqued her interest.
By the time her husband died in 1984, she had started a new career, and a garden that would eventually attract 30,000 visitors a year.
Her husband, Harold S. Osborne, died in 1985.
She is survived by her husband, Scott Robertson, and her mother, Ilse Hilliard of Homer City.
During the Nazi siege of Leningrad in World War II, when she was working in a factory and also training to become a teacher, her first husband, Georgi Arapovsky, and her mother-in-law starved to death.
When Mrs. Wirth's husband, Oscar Wirth, died in 1968, she assumed the role of the chairwoman of the Hassler Hotel Company.
''We were much better as friends than as husband and wife,'' she told Mr. Hart, her neighbor.
It was only after she succeeded her father and her husband as president and later publisher of The Washington Post, a newspaper with a modest circulation and more modest reputation, that it moved into the front rank of American newspapers, reaching new heights when its unrelenting reporting of the Watergate scandal contributed to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974.
''
        Mrs. Graham was a socialite mother of four when her husband, Philip L. Graham, committed suicide in 1963.
''
        Mrs. Graham was belittled and silenced by a husband she adored, the man she called ''the fizz'' in her life.
In addition to handling all domestic matters, she paid all their living expenses from her own trust fund so her husband could pay back the debt he incurred buying even more Post stock.
Mrs. Graham was shattered when she discovered that her husband was having an affair with a Newsweek employee.
She resolved not to give her husband a divorce unless he gave up enough controlling stock in the Post to give her majority interest.
''
        Mrs. Graham met with the directors of The Post a month after her husband's death and told them that the paper would not be sold and that it would remain in the family.
Although she had absorbed a great deal over the years from both her father and her husband, she did not feel up to the job as she tried to learn from the top.
It would symbolize her emergence from her dead husband's shadow; she would become her own woman before the entire world.
She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Borgenicht is survived by her sister, Shirley Black Cash of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Westport, Conn.; three daughters from her first marriage, Jan Schwartz of Los Gatos, Calif., Berta B. Kerr of Wilmington, Del., and Lois Borgenicht of Baltimore; a stepdaughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen of New York City; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
Ms. Kushi and her husband, Michio, also taught that entire societies could become disharmonious and aggressive from eating meat and processed foods, undermining world peace.
In her autobiography, ''Aveline: the Life and Dream of the Woman Behind Macrobiotics Today'' (Japan Publications, 1988), Ms. Kushi wrote that she and her husband discovered ''there was almost no good food'' in the United States.
Ms. Kushi is survived by her husband; four sons, Phiya, of Becket, Larry, of New York City, Norio, of Asheville, N.C., and Hisao, of Santa Monica, Calif.; four sisters, Miyako Okada of Tokyo; Atsumi Mimura of Hiroshima, Junko Asano of Japan, and Yoko Kendall of Worthington, Mass.

        Joan Bove, who helped make hair coloring respectable in the 1930's by introducing stylists in America to a product called Clairol that she and her husband discovered in Paris, died Saturday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan.
In 1931, she and her husband, Lawrence M. Gelb, a manufacturer of chemical products, traveled to France in search of new business opportunities and came upon a small company, Mury, that was producing a new kind of hair-coloring preparation called Clairol.
Her third husband, Emilio Bove, an executive with Alitalia, died before her.
Her husband, Fritz Neugarten, died in 1990.
Her husband, Ted U. Klein, died last year.
      
But soon after her marriage in 1923 to Maurice Sens, a tenor at the Comic Opera, she decided to cultivate her voice, with her husband's encouragement.
In 1990 she met her future husband, Barry McGee, also a surfer, and one of several young painters showing in galleries and painting noncommissioned murals on city walls.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Asha, who was born on June 7; her parents, Dena and James Kilgallen, of Rockville, Md.
One of Ms. Foreman's best-known pieces was her 1981 ''Wallwork,'' created with her husband, the composer John Watts, a frequent collaborator who died in 1982.
Her husband, William McGreal, died in 1963.
      
Her second husband, Charles Kebbe, died last year.

        Henrietta Milstein, who bought a clothing factory in Burlington, N.J., with her husband, Monroe, and helped to build it into a chain of retail stores, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
In 1972, Mrs. Milstein advised her husband to buy a former coat factory outlet in Burlington.
Mrs. Milstein continued as a librarian until 1973, helping her husband with the business on weekends.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Princeton, N.J., Mrs. Milstein is survived by three sons, Lazer, of Monsey, N.Y.; and Andrew and Steven, of Princeton.
      
'' Then, cast as Georgette Thomas, a young mother whose husband has deserted her in Mr. Foote's 1954 drama ''The Traveling Lady,'' Ms. Stanley so dominated the stage that she was given star billing two days after the play's premiere.
'' Two years later, in Henry Denker's semi-documentary 1961 play ''A Far Country,'' directed by her husband, Alfred Ryder, Ms. Stanley won praise as a young woman afflicted by hysterical paralysis who is helped by the pioneering work of Sigmund Freud.
The same year, in the British film thriller ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' her portrayal of a sinister London medium who, with her compliant husband (Richard Attenborough), schemes to kidnap a child, won her rave reviews and an Oscar nomination as best actress.
His father was William Brooks Clift Jr., not Ms. Stanley's second husband, Curt Conway.
Barry Hankerson, Aaliyah's uncle, is Ms. Knight's former husband and was the manager of R. Kelly, who specializes in amorous, slow-grind rhythm-and-blues.
She is survived by her father, Willie Hearne; her husband, Robert Tragesser; a daughter from a previous marriage, Colleen Mendelsohn; and a brother, James Hearne.
      
She is survived by her husband, of Bristol, R.I., her mother, a brother and a sister.
Ms. Cobb's first husband, John Parkinson Jr., died in 1973.
Her second husband, Henry Ives Cobb, died in 1999.
Ms. Kiesler studied painting with Hans Hofmann in New York in the 1930's and was introduced to her future husband by the artist Burgoyne Diller.
After her husband's death in 1965, Ms. Kiesler organized his work and papers and placed them at Harvard, Yale and in the Archives of American Art.
She occasionally promoted artists represented by her husband, Joseph A. Lippman, an artists' manager with the Herbert Barrett agency.
''She makes them work,'' says  Mr. Dubé, 62, who met Mrs. Newhouse and her husband 26 years ago.
She met her future husband at a New Hampshire resort.
'' In 1968 she and her husband Derek Waring (as Prince Albert) brought the play to Broadway.
She is survived by her husband, their daughter, Amanda, and son,  Nicholas, both of whom are actors.
Her husband of 20 years, Dennis Revell, a public relations executive in Sacramento, survives her as does a daughter, Rita, whom the couple adopted from Uganda in 1994.
The cause was cancer, her husband, William, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Virginia, of Chicago, and Kimberly, of Yonkers; a son, William, of Mahopac; and her mother, Elizabeth Roos of Yonkers.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Robert J. Quinlan.

        Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan.
Once an ardent partygoer and a devoted fashion buff, Mrs. Scull lived with her husband in an art-filled apartment on upper Fifth Avenue and wore creations by designers like Halston, Adolfo and Yves St. Laurent.
One of her major grievances, she said, was that although she had fully participated in their art purchases, her husband tried to take sole credit for them.
A tall, striking woman with a mane of tawny hair, she met her future husband, when she was 23.
Mrs. Schwartz met her first husband, Max Pulvers, through work, and he, like the husbands of the other sisters, joined the business.
Her second husband, Louis Schwartz, died before her.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said her husband, Arthur.
Barbara Matera Ltd., the shop she founded in 1968 with her husband, produced the costumes seen in the current Broadway productions of ''Beauty and the Beast,''  ''Aida,''  ''The Lion King,''  ''Kiss Me, Kate,''  ''42nd Street'' and the forthcoming ''Mamma Mia.
She also made the purple crystal-encrusted gown that Hillary Rodham Clinton wore at her husband's first presidential inauguration.
''
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, of Lymington, England.
      
In the 1970's, working with her husband, Dr. Julius Fabricant, a microbiologist and bird disease expert at Cornell, Mrs. Fabricant began using chickens to test her theory.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara L. Fabricant of New Albany, Ind.
''When we went to meetings,'' her husband recalled, ''practically everybody called her 'doctor' because, I guess, they assumed that nobody else could have done that sort of thing.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Wheeler is survived by five children, Sallie M. Motch of Cold Spring, N.Y., Robert Motch of Carthage, Mo., Kenneth M. Wheeler Jr. of Memphis, Gordon L. Wheeler of Harrodsburg, Ky., and Douglas B. Wheeler of Keswick, Va., and nine grandchildren.
      
Dr. Calloway is survived by her husband of 20 years, Robert Nesheim of Seattle; a son, David, of Woodland Hills, Calif.; a daughter, Candace Calloway Whiting of Seattle; two stepdaughters, Sandra Rankin of Danbury, Conn., and Barbara Mowry of Denver; and nine grandchildren.

        Alice Stewart Trillin -- an educator, film producer and author also known as the muse of her husband, the humorist Calvin Trillin -- died on Tuesday evening at New York Presbyterian Hospital.
The cause of death was heart failure resulting from radiation damage to her heart when she was treated for lung cancer in 1976, her husband said.
She was what Sarah Lyall in a 1994 interview in The New York Times described as ''muse, cheerleader, literary interpreter, straight person and buster of bubbles,'' often appearing as a character in her husband's books.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Abigail, of San Francisco, and Sarah, of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Olson, 45, was also half of a highly influential couple on Washington's social-political scene; her husband, Theodore B. Olson, an appellate lawyer, successfully argued the Florida election case for George W. Bush before the Supreme Court.
She reported that the flight crew had been herded to the back of the plane with the passengers, and she asked her husband what she should tell the pilot who was apparently beside her while the hijackers were in control of the cockpit.
Mrs. Olson's friends and her husband said her efforts to ''do something'' on the doomed plane were exquisitely in character.
''She never sat back,'' her husband said in an interview.
Mrs. Olson is survived by her brother, David Bracher, and her sister, Antoinette Lawrence, both of Houston, as well as her husband.
      
I have this fabulous husband, the man I always wanted to marry.
''
        Ms. Raines is survived by her husband, Stephen Push, a former vice president for corporate communications at Genzyme; her father, Arthur Raines of Lovettsville, Va.; her mother, Marilyn Raines of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas Raines, of Wayland, Mass.
      
It also starred James Dunn, who won an Oscar as best supporting actor for his performance as Miss McGuire's doomed husband; Peggy Ann Garner, who received a special Oscar for her role as their daughter Francie; Joan Blondell; and Lloyd Nolan.
She went on tour with the play in June 1942 and a year later arrived in Hollywood to recreate the role on film with Robert Young as her husband, David.
After her husband's death, she accepted fewer roles.
Her husband, James H. Crawford, died several years ago after 54 years of marriage.
The cause was diabetes, said Clarence Williams 3rd, her former husband.
Mrs. Dannheisser bought a building on Duane Street in TriBeCa for the display of the collection and, with an allowance from her husband, began actively purchasing works by neo-Expressionist and graffiti artists.
Her husband died in 1992, and there are no immediate survivors.
Her husband, Dr. Irwin H. Kaiser, whom she married in 1938, died in 1999.

        Ruth Goetz, a playwright who collaborated with her husband, Augustus Goetz, on ''The Heiress'' and other plays, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey.
Searching for a subject, Mrs. Goetz suggested to her husband that they dramatize ''Washington Square,'' about a domineering father and his painfully shy daughter.
On her own, Mrs. Goetz wrote ''Sweet Love Remember'd,'' a play about her husband.
Ms. Jones is survived by her husband, John Medlock, of Washington; a granddaughter, Lia Greatheart-Mitchell of Mount Vernon; and sisters Edna Taylor of Akron, Ohio, and Georgia Johnson of Aiken.
During World War II, Lady Jean worked in the Child Recovery Bureau of the Women's Voluntary Service finding homes for orphans, while her husband performed secret missions as a soldier in China.
The cause of death was uncertain pending an autopsy, said her husband, Roger Donald, who said his wife had had respiratory problems.
''
        In addition to her husband, Ms. van der Vlis is survived by a son, Matthew, of Los Angeles, and a daughter, Adrienne of New York.
      
Ms. Shanahan said: ''I had always assumed that I was the victim of a degree of salary discrimination, probably on the unjust rationale that I didn't need the money because I had a husband with a good job.
Surviving are her husband, Bart Rhoades; two stepsons, Andrew and Matthew Rhoades; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Rhoades; and a sister,  Nhumey Tropp.
      
Dr. Myers's husband, Dennis Hengeveld, died in 1983.
Her husband, Ben Rogers, was a radio personality in Houston and a member of a musical group called Hawaiian Strummers.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
Mrs. Ash's third husband, Mel Ash, who was in the wholesale gift business, died in 1980.
She is survived by her husband  and a sister, Miriam Siegel of Lutz, Fla.
      
Her husband, Ben Rogers, was a radio personality in Houston and a member of a musical group called the Hawaiian Strummers.
Her second husband planned to go into the business with her but died of a heart attack a month before the start of the business.
Mrs. Ash's third husband, Mel Ash, who was in the wholesale gift business, died in 1980.
She and her husband, Dr. Bernard Berkowitz, a psychologist and psychiatrist, wrote ''How to Be Your Best Friend'' (Random House, 1973).
In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
Her husband died in 1985.
Mrs. Wexner, with a professional background in the clothing business, joined her son, Leslie H. Wexner of Columbus, when he incorporated the Limited in 1963, as did her husband, Harry, and her daughter, Susan.
Her husband, Dr. Herbert Kleber, said she died of complications of colon cancer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eric Fischman of Boston; two daughters, Sharon Fischman of Bethesda, Md., and Amanda Fischman Henshon of Boston; a stepson, Marc Kleber of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Kleber of Philadelphia and Pamela Shad of Greenwich, N.Y.; her mother, Sarah Weinbaum of Philadelphia; a brother, George Weinbaum of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
      
Her first job was in the hat department at Saks under the imperious Tatiana Liberman, whose husband was Alexander Liberman of Vogue.
She had become a professional portrait painter when her husband, a banker, author, journalist and eventually an oil company executive, suggested she write a novel.
''
        Her first novel was rejected by five publishers in Britain, leading her husband to suggest she seek publication in the United States.
She collaborated with her husband and David Paterson on a work of nonfiction, ''The Scottish Highlands,'' published in 1988.
Mrs. Dunnett's husband died in 1998.
Mrs. Rawson's husband, Arthur, an engineer, died in 1963.
In 1961, her husband and her mother died.
Her husband, Dan, also a painter, said she died of complications from childhood polio.
''
        She lived with her husband in a stone farmhouse they restored; it is included in the National Register of Historic Places.
She wrote books, some with her husband, about witchcraft and pagan rituals and tried to bring her appreciation of ancient, pre-Christian ways to her rustic life as well as to her art.
Mrs. Campanelli, who is survived by her husband and father, painted standing on crutches in an 8-by-10-foot studio that used to be a bedroom.
''I think Pauline's going to be the next one,'' her husband suggested.
In 1999 she joined the faculty at Yale, where her husband, Howard Bloch, teaches in the French department.
In addition to her husband and sister, she is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan.
In addition the her daughter Priscilla, Mrs. Holberton is survived by her husband, John Vaughn Holberton, and another daughter, Pamela Holberton, both of Rockville.
      
Ms. Voorsanger is survived by her husband, Bartholomew Voorsanger, an architect who designed the renovation of the Asia Society and the expansion of the Morgan Library; her mother, Beatrice Slater, of San Rafael, Calif.; and her sister, Holly de Montmarin, of Paris.
Her husband of 63 years, John A. Loeb, an investment banker and philanthropist, died in 1998.
MS. JACOBS, who moved from Queens to Woodbury with her husband, Sid, in 1967, was politicized by a classic case of ''not in my backyard'': she awakened to the rumble of bulldozers ripping apart cornfields to make space for a decidedly unbucolic Geico insurance building.
They were also close to Alberto Giacometti, who was an important artistic role model for Mrs. Matter and a frequent photographic subject for her husband.
She wrote the text for a book of her husband's photographs of Giacometti, published in 1987, four years after his death.
Her first 21 films were made in partnership with her husband, John, before his death in 1977.
After her husband's death, Ms. Hubley turned to larger themes and more abstract images.

        Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
Mrs. Schneider's husband, Irving Schneider, is chief operating officer of Helmsley-Spear Inc., a real estate concern based in Manhattan.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Bunny Mayersohn, Lynn Schneider Joseph and Mindy Schneider Lesser; five grandchildren; and a sister, Anne Jacobs.
      
