Her second husband,  Frank Lawton, an actor, died in 1969.
      
She and her husband, Richard, also established the Goldman Environmental Prize in 1990 to reward grass-roots environmentalists around the world.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Goldman's survivors include two sons, John D., of Atherton, Calif., and Douglas E., of San Francisco; a daughter, Susan R. Gelman  of Chevy Chase, Md.
Dr. Thompson is survived by her husband, James E.; a daughter, Heather R. Cavalli of Miami; a son, James E., also of Manhattan; her mother, Virginia W. Morosani of Litchfield; two sisters, Virginia Smith of Mill Neck, L.I., and Roopa Morosani of Menlo Park, Calif., and three brothers, George Morosani of Ashville, N.C., Reto Morosani of Litchfield and John Morosani of Manhattan.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Marshall Rose, the chairman emeritus of the New York Public Library.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Rose is survived by her father, Nathan Kupin of Great Neck, L.I.
In 1963, she retired to work with her husband, the Rev.
She is survived by her husband.
She was married three times, and became a baroness by marrying her second husband, Donald von Hirsch.
Her third husband, Alfred Romney, whom she married  in 1948, died in 1977.
Not  daring to write it down, she later recalled, she used to lull herself to sleep in prison by repeating her husband's words silently to herself "like a prayer.
But long before, while she was still in exile, Miss  Larina waged a tireless campaign to exonerate her husband after Stalin's death,  writing long, detailed letters to Nikita Khrushchev and his successors demanding Bukharin's reinstatement in the pantheon of revolutionary heroes.
She was released  in 1959, and returned to Moscow with her second husband, Fyodor Fadeyev, a fellow prisoner she met in Siberia, and their two children.
"
        After winning the campaign to rehabilitate her husband, Miss Larina devoted her last years to trying to recover Bukharin's long-hidden prison writings, philosophical essays, poems and also an autobiographical novel, which were unearthed from secret party archives in 1992.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Manz is survived by a son, Gilbert Jr.; four daughters, Bonnie Prieben, Maureen Weigert, Barbara Canapa and Marjory von Hof;  a brother, Carl Schuland, of Green Bay, Wis., 11 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
The cause was lung cancer, her husband, Jerry A. Danzig, said.
She is survived by her husband and two children, Diana Dupont of Hudson, N.H., and Jerry P., of New York, and two sisters, Polly Woodrow of San Jose, Calif., and Joanna Brown of Canton, Mass.
      
She was introduced to the Medical Center in 1952 by her late husband, David W. Klau, a businessman who was a trustee.
Audrey Meadows was the second actress to play Alice Kramden, whose bus driver husband, Ralph, threatened her weekly with a fist-propelled trip to the moon.
" She called the book, which was published last year, "a love letter...to my television husband Ralph Kramden.
She was introduced to the Medical Center in 1952 by her late husband, David W. Klau, a businessman who was a trustee.
But stenciling, an early American art form, became the focus of her life in the 1950's after she read a book about it and began reproducing some designs at her home in East Hampton, L.I., where she lived with her first husband, Nicholas Carone, an artist.
After moving to Vermont in 1970 with her second husband, John Callaway, Miss  Bishop opened a mail-order company, American Decorative Arts Inc., a name changed later to Adele Bishop Inc.
Besides her son Christian, she is survived by her husband, Robert T. Paul of  Greenville, and another son, Claude Carone of Claverack, N.Y.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Weil is  survived by two sons, Eric, of Arlington, Mass., and Jonathan, of Taunton, Mass.
Her husband of  52 years, Bernard, died in 1990.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Harry P. Kamen, the chairman and chief executive of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kamen is survived by two daughters, Katherine K. Berkowitz of Bethesda, Md., and Abigail K. Holland of Manhattan; her parents, Thelma and Murray Klein of Brooklyn, and a brother, Eric Klein of Manhattan.
      
Baroness de Rothschild, whose husband, Baron Guy de Rothschild, is dean of the French branch of the banking family, was well known in the world of fashion  and was particularly renowned for the dinners, balls and benefits she organized.
"When she has made up her mind about something, there is nothing on earth that can deter her," her husband once said.
Survivors include her husband; two sons, Philippe de Nicolay, and Edouard de  Rothschild of Paris; a stepson, David de Rothschild of Paris, and a brother, Teddy van Zuylen of London.
      
Mrs. Lewis is survived by her husband of 65 years, Edward Lewis; two sons, Dr. Jeffrey Lewis of Armonk, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Lewis of Nashville, Tenn.; a  sister, Beatrice Smith of Franklin Square, L.I., and nine grandchildren.
      
Ms. Cohen is survived by her husband, Dr. Ralph Wharton of Manhattan; two daughters, Winifred Alisa Cohen-Smith of Manhattan and Dawn Jennifer Cohen Margolin of Piedmont, Calif., and a brother, Carl Cohen of North Haven, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gul Hameed Bhatti; two children, Kamil and Sara; a sister, Fareeda Boudrey, and three brothers, Karim, Rahim and Rafeeg Boudry, all of Karachi.
      
" In her polymathic career, she was also a poet and novelist and, in collaboration with her husband, a playwright.
She is survived by her husband, Charles J. Koon; five sons, Christopher, Robin, Gavin, Nicholas and Lachlan; and six grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Dr. George H. Vineyard, died in 1987.
She met her future husband in the early 1930's and they were married in 1940 in Bedford, N.Y.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six children, David Jr., Abby  Rockefeller and Neva Goodwin, all of Masschusetts; Peggy Dulany of New York, Dr. Richard of Maine, and Eileen Growald of California; a brother, Sims McGrath of Tenants Harbor, Me., and 10 grandchildren.
Correction:  March 28, 1996, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Margaret Rockefeller, conservationist and philanthropist, misidentified the museum of which her husband, David Rockefeller, is chairman emeritus.
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, Jack C. Holland; two sons, Stephen of Manhattan, and Richard of Woodmere, L.I.
Mrs. Bunce's husband of 67 years, Karl, died on Feb. 27.
By the time he returned from Dachau concentration camp in 1945 (he was the subject of her 1985 book "La Douleur," later published in the United States as "The War"), she was already involved with Dionys Mascolo, who was to become her second husband and with whom she had  a son, Jean.
At various times, she wrote a monthly column for Good Housekeeping, contributed to magazines like Reader's Digest, Family Circle, Redbook and McCall's; lectured; created, wrote and produced the short-lived 1981 ABC television series "Maggie" and saw "The Grass Is Always Greener" turned into a 1978 prime-time CBS television movie starring Carol Burnett as a concerned mother who was Mrs. Bombeck's alter ego and Charles Grodin as her husband.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Paradise Valley, and her mother, Erma Harris, of Sun City, Ariz., Mrs. Bombeck is survived by her three children: Betsy and Andrew, of Phoenix and Matthew, of Los Angeles.
      
Although she was best known for her novel "Good Behavior," a finalist for the 1981 Booker Prize, its publication represented the resumption of a career she had abandoned after the death of her husband more than 30 years earlier.
When she was 40, her husband died, and Mrs. Keane, who had two daughters, Sally and Virginia, was so grief-stricken she found she no longer had the zest for writing.
She worked for many years with the International Council of the Young Women's Christian Association and the president's activities committee of the Museum of  Modern Art, of which her husband was president in the 1950's and 1960's.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Lawrence Wilkinson.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Nora; her parents, Virginia and Ashton O'Donnell, of Woodside, Calif., and three sisters, Sherry Burns, of Cupertino, Calif.; Joan, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Jennifer Conner, of San Rafael, Calif.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Suharto is survived by three sons, three daughters and several grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 50 years and co-worker, Thomas Keehn; a daughter, Deborah Keehn Black of Manhattan; five sons, Jonathan, of Grass Valley, Calif., David, of Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Benjamin, of Holliston, Mass., Adam, of Queens and Burkina Faso, and Joel, of Peekskill, N.Y.; a brother, William McKee, of Lafayette, Calif.; two sisters, Beatrice Watson, of Barstow, Calif., and Margaret Seder, of Stonington, Conn., and 11 grandchildren.
      
Miss Frenaye and her husband separated in 1961, when he moved back to Italy.
Mrs. Kornegay's husband of 47 years, Richard, died last week.
Instead, the study found that having a child can aggravate underlying disturbances in women who are severely maladjusted or mentally ill.
        With her husband, Dr. William A. Horwitz, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, she explored the mechanisms of paranoia and helped broaden the dynamic explanations of that disorder.
Her husband died in 1968.
      
She had suffered from Alzheimer's disease for several years, and could not walk or talk for the last year, said her husband, Herman, a mayoral adviser and  former Congressman.
"
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
"
        Besides her husband of 69 years, Mrs. Loeb is survived by their five children: Judith L. Chiara of Manhattan and Purchase, John L. Loeb Jr. of Manhattan and Purchase, Ann Loeb Bronfman of Washington, Arthur Lehman Loeb of Manhattan and Deborah Loeb Brice of London; 14 grandchildren, and more than 30 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Butler and her husband, Albert Butler, wrote "The Encyclopedia of Social Dance.
For 50 years, she was the director of the Albert Butler School of Dance, which she and her husband founded in 1936.
Mrs. Woodward is survived by her husband, Roland H. Woodward; three daughters, E. Rebecca, 17, Hannah C., 13, and Sarah M., 9; her parents, Albert G. Spivey Jr. and Jane K. Spivey of Kennett Square, Pa., and her sister, J. Carlisle Spivey of Greenwich, Conn.
      
She lived with her husband and three children in Greenwich Village, and was involved in local issues, particularly the effort to stop Robert Moses from putting a road through Washington Square Park.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jonathan Estrin, who was also her longtime business partner.
Beginning in the 1980's, she and her husband created, wrote and produced the  mini-series "Between Friends," which was based on Ms.
List and her husband were the supervising producers of "Cagney and Lacey, " a role they assumed when the original producer of the series, Terry Louise Fischer, left to develop "L.A.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Julie List Faggella and Abigail List, both of Manhattan; two brothers, Peter Steinmann and  Daniel Steinmann; a stepson, Zachary Estrin, and a grandson.
List and her husband, Jonathan Estrin.
List and her husband, Jonathan Estrin.
The cause was cancer, her husband, Andrew Klink, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Bettina Gray of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; a daughter, Elisabeth Goth of Del Mar, Calif.; three brothers, Christopher Bancroft of Denton, Tex., Hugh Bancroft 3d of Aspen, Colo., and William P. Liscomb 3d of Carlsbad, Calif., and a sister, Kathryn Kavadas of Waban, Mass.
Her husband, Warren J. McHugh, a folk artist who kept an art gallery in Sag Harbor for many years, died in 1986.
Besides her husband of 70 years, who lives in Bronxville, N.Y., Mrs. Kirk is  survived by their son, John G., also of Bronxville, four granddaughters and two  great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. George A. Carden; three sons, Dr. George  Alexander Carden of Palm Beach, Fla., William of Manhattan and Timothy of Montclair, N.J.; a daughter, Constance of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and a sister, Jeanet Curtis of New Haven.
Miss Hyson's second husband, the actor and director Sir Anthony Quayle, once remarked: "It was not only her beauty that possessed me.
She is survived by her husband, Adil Shaikh, of Mansfield, and an infant daughter.
      
Her husband of 65 years, Dr. Reavis Cox, died in 1992.
      
Her husband, who died in 1966, formed the van Ameringen Foundation in 1950 to support programs in mental health.
When her husband, Paul Rose, was transferred to California, the family moved to the West Coast, and Ms. Montana went into temporary retirement during the 1950's.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Beverly Losey, both of San Jacinto, and two brothers, Ira Blevins of Mena, Ark., and Kenneth Blevins of Florida.
      
"She got hold of my husband's shoulders and started climbing up on his shoulders as he balanced on a low wire," said Ms. Guzman, who had been performing in New York until she learned of her mother's illness earlier this week.
"
        Yet Helen Wallenda's specialty was climbing like a cat onto the shoulders of  her husband, while he was balanced on a chair on the wire.
She and her husband bought a two-story home in Sarasota where she cared for grandchildren when the rest of the family was touring.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jurgen Schaff, and a brother, Luis Garcia Seta, of Madrid.
      
She and her husband had five children, including Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, also a Republican Congressman from north central New Jersey, who was elected in  1994.
Besides her husband of 56 years and her sons Peter, of Manhattan, and Rodney, of Morristown, she is survived by another son, Frederick, of Tucson, Ariz.; two  daughters, Beatrice van Roijen of Washington and Adaline Ogilvie-Laing of Manhattan, 13 grandchildren and a sister, Mrs. Anson Phelps Stokes Jr.
      
She is survived by her husband of 51 years, Ely Maurer; three sons, Stephen B., of Swarthmore, Pa., Russell A., of Pepper Pike, Ohio, and Edward N., of Lido Beach, L.I.
"
        Ms. Gideon's husband of 40 years, the author Frederic Ewen, died in 1989.
She is survived by her husband, Steve Williams; a daughter, Sarah Haberthur;  her parents, Margaret and Charles Buchanan, of Winter Haven, Fla., and three brothers, Charles Buchanan of Winter Haven and Ross and Keith Buchanan, both of  Palm Beach, Fla.
      
Ms. Clark's husband, Lloyd R. Kelley, a theatrical electrician, died in 1972.
She is survived by her husband, Rick Schwolsky of Grafton; her mother, Patricia Beattie of Ketchum, Idaho, and a sister, Jane Beattie, also of Ketchum.
      
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      
Mrs. Weiner is survived by her husband, Charles J., a daughter, Toby White, two sons, Barry and Steve, a sister, Miriam Komesar, and a brother, Saul Weinberg, all of Atlanta, and seven grandchildren.
      
The widow of Dr. Archibald Cary Randolph, a landed surgeon whose family helped settle Virginia, Mrs. Randolph succeeded her husband as hunt master after his death in 1959.
Mrs. Bowen's husband, Marion, died in 1943.
Ms. Delza's husband, A. Cook Glassgold, an official of the Joint Distribution Committee in Shanghai and the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency, died in 1985.
Her husband,  Irving Dolen, died 12 years ago.
      
Her husband, David Schizer, died in 1960.
      
Her husband of 31 years, George Atkinson Braga, died in 1985.
      
Mrs. Tyler and her husband, Edward J. Tyler Jr., started the business in 1933, when they and other members of their family bought a dairy farm in Highgate Springs.
She studied briefly at the Sorbonne and, like her husband, started a career in publishing in New York before settling in Vermont.
Her husband died in 1969.
Her first husband, Sidney J. Kovner, died in 1963.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Joseph Lieberman, two sons, Anthony R. Kovner of Manhattan and Joel W. Kovner of Santa Monica, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      
Her husband of more than 50 years, Prescott Butler Huntington, a former state assemblyman, died in 1988.
The cause was cancer, her husband, Volker Weiss, said.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Weiss is survived by two sons, Erick, of Los Angeles and Christopher, of Syracuse.
      
After her husband's death, Mrs. Hummert gave up their Park Avenue triplex and cut down a bit on her travels, but she continued her active life, which until a few months ago included daily three-mile walks.
She suffered a brief illness, her husband, Arch Patton, said.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Patton left no immediate family.
Her husband, Probien Lee Elmore, and her daughter, Ann Stephenson, died in 1985; her son, James Elmore, died in 1993.
In all, Mrs. Crain spent 40 years with the Chicago-based company that her husband, G. D. Crain Jr., founded in 1916.
Mrs. Crain became chairwoman in 1974, succeeding her husband, who died in 1973.
Upon receiving the award at the Waldorf Astoria, Mrs. Crain said it rightly belonged to her husband, who started Crain Communications "with little more than a few hundred dollars and a dream.
Six decades ago, Mrs. Landon drew press coverage around the country by refusing to join her husband on the hustings in his quest to unseat President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
In 1939, Miss Mitford quit her job as a market researcher in the  London office of J. Walter Thompson and moved to the United States with her husband.
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; a  son, Benjamin Treuhaft of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Deborah Devonshire of Chatsworth, England, and Diana Mosley of Paris, and three grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1936 and who retired from the Supreme Court in 1986, Mrs. Powell is survived by three daughters, Pendleton Bowen of Whidbey Island, Wash., Josephine Smith of Houston and Molly Sumner of Salt Lake City; a son, Lewis F. 3d, of Richmond, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a secretary in her hometown, Barnesboro, in central Pennsylvania, and later in New York City, where she met her husband, had two children, graduated from law school and became prominent as a network lawyer, first at ABC.
She was married three times and had taken the surname of her last husband, Prof. Walter Werner, while keeping her pen name.
The lucrative movie contract was preceded by a successful modeling career, which began with the urging of a former husband, Errol Wetson, the former owner  and co-founder of Wetson hamburgers, a fast-food restaurant chain.
She began her career at the urging of a former husband, Errol Wetson, a film producer and a founder and former owner of the Wetson hamburger chain.
Mrs. Wilson's husband, Fred W., died in 1994.
Ms. Bearden's husband, the artist Romare Bearden, died in 1988.
She died after a brief illness, her husband, Elihu Abrahams, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan, of New York City and David, of Cambridge, Mass., and by a brother, Shmuel Govreen of Jerusalem.
      

        Lillian Clark, a singer who performed with many stars of the big-band era and helped preserve the work of her husband, the composer and arranger Sy Oliver, died on Tuesday at her home in New York City.
She met her future husband when the group was performing on Tommy Dorsey's radio show on WOR.
Born June 30, 1925, on Manhattan's Lower East Side, and raised in the South Bronx, she first engaged the political establishment of the Upper West Side when she moved there in 1959 with her husband, Paul, a printer for The New York Times and a scholar in African history.
''She always wanted to make sure that urban renewal was not urban removal,'' her husband said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosenblum is survived by her mother, Fannie Koppelman of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth, of Ashland, Mass., and a brother, Frank, of Queens.
In addition to her parents, residents of Manhattan and Sagaponack, L.I., Mrs. Vreeland is survived by her husband, Alexander Vreeland; her children, Reed and Victoria, and her brothers, Christopher E. and Ralph H. Isham, both of Manhattan.
      
In the mid-1970's, she formed a partnership with her husband, Jerrold Kushnick, an entertainment lawyer, and established herself as a manager.
Her husband, Philip, was a Republican Congressman from Michigan from 1967 to 1979.
Surviving are her husband, whom she married in 1957; five daughters, Antoinette Greenberg, of Chicago; Adele, of Mexico City; Loret Jr., a former Peace Corps volunteer, of Davis, Calif.; Katherine, of Manhattan, and Mary, of Bethesda; five sisters, Clair Krause and Gail Wray, both of Mequon, Wis.; Kate, of Springfield, Ill.; Carlotta Johnson, of Britain, and Adele, of Brunswick, Me.
She is survived by her husband of 46 years, John Dirk Nies; two sons, J. Dirk, of Rockville, Md., and Eric W., of New York City; a daughter, Nancy N. Sloan of Las Vegas, Nev.; her mother, Lida Wilson of Rockville; a brother, George E. Wilson, and two grandchildren.
      
She met her future husband during a trans-Atlantic voyage.
Mrs. Calder executed a series of hooked rugs, based on her husband's designs, and wrote a book on crochet.
In 1977, two months after her husband's death, she declined to attend White House ceremonies honoring him to press for blanket amnesty for opponents of the Vietnam War.
After marrying Robert Greig of Scotland in the early 1930's, she and her husband immigrated to Canada, where they lived for several years before moving to New York City.
Her husband died in 1968.
She started the Morton Collectanea with her husband, Kendal, in 1933 from an office near the New York Public Library.

        The actress and film director Christine Pascal, who made her movie acting debut at 21 and directed her first film at 25, has died at the age of 42, her husband's production agency said yesterday in Paris.
The agency, Armedia, founded by Ms. Pascal's husband, Richard Boner, did not give the cause of her death, which it said occurred late on Friday or early Saturday.
The couple were married in 1953, and Mrs. Noyce, who had dreamed of writing novels and short stories, became the most dutiful of corporate wives, bearing four children and following her husband from job to job, including a somewhat reluctant move to California for a woman who never felt comfortable away from her beloved New England.
''We were under the distinct impression that we would try it for a year and if I didn't like it we wouldn't stay,'' she recalled years later, suggesting that her husband had forgotten the bargain: ''We stayed 19 years.
''
        By then the life of the blue-collar worker's daughter had changed considerably, largely because her husband had become a co-inventor of the microchip, which laid the foundation for the vast personal computer industry, and had helped found three of the industry's premier companies, including the giant Intel Corporation.
Although bitter over the circumstances of the breakup of her marriage, Mrs. Noyce, whose husband died in 1990, managed to console herself somewhat in the divorce.
Putting her husband and California behind her, Mrs. Noyce did not so much move to Maine as adopt the state.
She met her second husband, William  Ross Howard 3d, in 1943 while she was on a bond tour.
Correction:  September 24, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary of the actress Dorothy Lamour yesterday reversed parts of the name of her second husband in some copies.
She met her second husband, William  Ross Howard 3d, in 1943 while she was on a bond tour.
Her husband, Mr. Howard, who had interests in the frozen food and advertising businesses, died in 1978.
In 1943, putting herself and her husband at grave risk, she decided to open a home to help these children.
The rest, including Mrs. Zlatin's husband, were herded into the trucks.

        Melanie Shroder Totenberg, who acted as business manager for her husband, the violinist Roman Totenberg, for five decades, died on Sunday at her summer home in Blue Hill, Maine.
She is survived by her husband; three daughters, Nina, of Washington, Jill, of Manhattan, and Amy, of Atlanta; four grandchildren, and a sister, Louisa Schwartz of Washington.
      
The case involved a woman whose husband beat her severely one Thanksgiving and never laid a hand on her after that -- because he did not have to.
Just as that wife had learned to conduct herself to avoid the serious consequences of displeasing her husband, Ms. Carlin felt that men would decide not to beat their wives at the exact moment that society came to regard domestic abuse as a serious criminal offense to be dealt with swiftly, surely and severely.
''
        Ms. Carlin is survived by her husband, John; two daughters, Suzanne Rianhard of San Francisco and Elizabeth Carlin of New York; her mother, Arlene Hough of Atlanta, and a sister, Janet Allen of Dallas.
      
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
In the 1950's, after her husband's death, Mrs. Entenmann and her sons stopped making bread and rolls to concentrate on cakes, pies and pastries; ended home deliveries in favor of supermarket chains and grocery stores, and expanded from Long Island to Miami, Chicago and many other cities.
Her last husband, A. Chauncey Newlin, a lawyer and philanthropist, died in 1983.
But she believed that she had faded into the background as her husband's career took off in the 1970's.
Her second marriage, to Morton Kaufman (''or Kauffman or Kaufmann -- I cannot remember how to spell my second husband's name,'' she wrote in the autobiography), was dissolved within a year.
The cause was cancer, said Richard Bull, her husband.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a stepdaughter, Katie Bull-Prichett of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Burns was the author of ''Sarah's Song,'' the story of her life with her husband and former childhood sweetheart, William Burns, and their struggle to accept and live with H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS.
The author contracted the virus from her husband, who had become infected during an earlier relationship.
She is survived by her husband of four years, William D. Thompson; three daughters, Linda Coleman of Southampton, L.I., and Penny Coleman and Susan C. Bynum, both of Manhattan; a son, Payson Coleman of Old Brookville; a sister, Patricia Bonicatti of Rome; a brother, Peter S. Wainwright of Scottsdale, Ariz., and nine grandchildren.
      
Miss La Plante, whose husband died in 1985, is survived by a daughter, Jill Murray of Mill Valley, Calif.; a son, Tony Asher of Los Angeles, and a grandson.
Correction:  October 22, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary of the actress Laura La Plante on Thursday misspelled the surname of her first husband.
Her husband, the painter John Wesley, said the cause was lung cancer.
When she was 4, her husband said, she dreamed up a story about a mischievous pig, but in trying to compose it on her slate could not even get through the title.
The real wonder of ''The Dead of the House,'' her husband suggested, was not that it took so long, but that it was finished at all.
Still, she had her transcendent moments, like the time she and her future husband met.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Mary Lonsdale Hickler of Warwick, Mass.
      
Although she was a heroine to Yad Vashem, Israel's Holocaust Martyrs and Heroes Memorial Authority, to her dying day Mrs. Trocme could not comprehend a world that regarded it as in any way remarkable that she, her husband, and thousands of other residents of the village of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon in the plateau region of southern France had risked their lives to feed, clothe, hide and protect those who would have died without their help.
Mrs. Trocme owed her own prominence in the rescue movement in part to the fact that her husband, Andre Trocme, was the charismatic pacifist pastor of the French Reformed Church in Chambon, a founder of the Cevenol boarding school there and a recognized leader of the rescue effort, which has been credited with saving some 5,000 refugees, about 3,500 of them Jewish, many of them children.
But as scores of refugees who came to her own door discovered, Mrs. Trocme was more than her husband's shadow; she was a highly organized, tireless and practical woman who knew how to find food when there was no food and just which door to knock on to find room and welcome for those her own overburdened household could not accommodate.
But neither her husband nor Mrs. Trocme were natives of the region.
Like her husband, Mrs. Trocme, who taught Italian at the Cevenol school, was a thoroughgoing pacifist.
She no more understood the fuss over her efforts to rescue Jews than the consternation she caused her neighbors  when policemen came to arrest her husband (he was later released) and she served them dinner.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.

        Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin.
Mrs. Kahlenberg, who was taught by her husband to operate a camera, was also involved in resistance communications, transporting munitions and the use of forged documents.
Her husband of 42 years, Bill Woodruff, died in April.
      
Her husband, Carl W. Dinger Jr., said the cause was a heart attack.
)
        Her husband, only mildly irritated at the loss of space for the family cars, could hardly complain.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Carl Dinger 3d of Sugarland Tex., and Jeff, of Morris Plains, N.J., and two granddaughters.
      
'' She credited her husband, Lionel Trilling -- one of the century's foremost literary critics and teachers and the author of works like ''The Liberal Imagination'' that became central documents of American intellectual life -- with her success and development as a critical writer, even as she struggled to establish herself in her own right in later years.
So she learned from her husband, ''casually, unconsciously, by association,'' and along the way discovered that she had a natural acuity for language and an innate sense of what made a good book work.
'' Her husband ''had more to say than I and a great deal more resonated from what he wrote.
''
        Wielding Her Pen With Candor
        Diana Trilling's career as a critic began in 1941, at the age of 36, when she overheard a telephone conversation between her husband and Margaret Marshall, the literary editor of The Nation, who had called to ask if he could recommend someone to write the magazine's literary notes column.
When her husband hung up, Mrs.
''
        As she approached her 42d birthday, she decided that she and her husband had been squandering their lives.
Mrs. Cuyjet's husband, Stephen, died in 1980.
The cause was cancer, said her former husband, Arthur Baron of Los Angeles.
Professor Salken is survived by her husband, Matthew Rosen; a son, Billy; a sister, Judy Salken of Mahopac, N.Y., and her parents, Doris and Irvin Salken of Williamsburg, Va.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, Rabbi Jonothan Waxman of Eberon, N.J., and David and Hillel Waxman of Great Neck; a brother, Rabbi Albert Bilgray of Tucson, Ariz., and five grandchildren.
      

        Miriam Kressyn, a star of the Yiddish stage and, along with her husband, Seymour Rechtzeit, a primary force in the survival of Yiddish theater in the United States, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
Subsequently she acted in Chicago and Philadelphia (where she met her husband), and toured Europe, South America and Africa before settling in New York.
For five years, she and her husband acted in musical comedies with Menasha Skulnick.
''
        She and her husband became known as the romantic idols of Yiddish musicals.
'' She taught Yiddish theater at Queens College, and for 40 years she and her husband broadcast in Yiddish on WEVD radio.
''
        She is survived by her husband, who is president of the Hebrew Actors Union.
      
Her husband, Joseph, said the cause was breast cancer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Stephen and Mary Romano, and her brother, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
Ms. Shostak wrote the book while she and her husband lived in Cambridge, Mass., where she was an associate of the Peabody Museum of Archeology and Ethnology at Harvard University.
Ms. Shostak lacked training in anthropology -- she earned a bachelor's degree in literature at Brooklyn College -- but her work was the subject of a number of doctoral studies in that field, and although she wrote few academic works, her field work was often analyzed at academic conferences, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, two daughters, Susanna B. Konner and Sarah B. Konner, and a son, Adam J. Konner, all of Atlanta; her parents, Jerome and Edna Shostak of Midwood, Brooklyn, and Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Lucy Shostak of Baldwin, L.I.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Charles H. Montgomery.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Stephen Brown of Oak Park, Ill., and Joshua Cohen of Chicago; a daughter, Judith Cohen Brown of Seattle; a stepdaughter, Alison Montgomery of Chicago; a stepson, Douglas Montgomery of Libertyville, Ill., and two grandchildren.
      
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
Then, at a time when many women's children are beginning to leave home, Dr. Bernard started having children, the first when she was 39, another when she was 42 and the last when she was 47, three years after she and her husband had joined the Penn State faculty and six months before his death at the age of 69.

        Former Representative Coya Knutson of Minnesota, a fierce champion of family farms, medical research and campaign finance reform and the creator of Federal student loans, died at a nursing home in Edina, Minn., on Thursday, her legislative achievements all but overshadowed by her vindictive husband's ''Coya, Come Home'' campaign that led to her defeat after two terms in 1958.
She and her husband operated a small hotel cum cafe until Mrs. Knutson, a populist inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt, got the political bug and made a successful run for the Minnesota Legislature in 1950.
Mr. Knutson later stirred the fire by accusing his wife of having an affair with a legislative aide half her age, but although the charge was a blatant fabrication, Mrs. Knutson refused to denounce her husband.
She failed in a comeback bid in 1960, divorced her husband in 1962, and then spent a dozen years working in the Defense Department in Washington before trying another abortive race in 1977, polling 13 percent of the vote in a primary in which one of her opponents was her former legislative aide.
According to her son, who was adopted when he was 8 over the objections of his father, Mrs. Knutson, a deeply religious woman who frequently cited the biblical passage, ''Vengeance is Mine, sayeth the Lord,'' never expressed bitterness toward her husband.
She is survived by her husband, William Diebold; four sons, David Corcoran of Northvale, N.J., John Corcoran of Red Hook, N.Y.; John Diebold of Nyack, and William Diebold of Portland, Ore.; a daughter, Barbara Wick of Northfield, Ill.; a brother, Joseph Brody of Indianapolis; 11 grandchildren, and 2 great-grandchildren.
      
Working through the Ullmann Family Foundation, she carried on the work she began with her husband, Siegfried Ullmann, a Wall Street commodities trader, supporting educational and medical institutions here and in Israel.
Her husband of 40 years, Siegfried, a founder and former president of the international metals and commodities trading firm of Philipp Brothers, died in 1966.
      
Miss Bird's husband, Paul Villard, died in 1994.
She is survived by her husband, Martin Gershon; a daughter, Leah, and two sons, Joel and Robert, all of Brooklyn Heights; a sister, Anne Lyons of Manhattan, and her mother, Gussie Moskowitz, also of Brooklyn.
      
Miss Kitchell, whose first husband died in 1956, married Joseph Yoder, a retired chemical engineer, in 1965 and settled in Florida.
She is survived by her husband of 48 years, Florian Martini, a World War II flying ace.
      
Her second husband, Edward Niles Hooker, died in 1957.
She is survived by her husband, Chester, former director of the Yale University Press; two daughters, Hilary Mills Loomis of Manhattan and Alley Mills Bean of Los Angeles; a son, Tony Mills of Oakland, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard, of Nashville; three daughters, Gretchen Hannah of Nashville and Cary Louise and Rebecca Aileen, both of Pittsburgh; her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Stack of Hyattsville, Md.
In 1964, she married a Spanish architect, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan, and spent much of the next 20 years living in Mexico City, where her husband worked for the firm of Luis Barragan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her twin sister, the artist Carol Anthony of Sante Fe, N.M.; her brother, Jack M. Anthony of Seattle, and three children from her first marriage, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan of Middletown, R.I., Tessa Wohl of Stockbridge, Mass., and Mark Sanchez de Movellan of Hilversum, the Netherlands.
      
Dr. Steimer is survived by her husband, Prof. Martin Wilson; a daughter, Acacia, also of Benicia; and her father, Harry Steimer of Sacramento, Calif.
      
So while her husband, whom everyone called Doc, attended to the tickets and logistics, Mrs. Hyman served cake and coffee and became a troubleshooter, all the while marveling at the medicinal effect a sport could have on those who had lost limbs, sight or the ability to walk.
''
        She assumed control of the program in the 1980's upon her husband's death.
Mrs. Miller is survived by her second husband, Rabbi Philip Horowitz; three sons, Aaron Miller of Washington, Richard Miller of Boston and Abraham Miller of Cleveland; a daughter, Gabrielle Miller of Wellesley, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Lyle Bettger, an actor; two sons, Frank L., of Los Angeles and Lyle R., of Atascadero, Calif.; a daughter, Paula Newell, of Paia; a sister, Betty Darr, of Seminole, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Paul Palmer, died in 1983.
      
Her husband, Carl Goldberg, died in 1972.

        Nancy Macdonald, the well-born anarchist who helped radicalize her husband, Dwight Macdonald, in the 1930's, managed his magazine Politics in the 1940's, and then struck out on her own in the 1950's to aid refugees of the Spanish civil war, died last Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.
While her husband was securing his reputation as a major critic, Mrs. Macdonald was becoming known for her intellectual fervor and for what Mr. Kazin recalled as her abiding kindness and concern for others.
Mrs. Astor's efforts began in earnest in 1959, when her third husband, Vincent Astor, died, leaving the foundation assets of $67 million.
She was active in fund-raising for Wellesley, and its Jewett Art Center is named for her first husband, George Frederick Jewett, who died in 1956.
Mrs. Goldsmith is survived by her husband, Robert L. Goldsmith; a daughter, Hedy Hartman of St. George, S.I.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Clive Robbins.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Robbins is survived by a daughter, Debra Matteson of Ilion, N.Y.; her mother, Adalyn Matteson, and her siblings, Christine Phinney and David Matteson, all of Oswego.
      
Mrs. Pulleyn's husband, Robert, a lawyer, died in 1990.

        Margret E. Rey, who teamed with her husband to create the ''Curious George'' children's books featuring the inquisitive little monkey, died on Saturday at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
She and her husband, H. A. Rey, created Curious George in the 1930's while living in Paris, where they had settled after their honeymoon.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Mrs. Rey once said she and her husband had a simple reason for creating the book: They needed money.
Born in Hamburg, Germany, Mrs. Rey met her husband as a girl and they married in 1935.
After their son's death, she and her husband, Nathan, helped raise money for groups like the Congress on Racial Equality and the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee, and lobbied for Federal voting-rights legislation.
She is survived by her husband of nearly 50 years, James Sedgwick Deely, and two daughters, Catharine D. Stansfield of Sherman Oaks, Calif., and Pamela Van de Loo of Loudonville, N.Y.
      
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Milt, who is a reporter for The New York Times.
''
        Besides her husband of 44 years, Mrs. Freudenehim is survived by two daughters, Jo Frisch of Buffalo and Susan Core of Los Angeles; two sons, John M. and Tom, both of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
'' In Paris and Klosters, she and her husband became the center of a wide circle of writers, artists and actors.
She is survived by her husband, John Leighton, an actor.
      
''
        Beginning in the 1930's, Mary Leakey and her late husband, Louis, awakened the world to Africa's primary place in human origins with their spectacular discoveries and increasingly pushed back the time of those origins much earlier than had been thought.
'' Meanwhile, Mary Leakey worked in her husband's shadow, seeing to the plodding excavations and meticulous documentation of their finds.
Rushing back to her husband, she exclaimed, ''I've found him -- found our man.
She was becoming more independent, opposing some of her husband's more sensational interpretations of discoveries.
'' When her husband died, Ms. Railey moved back to Manhattan and began working for Christie's.
'' When her husband died, Ms. Railey moved back to Manhattan and began working for Christie's.
Mrs. del Rio wrote more than 45 books of poetry, essays, plays, short stories and art history, and, in collaboration with her husband, Angel del Rio, ''Antologia de la Literatura Espanola,'' which was considered to be the Bible of Spanish literature.
''
        During the 1940's and 50's, she and her husband were known for opening their house to such Spanish intellectuals and writers as Pedro Salinas, Jorge Guillen, Camilo Jose Cela, Gabriel Mistral and Garcia Lorca.
Besides Assemblyman Grannis, she is survived by her husband of 56 years, Uri Balcom Grannis; two other sons, Uri B.
Dr. David Rioch, her husband, died in 1985.
At that time, Mrs. Wilson gave up her work as administrative assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and with her husband founded the Martha's Vineyard Little Theater, where they produced and directed plays.
Her husband, Harold B. Berke, died in 1972.
In 1963, she and her husband moved to Woodstock, where she obtained a bachelor of arts degree from Goddard College in Plainfield, Vt.
        Mr. Albright, whose centennial is to be observed next year with retrospectives at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York, died in 1983.
Ms. Shapiro is survived by her husband, Joel Belsky; a stepson, Peter Belsky  of Manhattan, and three brothers, Martin, of Norwich, Conn., Robert, of Miami, and Norman, o Kingston, R.I.
      
Her husband, Prof. Robert S. Tangeman, died in 1964.
      
The novel concerned a woman in Manhattan's high society whose marriage is threatened by her husband's infidelities.
Her husband, Ernest Schwerin, said the cause was Alzheimer's disease.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Ruth Juretschke of Brooklyn.
      
She was earlier associated with Bryn Mawr College, where her husband, Harris  L. Wofford, was president in the 1970's.
With her husband, who was a Democratic  Senator from Pennsylvania from 1991 through 1994, she was co-author of a book, "India Today" (John Day, 1951).
In addition to her husband of 47 years, Mrs. Wofford is survived by a daughter, Suzanne Wofford of Madison, Wis.; two sons, Daniel, of Malvern, Pa., and David, of Washington, and four grandchildren.
      
in the 1930's that she met Solomon Machover, a student who became her husband.
She was born in a Prague to a working-class family and met her husband, the  oldest son of a Prague industrialist impoverished by Communist nationalization in 1948, when he was a theater stage hand in the 1950's.
Mrs. Havel was a signer of the Charter 77 human rights manifesto and worked in the dissident network led by her husband.
She is survived by her husband.
      
David's mental retardation left him with only limited use of his arms and legs, but Dr. Boggs and her husband tried to care for him at home.
Her husband, Charles Prou, died earlier.
Her husband, Dr. Shirley C. Fisk, died in 1979.
She and her husband, a corporate lawyer, developed an interest in contemporary art that led to her involvement with the Whitney Museum.
Mrs. Arnold's husband, Dr. Newton Arnold, died in 1979.
She is survived by her husband, Cameron; a son, Cameron F. MacRae 3d, of New  York City, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Williamson's husband, William Elliott Williamson, died in 1991.
In 1968, Mrs. Schwartz wrote "How to Go to Work When Your Husband Is Against  It, Your Children Aren't Old Enough and There's Nothing You Can Do Anyhow.
During the early years of her marriage, Mrs. Schwartz and her husband had what might have been one of the early commuter marriages.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Cassie Arnold of Washington; two  sons, Tony Schwartz of New York City and James Schwartz of Boston; a brother, Theodore Nierenberg of Armonk, N.Y., and five grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Emanuel Steindl, a Westchester real-estate developer, died in 1980.
      
Mrs. Meyer's husband, Herbert, a New York businessman, died in 1968.
      
From 1942 to 1974, she wrote seven cantatas on Jewish themes, among them the frequently performed, "What Is Torah," which she wrote with her husband, Rabbi Ira Eisenstein.
She collaborated with her husband on five of her cantatas.
"
        In addition to her husband, Dr. Eisenstein is survived by two daughters, Miriam Eisenstein of Gaithersburg, Md., and Ann Eisenstein of Manhattan; three sisters, Hadassah Musher and Selma Goldman, both of Manhattan, and Naomi Wenner  of Chevy Chase, Md., and one grandchild.
      
Among her works was "The Stepdaughter," a short epistolary novel about an abusive woman abandoned by her husband and left with his hideous daughter.
"
        That picture, she said, was "Girl in Bed," a work that years later also figured in the death of Robert Lowell, her third husband.
Ms. Hardwick opened the taxi door to be confronted with her former husband's corpse.
After the war she came to the United States with her husband, Alexander Rudzinski, an international lawyer who was a member of the Polish delegation to  the fledgling United Nations.
Her husband died about five years ago.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Frank Maxwell.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by children from two previous marriages: a son, Arthur Debernarde of Minneapolis, and a daughter, Donna Maria  Lynn of Westport, Conn.; a stepdaughter, Chris Maxwell of Los Angeles, and five  grandchildren.
      
When Miss Clark was stricken with macular degeneration and almost totally lost her eyesight (a setback described in "Eyes, Etc.," her 1977 memoir), her husband began reading to her at night.
