A native of Minneapolis, Mrs. Eiseman began her career in 1945 when her husband, Laurence, packed up some of the dainty, organdy pinafores she made as gifts for friends and took them to a buyer at Chicago's Marshall Field & Company.
She is survived by her husband, Andrew; a daughter, Paulette Barrett of Manhattan, and three grandsons.
      
Mrs. Short's husband, Joseph, became Truman's press secretary in 1950, and the President hired her as correspondence secretary when Mr. Short died in 1952.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bernard; a son, John, of Van Nuys, Calif.; a sister, Evelyn Blackstone of Tamarac, Fla.; and a brother, Robert Kraushaar of El Toro, Calif.
      
Ms. Hoffman is survived by her husband, Samuel Friedman, president of I.C.F.
Mrs. Begun, with her husband, Isidor, also a teacher and longtime Communist Party member, were affiliated with the extreme leftwing faction in the union.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Adelaide Schnittman of West Palm Beach and Barbara Batnik of Montana.
      
In 1937 she married Homer Hargrave, a stockbroker, her third husband, and ended her film career.
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daugher, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman, several grandchildren and several great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband survives, as does her son, Homer Hargrave Jr. of Paso Robles; her daughter, Mrs. Roger Jackson Coleman; several grandchildren, and several great-grandchildren.
      
Posted in Stockholm, she met Count Carl Adam Moltke, a member of the Danish underground, who became her second husband in 1944.
Her husband, Dr. John E. Franklin, died in 1985.
Several speakers recalled how Ms. Kaye assisted her second husband, Herbert Ross, the choreographer and director, in his theatrical and film projects.
She had been affiliated with the Juilliard School since the creation of its drama division in 1968 by her husband, Michel Saint-Denis.
She is survived by her husband, Charles M. Kinsolving Jr., an executive with the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, and an uncle, Steven Sertic of Tampa, Fla. A memorial service will be announced later.
      
Queen Sofia went to Mrs. Franco's Madrid apartment to deliver condolences to Mrs. Franco's daughter, Carmen Franco de Martinez-Bordiu, 60, and her husband, on behalf of King Juan Carlos and herself.
Figurehead of Movement
        When her husband died, Mrs. Franco became the figurehead of a loosely formed organization of Franco's political followers, called ''El Movimiento.
Mrs. Franco annually attended a funeral Mass in her husband's memory at the underground basilica in the Valley of the Fallen outside Madrid, where thousands of Nationalists killed in the 1936-39 Spanish Civil War are buried.
Mrs. Franco exercised a strong influence on her husband, particularly in connection with affairs of the Roman Catholic Church and public morality.
With her husband, she received the Silver Medal of the Massachusetts Horticultural Society.
She is survived by her husband, H. Lincoln; two sons, Ellery Sinclair and John Sheldon Sinclair, both of Falls Village, and two stepchildren, Benjamin Griswald Foster of Wallingford, Conn., and H. Rebecca Light of Guilford, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, John Howard, who founded the Cresset Press, and by a son and a daughter.
      
Thousands of her husband's followers - dressed in the black garb of the Hasidim - lined the streets for the funeral procession that began outside her home on President Street yesterday afternoon and moved slowly past the headquarters of the Lubavitch movement at 770 Eastern Parkway, near Brooklyn Avenue.
Upon her father's death in 1950, her husband succeeded him as the Rebbe, or grand rabbi, of Lubavitch, one of the major remaining Hasidic dynasties.
In keeping with Hasidic tradition, Mrs. Schneerson never held formal office in the Lubavitch organization, but ''she was very much behind the scenes,'' according to her husband's close aide, Rabbi Yehudah Krinsky.
Surviving are her husband and a sister, Hannah Gourary.
      
After her husband's appointment as Secretary of Labor in the Kennedy Administration, Mrs. Goldberg organized Widening Horizons, a program to assist poor people seeking employment.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by a daughter, Barbara Cramer of Chicago; a son, Robert Goldberg, of Anchorage, Alaska, and six grandchildren.
When the gallery closed last October, Ms. Isaac and her husband moved to Winchester.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel, and her daughter, both of Winchester; her parents, Beth and John Parker of Pittsburgh, and her brothers, Joseph and John Jr. A memorial service will be held this evening at 6:30 in the former spaces of the gallery, at 36 East 75th Street.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Michael Heidelberger.
      
She is survived by her husband, Elvin Campbell.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mitchell; two sons, Franklin, of Cambridge, Mass., and Wesley, of Princeton; a daughter, Joanne Peterson of Woodbridge, Conn.; a brother, Joseph Oshiver of Kansas City, Mo., and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stuart Rosenthal; a son, Kennan, of Waltham, Mass; a daughter, Ayla, of Short Hills; her mother, Makbule Aral of Ankara, and three sisters, Nurhan Freie-Aral of Maastricht, the Netherlands, and Gunsel Renkgorur and Aysel Celikadam, both of Ankara.
      
Mrs. Goelet's husband, Robert Walton Goelet, a New York landowner, died in 1941.
Mrs. Gurevich's husband, Abraham, died in 1977.
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a daughter, Dr. Caroline O. McCagg of Edison; a son, Edward K. McCagg of Seattle; two sisters, Dorothy Love Saunders of Bryn Mawr, Pa., and Mary Love Glenn of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
Survivors include her husband, Milton; a son, Thomas Brady of Guttenberg, N.J.; a brother, Peter Dunn of Whitestone, Queens; two sisters, Agnes Stone of Mount Pocono, Pa., and Maureen Crowley of Oyster Bay, L.I., and one grandchild.
      
The actress appeared on screen with Harry Carey, her future husband, in the 1914 silent movie ''The Sorrowful Shore.
'' She later worked with the director D. W. Griffith and made several films with John Ford, John Wayne, her husband and their son, Harry Carey Jr.
When her husband died in 1947, Mrs. Carey came out of retirement to act in such films as ''The Searchers,'' ''The Alamo'' and ''Two Rode Together.
Ms. Frelinghuysen, whose husband died in 1975, is survived by a brother, Griswold Frelinghuysen, of Vermont.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard, of Millbrook; two sons, Cornelius and Richard 3d, and a daughter, Eleanore, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Eleanor Lohn of Yorktown Heights, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Richard.
      
Mrs. Noble wrote ''The Nature of the Beast,'' a book on animal behavior based on research by her husband, Dr. G. Kingsley Noble, a curator at the American Museum of Natural History who died in 1940.
Mrs. Hopf is survived by her husband, Ernest; a son, Christopher, and a daughter, C. C. Hopf.
      
Mrs. Shattuck, who from 1970 to 1984 was a professor of government at City University, was living in Cambridge, Mass., with her husband, John Shattuck, a vice president of Harvard University.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jessica and Rebecca, and a son, Peter, all of Cambridge; her parents, Heinrich and Anna-Elisabeth Tolle, and three sisters, Mechtilda Rieke, Heidewig Ellerman and Annegret Falter, all of whom live in West Germany.
      
Mrs. Duryee's husband, Samuel Sloan Duryee, a lawyer, died in 1979.
Mrs. Short is survived by her husband, Eugene; two daughters, Kristin and Karri, and three stepsons, Larry, David and Dale.
      
Her first husband, Alexander Kelberine, a pianist, died in 1940, and her second husband, George S. McManus, a collector and dealer in books specializing in Americana, died in 1967.
Her first husband, Alexander Kelberine, a pianist, died in 1940, and her second husband, George S. McManus, a collector and dealer in books specializing in Americana, died in 1967.
She is survived by her husband, Robert; two sons, Richard and Lawrence, and a granddaughter, all of New York.
      
''
        Mrs. Conrad is survived by her husband, Harold, and a son, Casey, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Robert Mosier, of Sebring, Fla.
      
Miss Frissell's husband, Francis M. Bacon 3d, died several years ago.
Survivors include her husband, William; a daughter, Diane, and a sister, Eunice Simon, of Los Angeles.
      
Her last choreography was for a 1982 television production of ''Higher Than Heaven,'' a folk cantata composed by Maurice Rauch, her husband, and based on a story by Itche Goldberg.
Mrs. Rauch is survived by her husband; a son, Paul, and two granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Grant had been on a field trip with her husband, James P. Grant, executive director of the agency widely known as Unicef.
Mrs. Grant is survived by her husband; three sons, John of New Delhi, James D. of Fairfield, Iowa, and William of Washington, D.C.; a brother, Putnam Henck, and a sister, Anne Stewart, both of Sky Forest, Calif.; a sister, Katherine Lovell of Jakarta, Indonesia, and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, retired Army Lieut.
''
        Her husband died in 1969.
With her husband, Frederick, she wrote several books, including ''America's Forgotten Folk Art.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Rachel, of Atlanta; a son, Robert, and a grandson.
      
Surviving are her husband, David; two sons, Andrew, of Manhattan, and Matthew, of Pound Ridge, and her mother, Vera Neilson, of Pound Ridge.
      
Her husband said her death came on the 55th anniversary of their wedding as they were preparing to celebrate.
'' Husband Interned in War
        In 1942, after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, President Roosevelt signed an order for the internment of people of Japanese ancestry.
Mrs. Yoneda was allowed to move with her son to San Francisco, but for the next two years she had to report monthly to military authorities on the child's whereabouts, her husband said.
Jesse Jackson's Presidential campaign, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Yoneda's survivors are her daughter from a previous marriage, Joyce Ebangelista, her son, Thomas Yoneda, and two grandchildren.
      

       Michael Gifford, a longtime press agent, died of a heart attack Saturday while driving to the East Hampton, L.I., airport to meet her husband, Edwin.
Michael Gifford, a longtime press agent, died of a heart attack Saturday while driving to the East Hampton, L.I., airport to meet her husband, Edwin.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gifford is survived by two daughters: Tierney Gifford, and Mary-Elizabeth Berliner of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Edwin Jr., and a sister, Stephanie Stone of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
      
Surviving are her husband, John; a brother, Lynfield Ott, of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and three stepchildren, Elizabeth Guide, of Hackensack, N.J., Elizabeth, of Berkeley, Calif., and Robert, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband; two daughters, Daphne E. M. Nash of Oxford, England, and Marina Yedigaroff of London; a son, Audley George Burnett of London; her mother, Lady Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Mary-Chilton Winslow Mead of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Bernard, died in 1967.
She is survived by her husband, Nicholas; her mother and stepfather, Dale and Harold Kaufman of Manhattan, and her father, Eric Lawyer of Atlantic Beach, L.I.
      
''
        Mrs. Duggan's husband, the actor Andrew Duggan, died last month.
      
She met her husband in a theatrical stock company in 1918.
In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Walter is survived by her husband, Fred, and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Robert H. H. Pierce, and two daughters, Dr. Dorothy H. Pierce of Wilmington, and Dr. Roberta M. Pierce of Narberth, Pa.
      
Thirty-two Republican and Democratic candidates, including Mrs. Spellman's husband, Reuben, entered a special primary on April 7, 1981, to select the nominees to run for election in Maryland's Fifth District.
She is survived by her husband; two sons, Stephen and Richard; a daughter, Dana Spellman O'Neill, and four grandchildren.
      
She also worked with her husband, Barney, running the Cookery, a jazz club in Greenwich Village.
Her husband, Max Tendler, died in 1974.
      
Her husband, Max Tendler, died in 1974.
      
Her husband, David H. Hall, of Hindman, Ky., died 14 years ago.
      
In 1967, when her husband was serving in Vietnam, she characterized herself in a newspaper article as ''an Army wife'' and paid tribute to ''service wives .
''
        She and her husband were divorced in 1975.
She is survived by her husband, Rice, and a daughter, Helena Sileo of Brooklyn.
      
Mrs. Finkelhor and her husband, L. Herbert Finkelhor, founded the Business Training College in downtown Pittsburgh in 1933.
She is survived by her husband, three children and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Gurko is survived by her husband, Leo, of Manhattan; a son, Stephen, of Frisco, Colo., and a daughter, Jane, of Willits, Calif.
      

       Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Mrs. Fredman was a co-owner of Instant Replay, a clothing consignment store in Harrison, N.Y. She is survived by her husband; two sons, Neil, of Rye Brook, N.Y., and Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Herman Imber and Dr. Irving Imber, both of Reading, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      
She was predeceased by her husband, Marc A.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Berlin is survived by her daughters, Mary Ellin Barrett, of New York; Linda Louise Emmett, of Paris, and Elizabeth Irving Peters, of New York; a brother, John W. Mackay, of Locust Valley, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles; and two grandsons.
      

       Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Miriam I. Fredman, the wife of Samuel Fredman, chairman of the board of trustees of the State University of New York at Purchase, died in an automobile accident Wednesday in Horsholm, Denmark, where she was attending a conference with her husband.
Mrs. Fredman was a co-owner of Instant Replay, a clothing consignment store in Harrison, N.Y. She is survived by her husband; two sons, Neil, of Rye Brook, N.Y., and Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Herman Imber and Dr. Irving Imber, both of Reading, Pa., and four grandchildren.
      

       Patsy Nasher, who with her husband, Raymond, created one of the world's leading collections of modern sculpture, died of cancer on July 1 at the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas.
Mrs. Nasher, a friend of many of the artists whose work she collected, began by collecting pre-Columbian art, later becoming interested in Texas artists and 20th-century
        Patsy Nasher, who with her husband, Raymond, created one of the world's leading collections of modern sculpture, died of cancer on July 1 at the Parkland Memorial Hospital in Dallas.
She is survived by her husband, Raymond, of Dallas; by her mother, Ivy Rabinowitz, of Dallas; by her daughters, Andrea, Joan and Nancy Nasher; by her sisters, Judy Tycher and Sandra Cohen, and by her brother, Stanley Randall.
      
''She had an amazing ability with animals,'' her husband, Dr. Michael Woodhouse, said.
She is survived by her husband, Kenneth Thompson of Sacramento; a daughter, Barbara Jungerman of San Francisco; a son, Michael Hurley of Shingle Springs, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Tamara Wright of Seattle; stepsons, Nicolas Thompson of West Sacramento and Marcus Thompson of San Jose; a brother, Dr. Milton Shapson of Milwaukee; a sister, Phyllis Shapson of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
      

       Florence Eldridge, the actress who appeared with her husband, Fredric March, in several Broadway plays and movies, including ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' ''The Skin of Our Teeth'' and ''Another Part of the Forest,'' died in a hospital emergency room Monday night in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 86 years old.
Florence Eldridge, the actress who appeared with her husband, Fredric March, in several Broadway plays and movies, including ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' ''The Skin of Our Teeth'' and ''Another Part of the Forest,'' died in a hospital emergency room Monday night in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 86 years old.
'' During the 1930's, while her husband became a major box-office star, she appeared in several movies, including ''The Story of Temple Drake'' (1933), based on William Faulkner's ''Sanctuary,'' ''Les Miserables'' (again with Mr. March, in 1935) and ''Mary of Scotland'' (1936), in which she played Elizabeth I.
Obedient Husband,'' a vehicle based on Samuel Pepys's diary, and failed so resoundingly they bought advertising space to apologize.
She was active in a variety of neighborhood causes and, in 1964, with her husband, Elmo Cooney, founded a neighborhood group, Citizens Forum, to combat housing discrimination against blacks.

       Jean Porter Dubos, who collaborated in biological and environmental research for several decades with her husband, Rene Dubos, died of ovarian cancer Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Jean Porter Dubos, who collaborated in biological and environmental research for several decades with her husband, Rene Dubos, died of ovarian cancer Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Dubos was co-author with her husband in 1950 of ''The White Plague - Tuberculosis, Man and Society,'' which stressed the role of social reform rather than surgical intervention or drugs to control disease and was a forerunner of other works in the social history of medicine.
Mrs. Dubos, whose husband died in 1982, is survived by a niece, Jennifer Porter of Cambridge, Mass.
      
She and her husband established the Palmer School of Library and Information Science at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University.
In 1966, after her husband's death, she taught English in Tunisia as a Peace Corps volunteer, then toured the United States to promote enlistment of the elderly in the corps.
''
        The actress often appeared with her husband, Logan Ramsey, in projects, including Clint Eastwood's ''Any Which Way You Can.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ramsey is survived a brother and a sister.
      
She is survived by her husband, Hugh, and her father, Dan Starr of New Orleans.
      
Mrs. Geyelin is survived by her husband, Henry; a daughter, Antoinette Hoar of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
As a professional partner of her husband, Charles, who died in 1978, Ray Eames collaborated in the design of hundreds of chairs, tables, and other pieces of furniture that combined mass production with a high sense of style and comfort.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel C.; a son, John W., of Manhattan; two daughters, Louise Gaumond of Manhattan and Elizabeth, of Jersey City.
      
She is survived by her husband, four children and two brothers.
      
She is survived by her husband, William.
      
She wrote her own life story in the book ''Woman and Top Manager,'' frequently worked 12-hour days, but refused to work weekends in order to spend the time with her husband, Lionello Cantoni, a mathematics professor.
''Maybe I can show young girls that you can make it and still be a normal woman, with normal attitudes toward your family or husband,'' she said.
Mrs. Overby's husband, Andrew N. Overby, an international banker who had been Assistant Secretary of the Treasury during the Eisenhower Adminstration, died in 1984.

       Anna Mae Keener Bury, who with her husband, Douglas, owned and operated the Antrim Lodge in Roscoe, N.Y., for 35 years, died Sunday at Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y., after a long illness.
Anna Mae Keener Bury, who with her husband, Douglas, owned and operated the Antrim Lodge in Roscoe, N.Y., for 35 years, died Sunday at Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y., after a long illness.
Besides her husband, survivors are a son, Douglas, of Seattle; three daughters, Betsy Parker and JoAnn Ficke of Denver and Mary Ellen Grades of Tucson, Ariz., and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband died in 1951.
A year later, Mrs. Sullivan was elected to her husband's seat in the House.
She is survived by her husband, Herbert; four sons, Joseph, of Santa Monica, Calif., Daniel, of Boston, John, of Albuquerque, N.M., and Michael, of Briarcliff; a sister, Mimmy Harris of Ann Arbor, Mich.; a brother, Dick Porter of Upper Jay, N.Y., and one grandchild.
      
Mrs. Golden is survived by her husband, Herbert L. Golden, and her mother, Minnie Fisher.
      
In 1939, aware of the work being done in the design offices of Raymond Loewy and Walter Dorwin Teague, Mrs. Kosetellow and her husband,Alexander, an artist, joined five other teachers and artists to found Pratt Institute's industrial design department.
With her husband, Henry, she headed the Henry and Ida Richard Foundation, which supported Bar Ilan University in Israel, Yeshiva University here and many other organizations.
She and her husband lived in Atlantic Beach, L.I., and she later moved to Cleveland.
Ms. Collazo-Levy graduated from Brooklyn College and New York University, Surviving are her husband, Alan Levy; a daughter, Rosita, and Marcos, all of Manhattan.
      
Miss Norden appeared in many films in the late 1940's and 1950's, including ''An Ideal Husband,'' ''Mine Own Executioner,'' ''The Idol of Paris,'' ''Interrupted Journey'' and ''The Black Widow.
''
        Ms. Norden is survived by her husband, George Heselden, of London; a son, Michael Cole of Guernsey, in the Channel Islands,, and a sister, June Shipp of London.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alfred Prettyman; a daughter, Nina; two sons, Asa Hale, of Madison, Wis., and Emilio; a stepdaughter, Meryl Prettyman, and a stepson, Evan Prettyman, both of New York; her mother, Loretta Conwell, and a sister, Francine Conwell Brown, of Rochester.
She is survived by her husband, Fredson T. Bowers, of Charlottesville, a former chairman of the English department of the University of Virginia; two sons by previous marriages, William Wertenbaker, of New Haven, Conn., and Mark Hardin; five grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She was president of the Bruner Foundation from its founding in 1967 upon the death of her husband, Rudy, until 1987.
Her husband thought the idea was sound and that other mothers might welcome commercially strained baby foods if they could be sold cheaply at regular grocery outlets.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Melissa Morant of London, Daphne Fairbanks-Kay of Colchester, England, and Victoria Fairbanks of Tappan, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Snowden and her husband, Otto, began Freedom House in 1949 after calling 17 people to their home to discuss how black and white residents of Boston could unite on common problems.
Mrs. Snowden is survived by her husband, a daughter and a granddaughter.
      

       Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and
        Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and London.

       Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and
        Bonita Granville Wrather, a child film star of the 1930's and a longtime executive in the Wrather Corporation, a complex of oil, entertainment and real estate businesses founded by her husband, Jack Wrather, died of cancer yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 65 years old and had homes in Holmby Hills, Calif., and London.
She appeared occasionally in television plays and, in 1958, became the associate producer of her husband's popular ''Lassie'' television series and later its producer.
''
        Mrs. Wrather held a series of major executive posts in the Wrather Corporation and succeeded her husband as board chairman after his death in 1984, holding the post until last January, when the company was sold to the Walt Disney Company and Industrial Equity (Pacific) Limited, a Hong Kong investment concern.
'' Her husband, Julius Adler, was almost always her co-star in New York and on the road.
''
        In addition to her husband, Miss Jacobson is survived by a son, Bruce, of Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her husband, George; four sons, Patrick, Colin and Casey, all of Philadelphia, and Sean, of Bala Cynwyd, and her brother, Frederick Bohen of Providence, R.I.
      
Dr. Baruch, who earned her doctorate at Bryn Mawr College, is survived by her husband, Franklin; a daughter, Susannah, and her mother, Ruth Kestenman of East Providence, R.I.
      
Professor Hertzberg wrote several books, including ''The Search for an American Indian Identity: Modern Pan-Indian Movements,'' (Syracuse University Press, 1971) and was a co-author of a book on the United Nations with her husband, Sidney, who died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, James H. Harris.
      
''
        Mrs. Feinberg's husband died in May 1986, and her daughter, Arlene, died in an automobile accident in 1985.
She is survived by her husband, Moses; a daughter, Naomi Cohen of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and nine great-grandchildren.
      
The helicopter was invariably piloted by her fourth husband, Col. Cloyce Joseph Tippett, of the Air Force.
Mrs. Lowry worked closely with her husband on his 1947 novel ''Under the Volcano,'' typing and editing the manuscript, and is generally considered to be the model for its central female character, the consul's wife, Yvonne.
In the 1930's, Mrs. Wilson - a spirited, small woman with lively brown eyes - stuck by her alcoholic husband, William G. Wilson, who had become a self-described ''hanger-on in Wall Street.
''
        Mrs. Wilson, who was not an alcoholic, began applying to herself the same self-help principles that her husband and his Alcoholics Anonymous friends were using.
Members of both groups are supposed to maintain anonymity in the news media - which is why Mrs. Wilson and her husband were widely known only by their first names.
She is survived by her husband, John W. Andersen.
      
She is survived by her husband, Neale, who is director of the Seamen's Church Institute in Philadelphia; two sons, Jonathan and Thomas, both of Manhattan; a brother, Hedley G. Dimock, who lives in Ontario, and a sister, Dorothy Palfi of Michiana, Ind.
      
She met her husband when she was a first-grade teacher at a school in Washington, where Mr. Bunche was a political science professor at Howard University.
She is survived by her husband, Ben Wyker, and a brother, Bernard Charach of Fort Lee, N.J.
      
She traveled widely with her husband and developed two great interests: needlepoint and the Japanese tea ceremony.
Tina Onassis eventually was remarried to her former husband's arch rival, Stavros Niarchos.
Her second husband was Alexander Andreadis, a Greek shipping and banking heir.
Mrs. Gottlieb was the founder and president of the Adolph and Esther Gottlieb Foundation, set up in 1976 according to provisions in her husband's will to assist older artists in need.
She supported her husband financially, eventually giving up her own painting to work as his studio assistant.
Her husband, Harold (Lace) Foreman, a pharmacist, died in 1980.
In 1953, she and her husband, the violinist Wolfgang Schneiderhan, did a world concert tour together.
She is survived by her husband and two daughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Irving, of Rochester.
      

       Marian P. Welch, the editor of two publications for the John Birch Society, which was founded by her late husband, died Tuesday at Glover Memorial Hospital.
Marian P. Welch, the editor of two publications for the John Birch Society, which was founded by her late husband, died Tuesday at Glover Memorial Hospital.
The society was founded in 1958 by 12 men, including her husband, Robert, and named after a young American missionary who was killed in China in 1954.
Her husband, Morris Cafritz, a millionare Washington real estate developer and businessman, died in 1964.
She is survived by her husband, Harry Levine; their son, Stephen, of Austin, Tex.
She met her husband in 1928 and they were married the next year.
Mrs. Lizio was born in San Angelo, Italy, in 1908 and came to the United States with her husband, Anthony, in the 1920's.
Mrs. Lizio was born in San Angelo, Italy, in 1908 and came to the United States with her husband, Anthony, in the 1920's.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred; two sons, Russell, of Holtsville, L.I., and Elliot, of Bayside, Queens, and a daughter, Sandra, of Washington.
      
After the death of her husband in 1979, Ms. Sherover-Marcuse conducted such sessions in many parts of the United States and in Britain, Germany, the Netherlands and Israel, where she assembled Arabs and Jews to air their innermost feelings about each other.
''She did mother's house when I was 15,'' said Mrs. Marion, whose husband, John, is chairman of Sotheby's North America.
In an interview in which she revealed that much of the art in her home had been bought by her husband without consultation, she observed, ''When a man's wife is a decorator, he frequently gets the compulsion to assert himself.
Daw Khin Kyi, whose husband, Gen. Aung San, was assassinated in 1947, was the mother of Aung San Suu Kyi, a Burmese opposition leader.
She is survived by her husband, Joseph; two sons, Daniel, of Atlanta, and Frederick, of San Francisco; seven grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
In 1952, she and her second husband, Greville Mee, went to live in Rio de Janeiro.
She is survived by her husband.
      
Surviving are her husband, Salvatore Cannizzaro; two stepsons, John Cannizzaro of Syracuse, and Joseph Cannizzaro of Commack, L.I.
Mrs. de Rothschild and her husband, James A. de Rothschild, were longtime supporters of Israel, active in pressing the British Government for what became known as the Balfour Declaration, the 1917 commitment to work toward a Jewish homeland in British-administered Palestine.
After her husband's death, their home at Waddesdon Manor, a 6,000-acre estate in Buckinghamshire, was left to the National Trust for Historic Preservation, along with a considerable art collection.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred, and two sons, Joshua Touster of Boston and David Touster of Los Angeles; two stepchildren, Sarah Ordover of New York, and Andrew Ordover of Woodstock; and her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Emanuel Hellman of Bay Harbor, Fla.
        A funeral service will be held at Riverside Chapel tomorrow at 11 A.M.
