She had succeeded her husband of 29 years, William Loeb, who bought the papers in the 1940's and died in 1981.

        Jean MacArthur, the widow of Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who remained at her husband's side through the darkest days of World War II and was often introduced by him as ''my finest soldier,'' died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Mrs. MacArthur addressed her husband in the presence of others as ''the general.
Mrs. MacArthur packed a few necessities and, as she was leaving the apartment, she passed a cabinet containing the decorations awarded to her husband.
A vivacious woman with meticulous manners, Mrs. MacArthur took seriously the social duties connected with her husband's position, both in the military and later in private life.
In 1990, at age 91, with her friend Barbara Bush at her side, she cut the ribbon opening the research center of the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk, where her husband is buried.
Mrs. MacArthur will be buried beside her husband at the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk after a private service for her on Wednesday, Colonel Davis said.
      
Her second husband, Earl Chia,  died in 1988.
She is survived by her husband of 35 years, James Denman; two sons, Daniel Stanton of Ridgewood, N.J., and James L. Denman of Manhattan; a daughter, Diana Denman of Atlanta; a brother, Rupert Welch of Falls Church, Va.; and three grandchildren.
      
Dr. Fromkin is survived by her husband.
Mrs. Devenney's husband died in 1993.
Ms. Rae's husband, Gene, died on Nov. 13.
As the story goes, Miss Lamarr recalled hearing some conversations that had occurred between her first husband, Mr. Mandl, and the Nazis, who seemed to place great value on creating some sort of device that would permit the radio control of airborne torpedoes and reduce the danger of jamming.
She collaborated with her husband, the writer Edward Maisel, on ''Tai Chi for Health.
''
        She is survived by her husband.
      
After separating from her first husband, Edward Dalziel, she moved to the United States in 1923 with her daughter, finding work as a legal secretary, her lifelong career.
''
        On divorce, she gave voice to many readers' feelings in a ''Hers'' column in The Times in 1980, describing the day she and her former husband watched their older daughter's high school graduation: ''There on stage is someone who is half he, half she; their blood, their genes.
But her former husband turned up alive and well, and so did two other former husbands she had not mentioned.
When her husband, an Illinois Democrat, left the Senate in 1997, Mrs. Simon joined him on the faculty of Southern Illinois University at Carbondale as an adjunct professor of library affairs.
She served as an assistant state's attorney for Cook County and was one of a few women in the Illinois Legislature when she met her husband, then a fellow lawmaker.
''
        Besides her husband, Mrs. Simon is survived by a daughter, Sheila Simon of Carbondale; a son, Martin, of Crofton, Md., and four grandchildren.
      
Since her husband showed no interest in the market, she pursued it on her own, but they both began many years of strong financial support for the law school.
She continued her investments, and her donations, after her husband's death.
When her husband died in 1978, Mrs. Mottahedeh succeeded him as president and remained active in the company, even after it was sold, until her retirement in 1998.
With her husband, she founded a series of primary and secondary schools in Uganda, and maintained four village development projects in Maharashtra state in India that served as training facilities in agricultural techniques, public health services and the development of local handicrafts.
Dr. Neer is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert Neer, and their two sons, Robert Jr. and Richard, all of Cambridge.
      
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Eddie Starr.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eddie Starr II, of Phoenix, and a daughter, Evelyn Starr, of Pittsburgh; two brothers, Melvin Faggs, of New York City, and Steve Murray, of Huntsville, Ala.; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Cleon J. Wingard; a son, Cleon Jr., of College Hill, Ohio; a daughter, Diane Lynn Peterson, of Denver; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
In 1936, she meet her future husband, Paul Auriol, through a friend who was a ski champion.
When World War II broke out, she refused to leave France while her husband was in the resistance movement.
After the war, her father-in-law became president and she, her husband and Jean-Paul, her older son, moved into Elysee Palace.
'' At dinner one night, she sat next to a flying ace and was so captivated by his stories that she asked if she and her husband could take flying lessons from him.
''
        The result was that her husband gave up flying, while she dropped out of the social and political life to devote herself to it.
In addition to her husband and four children, she is survived by two brothers, three grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
They also mingled at Ms. Howard's Spanish-style home on Coldwater Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills; she and her first husband, Charles K. Feldman, who used his success as the first super-agent to become a producer, bought it for $18,000 in 1942.
She is survived by her husband, Sherwood; her parents, Calman Winegarden of Toledo, Ohio, and Margaret Winegarden of Rochester; a sister, Mary Hoyle of San Francisco; and three sons, Andrew, Michael and Will, of Brooklyn.
      
He is her husband, Benjamin Karp of Hoosick Falls, N.Y.
      
In 1943, Mrs. Venturelli's husband, Pasquale, a policeman, leapt onto the running board of an automobile to try to apprehend two teenagers who were stealing the car.
She earned extra money from various part-time jobs, and was eager to get involved when Florence Churchill, who was trying to raise three children with polio on a $125 monthly pension after her husband died in the line of duty, wrote her in 1960 about forming an organization to fight for higher payments to police widows.
''She knew how to talk, she could talk to anybody,'' said Mrs. Crane, whose husband was shot six times as he chased a robbery suspect up a Harlem fire escape in 1963.
Her husband, Ogden Cartwright Reed, died in 1980.
She is survived by her husband, Sherman K. Edmiston Jr.; two stepchildren, Sherman K. III and Lisa A.  of New York City; three grandchildren; her mother, Mary L. Green,  and two brothers, Reuben Jr. and Eli Green, all of Springfield, Mass.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Shannon England; their daughters, Sara and Jenna; her mother, Shirley; and two sisters, Carol and Beverley.
In addition to Daisy and Ruth Mayer, both of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Paul Avila Mayer, and another daughter, Rachael, of Glen Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
She married her husband in 1938.
Her husband, Isidore Komanoff, died in 1985.
Beginning in 1927 with a single root beer stand, Mrs. Marriott and her husband, J. Willard Marriott Sr., built one of the world's leading hospitality companies.
''
        So she studied drama with the actor-director Pierre Valde, who became her first husband.
''
        Her second husband, Richard Howard, a director whom she married in 1969, said that Miss Kedrova, who had no other immediate survivors, made her last stage appearance in the early 1990's at the Chichester Festival and her last film in 1993.
She met her husband, Garlan Glover, at a Red Cross dance in Paris.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Glover is survived by a daughter, Christiane, of Ossining, N.Y.; four sons, Derek of Ridgefield, Conn., Brian of White Plains, Renny of Boulder, Colo., and Wayne of North White Plains; and six grandchildren.
Her husband, Joseph J. Sisco, a former under secretary of state for political affairs and a former president of American University, joined the firm in 1981.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Dr. Carol Bolton Sisco of Riva, Md., and Jane Murdock Sisco of Bethesda, Md.
      
Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had lived in Alexandria, Va., since 1980, said her husband, Everett Jones, a retired Army major.
She signed up for the same reasons many men did at that time, said her husband: ''She wanted to do something for her country.
She was recalled to active duty in 1949, and placed in command of a training company at Fort Lee, Va. After her marriage in 1953, her husband was transferred to Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland and she to Fort Belvoir, Va. Later they were both sent, separately, to France, and then she was assigned as a special services officer in Kansas.
She retired as chief of administration at Maison Fort in France and later accompanied her husband to a post in Germany.
She is survived by her husband.
      
''
        With her husband, Erik Hjalmar Linder, a critic, author and literary historian, Ms. Isaksson wrote what is widely considered to be the definitive biography of Elin Wagner, one of Sweden's earliest and foremost feminist novelists, who died in 1949.
Her husband died in 1994.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Ronald Dworkin.
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, who founded the Hayes Concert Bureau -- later renamed the Washington Performing Arts Society -- died in 1998.
The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Eric Mankin, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.

        Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a biochemist and educator who teamed with her husband at Columbia University to advance the knowledge of how the body's red blood cells function, died on March 25 at her home in the Bronx.
She and her husband, Dr. Reinhold Benesch, shared a laboratory at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons and studied the mechanisms by which hemoglobin transports oxygen to living tissues.
Correction:  April 15, 2000, Saturday  An obituary on April 4 about Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a Columbia University biochemist, misstated her maiden name and the year of the death of her husband and collaborator, Dr. Reinhold Benesch.
Her husband died in 1986, not 1987.
      
The losses of her son and husband in the span of a year left her devastated, and she moved to New York, settling into a Fifth Avenue apartment and embarking on a busy social schedule.
The cause of her death was heart failure, said her husband, Ron Carter, the jazz bassist.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Ron Jr., of Roxbury, Mass., and Myles, of Chelsea, Mass.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Bill Good, and her mother, Marian Robinson.
Her first husband, Albert Aardema, died in 1974.
Her second husband, Joel Vugteveen, also died.
''
        Her wry, wisecracking persona made her the perfect counterpart to her husband, who based one of the main characters in his 1962 best seller, ''Genius,'' on his wife.
Her husband of 48 years, John J. Driscoll, who was president of the Connecticut State Labor Council for 24 years, died in 1994.
Ms. Holtz and her husband, Alwin, who died last year, became friends with Ailey in the early 1960's when a colleague of the young choreographer approached Ms. Holtz about rehearsal space at a new branch of the Young Women's Christian Association on Eighth Avenue and 53rd Street in Manhattan, where she was director of activities.
Ms. Holtz and her husband came to New York after working in refugee and education programs in the Middle East for 10 years, beginning in 1948 as field staff members of the United Nations-Quaker Project for Palestinian Refugees in Gaza.
The book was written to entertain her dying husband, Desmond Fitzgerald.
Everything in Ms. Fitzgerald's background ordained her for an intellectual career, and yet for much of her adult life she was beleaguered, coping with a husband who drank and had difficulty keeping a job, and raising three children.
Ms. Fitzgerald once told an interviewer that her husband ''didn't have much luck in life.
With her husband, she was editor of ''The World Review,'' a small literary journal.
Mrs. Beardsley's first husband, Lt. Richard Dale North, a Navy pilot, died in a fighter-jet crash in 1960, when she was six months pregnant with their eighth child.
Mrs. Beardsley is survived by her husband; 20 children; 44 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren.
Dr. Rheingold is survived by her husband, Dr. Don W. Hayne; two sons, Paul D. Rheingold of Rye, N.Y., and Dr. Arnold L. Rheingold of Wilmington, Del.
Her first husband, Dr. Joseph D. Rheingold, a psychiatrist, died in 1978.
      
Mrs. Wilcox, known as Libby, was a professional photographer known  for her medical photographs, but her work at the hospital, in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, was done as a volunteer; her husband, Dr. Herbert B. Wilcox Jr., was long affiliated with the center.
''
        In 1991 she and her husband, a  retired associate professor of medicine at Columbia University's medical school, gave the center her collection of more than 100,000 photographic images, almost all taken at the center.
Her husband, whom she married in 1937, died in 1997.
The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Rabbi Jack Stern, the former leader of the Westchester Reform Temple in Scarsdale.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jonathan Stern of Washington, D.C., and Rabbi David Stern of Dallas, whose wife, Nancy Kasten, is also a rabbi; a daughter, Elsie Stern, of Brooklyn; her stepmother, Lili Rudin of New York City;  a brother, Stephen Rudin of Manhasset, N.Y.; a stepbrother, Jeffrey Laikind of New York City; four grandchildren; and nieces and nephews.
The cause was complications from ovarian cancer and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Arthur.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Stoliar is survived by a daughter, Lee Stoliar Dufresne of Charlotteville, N.J.; a son, Evan, of Manhattan; a sister, Dr. Virginia Stein of Somerville, N.J.; and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Fowle is survived by her husband, Farnsworth Fowle, a retired New York Times reporter and former foreign correspondent, whom she married in Europe 49 years ago.
      
One of her best-known works is ''Spooky Tricks'' (1968), which she wrote with her husband Gerald Ames.
The friendship drew scrutiny in Mr. Clinton's first term after it was revealed that Mrs. Blair's husband, James B. Blair, the chief counsel to Tyson Foods, had helped Mrs. Clinton make nearly $100,000 in profits from trading in commodity futures.
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
After the death of her husband, Lt. Harry Angelo, a member of the United States 30th Infantry Division who was killed in 1944 at the battle of St.
Her husband of 70 years, Dr. Emanuel R. Piore, died last month.
Born Ruth Rubin in New York, she had a successful career as a fashion stylist and as a business partner of her first husband, Samuel Kass.
Mrs. Spingarn is survived by her husband, Jerome Spingarn; two sons, Jonathan of Atlanta and Jeremy of Norwood, Mass.
Often she acted onstage with her husband, Paul Sparer -- in everything from ''A Phoenix Too Frequent'' by Christopher Fry to Edward Albee's ''Delicate Balance'' to Mr. Gurney's ''Love Letters.
And at 94, she carried the torch for the Atlanta Games when it moved through Daytona Beach, Fla.
        ''Alice was the grand dame of the Olympians,'' said Dorothy Franey Langkop, honorary executive director of United States Olympians, an association of former competitors that the diver and her husband, the Olympic high-jump champion Dick Landon, helped found in the mid-1940's.
Her husband died in 1971.
''
        Her husband, William R. Basham, died in 1986.
He was forced to leave the United States because of his political views, said Dr. Martin's third and last husband, Robert J. Schwartz.
In 1930, having been told by the party that she would be contacted in Shanghai, she moved with her husband to China.
Ms. Werner joined the ring without her husband's knowledge, stored weapons and hid a Chinese comrade who was on the run.
Though her marriage was deteriorating, she and her husband had had a son, Michael, while in Shanghai.
She accepted an assignment in Poland, this time with her husband, although she was pregnant with Ernst's child.
In late 1938 she was sent to Switzerland to set up a new spy ring, again with her husband, but he soon left her and went to the Far East.
In addition to her daughter Kate, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband; another daughter, Brookie Maxwell, also of Manhattan; a grandson; and two brothers, Robert Noyes of Portland, Ore., and H. F. Noyes of Athens, Greece.
      
Mrs. Nickerson's first husband, E. Farrar Bateson, died in 1977.
She is survived by her second husband, Adams H. Nickerson; her children, Douglas Bateson, Emily Bateson, William Bateson and Rosina Bateson Barker; a brother, Keith Moffat; and six grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Douglas H. MacNeil, died in 1963.
Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      
She also helped start a fundraising campaign for Long Island Jewish Hospital in Hyde Park, N.Y.
        Mrs. Wulwick's first husband, Joseph S. Wohl, to whom she was married for 46 years, died in 1979.

        Rose Marie Thomas, the head of the fund-raising organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, which was founded by her husband, the comedian Danny Thomas, died on Wednesday.
She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Mrs. Thomas had held the fund-raising position since the death in 1991 of her husband, who established the hospital four decades ago.
Mrs. Holt first attracted national attention when she and her husband, Harry, adopted eight abandoned children whose fathers were American soldiers.
In 1954, Mrs. Holt, a nurse, and her husband, who was a farmer and a lumberjack, went to a high school auditorium in Eugene, Ore., to watch a film about Amerasian children in South Korean orphanages.
Her husband died in 1975.
A Loretta Young movie had a happy ending; that's what it was geared to: a nice husband, nice lover, no abuse of any kind -- that's what the heroes and heroines were in those days.
Her later years were quietly shared with her third husband, Jean Louis, a designer for Columbia Pictures, whom she married in 1994.
Ms. Admiral's husband died in 1993.

        Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx.
She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.
Mrs. Amato is survived by her husband and a sister, Ann Frydel, of Manhattan.
      
She rediscovered the work of Helen Torr and was instrumental in acquiring many paintings by Arthur Dove, Ms. Torr's husband.
The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Colin de Land.
She is survived by her husband, Steven; a son, Jay; and a daughter, Jennifer.
      
She had lymphoma, said her husband, Albert Hague, a Tony-winning composer of Broadway musicals.
Ms. Orin made her Broadway debut in the 1955 musical ''Plain and Fancy,'' which her husband composed.
''
        She was called ''a singer with a lovely voice and a charming, ingratiating personality,'' by the jazz critic John S. Wilson in a 1976 review in The New York Times of a program of songs sung by her and her husband at the Ballroom nightclub.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Janet Hague of Portland, Ore., and a son, Andrew Hague of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Devine's husband, Andrew, died in 1973.
Mrs. Davis helped her husband.
In addition to her husband and her son Alan, of San Francisco, Mrs. Davis is survived by another son, Michael, of Belvedere, Calif., and four grandchildren.
Mrs. Davis helped choose some of the resident performers, and she and her husband often entertained them after performances.
She and her husband gave the school another $2 million for an endowed scholarship fund in their names.
''
        In New York in his 20's, Mr. Hall met Margaret Rutherford, who became enchanted with him and, with her husband, Stringer Davis, adopted him.
She also said that her husband beat her.
In 1974, after a period of turbulence in which she accused her husband of selling her belongings to buy whisky, the family moved to Catskill, N.Y.
She continued to support her husband and daughter on her meager earnings as a writer.
''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Simmons is survived by three grandchildren.
Disney animators sketching rehearsals used her for the hippopotamus ballerina in Disney's 1940 movie ''Fantasia,'' with her husband the model for the alligator.
''
        Its main character, played by Jill Clayburgh, falls apart when her husband suddenly deserts her for a new life.
Her husband, Leon Russianoff, a noted clarinetist and teacher, died in 1990.
Orson Welles starred as the driver, and the haunting score was written by Bernard Herrmann, Miss Fletcher's first husband, best known for his score for Alfred Hitchcock's ''Psycho.
The cause of death was breast cancer, said her husband, Daniel N. Arshack.
The principal told her that as a parent, she should not expect to play a role in improving the school, her husband recalled.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her children, Adam, 12, and Eliza, 10; her father, Zeno W. Wicks of Louisville, Ky.; three brothers, Zeno Wicks of Brookings, S.D., David Wicks of Louisville and Douglas Wicks of Pittsburgh; and two sisters, Kayo Wicks of Louisville and Robin Wicks of Mogadore, Ohio.
      
He always referred to himself as her Godfather, and designed a bed with built-in cabinets and a jungle motif for her and her husband.
In the 1970's, she and her husband retired to Maryland and a house filled with Japanese textiles and an Otto Natzler pottery collection.
Her husband, who had been a widower, was the editor of Punch, the humor magazine.
She was so modest that she said she did not wish to be buried with her husband in the pretty Hampstead cemetery because her name would add clutter to his stone.
Over the years, Ms. Peters established herself in a remote, hilltop mansion in Bel Air while her husband, growing ever more reclusive and secretive, adjourned to the penthouses above a Las Vegas casino where he passed most of the last decades of his life.
Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alaska.
While her husband ran the business, she volunteered at various charities.
''
        But in 1963, Ms. Fanning and her husband divorced because of what she later called her discontent with the high-society lifestyle.
She married her third husband, Amos Mathews, around the same time.
She never really left the state that she loved -- she and her husband kept a home in Anchorage where they lived for four months each year.
Ms. Fanning is survived by her husband and three children: Mr. Field of Los Angeles, Katherine Stephen of Washington, D.C., and Barbara Field of Boston.
      
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
Ms. Fanning died of colon cancer at her Boston home, where she lived with her husband and was writing a book about her years in Alaska.
While her husband ran the business, she volunteered with  charities.
''
        But in 1963, Ms. Fanning and her husband divorced because of what she later called her discontent with the high-society lifestyle.
Ms. Fanning is survived by her husband and three children: Mr. Field of Los Angeles, Katherine Stephen of Washington, D.C., and Barbara Field of Boston.
      
Dr. Milton, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Henry Friedlander, a professor of history at the City University of New York and president of the German Studies Association.
''
        An expert in cell biology, she teamed with Dr. Lewis Bachmann, an Austrian scientist, and Dr. Edwin E. Salpeter, her husband, to invent a technique that lets scientists see individual signaling molecules and to determine their position and quantity in cells, crucial measurements.
Besides her husband, a Cornell professor emeritus, she is survived by two daughters, Judy Salpeter of Berkeley, Calif., and Dr. Shelley Salpeter of Woodside, Calif.; a sister, Naomi Lasher of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bandaranaike rose to power in 1960 as a bereaved wife and mother of three, just a year after her husband, Solomon, then prime minister, was assassinated by a Buddhist monk.
She quickly established herself as the undisputed leader of the Sri Lanka Freedom Party -- founded by her husband -- and a formidable politician in her own right.
Bandaranaike's legacy is this: After her husband died, there was so much confusion and the party was almost collapsing,'' said K. M. de Silva, a Sri Lankan historian.
She will be buried alongside her husband on Saturday in a state funeral at the family's ancestral home in Horagulla.

        Sonja Bullaty, a photographer noted for lyrical composition and startling use of color and light in a vast body of work created during a five-decade collaboration with her husband, Angelo Lomeo, died on Oct. 5 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Thomas M. C. Johnston, who is a former aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy, and two daughters, Margaret-Brooke Johnston-Clarke and Elizabeth Johnston, both of Paris.
      
She was to become the living embodiment of his work on Broadway, and he in turn became her mentor, her lover and eventually her husband.
Correction:  October 23, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the singer and actress Julie London on Thursday misspelled the surname of her second husband, who died last year.
Surviving are her husband, Nathan; a son, Steven, of Albany, Calif.; two grandchildren; and two sisters, Ruth Forsyth of New Orleans and Florence Marx of Bogalusa, La.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Brook Ashley of Santa Barbara, Calif.; a son, Brockman Seawell of New York; two brothers, Hubert F. Rawls Jr. of Myrtle Beach, S.C., and Richard Russell Rawls of Fernandina Beach, Fla.; a sister, Dorothy Louise Rawls Tuttle of California; a granddaughter; and two great-grandchildren.
      
In a life that included working with delinquent girls, writing three books on psychology and producing anthropological studies of Navajo Indians with her husband, she never lost her fierce commitment to equality.
She completed the last volume with her husband, Walter Dyk, an anthropologist who studied Navajo Indians.
Mrs. Hollister's husband, Dickerman Hollister, died in 1983.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four sons, John and Russell, of Scotch Plains; David, of Boston; and Andrew, of Macungie, Pa.; and by 12 grandchildren.
      
Her husband.
Mrs. Sanger and her husband, Elliott M. Sanger, who helped found the station, assembled the music and interviews that turned WQXR, one of the country's first FM classical stations, into a New York institution.
She and her husband stayed on at WQXR long after the Times Company purchased it in 1944.
Her husband, Dr. Tomas Eloy Martinez, a fellow faculty member and journalist, was treated for lesser injuries; she was pronounced dead later Monday evening at a nearby hospital.
Besides her husband, director of the Rutgers Latin American studies program, Dr. Rotker-Martinez's survivors include their daughter, Sol Ana Martinez, 14; her parents, David and Cecilia Rotker; and a brother, George Rotker, all of Caracas.
      
The mezzo-soprano Joan Morris and her husband and professional partner, the composer and pianist William Bolcom, made some popular Nonesuch recordings of vernacular American songs from the late 19th and early 20th centuries.
''
        Ms. Windsor is survived by her husband, Jack Rodney Hupp; her son, Richard Hupp; a brother, Jerry Bertelsen; and a sister, Louise Atherley.
Her husband, Henry T. Ireys, whom she married in 1943, died in 1963.
Her husband, Arthur, was a Royal Air Force pilot.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Simon.
Mrs. Kanzler went back to using the name of her fourth husband and will be buried next to him in Detroit.
On returning to the United States in 1978 with her husband, the physicist and philosopher Francis Zucker, she was appointed to a senior lectureship in the writing program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she remained until her retirement in 1995.
The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Robert Flam.
Ms. Ledis is survived by her husband; her parents, Nathan Ledis and Joan Feldman; a brother, Stuart Ledis; and a sister, Holly Blumenstyk.
      
Mrs. Buckey's survivors include her husband, Charles, and her son and daughter.
''It was like a land rush,'' said Mrs. Ford, who with her husband, Jerry, opened Ford Models in 1946.
In addition to her husband, her son and her daughter Christina, she is survived by another daughter, Holly Schulte Ellison, and four grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
That same year her husband took their daughter, Mirtha, with him to live in neighboring Uruguay.
After an effort involving a lawyer and several friends, including Hector Artola, her new romantic partner and future husband, Ms. Lamarque succeeded in gaining custody of her daughter.
Mrs. Aresty began her collection after World War II when she frequently traveled overseas with her husband, Julian Aresty, a prosperous retail executive who shared her enthusiasm for history.
''
        In fact, she once got a check from her husband to buy herself a mink jacket and returned home in triumph with a precious Elizabethan book.
      
The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Jean Yves Noblet.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Robert McCready of Manhattan, and her mother, Ellen McCready of Dallas.
      
Her husband, Col. Richard S. Stark, died in 1986 after 40 years of marriage.
Ms. Cooke's husband, Cecil Cooke, died in 1978.
