The death was announced by her husband, Sean Harvey.
She voiced her gratitude to her husband and expressed her sense of responsibility to all those in her condition, and asked readers to put themselves in her place.
Besides her husband, Ms. Dent is survived by a brother, Stephen Dent of Riverside, Conn., and a sister, Melissa Dent of Manhattan.

        Candy Barr, an exotic dancer whose hardscrabble life became Texas legend as she befriended Jack Ruby (who killed President John F. Kennedy's assassin), dated a mobster, shot her husband went to prison for drug possession, and starred -- unwillingly, she insisted -- in a famous stag film, died on Friday in Victoria, Tex.
She had been in declining health for more than a decade, said her husband, Maurice Carroll.
Her husband, Giorgio Costa, a carpenter at the Metropolitan Opera and on various Broadway shows, also survives her.

        Joan Root, an animal lover and conservationist who collaborated with her husband, Alan, on a series of wildlife documentaries in the 1970's, was killed Friday in Naivasha, Kenya.
Besides her husband, a retired co-chairman of the Seagram Company, Mrs. Bronfman is survived by a sister, Marcia Flanders, of Montreal; three children from her first marriage, Jeremy Cohen of Manhattan, Pippa Cohen of Manhattan and Tony Cohen of Toronto; two stepchildren, Stephen Bronfman of Montreal and Ellen Hauptman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Bagley said Mrs. King's body would be returned to her home, Atlanta, for entombment next to her husband, whose crypt is at the Martin Luther King Jr. Center there.
She appeared at a dinner honoring her husband on Jan. 14 but did not speak.
Mrs. King did not hesitate to pick up his mantle, marching before her husband was even buried at the head of the striking garbage workers he had gone to Memphis to champion.
In addition to dealing with her husband's death, which left her with four young children, Mrs. King faced other trials and controversies.
Many allies were baffled and hurt by her campaign to exonerate James Earl Ray, who in 1969 pleaded guilty to her husband's murder, and her contention that Ray did not commit the crime.
''She'll be remembered as a strong woman whose grace and dignity held up the image of her husband as a man of peace, of racial justice, of fairness,'' said the Rev.
A First Encounter
        Her first encounter with the man who would become her husband did not begin auspiciously, as recounted in ''Parting the Waters,'' by Taylor Branch.
She stunned Dr. King's father, who presided over the wedding, by demanding that the promise to obey her husband be removed from the wedding vows.
Her husband became minister of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery in 1954, but about a year later, the Montgomery Bus Boycott brought Dr. King to national attention.
Suddenly, she was not just a symbol of the nation's grief, but a woman devoted to carrying on her husband's work.
In stepping in for her husband after his death, Mrs. King at first used his own words as much as possible, as if her goal were simply to maintain his presence.
So, when she stood in for her husband at the Poor People's Campaign at the Lincoln Memorial on June 19, 1968, she spoke not just of his vision, but of hers, of gender as well as race.
When Mrs. King announced plans for a memorial in 1969, she envisioned a Lincolnesque tomb, an exhibition hall, the restoration of her husband's childhood home, institutes on nonviolent social change and Afro-American studies, a library building, an archives building and a museum of African-American life and culture.
Admirers said she bore her special burden -- being expected to carry on her husband's work and teachings -- with a sense of spirit and purpose that made her more than a symbol.
She remained at the restaurant until the late 1950's, during which she and her husband would argue over its bourgeois character.
Her husband had died as she completed her first book, Ms. Jones said.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
''
        Known to many in Ghana as Auntie Peggy, Mrs. Appiah was a prolific writer of children's books, many of them based on the Ghanaian folk tales her husband told their children, as well as of novels, poetry and most recently a collection of 7,000 Ashanti proverbs, on which she collaborated with her son.
She was the company's deputy director, then director in 1963 and '64, until she was removed during the Cultural Revolution and reportedly did manual labor; her second husband, Ding Ning, a dancer, divorced her during the Cultural Revolution.
Although she had been battling cancer for four years, Ms. Fraser died of pneumonia at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in Reading, her husband and partner in the theater, James Sargant, said.
She is survived by her husband; her mother; her son, Sam, 23, and her daughter, Charley, 21.
Her husband, Fred, did not want their children to know of her daredevil past for fear it might prove overly inspirational, and she herself did not share her stories until they were adults.
''
        Correction:  March 8, 2006, Wednesday  An obituary on Feb. 26 about Emilie Neumann Muse, an adventurer and stuntwoman, misstated the date of her death and her husband's occupation.
She died on Jan. 30, not Jan. 23, and her husband, the late Fred Muse, was a mechanical engineer, not a ship's electrician.
Her death was announced by her husband, the writer and broadcaster Ludovic Kennedy.
She also had four children, who, with her husband, survive her.
Besides her brother, her survivors include her husband, Daniel Seltzer, and their 10-year-old triplets, a daughter, Leila, and two sons, Isaac and Milo, who all have the last name Selchaif; and her parents, Marilyn and Malcolm Chaifetz.
      
Her death was announced by her husband, Robert G. Morris, a photo editor, who said it followed a long illness.
''
        Correction:  February 6, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about Tana Hoban, a photographer and an illustrator of children's books, misstated the given name of her husband.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
She did the mopping and the marketing and took her husband's gray flannel suit to the cleaners.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
She did the mopping and the marketing and took her husband's gray flannel suit to the cleaners.
In her recent memoir, ''Life So Far'' (Simon & Schuster, 2000), she accused her husband of being physically abusive during their marriage, writing that he sometimes gave her black eyes, which she concealed with make-up at public events and on television.
As she made the beds, shopped for groceries, matched slipcover material, ate peanut butter sandwiches with her children, chauffeured Cub Scouts and Brownies, lay beside her husband at night -- she was afraid to ask even of herself the silent question -- ''Is this all?
Her husband of nearly 50 years, Dr. Frederick Redlich, died in 2004.
Written by Ms. O'Neill and her husband, George, the book spent more than 40 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list.
An early marriage ended with the death of her husband during World War II.
The book recounts her many visits to Italy, the first in 1958, when her husband, Charles, began studying there on a Fulbright scholarship.
She moved to the Bay Area in 1948, when her husband joined the faculty of the University of California, Berkeley.
In addition to her husband and daughter, of Bethesda, Md., she is survived by a son, Jeff, of Palo Alto, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      

        Dana Reeve, who devoted herself to the care of her paralyzed husband, the actor Christopher Reeve, and became a forceful advocate for research into spinal cord injuries, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She succeeded her husband as chairman of the foundation and established the Christopher and Dana Reeve Paralysis Resource Center, an information clearinghouse.
Ms. Reeve essentially suspended her career after her husband's accident, choosing to oversee his care and campaign for spinal cord research, but she did make several appearances after his death.
As the Nazis approached Paris in 1940, she and her husband fled through Spain and Portugal to London.
In May 1954, Ms. Braden and her husband, Carl, both white Kentuckians active in progressive politics, bought a house in a segregated Louisville suburb on behalf of a black associate, Andrew Wade IV, and his family.
Ms. Braden, who had begun to embrace liberal humanist ideas as a teenager, joined her husband in politics.
Ms. Cosman's husband, Bard, a plastic surgeon whom she married in 1958, died in 1983.
Ms. Gaines's husband, Albert Denis Gaines, whom she married in 1941, died in 1995.
The cause was complications of bacterial pneumonia, said her husband, Dr. Eric R. Wold.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Sylvan, and her parents, Dr. John and Coralee Morgan of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
'' It was Don Gardner, not Ms. Valli's husband Oscar de Mejo.
      
Ms. Jacobs told Azure that she would not have written any books without her husband's encouragement.
Mrs. Fiske's interest in the formal study of her 275-acre estate began after the death in 1992 of her husband, Andrew, a 13th-generation descendant of Nathaniel Sylvester, an original settler of Shelter Island.
Her husband, who was a State Supreme Court justice, died in 2002.
      
She was drawn into the rarefied world of porcelain by her husband, Edward M. Pflueger, who had begun collecting it in the 1930's.
Her 1985 autobiography, ''Call Me Woman,'' described her beatings by her first husband and her loss of their children to him when they separated, because by law and tradition she was a minor.
In the early 1950's, after her husband took a job with the National Security Agency, Mrs. Avram moved to the Washington area, where she studied mathematics at George Washington University.
Mrs. Avram's husband died in January.
The cause was cancer, her husband, Robert, said.
Then, from 1946 to 1954, she worked in telephone sales for cargo at Pan American World Airways, with her future husband as her boss.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Connelly is survived by a son, Robert Jr. of Las Vegas; three daughters, Alice Lanzi of Staten Island, Margaret Nicholson of Katonah, N.Y., and Therese Shannon of Goshen, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
''A family member suffered from mental illness,'' her husband said yesterday, ''and that's why she dedicated herself to that cause.
Her husband, Nelson Sibly Bell, died in 1991.
Often she co-starred with her husband, Joseph Buloff, whom she met in Poland.
''
        ''On Stage, Off Stage: Memories of a Lifetime in the Yiddish Theater,'' which she and her husband wrote with Irving Genn, was published in 1992 by the Judaica Division, Harvard College Library.
She is survived by her second husband, the historian Peter Gay; three daughters, Sarah Glazer Khedouri of Larchmont, N.Y.; Sophie Glazer of Fort Wayne, Ind.
In 1965, after a 12-year absence on Broadway, she opened in ''Man of La Mancha,'' directed by her husband, Albert Marre, who had also directed ''Kismet.
In addition to Ms. Marre and three grandsons, all of Brooklyn, Ms. Diener is survived by her husband and a son, Adam Marre, both of Manhattan.
      
Jack Brand, her husband, died before her.
She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Dr. Robert E. Roberts, a chemist and director of the Science and Technology Policy Institute in Washington; two sons, Dr. Karl Roberts, an orthopedic surgeon in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Greg Roberts, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a sister, Dorrie Derge, of Frederick, Md.
The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy M. Goodman.
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud of New York City and Leslie Goodman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
In 1949, she and her husband, Giulio Castelli, founded Kartell, which became a leading furniture company known for high-quality plastic designs.
''She was not only influential as a professional designer, she educated her husband, an industrialist and engineer, in the importance of quality in design,'' said the architect Emilio Ambasz, who was the curator of the seminal 1972 exhibition ''Italy: The New Domestic Landscape'' at the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
With the success of Kartell, Ms. Castelli Ferrieri and her husband helped fuel the explosion of Italian modern design in the 60's, 70's and 80's, much as her father had galvanized the cultural scene in his day.
Her survivors include her husband; a daughter, Marial; and a son, Valerio, all of Milan.
The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy M. Goodman.
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud, of New York City and Leslie Goodman, of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer, of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, according to her husband, Greg Lewis.
Besides her husband, Ms. Lewis is survived by two daughters, Carla and Christy; her mother, Alene Rhodes of Houston; and her brother, Tim Rhodes of South Shores, N.C.
      
In 1985 a biography of Mr. Jones by Frank MacShane, ''Into Eternity: The Life of James Jones, American Writer'' (Houghton Mifflin), quoted the author Irwin Shaw describing Mrs. Jones as ''the candle that kept the house alight,'' as hostess and as guardian of her husband's literary reputation after his death.
During the 1950's and 60's, she and her husband at the time, Jason, were the first couple of publishing, powerful book editors who knew everyone and gave the kind of high-octane dinner parties that warranted mention in Edmund Wilson's journals.
Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice president of IMG Artists, speaking on behalf of the singer's husband, the composer Peter Lieberson.
And yet in a Handel aria, a Britten cantata or a song by her husband, she could be so revealing you sometimes wanted to avert your eyes for fear of intruding.
Her husband since 1972, Alan Truscott, the bridge columnist for The New York Times, died last year.
With her husband she wrote ''Teach Yourself Basic Bidding'' (1976-77) and ''The New York Times Bridge Book'' (2002).
She then found jobs on the West Coast in fashion shows and magazines that catered to black audiences, and a husband, a much older dentist who spoiled her.
Ms. Church found that she liked Paris so much that she informed her husband she was staying.
She was presented a prize of two guineas by the impresario Eric Winston Coverly, better known as Chalk Talk, who became her husband in 1954.
After she nursed him through years of ill health, her husband died at 91.
In ''Executive Suite'' (1954), she assured her husband, played by William Holden, who was vying for president of the Tredway Corporation, ''Darling, if it's something you really want, that's all that's important to either of us.
''
        When Miss Allyson tried to move beyond Peter Pan collars and sugary characters as the harsh and nasty woman who pushes her husband (José Ferrer) into a nervous breakdown in ''The Shrike'' (1955), her acting was praised but audiences refused to accept her, and the movie was a box-office failure.
Pamela Allyson Powell now lives in Santa Monica, Calif. Richard, of Los Angeles, also survives Miss Allyson, as does her husband, David Ashrow, a dentist whom she married in 1976.
Even the tough parts of her life -- the death of her husband Dick Powell and her subsequent bout with alcoholism -- are described in a relatively blithe manner.
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Kew Gardens, Queens, Ms. Uhnak is survived by her husband, Anthony, and a sister, Mary Ellis of Hartsdale, N.Y.
The cause was cancer, said Harold Foster, her husband of 41 years.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Foster is survived by a daughter, Rachel Kodsi, and a son, Joshua, both of Brooklyn; a sister, Jeanette Katz, of Queens; and three grandchildren.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, the television host Dick Cavett.
They married in 1964; her husband is her only immediate survivor.
In addition to her son Al Seckel, of Malibu, Calif., Ms. Schonthal is survived by her husband, Paul Seckel, an artist, of New Rochelle, and two other sons, Bernhard and Ben, both of Scarsdale.
The cause was colon cancer, her husband, Peter, said.
Her husband said that her respect for fairness and rules helped find an ethical middle ground while defending the sexual harassment claims.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, and their two children: Laura, a paralegal for the Manhattan district attorney's office; and Eric, a sophomore at Cornell University.
Other survivors include her husband of 40 years, Reuben Earnest Adams Jr.; their son, Reuben III; a brother, Glodies Jackson; and eight grandchildren.

        Lydia, Duchess of Bedford, an English aristocrat who helped transform Woburn Abbey, her second husband's ancestral home in Bedfordshire, into a pioneering and satisfyingly lucrative example of blueblood tourism, died July 25 in Chertsey, Surrey, England.
The duchess married her first husband, Capt.
Lydia, Duchess of Bedford (who kept her title after the divorce, with the customary addition of her first name to avoid confusion with her husband's new wife) is survived by two sons, Sir Gavin Lyle, third baronet, of Murthly, Perth, Scotland, and Lord Francis Russell of London; a daughter, Lorna Alexander of St. Andrews, Fife, Scotland; a stepson, Lord Rudolf Russell, also of London; and nephews and nieces who include Aga Khan IV, the 49th imam of the Shiite Imami Ismaili Muslims, who lives in Paris.
      
Besides her parents, she is survived by her husband, David Mahler, of Brooklyn; a brother, Christopher; and a sister, Rachel, both of Washington.
      
In 1939, she married Paul Juda, also German, and in 1949 she returned with her husband to Germany to try to reclaim his family's confiscated property.
During the Depression Ms. Ruellan and her husband made several trips to the South, which resulted in some of her most memorable work.
She won three years in a row, from 1986 to 1988, and again in 1990 before retiring from competition to raise a family with her husband and fellow musher, David Monson, in the mid-1990's.
She went on to raise and train dogs with her husband at Trail Breakers Kennel near Fairbanks, Alaska.
Dr. Miller is survived by her husband, S. M. Miller, an emeritus professor of sociology at Boston University.
Although Balanchine frowned on his ballerinas' having children, Ms. Hayden had two with her husband, Donald Coleman, who survives her.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      
The cause was cervical cancer, said her husband, Joseph Bartscherer, a photographer.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her son, Max, and her sister, Beba Shamash of Manhattan.
      

        Iris M. Ovshinsky, who along with her husband, the iconoclastic inventor Stanford R. Ovshinsky, produced cleaner automotive technologies and pushed the auto industry to embrace them, died on Aug. 16 near her home in Bloomfield Township, Mich. She was 79.
''She was the ears of her husband,'' said Hellmut Fritzsche, a friend and scientific collaborator.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Ovshinsky is survived by a daughter, Robin Dibner, and a son, Steven Dibner, from a previous marriage; three stepsons, Ben, Harvey and Dale Ovshinsky; and four grandchildren.
She graduated in 1950 from Waco High School, where she showed a special facility for debate and met her future husband, David Richards.

        Evelyn Ortner, who with her husband, Everett, was among the first, the most vocal and the most effective champions of the brownstone revival that spread from Brooklyn to the rest of the country, died on Tuesday at her home in Park Slope.
She had a mastectomy two weeks ago, but had seemed to be doing well until her death, her husband said.
Victorian homes had fallen into disfavor and many middle-class New Yorkers were moving to the suburbs by 1963, when Mrs. Ortner and her husband bought a four-story 1886 brownstone on Berkeley Place in Park Slope.
She and her husband convinced Brooklyn Union Gas that it would be good business to buy another old house, then occupied by pigeons, and turn it into a showcase.
Mrs. Ortner did much of the historical research that persuaded the New York City Landmarks Preservation Committee to designate the Park Slope historic district in 1973, her husband said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her brother, Bernard Gelbman of Manhattan.
The only house that she and her husband ever owned was their own, where she was living at the time of her death.
      
Mrs. Levine designed shoes for 30 years under the label Herbert Levine, named for her husband, and was known as America's First Lady of Shoe Design because of her prominence in 20th-century fashion, and because her designs were worn by the American first ladies Lady Bird Johnson, Patricia Nixon and Jacqueline Kennedy.
Her most outrageous designs -- driving shoes made to look like race cars, elaborately carved wooden blocks that looked like birds in flight and evening shoes that looked like Aladdin's lamp -- were included in an exhibition at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1976, when she and her husband retired.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Deschamps Adams worked on a Lockheed assembly line and then taught French in many places, including Iran, Hawaii, Germany and Bermuda.
Her husband returned to Japan after her trial, and she never saw him again.
One day, she saw a woman take her boyfriend's boat onto the river and asked her husband why she could not row as well.
Her husband eventually let her take out a small boat.
Ernestine Bayer became the club's president, the members receiving instruction from her husband.
Among her many other books are the young-adult novels ''Acts of Love'' (1986) and ''First a Dream'' (1990), both published by Scholastic, and ''Mention My Name in Mombasa: The Unscheduled Adventures of an American Family Abroad'' (Dodd, Mead, 1958), a travel memoir written with her husband, William P. McGivern, a well-known crime novelist.
Ms. Daly's husband died in 1982; her daughter, Megan McGivern Shaw, died the next year.
Her husband of 46 years, Arthur Waxman, died in 1998.
The cause was a heart attack, said her son, William D. Harmsen Jr.
        Over a career in confections that spanned 50 years, Mrs. Harmsen and her late husband, William, created scores of original candies on their farm in Colorado, including chocolates, fruit chews, jelly beans and lollipops.
In 1942, she and her husband, an airline pilot, moved onto a 10-acre ranch outside Denver, where they hoped to grow fruits and vegetables.
Mrs. Harmsen managed the Jolly Rancher's finances and operations in Colorado while her husband traveled the country marketing candy and becoming the public face of the brand.
Dr. Shapiro is survived by her husband of 39 years, Dr. Peter A. Shapiro, an orthodontist; a son, Evan, and a daughter, Jessica Mirsky; and a grandchild.
      
were planted when Berg met at the Venetian Hotel in Miami with Zaharias; Zaharias's husband, George; and Fred Corcoran, the P.G.A.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
She attended Baylor University in Waco -- on a debate scholarship -- where she met her future husband, David Richards.
After making more than 250 movies in several Indian languages, she retired in 1970 and moved with her husband, Dr. K. T. Ramachandran, to Hillsdale, N.J.
Her husband died in 1981 and her sisters died two years ago.
Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
Ms. Urry's first husband, Steven Urry, a sculptor, died in 1993.
She is survived by her husband, Alan R. Trustman, a screenwriter, and a son, Caleb Urry.
Survivors include her current husband, Dean McNeil; their daughter, Ruby; and her brother, Warren Silverman.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband of 24 years, David Cuming; a son, Andrew; and a sister, Rita Blake, all of Manhattan.
In the movie, Eve gets her comeuppance, but in Ms. Orr's version, she gets away with everything, including the narrator's husband.
As recounted by Sam Staggs in ''All About 'All About Eve' '' (St. Martin's, 2000), the woman repaid Ms. Bergner by trying to take over both her acting career and her husband, the director Paul Czinner.
With her husband, Ms. Orr wrote four plays that opened on Broadway.
Ms. Orr's husband, Mr. Denham, died in 1983.

        Danièle Huillet, the French-born filmmaker who, in collaboration with her husband, Jean-Marie Straub, created some of the most challenging and intensely debated motion pictures of the modernist era, died on Monday at the home of friends in the Loire Valley in France.
Ms. Huillet, who lived in Rome with her husband, was visiting France for treatment of her illness.
This came at a time when her husband was also under fire by Mao and his deputies as being the leading ''capitalist roader.
She had a weakness for drummers: her first husband, Don Carter, played drums, and so did her closest musical partner for many years, John Poole.
In 1947 she made headlines for her arrest, with her second husband, Carl Hoff, for marijuana possession.
The cause was lung failure, her husband, George Castanis, said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Castanis is survived by her four children: Thaddeus, of New York; Claudius and Augustus, of Los Angeles; and Phoebe Coombs, of Schwenksville, Pa.; and two grandchildren.
''
        A few years after her husband's death, she was introduced to former Mayor Wagner.
''
        A few years after her husband's death, she was introduced to former Mayor Wagner.
She is survived by her husband, Ellis Gordon Jr., whom she married in 1984; her mother, Doris Moore of Los Angeles; a daughter from her first marriage, Maia Campbell of Los Angeles; a stepson, Ellis Gordon III of Mitchellville, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Andy Ostroy, and a daughter, Sophie.
Dr. Levit's husband, Dr. Samuel M. Levit, an internist, died in 1994.
''The Mitchells'' (1945) was the first of three books about a family like the one she and her husband reared; they lived in Washington, then moved to Canada.
Her husband of 62 years, Ervin Ross Marlin, died in 1994; a native New Yorker, he had worked for the State Department and the United Nations.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Stanley Aronowitz, the well-known sociologist and progressive activist.
In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration.

        Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J.
''Rose was a true partner of her husband in operating the business, making decisions,'' said Roy Sloane, the company's advertising manager until 1987.
She arrived in the United States in 1921; her future husband emigrated from Poland later the same year.
Correction:  January 29, 2007, Monday  An obituary on Dec. 1 about Rose Mattus, who with her husband created Häagen-Dazs Ice Cream, misidentified the company that owns the brand.
Dr. Smith's husband, Russell F. Smith Jr., died in 1983.
She and her husband, James, captured non-sporting-group honors with their standard poodle Ch.
''
        Mrs. Clark, whose husband died in 1991, had no children and leaves no survivors.
Ms. Dykeman was also known for ''Neither Black Nor White'' (Rinehart, 1957), an account of Southern race relations written with her husband, James R. Stokely Jr.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
Her husband of 48 years, John Elliott Jr., known as Jock, a former chairman of Ogilvy & Mather, the advertising firm, died last year.
Dr. Lederberg was also a central member of a team led by her husband, Joshua Lederberg, who shared a Nobel Prize for genetic research in 1958.
Working with her husband and others, Dr. Lederberg subsequently developed a successful method of rapidly transferring colonies of bacteria from one glass plate to another.
Dr. Lederberg is survived by her husband of 13 years, Matthew Simon.
She went to Washington as a research analyst at the Intelligence and Research Bureau of the State Department, where she met her future husband, Evron Kirkpatrick.
She is survived by her husband, James Brooks; her son, Jon Vannerson; her daughter, Cathy Smith; and five grandchildren.
(''The mob put out a contract on me, and my husband put out a contract on the guy who put out the contract on me,'' she told The Washington Post in 1995).
