Mrs. Fryer published a second book in 1994, ''Till Death Do Us Part,'' on life with her husband, Dr. Douglas Fryer, a pioneer in industrial psychology and a prolific author, whom she married in 1934.
Her husband, John C. Ellickson, died in 1970.
      
The first running of the Belmont Stakes in 1867 was won by the filly Ruthless, who raced for Francis Morris, the great-grandfather of Mrs. Morris's husband, John A. Morris.
She was credited with the concept, put it to work with Edgar Snow, her husband at the time, and a few others, and watched from afar as the idea caught on all over China.
Her husband, who died in 1985, was a direct descendant of John Jay, the first Chief Justice of the United States, and of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt.
Besides her husband of 67 years, Mrs. Schieffelin was predeceased by a son, William Jay Schieffelin 3d, and a daughter, Anne Louise Bradley.
Her husband died in 1971; she is survived by their son, Charles, and  three grandsons.
Her second husband, Thomas B. Thompson of San Antonio, an architect, died in 1983.
Partly, perhaps, because she and her husband, Jose Ezequiel Rosario, an economics professor who died in 1963, had no children, Dr. Barbosa began receiving her students for informal consultations on Saturday afternoons.
Ms. Piper had known Britten since the mid-1940's, when her husband, the artist John Piper, designed the sets for several operas, including ''The Rape of Lucretia'' and ''Billy Budd.
From the late 1930's through the early 50's, she worked mainly as her husband's assistant and brought up their four children, of which one son and two daughters survive.
Mrs. Kohlmeyer's husband, Hugh, died in 1995.
When her husband, Paul Ziporkis, died in 1953, Ms. Roberts was left with a daughter to bring up alone.
In 1965, she and her husband took over a modest annual tea dance that was being held as a fund-raiser and created the Society's gala Petroushka Ball.
Her husband, Serge C. Bouteneff, died in 1974.
Much of her work grew from a creative symbiosis with her husband, Clement Hurd, the artist and illustrator.
Mrs. Hurd also wrote science books for young readers, some of which were also illustrated by her husband.
Work with children from small villages after the war led her and her husband, Tadeusz Sygietynski, to found the Mazowsze ensemble in 1948.
Mrs. Scorsese, the daughter of Sicilian immigrants, was born on Elizabeth Street in Little Italy, where she met her husband, Charles.
Her husband died in 1993.
      
With her husband, Victor W. Ganz, a vice president and longtime trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art who died in 1987, Mrs. Ganz accumulated works by Picasso, Jasper Johns, Eva Hesse, Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella and other artists whom the couple championed and befriended.
She is survived by her husband, Kurt Biss; two sons, Paul and Gregory Biss, and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Seidman is survived by her husband, Samuel N. Seidman.
      
Although she was clearly upstaged by her renowned husband, who taught at the Union Theological Seminary, Mrs. Niebuhr's own scholarship was so well regarded that in the 1940's she was asked by the president of Barnard to create a department of religion there.
They were married in 1931, embarking on an intellectual and emotional collaboration marked by animated debates that continued until her husband's death in 1971.
By then, her daughter noted, their theological differences had dwindled to liturgical quibbles between Mrs. Niebuhr's Episcopalian ideas and her husband's Congregationalist notions.
Shunning the literary life of London, she lived with her husband and two daughters in a 15th century Tudor house on a pig farm 40 miles south of London.
She is survived by her husband of 70 years, Clare Robinson, 93; two daughters, Virginia and Diana Baer; five grandchildren, and four great grand-children.
      
Her husband, Avram, chief economist of the Allied Corporation, died in 1983.
Her first husband, Dr. Eric J. Hewitt, whom she married in 1949, died in 1976.
She had been taken to the hospital after complaining of chest pains, said her husband, Nicholas G. Garaufis.
In addition to her husband, who is chief counsel for the Federal Aviation Administration, she is survived by two sons, James Anthony and Matthew George, and her father, Joseph Prescott, all of Bayside.
      
The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Dr. Luke C. L. Yuan, a retired experimental physicist.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Vincent Yuan, of Albuquerque, N.M., who is a research scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
      
She and her husband often lived an ocean apart,  with Ms. Hahn, because of British tax laws, spending no more than 91 days a year in England while Major Boxer remained at their home in Little Gaddesden, Hertfordshire.
''
        Ms. Hahn is survived by her husband; her daughters, Carola, of  Jackson Heights, Queens, and Amanda, of London; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
She and her husband, Quincy Adams Shaw McKean, who died in 1971, owned thoroughbred horses.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Agie, of Bleiburg; a son, Mono, of Manhattan, and two brothers, Dieter, of Salzburg, Austria, and Herwig, of Rumson, N.J.
      
Through Winston Churchill she met Max Beaverbrook, the press baron, who became her mentor; Harry Hopkins, Franklin D. Roosevelt's envoy, who became her friend, and W. Averell Harriman, the lend-lease administrator, who became her lover, and, 30 years later, her third husband.
''
        After following her husband to a succession of army camps, Pamela Churchill was taken under her father-in-law's wing.
''
        She insisted that she was not looking for a rich husband, saying of her biographers and detractors: ''The one thing that they've all missed is the fact that having once been married I said to myself, 'I don't have to get married again.
Her last husband, Albert W. Gatov, a California businessman and former Government official, died in 1978.
Shortly thereafter, she and her husband, Franz Schafranek, a director and dramaturge, founded the English Theater in a small space in the Archduke Karl Palace.
When her husband died in 1991, she became sole producer of the English Theater.
Ms. Yang's husband, Gerald Szeto, an architect with the firm of Calvin Tsai, was injured in the accident and was in stable condition yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Yang is survived by her parents, Mr. and Mrs. William Yang, of Taipei, and two brothers, James, of Hong Kong, and Andrew, also of Taipei.
      
Mrs. Jones, who was 48, died of breast cancer, her husband, Robert Childress Jones Jr., said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Caroline and Claire, and a brother, William Ides of Huntington, L.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
She is survived by her husband, Morris Rothenberg.
      
By the time they were married in 1931, Mrs. Gibson had obtained a master's degree from Columbia, but her husband was still a captain, a circumstance his wife set out to rectify in posts in the Philippines and the United States.
As Mrs. Gibson later confided to a friend, her husband, who died at 88 in 1980, ''would never have made general without me.
''
        With her husband at war, Mrs. Gibson moved in with her brother in the Gramercy Park house and became a leader of the New York society home front, throwing herself into a whirlwind of volunteer efforts for organizations like Bundles for Britain and the American Red Cross, serving as an Air Raid warden and even becoming a defense industry expediter.
She was also associated with the television version of the program, produced by her former husband, Nathan Kroll, and starring two of her clients, Fritz Weaver and Uta Hagen.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Kenneth Farris.
In collaboration with her husband, she presented Mr. Soyinka's ''Trials of Brother Jero'' and ''The Strong Breed'' during a time when the playwright was a political prisoner in Nigeria.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Norman Farris of East Falmouth, Mass., and a daughter, Abigail Gilman of Tillson, N.Y.
      
Her husband, the Rev.
In addition to her husband and her mother, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Pratt is survived by two daughters, Anne B. Morris of Southampton, Mass., and Ellen Morris McCann of Lincoln, Mass.
Mr. Cohan is survived by her daughter, Leslie Cohan of New York; a sister, Felice Hurwitz; a brother-in-law, Brian Hurwitz, and a nephew, Jesse Hurwitz, all of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and her former husband, Ronald Cohan of New York.
      

        Lael Tucker Wertenbaker, a journalist and author best known for ''Death of a Man,'' her harrowing book about her husband's death, died  on Monday at her home in Keene, N.H. She was 87.
'' In it, she reported that her last words to her husband, as she pumped painkillers into his arm while he slashed his wrists, were, ''I love you: Please die.
Her husband, Dr. Solomon G. Hershey, a professor of anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died in 1992.
She is survived by her husband, Alvin M. Katz, her sons, Joseph and Jamie, and her sister Sara Blackburn.
Her husband died in 1988.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert Pryor; two children, Shannon and Ben; a sister, Shannon Snapp Natale of Boston, and her mother, Auntrenette Snapp of Roanoke, Va.
      
During the late 1930's and 40's, Mrs. Norman, along with her husband, became well known for supporting liberal causes at home and abroad, including independence for India and Israel, civil rights and education.

        Hedwig G. Sulzle, who with her husband started a workshop atop a garage in central New York State in 1945 and built it into the world's largest independent manufacturer of surgical needles, died on Monday at her home in Syracuse.
She and her husband, Benjamin, began to produce their needles in a spare bedroom before moving the operation into the garage below.
Among her clients in the 1920's were the Shubert theater chain and her husband's diverse building clients.
Early on, she sold 14 hotels left by her husband, keeping only the Stanhope, because, she said, ''We built it together, and we raised it like a pet.
''
        Miss Frooks, who was married in 1986, is survived by her husband, Jay P. Vanderbilt.
      
Ms. Woodhull is survived by her husband, William Watson, and a daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson, both of Pittsford, and her mother, May Cromwell, of Matawan, N.J.
      
She is survived by her husband and four children, Laura R. Chasin of Cambridge, Mass., Marion R. Weber of San Francisco, Lucy R. Waletzky of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Laurance (Larry) Rockefeller of Manhattan.
And its presiding spirit was Mrs. Claster, who was pressed into service by her husband as a substitute for an ailing teacher, two months after the live show went on the air in  Baltimore in February 1953.
''
        When cancer forced Mrs. Claster to step aside as Miss Nancy in 1964, she continued to oversee the training of ''Romper Room'' teachers, created different segments of the show and helped her husband sell the show to stations in markets around the country.
She died from complications arising from childhood polio, her husband said.
Mrs. DeWind is survived by her husband, Adrian W. DeWind, a New York City lawyer, and by her four children and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Petry, who had written the book while her husband was in the service in World War II, was not quite prepared for the stir it created when it was published to both critical and popular acclaim.
But ''The Street,'' which sold 1.5 million copies, gave Mrs. Petry the wherewithal to retreat back to Old Saybrook, where she and her husband settled in a 200-year-old sea captain's house and got an unlisted telephone number.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Elisabeth, of Cromwell, Conn.
      
Mrs. Jayakar outlived her husband, Manmohan Jayakar, a barrister, by 25 years.
She is survived by her husband of 67 years, John Pierce Anderson, an artist; a son, Dr. Hans P. Anderson of LaCrosse, Wis.; a daughter, Johanna A. Ghei of Madison, Wis.; six grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She had cancer of the bladder, said her husband, Dr. Arthur B. Pardee.
In addition to her husband, a professor emeritus of biological chemistry and molecular pharmacology at Harvard Medical School and chief of the division of cell growth and regulation at the Dana-Farber Institute,  Dr. Sager is survived by two sisters, Esther Altschul of Wilmette, Ill., and Dr. Naomi Sager of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Flannery is survived by her husband, Dennis; a son, Dennis, of Washington; four daughters, Erin of Santa Monica, Calif., Kelly of Collegeville, Pa., and Shannon and Megan, both of Washington, and a brother, David Sysko, of Wilmington.
      
Her husband died in 1945.
Mrs. Gleason is survived by her husband of 57 years, Frederick B. Gleason Jr.; a brother, Thomas W. Dewart of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Frederick B. Gleason 3d of Savannah, Ga.; a daughter, Laura Gleason Edgar of Riverside, Conn.; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Mrs. Wilkinson, an Islamicist and a collector, worked with her husband, Charles, to benefit both the Metropolitan and the Brooklyn Museum of Art.
She resigned from the Metropolitan in 1963 when her husband stepped down as its curator of ancient Middle Eastern art.
She helped create a lecture series on those subjects that is named in honor of her husband, who died in 1986.
At her death she was writing a book on her life and the work she undertook with her husband, who died in 1990.
After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mumford gave up a budding career as an editor of the literary periodical The Dial to help further her husband's literary and academic aspirations.
On television, she appeared in numerous live programs in the 1950's, as well as in episodes of ''Gun smoke,'' working with her husband, the actor Don Keefer.
Besides her husband and her son Don, of Studio City, she is survived by two other sons, John, of Santa Monica, and Tom, of Burbank, and a sister, Mary Jane O'Brien of West Covina.
      
Mrs. Heins's husband, Paul, an English professor, author and translator of the Brothers Grimm, was editor of Horn Book from 1967 to 1974.
She succeeded her husband as editor in 1974 and retired from the post 10 years later.
Mrs. Heins's husband died last year.
Her husband, Nick Scopas, said the cause was Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rare brain disorder.
In addition to her husband, Miss Weston, whose mother died several months ago, is survived by two stepchildren, Tracy Munoz of Hayward and Nick Scopas Jr. of Manteca, Calif., and four stepgrandchildren.
      
Her husband, Francis S. Mason Jr., said the cause was cancer.
In addition to her husband she is survived by a son, Spencer Mason of Pforzheim, Germany; a daughter, Leslie Scarlett Mason of Manhattan, and one grandchild.
      
After the death of her husband in 1935, Miss Goldfrank moved back to Manhattan and made one more important field trip, this this time to Alberta, Canada, which led to other papers, including a 1945 monograph, ''Changing Configurations in the Social Organization of a Blackfoot Tribe During the Reserve Period.
''
        Miss Goldfrank, whose second husband died in 1988, is survived by a daughter, Susan Lenhoff of Israel; a stepson, Thomas Goldfrank of Mamaroneck; 6 step-grandchildren, and 12 step-great-grandchildren.
Her husband, Gerhart Piers, a psychoanalyst, died in 1979.
''
        Miss Moore's husband died in 1967.
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
The cause was a heart ailment, said her husband, Joseph Gurwin, a retired textile manufacturer.
With her husband, she supported Yeshiva University and the Albert Einstein College of Medicne, Long Island Jewish Medical Center and Schneider Children's Medical Center of Israel.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Gurwin is survived by their daughter, Laura Flug of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Livingston, N.J.; her twin brother, Murray Brizell of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a retired executive assistant district attorney of New York County.
But retirement was a relative term for a woman who was also president of the Women's City Club and a member of foundations dedicated to the poor and the mentally ill. She and her husband moved to Little Compton, where she served on the town planning board and helped raise money for the Sakonnet Light House, which was relighted in March.
In addition to her husband of 44 years, her survivors include her brothers, Augustus M. Kelley and Nicholas Kelley Jr.
      
Indeed, the woman was so unwelcoming to her new daughter-in-law that the young woman talked her husband into taking her along on a five-year voyage.
Mrs. Riggs, who always spent summers on Martha's Vineyard, retired there with her husband in 1954, and after his death in 1975 converted the sprawling family home into a bed and breakfast catering to poets.
Dr. Greenberg is survived by her husband of 45 years, William; their daughters, Lisa Greenberg of Madison, N.J., and Ellen Greenberg of San Francisco; a son, Andrew, of Manhattan; two brothers, Walter Weintraub of Baltimore, and Robert Weintraub of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Roy R. Neuberger, is a recognized collector of contemporary American artists like Jackson Pollack and Willem de Kooning, and she was active with him in various art institutions.
After graduation in 1930, she went to work on Wall Street, where she met and married her husband, who became a successful investor and founded the investment management firm of Neuberger & Berman in 1939.
In addition to her husband of 65 years, Mrs. Neuberger is survived by their daughter, Ann N. Aceves of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Roy S., of North Woodmere, N.Y., and James, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marshall, and a brother, Thomas Tweedy of Minnesota.
      
Left with two young children after her husband was killed in a car accident, Mrs. Monroe, like millions of other women nationwide, joined the work force both to fulfill a call to arms, so to speak, and to support her family.
Her husband died in 1987.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, James Duffy.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Anne Murphy of Manhattan.
      
Dr. Hedges is survived by her husband, Dr. William L. Hedges; a daughter, Marietta, and a son, James L., both of San Francisco; a sister, Dorothy Faye of Greenwich, Conn., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband of 14 years, Morton Goldsen; a son, Terrell Foster, of San Francisco; three stepchildren; six stepgrandchildren, and a sister, Beverly Tate of Far Rockaway.
      
Stanley Brilliant, her husband,  partner and frequent accompanist, said the cause was kidney cancer.
'' Miss Dimitri would banter with her husband at the piano and apply her smoky mezzo, her arsenal of languages and her ineradicable Mediterranean accent to songs associated with Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour, Charles Trenet or Gilbert Becaud.
While there, she met her husband, Dr. Arthur Bramley.
Her husband, Joe H. Kirchberger, said the cause was an acute asthmatic attack.
Besides her husband, Ms. Daves is survived by a brother, Peter Davidson of Las Vegas.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband of 54 years, Maj. H. J. Wolanin; another brother, Martin Borror of Tucson, Ariz., and a sister, Florence Lewis of Quenemo, Kan.
      
She is survived by her husband of seven years, Naguib S. Mankarious; a son, John W. Rogers Jr. of Chicago, and a granddaughter.
Ms. Hare and her first husband, Edmund Delaney, moved to New York City in the 1940's, where she became friends with artists including Mark Rothko.
during a Hollywood sojourn with her husband before returning to N.Y.U.
Her pictures -- vividly colored portraits, still lifes and flower paintings, bore little resemblance to her husband's murals, landscapes and figurative works, executed in muted tones.
''
        Correction:  July 4, 1997, Friday
        An obituary of the art patron Evelyn Fortune Bartlett yesterday misidentified her first husband, Eli Lilly.
With her husband, Norman, she was also active in community affairs and in educational matters.
Besides her husband, Dr. Fruchter is survived by a son, Lev, also of Brooklyn; a daughter, Chenda Fruchter of San Francisco; her mother, Gertrude Gillett of London, and three brothers, Simon, who lives  in Pakistan, and Matthew and Peter, both of London.
      

        Madelon DeVoe Talley, an investment manager who was one of Wall Street's first female executives, died Friday in a car accident near Wyndam, N.Y., her husband, Truman M. Talley, said.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Talley is survived by a son, MacDonald W. Talley of Pacific Grove, Calif.; two daughters, Melanie Talley Whately and Marina Talley, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. of Sea Girt, N.J.
      
Ms. Brown's husband, Howard Hess, died in 1994.
In the days before pretaped shows, she was part of a six-member production team that brought a script from rehearsal through live production in about a month, said Mildred Schaefer, whose husband, George, headed Compass Productions.
She is survived by her husband,  John C. McCabe, the movie biographer; two daughters, Rosina Mo of Bracciano, Italy, and Margaret Romairone of Manhattan; a son, Juvenal L., of Rockleigh, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
Sanjukta is survived by her husband, Ragunath Panigrahi, who provided the vocal accompaniment at  her concerts, and by two sons.
      
''She was a critical figure in the modernization of Los Angeles,'' said David Halberstam, whose book, ''The Powers That Be,'' chronicled the newspaper's rise under Mrs. Chandler's husband and son.
Throughout her husband's career, Mrs. Burke made a reputation of her own as a maverick in a role bound by tradition.
Although she and her husband had lived modestly before his appointment, Mrs. Burke handled her new duties as one of the Navy's most visible hostesses with aplomb and entertained flawlessly at numerous receptions and seated dinners.
She also accompanied her husband on his many trips abroad.
She developed her own system of house-hunting, for example, bearing in mind that her husband wanted to spend his shore leave with her but also wanted to be within sight of his ship.
''I think she was awe-inspiring to new Navy wives,'' said Mary Rushton of Norfolk, Va., whose husband, Cmdr.
' ''
        Although Mrs. Burke liked to remain in the background as much as she could, she was a steady influence on her husband, diplomatically cooling off his rare outbursts and tempering almost every occasion with her quiet wit.
She worked for the Treasury Department in Washington and met her future husband when she substituted for her older sister on a blind date.
Mrs. Burke asked that the epitaph on her tombstone, which will adjoin her husband's at the Naval Academy Cemetery in Annapolis, read simply: ''A sailor's wife.
Her second husband, Dr. John Taylor Howell Jr., died in 1977.
Until 1931, she and Balanchine lived together as husband and wife, although they were never married.
Dr. Fleischner is survived by her husband, Peter; a daughter, Julia, of Manhattan; three sons, Robert, of Buffalo; Paul, of Phoenix, and Michael, of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Patrick O'Shaughnessy of Chicago, and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, 46 when World War I broke out, was too old for military service.
My husband had very good relations with Mrs.
He may not have seemed a suitable husband, but the first time he drove up in his sporty Hudson Super Six, she later explained, ''He decided he liked me, and I decided I liked that car.
Because the ranch was only 23 miles from the border and well within bandito-raiding range, it was considered unsafe to leave her home alone even though her husband kept a rifle in each corner of the house.
As the babies started coming, a couple of bedrooms were added, and while her three children were in school, Mrs. Stillwell would even spend the week in town, but on weekends and in summers she continued to ride with her husband.
After her husband died in 1948, she soldiered on alone until 1964, when she turned the ranch over to her two sons and moved to Alpine, where she became justice of the peace for the Connecticut-sized Brewster County.
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
Her husband, Dr. Elmer Milton Smith, whom she married in 1934, died in 1980.
Although she agreed at first, she later declined after conferring with her husband, Ray, a retired Detroit police commander who thought the deed might be illegal.
But they mended their differences, and in May 1996, after her husband had changed his mind, she allowed Dr. Kevorkian to use her home to help end a life.
Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
She performed in 81 plays at Long Wharf, many of them directed by her husband, Arvin Brown, the company's longtime artistic director.
She is survived by her husband.
Just this past June, 80 of her dresses were auctioned off for charity at Christie's in New York, promoted in a lavish catalogue shot by Lord Snowden, the former husband of Princess Margaret.
The cause was heart failure, her husband, Frederick Winship, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, George Tannenbaum of Montgomery, Ala., and a sister, Ruth Deroux of San Diego.
Her husband, Henry Lewis Lowerre, died in 1983, after 33 years of marriage.
Ms. Sherman's husband died in 1967.
      
She also gave a substantial gift to the American Liver Foundation in her husband's name, a foundation official said.
The cause was complications from a pituitary tumor, said her husband, Richard E. Westwood.
In their home state, Utah, she and her husband simultaneously ran businesses that raised minks, built apartments and installed swimming pools.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Westwood is survived by a son, Richard E. Westwood Jr., of Highland, Utah; a daughter, Beth Davies of American Fork; two brothers, John K. Miles of Provo, Utah, and David H. Miles of Orem, Utah; 15 grandchildren and 22 great-grandchildren.
      
After leaving the Government, she joined her husband, Joseph Marion Howorth, in practicing law again in Cleveland, Miss., until about 1980.
She is survived by her husband, Edward Sooter; a daughter, Esther Sooter; her mother, Annette Herr of Seattle, and two sisters, Jennifer and Heidi Herr, of Chlan, Wash.
      
Correction:  September 24, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary on Sept. 17 about Judith Merril, a science fiction writer and anthologist, misspelled the given name of her former husband.
Along with her husband, Arnold, she was a founding member of the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the national organization best known for fund-raising telethons with its chairman, Jerry Lewis, as host.
Her husband died in 1983.
Mrs. Mindell, whose husband, Joseph, died last year, is survived by a sister, Sarah Weisman of Phoenix.
      

        Gertrude S. Lookstein, who with her husband, Rabbi Joseph H. Lookstein, was a leader in the New York Orthodox community and active in a number of organizations, died on Sept. 9 at Mt.
He was succeeded by her husband, who served also as president, then chancellor, of Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, Israel, until his death in 1979.
At first glance, Mrs. Weiss would hardly seem the type to be attracted to Leon Trotsky's version of Marxism, and not simply because she cut a stylish figure in leftist circles -- a small, attractive woman who was always immaculately turned out, generally in a well-cut suit of lush material run up by her husband's tailoring family.
After running for mayor of Los Angeles in 1945 and again in 1949, Mrs. Weiss and her husband came to New York, where he served as editor and she as a staff writer for the party's newspaper, The Militant.
Mrs. Weiss, whose husband died in 1981, is survived by two sisters, Shirley Nagel of La Quinta, Calif., and Martha Stinehart of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Norman Tanner of Salt Lake City and Dee Tanner of Pasadena, Calif.
      
After her husband died in 1983, she returned to the United States.
      

        Kathy Keeton Guccione, who helped found Penthouse magazine in the United States with her husband, Bob Guccione, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Keeton is survived by five stepchildren; her brother, Keith Keeton of South Africa; her uncle, William Keeton of South Africa, and three cousins, also of South Africa.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward; a son, Renell Gonsalves of Detroit; a daughter, April Browne of Queens, and a sister, Marquita Gove of Los Angeles.
She is survived by her husband, Eugene Eidenberg; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Eidenberg of Los Angeles and Danielle E. Noppe of Seattle; her mother, Angenette Vail Martin of West Hartford, Conn.; and two brothers, Erle Martin Jr. of Albany, Ga., and Steve T. Martin of Briarcliff, N.Y.
      
Her husband, Eric Larrabee, an author and educator, died in 1990.
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Jeffrey Jablow of the Bronx; a sister, Gloria Eisner of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
Her husband, Malcolm H. Oettinger, whom she married in 1930, died in 1963.
She seemed to be making progress but then began to regress, said her husband, John C. Whitehead.
Merrywood was acquired in 1965 by her husband then, C. Wyatt Dickerson, a real-estate investor, and it was where some of Ms. Dickerson's most lavish parties were held.
Survivors in addition to her husband include three daughters, Elizabeth Earls and Jane Dickerson, both of Washington, and Ann Pullion of Villanova, Pa.; and two sons, Michael Dickerson of Atlanta, Ga., and John Dickerson of Washington, and a sister, Mary Ellen Phillip of Milwaukee.
Mrs. Moonan was co-founder with her husband, Reginald Lyon Francis Moonan, of Authentics Inc., later known as Van S. Authentics, in the mid-30's.
Her husband died in 1980.
The large crowd also included Princess Cristina and her husband, making their first public appearance since their wedding, and NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, formerly a Socialist minister under Mr. Gonzalez.
She is survived by her husband, Mark Matthews, the diplomatic correspondent for The Baltimore Sun; a daughter, Sarah; her mother, Elaine A. Bellin, of Rockville, Md.
Ms. Lindley took a break from acting to raise five children with her first husband, Hardy Ulm, but by the 1960's she was appearing in recurring roles in such television soap operas as ''The Edge of Night,'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' and ''Another World.
Norman Fell played the landlord, and Ms. Lindley was his wife, whose repeated attempts to seduce her husband were a running joke.
Many of these performances were opposite her second husband, James Whitmore.
Her other beneficiaries included Girls Town in Jerusalem, Miami University and various other institutions..
        She helped establish the National Parkinson Foundation in 1957 with her husband, Nathan Slewett, a lawyer who became its chairman in 1981.
Besides her husband of 57 years, Mrs. Slewett is survived by two sons, Robert D. and Alan M., both of Miami; a brother, Leon Miller, of Great Neck, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
Dr. Rees's husband, Dr. Leopold Brahdy, died in 1977.
      
She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      
She and her husband, William Durney, established the Durney Vineyard, a major California producer of wine.
Her husband died in 1989.
Her husband died in 1992.
At the end of ''Betsy's Wedding,'' as her husband, Joe, is about to go off to World War I, Betsy speaks of their plans to have a little girl named Bettina, not realizing, perhaps, that in time the little girl would make her mother write it all down.
      
Her husband, Lester Moffett, had various jobs, including working as a guard at the 1964-65 World's Fair.
Nelson A. Rockefeller's estate to entertain legislators, recalling, ''I looked over, and she was hitting her husband over the head with a pocketbook to straighten him out.
Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft studied medicine at the University of Nancy in France, received her doctorate as a dental surgeon there in 1935 and practiced dentistry in her native city of Sosnowiec in southern Poland from then until August 1943, when she was sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp along with her parents; her first husband, Josef Preserowicz, and their 5 1/2-year-old son, Benjamin.
Beginning in the 1970's, she spent a decade cataloguing an extensive collection of documents and other materials she and her husband gathered about the liberation of the Bergen-Belsen camp, which she has donated to a museum in Jerusalem.
Her husband, the Chicago industrialist Edison Dick, died in 1994.
Mrs. Diaz's husband died four years ago.
Her husband, Rene Greuter, died in the early 1970's.
With the assistance of Mrs. Church's husband, Dr. Charles F. Church, a Harvard-trained public health specialist, Miss Bowes in 1936 began publishing nutrition tables based on commonly used portions of a variety of prepared foods.
Mrs. Church was deeply involved with the project from the beginning, eventually becoming co-editor and succeeding her husband as editor after his death in 1976.
A native of LeRoy, Ill., Mrs. Church, who grew up doing chores on a family farm (and never tired of telling her pampered sons how easy they had it), met her husband at the University of Illinois, where she received a degree in home economics.
She worked for a while as a clinical dietitian at New York Hospital, but after her marriage in 1928, she moved to Boston, where her husband was in medical school, and became the dietitian in charge of Mr. Johnson's first restaurant, in Quincy, Mass.
One of those was her husband, George L. Wauneka, with whom she ran a ranch owned by her father in Arizona.
Mrs. Wauneka's husband died in 1994.
In addition to her husband and her son Jason, Dr. Binstock is survived by two sons, Jeffrey Binn of Manhattan and Jonathan Binn of Washington, and her mother, Hattie Schwartz of Miami.
      
At home in Devon, she and her husband built a fine collection of paintings.
When her husband died in 1972, their house was turned over to the National Trust.

        Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass.
Her husband was president of Yale from 1950 until his death in 1963.
Mrs. Tatkon's husband, M. Daniel Tatkon, died in 1988.
In 1964, when a friend's husband died unexpectedly, Mr. MacDougall suggested that she and her friend form a decorating company.
''Allan, I'll sacrifice anything,'' she later recalled telling her husband, ''but I will not go into decorating.
Her husband died in 1971.
The former Marguerite Breithaupt of Milwaukee  caught a whiff of printer's ink in her father's shop, honed her sense of drama in college and discovered the outdoors when she and her husband, Sidney Crocker Henry, a sales manager, moved to a farm in Wayne, Ill.
In addition to her husband and sister, both of Manhattan, she is survived by two brothers, Walton Harris of Santa Monica, Calif., and Whitley Harris of Ojai, Calif.; two stepchildren, Michael Balfe Howard of Castle Rock, Colo., and Pamela Howard of Oyster Bay, N.Y., and seven step-grandchildren.
      
In 1990, Governor Meyner died and Mrs. Meyner retired to Captiva Island, Fla. She and her family established the Robert B. Meyner and Helen S. Meyner Center for the Study of State and Local Government at her husband's alma mater, Lafayette College in Easton, Pa.
      
Her husband, Gerald, had worked as Mr. Hurok's publicist in the 1930's and 40's, and when the impresario was ready to commit his life to paper, he turned to Ms. Goode.
She and her husband, writing as Jerome and Julia Rainer, published ''Sexual Pleasure in Marriage'' (1959) and ''Sexual Adventure in Marriage'' (1965), books considered harbingers of sexual liberation.
Her husband died in 1983.
At a seminar on American history she caught the eye of a fellow student, Nathan Miller, a budding economic historian who became her husband in 1948.
In 1960, in the pattern of the era, she followed her husband to the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he began a long career as a history professor and she helped make feminist history.
With the prodding of a sympathetic state attorney general, the university quietly abandoned a nepotism rule, allowing her to teach in the same department with her husband.
With her husband accommodatingly commuting between Milwaukee and their new home in Bethesda, , Dr. Miller developed major historical exhibitions.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Miller is survived by a son, Joel, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Hannah Lieberman of Phoenix and Rebecca Miller-Randall of Chester, Conn.; four sisters, Elsie Hurst and Edith Sahl of Newton, Mass., Ginger Lanahan of Raynham, Mass., and Dorothy Bearman of London, and six grandchildren.
      
The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husband, Peter P. Rogers, a professor of environmental engineering at Harvard University.
Besides her husband, Dr. Rogers is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Cambridge, and Justin, of Albuquerque, N.M.
      
Mrs. Kelly herself had no political agenda initially, but her husband was killed in a car accident in 1942 and she later said she became active to carry on in his tradition.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. William E. Mitchell, a retired professor of anthropology at the University of Vermont; a daughter and son by her first marriage, Linda Hoffman Matisse of Groton, Mass., and Jon Winer of Owings Mills, Md.
For many years, she headed the Ottinger Foundation, which her husband, Lawrence, established in 1945.
Mrs. Ottinger's husband, founder of the United States Plywood Corporation, died in 1955.
''
        A publicity-shy figure, Mrs. Disney became highly active in a number of charities after her husband's death in 1966 and emerged as a leading patron of the arts.
During her marriage, Mrs. Disney served as her husband's sounding board and unofficial adviser.
He was a wonderful husband to me and a wonderful and loyal father and grandfather.
After her husband left her, she brought up their son, Leonard, on her own, supporting the two of them by working as a waitress and maid.

        Karen Hubert Allison, who with her husband, Len Allison, lived out every cook's fantasy of turning a home into a restaurant and later earned three stars for the establishment, Huberts, in Manhattan, died on Tuesday in Maui, Hawaii.
In addition to her husband and children, Ms. Hubert Allison is survived by a stepson, Matthew Allison, 32, a record industry executive in Hong Kong.
Charles Roven, Ms. Steel's husband, a film producer, said Ms. Steel had been suffering from a malignant brain tumor.
As Ms. Steel told Playboy years later, her husband walked into the hospital room with a newspaper under his arm and said, ''I don't know how to tell you this, babe, but you got fired while you were in labor.
' ''
        In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a brother, Larry, of Manhattan.
Both she and her husband frequently spoke out on political issues, particularly regarding the Vietnam War.
Her husband, Clifford Pierson Hoffman, died in 1954.
Her husband, Dr. Solomon Weintraub, a pathologist, died in 1982 after 52 years of marriage.
Survivors include her husband, Dr. Leonard Spector, and two sisters, Frances B. Bingham of New Haven, and Mrs. Socolar, of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her parents, of Hamilton, Mass., and her husband, she is survived by a sister, Sophie Clifton of Bozeman, Mont., and a brother, John Pirie of Hamilton.
      
''
        She is survived by her third husband, Edward Cook; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
Her second husband, George Simmons, died in 1965.
      
During the nearly 30 years that her husband, Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier, and son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) Duvalier, dominated the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere through a combination of brutality, intimidation and guile, Simone Duvalier was often regarded as a power behind the throne.
''
        Mrs. Duvalier's influence probably reached its peak after the death of her husband in 1971, when her son, still a teen-ager, succeeded his father as Haiti's ''President for Life.
Like her rapacious husband, who systematically looted Haiti's treasury during his years in power, Mrs. Duvalier was reported to be a voodoo adept, and inspired dread among Haiti's poor and illiterate masses.
Throughout his 14 years in office, she zealously guarded access to her husband and developed and promoted her own coterie of palace favorites.
A tense relationship with her daughter-in-law encouraged Jean-Claude to build lavish palaces and weekend retreats, and Mrs. Duvalier was the moving force behind the construction of an elaborate mausoleum for her husband, today a museum, where she, too, planned to be buried.

        Adele Ravsky Heller, who with her husband, Lester, bought and nurtured the Provincetown Playhouse in Massachusetts and tried to rebuild it after it burned in 1977, died on Nov. 12 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
She is survived by her husband; her son, Daniel, of Silver Spring, Md.
during World War II, then settled in Milwaukee, where her husband, a former vaudevillian named Henri Margo (ne Henry Sanderson), operated a nursing home while Miss Carlson made occasional forays back to the stage before moving to California in the 1950's.
After her husband died in 1967, Miss Carlson, who is survived by a step-son, Tom Sand, of Los Angeles, continued to amaze friends well into her 90's with the agile ease with which she scampered up and down the stairs of her multilevel hillside home.
Mrs. Rockefeller took part in a wide variety of public causes while her husband, Winthrop Rockefeller, was in office, transforming the role of First Lady in Arkansas into a public partnership.
