It was written in the years after the death of her second husband, Eric Siepmann, a journalist she married in 1952 and whose name she kept for the rest of her life.
)
        Her husband's death had left her nearly penniless, with a teenage son to raise.
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, Dr. Irving Mauss; two sons, Steven and Peter, and a daughter, Susan Tunick, all of New York City; two brothers, Dr. Herbert L. Abrams of Neponsit and Mason Adams of Manhattan; and a granddaughter.
      
The fund succeeded the Aaron Diamond Foundation, which she and her husband, a New York real estate developer, set up in the 1950's.
(She liked to say that at the time they married, however, she made more money than her husband.
Mrs. Stein and her husband, David A. Stein, who died in 1982, founded The Press in their living room in 1950 as a weekly community newsletter, and she remained a member of its management until her death.
She came to New York in 1944 with her husband.
She met her husband in Gloucester, Mass., in 1924 when he was 39 and living in Hartford.
For the next few decades Mrs. Avery worked as a freelance illustrator, enabling her husband to paint full time, attend the Art Students League and find his mature style.
Her husband died in 1979.
Her personal life was chronicled, husband by husband, in the press.
Her personal life was chronicled, husband by husband, in the press.
There were professional tensions between the two, some caused by the offers she received to act in plays and films for which her husband was turned down.
Her last husband was Jock Muir Stewart Robinson, whom she married in 1938 after a hectic courtship.
Some were choreographed by Sergeyev, who became her husband and her dancing partner after she appeared in his ''Cinderella'' (1946), set to Prokofiev's commissioned score.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
In the 1940's when Gracette Lingerie, a company founded by her husband, Harry Stillman, encountered financial problems, she intervened and helped shift the company to higher-priced products.
Her husband died in 1979 after 44 years of marriage.
The idea that eventually became Weight Watchers began in 1963, when Mrs. Lippert was living in Baldwin Harbor, N.Y., with her husband, Albert, and their two sons.
Edith Hirsch and her husband, Julius, who was a macroeconomist, formed a consulting group in New York in 1941.
She wrote frequently about commodities for newspapers, although sometimes under her husband's name, and published ''Food Supplies in the Aftermath of World War II'' in 1993.
Mrs. Hirsch disbanded the consulting firm when her husband died in 1961.
The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, Philip R. Gerard, said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard; a daughter, Jennifer Gerard Maric; three grandchildren; and a brother, Irwin.
      
After World War II she worked with her husband, Benjamin Ginsburg, at Ginsburg & Levy, his family's antiques firm, at 815 Madison Ave., in Manhattan.
She did the same for her husband's successor firm, Benjamin Ginsburg Antiquary, until he retired in 1982.
Her husband, whom she married in 1929, died in 1994.
As Ms. Flynn described that first meeting to Robert Cherny, a history professor at San Francisco State University who is working on a biography of Mr. Bridges, her future husband was quite drunk.
She was also at her husband's side in the 1970's when he stepped up his union's battle with the shippers for guarantees of job security.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Flynn is survived by a daughter, Katherine Bridges Wiggins of Bandon, Ore., and two stepchildren, Robert Bridges of Fremont, Calif., and Marie Shell of San Francisco.
      
Her husband, a member of the French branch of the Rothschilds, was a skilled polo player and is reputedly the family's foremost wine connoisseur and a widely knowledgeable collector of art.
After the war, her husband ran Chateau Lafite, one of the family vineyards.
Part of her role, according to the Morton book, was organizing the vast art purchases her husband made.
The baroness is survived by her husband; two daughters, Nellie Munthe of London and Elisabeth of Paris; a son, Nathaniel of New York City; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
''
        ''My husband, sir,'' the baroness replied.
      
The cause was cancer, according to Mr. Bernstein, her husband.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosen is survived by three children, Sylve, Gustin and Vera, all of Manhattan; her mother, Claire Gelb of Tucson; and two sisters, Lisa, of Eugene, Ore., and Judy, of Estes Park, Colo.
      
In 1959 she ended her professional career and moved to Los Angeles with her husband, Tom McDermott, whom she had married in 1953.
Her husband died in 1990.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Richard Tarlow.
Until the onset of her illness, she remained at the helm of Carlson & Partners, the agency that she and her husband founded in 1987.
But she and her husband eventually decided to start their own agency, with Ralph Lauren as the main client.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tarlow is survived by her son, Cody, a student at the University of California at Santa Cruz; her younger sister, Jamie Anderson, of Westwood, Mass.
Dr. Davis is survived by her husband of 47 years, Dr. Walter Adam Wichern Jr., chairman emeritus of surgery at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center; a son, Walter A. III, and a daughter, A. Logan Wichern, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Carol Goodman of Morristown, N.J.
      
And the best-remembered of her few films was undoubtedly the saucy short ''How to Undress in Front of Your Husband,'' released in 1937 and still available for sale.
The first tiff, in which Mrs. Barrymore said her husband ''roughed me up a bit,'' came 57 days after their wedding, on New Year's Eve.
Miss Barrie appeared in radio, plays and movies at the behest of her husband, but she is credited with only one full-length film, ''Midnight,'' a 1939 movie starring Claudette Colbert.
Her second husband, Chet Kehn, died in 1984.
For nearly 40 years Ms. Burack and her husband, A. S. Burack, published The Writer, as well as another magazine called Plays and how-to books on writing.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Wilson; her son, Rob; and her daughter, Hilary.
      
Ms. Duncan's interest in Latin American art began when she and her husband, John C. Duncan, a businessman, lived in Lima, Peru, from 1947 to 1955.
She and her husband donated their collection, considered one of the best ensembles of post-1960's Latin American work in the United States, to the Archer M. Huntington Art Gallery (now the Jack S. Blanton Museum of Art) at the University of Texas, Austin, to which Ms. Duncan also gave a substantial collection of archival material.
''
        Ms. Duncan is survived by her husband of 62 years, who lives in New York; a son, Craig Duncan, of Greenwich, Conn; two daughters, Lynn Tarbox of Tampa, Fla., and Gail Simmons of New York; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was brain cancer, said her husband, Winfried Wilcke.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Wilcke, of Los Altos Hills, Calif.; her mother, Ms. Naffz, of Sonoma.

        Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan.
The Spanish guitarist Andrés Segovia lived with Mrs. Augustine and her husband, Albert, for 11 years, starting in the late 1940's.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
After her husband died in 1967, she took over the company, regularly updated its manufacturing processes and established a thriving market for her strings around the world.

        Vera Zorina, a dancer and actress who starred in ballets, films and stage musicals choreographed by her first husband, George Balanchine, and whose mix of glamour and culture made her prominent in a variety of theatrical and musical fields, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 86.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
Her husband, Clint Formby, who owns the local country radio station, survives her, as do her sons Chip of Hereford, Marshall of Lubbock and Scott of Manhattan; her daughter, Mary Beth Powell of Hereford; and four grandchildren.
''
        In the 1970's her music fell out of fashion in the United States; she divorced her husband and manager, Andy Stroud, and beset by financial problems she left the country in 1973, living in Liberia and Barbados before settling in France.
Mrs. Bennack, who with her husband also had a home in western Connecticut, was active in the New York chapter of United Cerebral Palsy and in the national organization.
With her husband, she also ran many other charitable fund-raising events for organizations that included New York Presbyterian Hospital and the Museum of Television and Radio.
She is survived by her husband and five daughters, Shelley and Laura Bennack and Diane Sacchetti, all of San Antonio, Cynthia Hinson of Monroe, N.C., and Julie Bennack of New York City.
      
''
        She ascribed part of her success to her husband and sometime law partner, Hicks G. Griffiths, who was once state Democratic chairman of Michigan.
Her husband, whom she wed in 1956, and his brothers Samuel I. and Norman created one of the country's largest communications conglomerates, whose parent company is now called Advance Publications Inc. Theodore died in 1998.
With her husband and on her own, she supported numerous cultural organizations in New York City with fund-raising and direct help.
They included Career Transition for Dancers, an organization that she and her husband started, which helps dancers move on to new careers after they stop dancing.

        Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, who was one of the first women to become a Broadway stage manager and who in later years kept bright the artistic torch of her late husband John Steinbeck, died on Sunday in Manhattan.
She studied drama at the University of Texas, where she met her first husband, Zachary Scott, the actor, when both were involved in theater there.
Although the young Mrs. Scott had acting ambitions of her own, she began working for the Theater Guild so that her husband could pursue his acting career.
Ms. Topaz's husband, the composer Jacob Druckman, died in 1996.
Her husband, Joshua Marcus, died in 1988.
A portrait head of her husband, whom she married in 1939, is at the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, David, and a grandson.
      
Over the years, Lady Redgrave wrote, she and her husband endured their respective dalliances, and the marriage lasted until his death in 1985.
When her husband was working on a class paper on the death of Charles II, she browsed through one of his books and became fascinated by England's Restoration period.
Her fourth and last husband was Paul A. Porter, a lawyer, who died in 1975.
Her husband was Paul Fromm, a cousin of the psychoanalyst Erich Fromm and the founder of the Fromm Music Foundation at Harvard, which supports contemporary composers.
In his review in The Times in February 1938, Brooks Atkinson praised her interaction with John Craven, who played her husband, saying, ''Some of their scenes are lovely past all enduring.
The cause was a ruptured aorta, her former husband, Alex Hale, said.
Her husband, the actor Bradford Dillman, said she had suffered from a number of serious ailments over the last six years.
Ms. Lalique is survived by her husband, Jean Dedouvre.
      
''
        By 1961, June Carter was married to her second husband, Rip Nix, and Maybelle and the Carter Sisters (renamed the Carter Family after the death of the original family's patriarch, A. P. Carter, in 1960) became part of Johnny Cash's touring show.
He was Rip Nix, her second husband, not Carl Smith, her first.
The obituary also referred incorrectly to the recording of the song ''Jackson'' in 1967 by Ms. Cash and her third husband, Johnny Cash.
''
        But Professor Nelkin, whose husband of 50 years, Mark Nelkin, is a physicist, was no enemy of science.
She earned her bachelor's degree at Cornell, where she met her husband.
Her husband, who worked as a foreman in a paper mill, had eight children, four of whom survived into adulthood, from his first marriage, but Mrs. Bulah was in her 50's and childless.
She is survived by her husband, Ira Weissman; a stepson, Michael; four brothers; and a sister.
      
''
        She was first noticed professionally in her role as Antiope in the play ''The Warrior's Husband,'' a Greek fable in which she entered by descending a narrow staircase, carrying a stag over her shoulder.
''
        She also credited her husband with helping her get started in her career.
In later years she expressed regret at the way she had treated her husband.
Tracy Lord is a beautiful, high-spirited rich woman, about to marry her second husband, when her first husband and a reporter who is covering the wedding arrive to create an unexpected romantic tangle.
Tracy Lord is a beautiful, high-spirited rich woman, about to marry her second husband, when her first husband and a reporter who is covering the wedding arrive to create an unexpected romantic tangle.
She got Cary Grant as her former husband, James Stewart as the reporter, and a hit movie.
And in ''On Golden Pond'' (1981) she starred opposite Henry Fonda as a feisty older woman coping with her husband's failing memory and insisting that they should go on and live life to the fullest.
Plays
        The Warrior's Husband -- 1932  The Lake -- 1933  Jane Eyre -- 1937  The Philadelphia Story -- 1939  Without Love -- 1942  As You Like It -- 1950  The Millionairess -- 1952  The Merchant of Venice -- 1957  Much Ado About Nothing -- 1957  Twelfth Night -- 1960  Antony and Cleopatra -- 1960  Coco -- 1969  A Matter of Gravity -- 1976  The West Side Waltz -- 1981
        Films
        A Bill of Divorcement -- 1932  Christopher Strong -- 1933  Morning Glory -- 1933  Little Women -- 1933  The Little Minister -- 1934  Alice Adams -- 1935  Sylvia Scarlett -- 1936  Quality Street -- 1937  Stage Door -- 1937  Bringing Up Baby -- 1938  Holiday -- 1938  The Philadelphia Story -- 1940  Woman of the Year -- 1942  Dragon Seed -- 1944  The Sea of Grass -- 1947  State of the Union -- 1948  Adam's Rib -- 1949  The African Queen -- 1951  Pat and Mike -- 1952  Summertime -- 1955  The Rainmaker -- 1956  Desk Set -- 1957  Long Day's Journey Into Night -- 1962  Guess Who's Coming to Dinner -- 1967  The Lion in Winter -- 1968  Rooster Cogburn -- 1975  Love Among the Ruins (television) -- 1975  The Corn Is Green (television) -- 1979  On Golden Pond -- 1981  Love Affair -- 1994
      

        Lois Fried Rosenfield, a theatrical and film producer with her husband, Maurice, died on May 25 at her home in Glencoe, Ill. She was 78.
Mrs. Rosenfield and her husband backed Broadway productions like ''Barnum'' (1980), a 1983 revival of ''The Glass Menagerie'' and ''Singin' in the Rain'' (1985), which they also presented in London.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her sons, James, of Santa Fe, N.M., and Andrew, of Lake Forest, Ill.; her brothers, Howard and Donald Fried; and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Koch went to work in the family store and learned to fit bras from her husband's sister.
In addition to her sister, Sheila Cole of Sonoma, Calif., Mrs. Fischbach's survivors include her husband, Herbert X. Fischbach of Sonoma; sons Peter, of St. Petersburg, Fla., John, of New Orleans, and James, of Phoenix; a daughter, Sally Fischbach-Willard of Geneva, Switzerland; and grandchildren.

        Doris Bass Andrews, who with her husband, Sperry Andrews, pursued the preservation of Weir Farm, where the Impressionist painter J. Alden Weir and friends met for painting and social activity, died on May 25 in Danbury, Conn. She was 82.
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Catherine Barrett Andrews of Madison, Ga.; two sons, Charles Sperry Andrews IV of Sedona, Ariz., and Albert Ballard Andrews of Wilton; and a brother, Bruce Bass of Louisville.
      
In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, her daughters and three grandchildren.
      
Despite the notoriety of her husband, Khieu Ponnary had been out of the public eye for decades.
When they returned to Cambodia, Khieu Ponnary became a widely respected high school teacher, helping to support her husband as he began organizing for the revolution.
'' Her best known maternal role, according to The Hindustan Times, was in ''Awaara'' (1951), in which she is deserted by her husband for suspected infidelity.
Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
At first she followed conventional naturalistic forms, in ''The Box Garden'' (1977), about the unmarried sister of the protagonist in ''Small Ceremonies''; in ''Happenstance'' (1980), a pair of complementary novellas, one narrated by a wife, the other by her husband; and in ''A Fairly Conventional Woman'' (1982), about a woman who chooses her marriage over an extramarital affair.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Bob.
She quit and started her own business with her husband.
She and her husband put up $10,000 of their savings, borrowed $5,000 each from their parents and opened a little ''spa'' opposite Macy's in Manhattan.
She and her husband, Milton Rogovin, suffered professionally in the 1950's as activists of the political left who protested the trial and sentencing of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.
In addition to her husband, whose work is currently on special exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, she is survived by two daughters, Ellen R. Hart of Melrose Park, Pa., and Paula Rogovin of Teaneck, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Forest Park, Ill.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
The cause was cancer, her husband, Marvin Sirbu, said.
Dr. Lazarus is survived by her husband; two children, Margaret Ann Lazarus Sirbu and Benjamin James Lazarus Sirbu; her parents, David and Betty Lazarus of Urbana, Ill., and Chilmark, Mass.
Mrs. Warnke's husband died in 2001.
The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, John.
She is survived by her husband, John, a composer who grew up in Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Susan Stubin of Passaic, N.J.; a son, David, of Athens, Ga., and seven grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Hershell H. Nixon; three daughters, Maureen Quinlan of Duluth, Minn., Kathleen Brush of Fort Collins, Colo., and Eileen McGowan of Houston; a son, Joseph, of Houston; two sisters, Patricia Collins of Gloucester, Mass., and Marilyn Lowery of Los Angeles; and 13 grandchildren.
Her husband, who was a Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, died in 1990.
''I was fortunate to have two brilliant guides,'' she said, modestly, ''Alfred H. Barr Jr. and my husband, Holger Cahill.
The countess first met her future husband while still a child.
She died of complications from head and other injuries suffered last Tuesday when she was struck by a car as she crossed a street in Hamden, Conn., said her husband, Dr. Pasko Rakic, a fellow neuroscientist at Yale.
Besides her husband, whom she married in 1979, she is survived by a sister, Dr. Ruth Rappaport, of Radnor, Pa.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said Paul B. Bergman, the lawyer for Daniel Pelosi, her husband.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Pelosi, who lived in East Hampton, is survived by her two children, Alexa and Grego.
      

        Jinx Falkenburg, one of America's highest paid cover-girl models during World War II, and later, with her husband, Tex McCrary, a pioneer talk-show star on both radio and television, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in the nearby village of Mill Neck.
She died at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, a Long Island hospital of which she and her husband were among the founders, said her son Kevin McCrary.
In addition to having a successful broadcasting career, Miss Falkenburg was long active in raising money for the Republican Party and helped her husband when he worked to persuade Dwight D. Eisenhower to run for the presidency in 1952.
She won't reveal her age but does allow that she graduated from Brooklyn College in 1978, going into computer programming afterward and raising two daughters -- now 27 and 16 -- with her husband, Michael.
She and her first husband, Donald Frizell Hyde, a New York lawyer, acquired thousands of books and manuscripts relating to these two towering literary figures of the 18th century.
'' In 1958 she, her first husband and E. J. McAdam Jr. edited Volume I of the Yale edition of the works of Samuel Johnson, ''Diaries, Prayers and Annals.
Her first husband died in 1966.
Correction:  September 25, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Mary Viscountess Eccles, a leading bibliophile and collector of material on Samuel Johnson, misstated the name of the New York University professor who collaborated with her and her first husband in editing a volume of Johnson's works.
Mrs. Kidwa is survived by three daughters; a son, Nassir al-Kidwa, the Palestinian representative at the United Nations; and her husband, Jarir al-Kidwa, an adviser to Mr. Arafat.

        Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said.
In 1932, she left her husband for Oswald Mosley, the strikingly attractive leader of the fledgling British Union of Fascists, a bold step, not least because he was still married (his wife conveniently died, of peritonitis, the following year).
Just to raise the stakes, her husband, Burt, is a Realtor for a rival company, Burgdorff ERA, and strict regulations forbid the couple from talking about deals, or bringing home office gossip, which could create unfair advantages.
Although their employers are competitive, husband and wife have never duked it out for a single house -- ''so far,'' said Mr. Bronander, with a gleam in his eye.
As the article reported, it was Burt Bronander, the agent's husband, not she herself, who said, ''When you get the call that says you're not going to get the house, you start to cry and pour yourself a Scotch.
Her husband, Dr. Cesar P. Magno, died in 1955.
      
Her husband, Orin, said Mrs. Borsten, who lived in Los Angeles, kept up with other veterans and believed she was the last surviving member of the first group, made up of officer trainees.
Her second husband, Edgar G. Laybourne, died in 1966.
The 10,000-acre ranch she and her husband managed was owned by Lyndon B. Johnson.
Traveling frequently, she conducted workshops throughout the United States, Mexico and Europe with her second husband, Charles Brooks, who died in 1991.
In 1938, she emigrated to New York City with her former husband, Heinrich Selver, whom she had divorced seven years earlier.
She is survived by her third husband, Peter Gracey, whom she married in 1999.
      
She made her debut at the Washington National Cathedral in 1941 and was the chair of the organ department at Eastman from 1953 to 1955, when her husband, Harold Gleason, an organ professor at Eastman, retired.
In addition to performing, Ms. Crozier edited several editions of ''Method of Organ Playing,'' a textbook by her husband.
Ms. Chilcott is survived by her husband, David Sigall, who was also her manager, and her 4-year-old son from an earlier relationship, Hugh.
She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      
He became her business manager, and in 1958, her husband.
Ms. Riefenstahl said she saw Hitler for the last time in March 1944 when she visited him in Kitzbühel, Austria, to introduce her new husband, an army officer named Peter Jacob.
She is survived by her husband, Bo Holmberg, also a politician, and by their two sons, David and Filip.
      
Mrs. Foster dropped out of high school to marry and had three young children when her husband died.
But for almost 35 years, Mrs. Storch and her husband -- the actor and comedian Larry Storch, who starred as Cpl.
In addition to June Cross and Lary May, Mrs. Storch is survived by her husband, who lives in Manhattan; her daughter Candace Herman of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren.
Her husband, an eminent lawyer and judge, was appointed master of the rolls, one of the highest-ranking posts in Britain's judiciary.
''
        In addition to her husband, Lady Donaldson is survived by a son, two daughters and six grandchildren.
Although Ms. Murie (pronounced MYUR-ee) and her husband moved to Wyoming in the 1930's to study elk migrations, they never lost their focus on Alaska and returned there often.
Ms. Murie continued her support after her husband's death in 1963.
In addition to her autobiography, she wrote two other books, ''Island Between,'' published in 1977, and ''Wapiti Wilderness,'' published in 1966 with her husband as co-author.
The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jay Marc Schwamm.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three stepchildren; seven stepgrandchildren; and a brother, Ed Hendren of Chico, Calif.
Madame Chiang, a dazzling and imperious politician, wielded immense influence in Nationalist China, but she and her husband were eventually forced by the Communist victory into exile in Taiwan, where she presided as the grand dame of Nationalist politics for many years.
Yet she was also deeply involved in the endless maneuvering of her husband, who served uneasily at the helm of several shifting alliances with Chinese warords vying for control of what was then a badly fractured nation.
Madame Chiang had a notoriously tempestuous relationship with her husband, and then with his son by a previous marriage, Chiang Ching-kuo, who became Taiwan's leader after Chiang Kai-shek's death.
Although Madame Chiang developed a stellar image with the American public, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other leaders became disillusioned with her and her husband's despotic and corrupt practices.
''
        By the end of the war, the loyalty of Nationalist officials melted away as the government grew corrupt and fiscally traitorous,
        During the 1950's, Madame Chiang and her husband blamed the United States for the Nationalist loss of China, and continued to campaign for help from Washington to retake the mainland.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun Yat-sen.
        Madame Chiang became a true political partner to her husband, traveling with him, advising him on military and political matters, turning her charm on allies and foes alike.
Madame Chiang, a dazzling and imperious politician, wielded immense influence in Nationalist China, but she and her husband were eventually forced by the Communist victory into exile in Taiwan, where she presided as the grande dame of Nationalist politics for many years.
But her old influence overseas was matched, and perhaps exceeded, by the relentless and sophisticated lobbying effort she and her husband set up in Washington, through which they distributed uncounted millions through law firms and public relations companies to promote Taiwan's cause and maintain recognition by the American government.
During the 1950's, Madame Chiang and her husband blamed the United States for the Nationalists' loss of China, and continued to campaign for help from Washington to retake the mainland.
As a fluent English speaker, as a Christian, as a model of what many Americans hoped China to become, Madame Chiang struck a chord with American audiences as she traveled across the country, starting in the 1930's, raising money and lobbying for support of her husband's government.
Yet she was also deeply involved in the endless maneuverings of her husband, who was uneasily at the helm of several shifting alliances with Chinese warlords vying for control of what was then a badly fractured nation.
Madame Chiang had a notoriously tempestuous relationship with her husband, and then with his son by a previous marriage, Chiang Ching-kuo, who became Taiwan's leader after Chiang Kai-shek's death.
Her eldest sister, Soong Ai-ling, directed the family's affairs and innumerable money-making ventures with the help of her husband, H. H. Kung, a scion of one of China's wealthiest banking families.
Although Madame Chiang developed a stellar image with the American public, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other leaders became disillusioned with her and her husband's despotic and corrupt practices.
During the 1950's, Madame Chiang and her husband continued to campaign for help from Washington to retake the mainland, although That hope eventually faded.
She was introduced to her future husband in 1922.
As a political partner to her husband, Madame Chiang developed what she called the New Life Movement, a series of principles for modernizing China through social discipline, courtesy and service.
During the war with the Japanese, Madame Chiang pushed her husband to build up the Nationalist air force, and helped hire Claire Chennault, who commanded a mercenary force of pilots that came to be known as the Flying Tigers.
She and her husband lobbied Washington to have him replaced, and he was, in 1944.
At the time of her death she used the name Julia Gilbert, with the surname being that of her last husband, Mr. Krtil said.
In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son, of Brooklyn, and her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Margaret Heilbrun, of Brooklyn, and Emily Heilbrun, of Eugene, Ore., and two grandchildren.
Ms. Mara directed the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1947 and also danced there with her husband, Arthur Mahoney, from whom she separated in 1964.
She met Barry Glass, an accountant who became her husband of 48 years, at a swimming pool when she was 15.
In addition to her husband and her son, Ira, of Chicago, Dr. Glass is survived by two daughters, Randi Murray of Hillsborough, Calif., and Karen Glass Berry of Los Angeles, and two grandsons.
Dr. Whiting and her husband, Dr. John W. M. Whiting, a fellow Harvard anthropologist, traveled extensively to study parental practices and child behavior, hoping to identify aspects of human development found in all cultures.
In 1954, she and her husband began the Six Cultures Study of Socialization, a project that involved field studies in Mexico, India, Kenya, Okinawa, the Philippines and the United States.
Her husband died in 1999.
      

        Christabel Burton Bielenberg, a well-born Englishwoman who wrote a best-selling memoir about saving her German husband, a Nazi resister, from the Gestapo, died on Sunday at the family's home in rural Ireland.
His wife pulled all the stops, using her well-connected British upbringing to plead for her husband at Gestapo headquarters in Berlin.
She is survived by her husband, J. Truman Bidwell Jr.; a daughter, Molly O'Neil Frank, of Manhattan; two sons, Stephen T. O'Neil, of Lookout Mountain, Tenn., and Charles Thomas O'Neil, of Stockbridge, Mass.
An artist in her teens, she began writing plays in the 1940's; several were performed in New York and London, sometimes featuring her husband, the actor James Broderick, who died in 1982.
She had battled cancer for five years, said her husband, Jean Le Corbeiller.
In addition to her husband, a teacher of mathematics and the history of science whom she married in 1958, Mrs.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Smith College and soon afterward, on a trip to India in 1926, met her future husband, C. Ruxton Love Jr. Mr. Love, who died in 1971, was a Wall Street financier and diplomat, and the couple pursued a shared interest in collecting art.
The cause apparently was bacterial pneumonia, said her husband, George Sheer.
Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      
''
        Often she lets people speak for themselves, as she did with a woman left home while her husband traveled to Milan or Germany to find work.
She and her husband, August Sebastiani, were philanthropists whose gifts included property for the Sonoma Valley Hospital.
In 1980, she inherited Sebastiani Vineyards and Winery after the death of her husband.
Until her husband's death, Mrs. Sebastiani spent much of her time in the kitchen, preparing meals for family members and wine salesmen.
She is survived by her husband, Francisco Cancino; two sisters, Sally S. Fischer, who lives in France, and Patience S. Scott of Riverhead, N.Y.; a brother, John R. Stevenson Jr. of Woodacre, Calif.; and her stepmother, Ruth Carter Stevenson of Fort Worth.
Her husband, Lionel Ovesey, died in 1995.
She met her future husband, Paul, in Germany before her departure, and they married after he arrived in New York a short time later.
Her husband, Paul, an engineer at General Mills, died in 1976.
Palisades Amusement Park, which Ms. Shelley celebrated as a place that ''swings all day and after dark,'' was owned by her husband, Irving Rosenthal, who died in 1973.
The cause was an intestinal infection brought on by a bout of diverticulitis, according to Ms. Lange's husband, Charles Hollerith Jr.
        With her naturally blond hair, lithe dancer's figure and simple, straightforward style, Ms. Lange won praise for her first film role as a young woman who befriended a temptress played by Marilyn Monroe at a bus stop in the 1956 romantic comedy ''Bus Stop.
One day Eleanor Roosevelt, who had an apartment in the Village, walked by with Fala, her husband's beloved Scottish terrier, said Christopher Murray, Ms. Lange's son.
Her first husband, the actor Don Murray, encouraged her to try acting, her son said, and Ms. Lange eventually began acting in films and later won two Emmy Awards for her portrayal of a widow in the television series ''The Ghost and Mrs.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Lange is survived by her son, Christopher, of Malibu, Calif., and a daughter, Patricia Murray of Arroyo Grande, Calif.
      
Dr. Blank is survived by her husband of 58 years, Joseph S.; three daughters, Laura, Barbara and Alice, all of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Clair Gustafson.
She was fired several times but always refused to leave, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse.
Mrs. Stevenson met her future husband during a booking in Australia.
''I went to the Traphagen School of Design, took dance classes and courses in journalism and then I went to work for my husband as women's editor.
Her husband is Theodore W. Kheel, the labor mediator and lawyer.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kheel's survivors include five daughters, Ellen Jacobs of Manhattan; Constance E. Kheel of Buskirk, N.Y.; Dr. Marti Kheel of El Cerrito, Calif.; Jane K. Stanley of Bethesda, Md.
Mrs. Goodman and her husband, Howard Goodman, known as Happy, who died last year at 81, were cofounders of the Happy Goodman Family act.
Friends said Mrs. Goodman never really recovered from her husband's death.
Mrs. Pinkett is survived by her husband, William, whom she married in the late 1950's, and a sister, Loretta Glover.
      
Mrs. Kidder's response, her son Robert recalled yesterday, was to have a union label stitched into the wedding dress at another factory, owned by a Harvard classmate of her husband, which did have some union workers.
She opened The Bride's Shop with her husband, James Kidder, a businessman whom she married in 1940.
In addition to her son, Dr. Singer is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerome R. Singer; a daughter, Martha Singer, also of Berkeley; and five grandchildren.
      
The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her husband, Edward T. Russell.
In addion to her husband, she is survived by their three sons: John, of Stamford, Conn., David, of Hilton Head, S.C., and Mark, of Bedford, N.Y.
      
Ms. Roth's husband, Robert Sterling, died in 1978.
Dr. Bates is survived by her husband, George Carnevale, a fluid physicist at the Scripps Institution of Oceanography, and a daughter, Julia Carnevale.
      
