This is ''poetic justice,'' said her husband, Harvey D. Kushner, because the society's members had ''booed her off their stage in 1975,'' after she had challenged their standard treatments.
She is survived by her husband, Harvey; her sons, Gantt of Silver Spring, Md., and Todd of Rockville, Md.
Mrs. Schwarz's husband, Leo, predeceased her.
      
Less than a year earlier, Mrs. Stringer had been widowed when her husband, William, a correspondent for Reuters, was killed as Allied troops liberated Paris.
She is survived by her husband and her sister, Juliet Pitt.
      
Miss Dache's husband, Jean Despres, an executive at Coty Inc., the fragrance and cosmetics house, was retiring and she decided to close her business.
Until his death last year, she and her husband divided their time between Delray Beach, Fla., and Meudon, France.
She is survived by her husband, Michael Katz; a daughter, Moorea; her parents, Brian and Brenda Neale of Birmingham, and a brother, Anthony, also of Birmingham.
      
An outstanding horsewoman, Mrs. Van Ness and her late husband, Eugene, a retired New York banker, ran the 17-acre Hope Farm in Annandale for many years, raising horses, herefords and growing hay, wheat and grain.
Her husband died in 1977.
She left the paper to marry her third husband, Herbert T. Edwards, a State Department official, and moved to Washington in 1942.
Later she and her husband, Long John Nebel, were co-hosts in Manhattan on a late-night talk and interview show, first on Radio Station WOR and then on WMCA.
She is survived by her husband, Peter, and three daughters, Kate, of Brooklyn, and Molly and Emily, both of New Canaan.
      
She was a tough-talking but tender-souled mother in ''Stella Dallas'' (1937), a slang-slinging showgirl in ''Ball of Fire'' (1941), a lurid blonde who orchestrates her husband's murder in ''Double Indemnity'' (1944) and a bedridden neurotic who learns from telephone quirks that she is marked for murder in ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' (1948).
She was a tough-talking but vulnerable mother in ''Stella Dallas'' (1937), a slang-slinging showgirl in ''Ball of Fire'' (1941), a lurid blonde who orchestrates her husband's murder in ''Double Indemnity'' (1944) and a bedridden neurotic who learns from telephone quirks that she is marked for murder in ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' (1948).
Besides her husband and brother, she is survived by her parents, Harry and Jean Dinnerstein of North Miami Beach, Fla.; two sons, David, of Pomona, N.Y., and Jay, of Anaheim, Calif.; a daughter, Bonnie Friehling of Great Falls, Mont., and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ruebhausen is survived by her husband, Oscar; a twin brother, Robert M. Peet of Hanover, N.H., and a sister, Sarah Lewis of Philadelphia.
      
Surviving are her husband, J. Merrill Knapp; two daughters, Joan Crocker of Dedham, Mass., and Phoebe Warren of Billings, Mont., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Amyas Ames, the chairman emeritus of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts and the New York Philharmonic; two sons, Oakes and Edward, both of Manhattan; two daughters, Olivia Ames Hoblitzelle and Joan Ames Woodcock, both of Cambridge, Mass., and 11 grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Frank.
      
Surviving are her husband of 44 years, Philip Dean; three daughters, Mary Hope Dean, of Berkeley, Calif., Anne Hathaway, of Harvard, Mass., and Phoebe Perry, of Bedford, N.Y.; two sons, Peter, of Newton, Mass., and Philip Jr., of Dedham, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, John A. Gruver; a daughter, Cynthia Gruver-Williams of Carroll County, Md., and a son, John Gordon Gruver of College Park, Md.
      
She was known both for her own accomplishments and those of her husband and children, particularly her daughter, the actress Grace Kelly, who later married Prince Rainier of Monaco.
Mrs. Kelly's husband, John B. Kelly Sr., was an Olympic rowing champion who parlayed his skills as a bricklayer into a construction empire.
For 20 years while her husband was president of Colgate University, Mrs. Case taught a literature course at Colgate and published ''Written in Sand'' (1945), a historical novel, and ''Freedom's Farm'' (1946), a poetry collection.
Her writing included a biography of her father, ''Owen D. Young and American Enterprise'' (1982), in which her husband collaborated.
In addition to her husband, survivors include a brother, Richard Young, and a daughter, Josephine Edmonds Case, both of Van Hornesville; three sons, James 3d and John, both of Cambridge, Mass., and Samuel, of Fairfax, Calif.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandson.
      
After the death of her husband, John, she joined the Peace Corps in 1970 and taught journalism and writing for several years in Ghana and Costa Rica.
She is survived by her husband, Robert J. Stuart; a son, two daughters and three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Urban Morgan, also an interior designer, died in the early 1980's.
She is survived by her husband, Louis; a daughter, Judy Sandegren, of New Canaan, Conn.; a son, Steve R. Witkin, of Waterville, Me.
'' She is survived by her husband.
      
With her husband, Webster Plass, to whom she was married for 35 years until his death in 1952, she maintained a collection of African art that was said to be one of the finest assembled in this century.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Jeremy, of Toronto, and Hugh, of New York.
      
She was 89 years old and lived in Waterbury Center, Vt.
        Mrs. Foregger was chief executive of Foregger, which was founded by her husband, Dr. Richard von Foregger.
With her husband, the late Donald Slesinger, a psychologist, Mrs. Slesinger founded Camp Tree Tops in Lake Placid, N.Y., in the early 1920's.
In 1939 she and her husband, Abraham Paul Meyer, founded Standard Kosher Poultry.
In World War II, while her husband taught celestial navigation to pilots in Mississippi, she managed his Fifth Avenue leather goods store, Lederer de Paris.
She played an important role in selecting the succeeding publishers -her husband, Arthur Hays Sulzberger; her son-in-law Orvil E. Dryfoos, and her son, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger.
When her husband was publisher, Mrs. Sulzberger's influence on The Times went beyond encouraging wider news coverage, to advocating divergent editorial views.
When The Times endorsed Eisenhower in 1952, Mrs. Sulzberger told her husband she would vote for the general ''out of love for you and loyalty to The Times.
''
        Amid these activities she found time to be interested in polar explorations, an interest shared with her husband.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
As the publisher's wife, Mrs. Sulzberger shared her husband's concerns and problems but remained steadfastly an offstage figure in the operation of the paper.
Mr. Sulzberger, who had been president and publisher for 22 years, turned his presidency over to Orvil E. Dryfoos, then 44, husband of the Sulzbergers' daughter Marian.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Sulzberger continued to live mostly in New York, at 1115 Fifth Avenue, staying in touch with her growing family and carrying on community and educational pursuits.
''Through her, the continuity of family control from father to husband to son-in-law to son has been maintained for over 60 years and, through her, it will be passed on to the next generation - her grandchildren,'' Mrs. Tuchman wrote.
She is survived by her husband, Gregg C. Bissell; a stepson; a sister, Lila G. McMillan of Davidson, N.C., and a brother, Robert S. Galloway Jr., of Greenville, S.C.
      
She received her architectural and building experience when she drew plans for and built four large stone houses and several small ones in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
        Married to Claude P. Greneker, who was for many years publicity director for the Shubert theater interests, she became interested in mannequins when her husband wanted to use some in a theater stunt.
She is survived by her husband and her daughter, Joan, both of Manhattan; a sister, Monica Lewis Lang, and a brother, Marlo Lewis.
      
In addition to her brother, she is survived by her husband, Walter, and a son, William.
      
Dr. Lazarsfeld, who died in 1976, was Professor Kendall's husband.
She is survived by her husband, the Rev.
Judge Rinenberg is survived by her husband, Warren; two daughters, Alice Brickner, of the Bronx, and Curry Sawyer, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Walt Thomas; three daughters, Mary Green of Hendersonville, N.C., Anne Gibbons of Fairfield, Conn., and Gillet Page of Kennebunkport, Maine; two sisters, Katharine Haines and Elizabeth Wales, both of Englewood, N.J.; nine grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      
Grace Hartigan, an artist, recalled that when Mrs. de Kooning was asked how it felt to live in her husband's shadow, she replied, ''I lived in his light.
She is survived by her husband, Harold; three sons, Stephen, of Washington, Richard, of Boulder, Colo., and Andrew, of Manhattan; a brother, Dr. Harry W. Schoenberg of Chicago, and two granddaughters.
      
She and her husband, the late Henry Ittleson Jr., were collectors of French Impressionist paintings and donated a number of them to the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
''
        Miss Drake's husband died in 1960.
Two Sisters, One Lover
        Her next book was ''The Echoing Grove,'' about the relationship between two sisters and the man who is the husband of one and the lover of the other.
Married 2 Future Lords
        She met her first husband, Walter Runciman, who was later to become Lord Runciman, at Cambridge University.
Surviving are her husband, George Lessner; two sons, Alford, of Newburgh, N.Y., and Robert, of Wappingers Falls, N.Y.; five grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Murray, a former reporter for The New York Times; three sons, Richard, of Lakewood, Ohio, James, of Seattle, and John, of Lakewood, Colo., and a brother, Dexter Spence of Roswell, Ga.
      
Correction:  March 29, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        Because of an editing error, an obituary last Thursday about Princess Safiyeh Firouz, a member of a deposed Iranian royal family, misidentified her late husband.
The article also misstated the historical role of her husband's grandfather, Mozaffar ud-Din Shah.
She is survived by her husband, Pierre Dufour; two sisters, Edith Bridwell and Ismay Hawkins, and two brothers, Dr. Thomas Matthew and Dr. Robert Matthew.
      
In 1926, she fled her husband and joined the Communist Party.
Mrs. Gugler's husband, the architect Eric Gugler, died in 1974.
In 1966 she and her husband, Andrew Reis, moved to Evanston, where Ms. Reis began a catering business.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Winthrop, of Novato, Calif., and Elliot, of Evanston, and her mother, Shirley Tauber of Bellbrook, Ohio.
      
She is survived by her husband, Max; her mother, Agnes Grace Taylor of Gaithersburg, Md.
Her husband, William Capitman, died in 1975.
She is survived by her husband, Lawrence Winn.
      
She and her husband established Franklin Watts Ltd. in London in the 1960's, and Ms. Hoke worked there into the 1970's before returning to the United States.
She was the president and owner of the Hasler-Tel Company, a Swiss-based maker of precision instruments, which she took over after the death of her husband, Camille H. Boulin.
She was a trustee of the Shipley School of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
        She is survived by her husband, R. Palmer Baker Jr.; a daughter, Mary Fickett of Manhattan; a brother, DeLancey Nicoll 3d, and a grandson.
      
The company traveled to England and, in 1922, to New York City, where Mrs. Pons and her husband established a studio for the design and execution of stage costumes in 1923.
Mrs. Weil and her husband, Bert, had just bought the Devon Bakery in the Starrett-Lehigh Building on 11th Avenue at 26th Street and celebrated at Delmonico's.
When her husband was discharged, the couple obtained a concession to sell trinkets to visitors.
Her husband died in 1943, but Mrs. Hill continued to operate the concessions and similar ones at Sagamore Hill, the Theodore Roosevelt estate in Oyster Bay, L.I., and Fort McKinley in Baltimore, which, like the Statue of Liberty, are administered by the National Park Service.
Welcome's husband, Dr. Henry Welcome, died in 1979.
She is survived by her husband, Robert J., and by a son, four daughters, two sisters and 11 grandchildren.
      
Ms. Lake is survived by her husband, Leonard Lake; a daughter, Ellen, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Dorothy Sterling of Wellfleet, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      
She received the honorary Reuben Award (the cartoonists' equivalent of the Oscar) as the ''Mother'' of the National Cartoonists Society, the organization founded by her husband.
Her husband, Paul Boschan, a statistician, died in 1986.

       Bella Spewack, co-author with her late husband, Samuel, of a string of wacky comedies for Broadway and film - including such hits as ''Boy Meets Girl'' and the Tony Award-winning ''Kiss Me, Kate'' - died Friday night at her home in Manhattan.
Bella Spewack, co-author with her late husband, Samuel, of a string of wacky comedies for Broadway and film - including such hits as ''Boy Meets Girl'' and the Tony Award-winning ''Kiss Me, Kate'' - died Friday night at her home in Manhattan.
Her husband died in 1971.
''Sam really fell in love with my writing,'' Mrs. Spewack said at the time of her husband's death.
First Husband Was Her Manager
        During an extended engagement at Cafe Society Downtown in New York City, Miss Vaughan met George Treadwell, a trumpet player, whom she married.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a stepson, Frank M., of Hastings-on-Hudson; her mother, Bridget Rice of Hastings-on-Hudson, and two sisters, Elizabeth Bradley of Ramsey, N.J., and Margaret Dooley of Troy, Mich.
      
Married Hawks and Hayward
        A native of Salinas, Calif., she acquired her title from her third husband, Lord Kenneth Keith, a British merchant banker, whom she married in 1962.
She is survived by her husband, Stanley M. Richman; two daughters, Nancy, of Port Washington, L.I., and Deborah, of Morristown, N.J.; and her mother, Belle Rosenberg of South Orange, N.J.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Vito Pagano; a daughter, Anne Hogya of Bayville; four sons, Eugene, of Oyster Bay, Peter, of Houston, Vincent, of Mahcoutah, Ill., and Robert, of Bayville; three brothers, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Washington, and Andrea, of San Francisco; her mother, Ruth Solomon of New York; a brother, Howard Solomon of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Marquise Sue de Brantes, of St. Armand Lepypre, France.

       Roz H. James, former co-owner of La Famille, a Harlem restaurant founded in 1958 by her husband, Benjamin R. James, and Willette Crane Murray, died of leukemia on May 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Roz H. James, former co-owner of La Famille, a Harlem restaurant founded in 1958 by her husband, Benjamin R. James, and Willette Crane Murray, died of leukemia on May 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Mrs. Salvatori and her husband, Henry Salvatori, an industrialist, gave many gifts to schools, hospitals and shelters.
In addition to her husband and daughter, Mrs. Salvatori is survived by a son, Henry Ford Salvatori, and a grandson.
      
One of my first assignments was covering a forum for women on the topic 'How to Get a Husband.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward.
      
In that work, she wrote of her life with her husband, the Pulitzer Prize-winning poet George Oppen, who died in 1984.
She also appeared in such films as ''Robbery Under Arms'' with her first husband, the actor David McCallum.
''
        Ms. Ireland is survived by her husband; her parents, Jack and Dorothy Ireland, of Sussex, England; her brother, John Ireland, of Toronto, Ontario, and six children: Paul and Valentine McCallum; Suzanne, Tony and Zulieka Bronson, and Katrina Holden, all of Los Angeles.
      
Her survivors, all of the Philadelphia area, include her husband, Harvey; two sons, C. Daniel and Mark, and a daughter, Miriam.
      
Fifty years ago, Mrs. Sievan began taking pictures to record the career of her husband, the painter Maurice Sievan.
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
Surviving are her husband, Kenneth; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Claire, of Saunderstown, R.I., and her parents, Darwin and Lucille Hagan of Ridgewood.
      
She is survived by her husband, A. Jackson Whaley.
      
In the mid-1960's she helped integrate the audience for the performing arts in Alabama when she and her husband escorted the city's most visible civil rights leader, Dr. John Nixon, and his wife, Ethel, down the aisle before a performance at the Municipal Auditorium.
She is survived by her husband, David Roberts 3d; two sons, David Roberts 4th and Robin Watson Roberts, both of Birmingham; two brothers, three sisters and two grandchildren.
      
In 1950, Mrs. Church won the 13th Congressional seat formerly held by her husband, Ralph E. Church, a lawyer, who died in March of that year.
Surviving are her husband, Walter; a daughter, Anne Riley Patterson of Princeton, N.J.; a son, Harry, of Munich, West Germany, and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Peter Jr.; four sons, Peter 3d, of Orlando, Fla., James, of Boise, Idaho, William, of Manhattan, and David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Jane, of Manhattan; a brother, William C. Breed 3d of Greenwich; a sister, Ellen Staniford of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
She is survived by a husband, Jimmy, a daughter and a granddaughter.
      
''
        Some of the privileges came from her former husband, Dr. R. Bartow Read.
Since it was formed in 1976, the Producer Circle - founded by Mrs. Richards with her husband, Martin Richards, Robert Fryer and James Cresson - won 22 Tony Awards.
She made headlines in 1976 when she charged that her second husband, Dr. Victor D'Arc, a New York psychiatrist, had hired men to have her murdered.
In addition to her husband, Martin Richards of New York, Mrs. Richards is survived by two brothers, J. Seward Johnson Jr. of Princeton, and James L. Johnson of Pottersville, N.J.; three sisters, Diana Firestone of Waterford, Va., Elaine Wold of Boca Raton and Jennifer Duke of Jacksonville, Fla.; five sons, Eric Ryan of New York; Seward, Hillary and Quentin Ryan of Hilton Head, S.C., and Roderick Ryan, of Andover, N.J.; one daughter, Alice Ryan Marriott, also of Hilton Head; and 10 grandchildren.
      
''
        She was walking out of an Automat in 1949 with her first husband, Jack Golden, when a woman asked her if she had ever been a fashion model.
''
        She was married three times and had a daughter, Allison, with her second husband, Alan Murray.
Her last husband, West Hollingsworth, a bartender, died in 1985.
She is survived by her husband, Harvey Picker, dean emeritus of the School of International Affairs at Columbia University, and two daughters, Frances Mrachek of Newton, Mass., and Gale Picker of Falls Church, Va.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, Ronald J. Lehrman.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jerard Hurwitz, also an American Cancer Society research professor at Sloan-Kettering; two sons, Isaac, of Manhattan, and Gideon, of Ann Arbor, Mich., and a brother, Ezra Mendelsohn of Jerusalem.
      
With her former husband, Bernard Jacobs, Mrs. Willens helped prove that a commercial station could thrive without programming pop music.
Mrs. Willens's former husband was general manager of radio station WOAK-FM in suburban Oak Park when the couple met and married in 1950.
Mrs. Coleman became president and chairwoman of the 67-year-old company in 1968, succeeding her late husband, Dr. Joseph A. Coleman.
The national organization was founded by her brother, Paul Cohen, and her husband, William Mazer, in 1950, and she founded the Manhattan chapter a short time later.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Linda Berkowitz of Berkeley Heights, N.J.; two sons, Frank, of Cambridge, Mass., and Robert, of Amherst, Mass.
Her first husband was the conductor Leopold Stokowski, from whom she was divorced in 1938.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Merrill is survived by two daughters, Lyuba Rhodes of Geneva and Dr. Sadja Greenwood of San Francisco, and five grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was breast cancer, her husband, Kevin, said.
The cause of death was breast cancer, her husband, Kevin, said.
Surviving are her husband, a furniture and interior designer, their children, Jersey, and Addison, and her parents, Stanley and Pauline Turner, of Toms River, N.J.
      
Her second husband, Jean W. Barbey, died in 1973.
In 1935, in the depths of the Depression, she and her husband, Al Tisch, established two boys' camps, Laurel and Lincoln, in the Poconos.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, who live in Manhattan, and by 7 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
Her first husband, Al Tisch, died in 1960.
''
        Ms. Cason is survived by her husband, the actor Dennis Patrick.
      
Mrs. Wiener died of lung cancer, her husband, Abraham, said.
Mrs. Wiener died of lung cancer, her husband, Abraham, said.
Mrs. Silverman is survived by her husband, Selig J.; three sisters, Violet Straus and Louise Kline of Portsmouth, Ohio, and Eva Sofer of Falls Church, Va.; and a brother, Harold Strauss of Huntington, W.Va.
      
The cause of death was complications from kidney failure, said her husband, Bob Cooper, whom she met when he was a saxophonist for the Stan Kenton Orchestra, the band with which Miss Christy first gained great popularity in 1945.
In addition to Mr. Cooper, her husband, she is survived by their daughter, Shay Cooper of Long Beach, Calif., and a brother, Jack Luster of Edwardsville, Ill.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert G. Furno; two sons, Courtney, of Brookline, Mass., and Erik, of Cos Cob; her mother, Jean Davis of Stamford, and a brother, Keith Davis of Seattle.
      
She is survived by her husband, Darrel Austin; a son, Darrel Jr., of Newtown, Conn., and a brother, Barney Helser, of Portland.
      
Mrs. French's husband, John, whom she married in 1950, died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, Dudley H. Grape; two sons, Peter, of Wellesley, Mass., and Thomas, of Boston; two daughters, Judy Barnett of Darien, Conn., and Dee Karlen of Fairfield; a brother, George A. Oldham Jr. of Peoria, Ariz.; a sister, Lorraine Garger of Golden, Colo., and eight granchildren.
      
Mrs. Corwin is survived, in addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, by her husband, Eugene; a sister, Charlotte Kassel of Washington, and a grandson.
      
The jurors focused on two of four properties - the Herald Center, a retail building, and an office building at 200 Madison Avenue -which Mrs. Marcos and her late husband, Ferdinand, are accused of buying with embezzled funds.
Her husband, James, said Mrs. Critchlow died of breast cancer.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Ann Onanian of Merrimack, N.H., and Jane, of Cambridge, Mass., and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph M. Schor; a daughter, Esther, of Metuchen, N.J; two sons, Joshua, of Brookline, Mass., and Gideon, of Manhattan; two brothers, Jack Moshman of Bethesda, Md., and Bert Moshman of Kew Gardens, Queens, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Spitalny also collaborated with her husband in writing several songs, including ''Save the Last Dance for Me'' and ''Pining for You.
Mrs. Baum became president of the company, a major wholesale paper distributor, in 1983, after the death of her husband, Gerald, whose parents founded the company.

       Mary B. Joy, a former official with the American Association of University Women who was also active in many other civic organizations, died on Wednesday at her home in Morris Township, N.J. She was 82 years old and died of congestive heart failure, her husband, Homer, said.
Mary B. Joy, a former official with the American Association of University Women who was also active in many other civic organizations, died on Wednesday at her home in Morris Township, N.J. She was 82 years old and died of congestive heart failure, her husband, Homer, said.
She is survived by her husband.
      
For some time after her retirement, she and her husband lived and traveled throughout the country.
'' Her late husband, Richard B. Morris, was an American constitutional historian and a former chairman of the history department at Columbia University.
Mrs. Andrews, who was born in Pittsfield, became interested in the Shakers, a celibate communal Christian order, in 1923 when she and her husband, Edward Deming Andrews, visited the Shaker community in Hancock, Mass.
In the late 1940's and 1950's, Mrs. Perls collaborated with her husband, Fritz Perls, to develop the theory and technique of Gestalt therapy.
A Turn to the Present
        But among many Gestalt therapists, Laura Perls was seen as the mainstay of the movement, heading the major Gestalt training institute in New York City for almost 40 years, and an unacknowledged contributor to the early books by her husband that formulated the approach.
But she shared with her husband a dissatisfaction with Freudian orthodoxy that led them to the innovations that developed into Gestalt therapy.
She is survived by her husband, William, and two daughters, Jenny and Betsy Houlton, all of New York City and Fair Harbor, L.I.
She and her husband, Alex Kramer, who had been her voice teacher, wrote such hit songs as ''High on a Windy Hill,'' ''Far Away Places'' and ''Candy.
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband and son, and a sister, Renee Rylander of Newark, Del.
      
Dr. Liberman is survived by her husband, Dr. Alvin Liberman; two sons, Mark, of Chatham, N.J., and Charles, of Milton, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Cedric Peirce.
      
Mrs. Blair-Hastings is survived by her husband, Jerome Hastings, and a sister, Helen Votichenko, of Scotsdale, Ariz.
      
Ms. Burns and her husband, Andrew Sparks, wrote for Atlanta Weekly, a Sunday magazine once operated by The Atlanta Journal-Constitution.
Her husband, who also had lymphoma, died of heart failure last year.
Her husband, Bruno V. Bitker, a lawyer, died in 1984.
Her husband, Allen Olmsted, a Pennsylvania judge who was a founder of the American Civil Liberties Union, died in 1976.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Judith Young of Jamestown, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Block, who with her late husband, Jesse, played the vaudeville circuit as Block and Sully, appeared with Eddie Cantor in ''Kid Millions'' and was a star on ''The Eddie Cantor Show'' and the ''Chase and Sanborn Radio Hour.
Mrs. Bell died of breast cancer, said her husband, Derrick.
Mrs. Bell's husband, a professor at Harvard Law School, has been on an unpaid leave of absence since April and says he will remain so in protest until Harvard appoints a black woman to its tenured law faculty.
Her husband of 43 years, Hugh F. Hinckley, died last August.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Hyman Lichtenstein; two daughters, Carolyn and Diane; her mother; a sister, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lowenthal, whose husband is the pianist Jerome Lowenthal, was a native of Haifa, in what was then Palestine, and studied in Tel Aviv and in New York.
Surviving, besides her husband, are two daughters, Carmel and Leora, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Nahum Amir, a composer, of Tel Aviv.
      

       Sara Seegar, an actress who appeared on and off Broadway, in films and on television, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old and lived at Stone Meadows, Newtown, Pa., with her husband, the actor Ezra Stone, who said she died of a cerebral hemorrhage.
Sara Seegar, an actress who appeared on and off Broadway, in films and on television, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. She was 76 years old and lived at Stone Meadows, Newtown, Pa., with her husband, the actor Ezra Stone, who said she died of a cerebral hemorrhage.
Mrs. Wilson on Television
        On radio Miss Seegar played several roles over six years in her husband's popular serial, ''The Aldrich Family.
In addition to her daughter of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, William E.; three sons from a previous marriage, Henry Sage Jr. of Atlanta, Reginald Sage of Georgetown, S.C., and David Sage of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Duncan Devereux of Virginia Beach; a sister, Audrey Carey of Ponta Vedra, Fla., and four grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, J. Harold; two daughters, Deborah G. Block and Marjorie G. Bachrach, both of Manhattan; two grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Known widely and affectionately as Dona Ines, Mrs. Munoz was Puerto Rico's First Lady for the 16 years her husband was Governor.
She was an active adviser to her husband and helped him begin ''Operation Bootstrap,'' the economic program that revitalized the Commonwealth's economy.
Surviving are her husband, Lester; two daughters, Meah Tell of Miami and Abby, of Burbank, Calif., and two grandchldren.
      
Miss Bailey's husband, the jazz drummer Louis Bellson, had accompanied her to the hospital.
''
        Miss Bailey's husband, the jazz drummer Louis Bellson, to whom she was married for 38 years and who went with her to the hospital on Friday, said simply, ''I've lost my best friend.
Dr. Shorb is survived by her husband, Doyf; a son, Alan, who lives in Japan; two daughters, Carole Shorb and Barbara Breeden, both of Beltsville; a sister, Margaret Brownfield of Boise, Idaho; seven grandchldren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Her first husband was Robert A. Whitcomb, a writer, and her second husband was Leonard DeGrange, a portrait painter.
Her first husband was Robert A. Whitcomb, a writer, and her second husband was Leonard DeGrange, a portrait painter.
With her husband, Jacob, and their two sons, she escaped three days after the Nazi invasion of the Netherlands in May 1940 and soon reached the United States by way of England.
Her husband went into the food business and became chairman of Hartog Foods International.
''She loved everybody,'' said her husband of 38 years, jazz drummer Louis Bellson Jr. ''I have a feeling if she knew we were making all this fuss, she'd say, 'Louie, What are you doing?
She is survived by her husband, Feliks, and a daughter, Eva Friedman of Pasadena, Calif.
      

       Martha Dodd Stern, an American author who in the 1930's and 1940's wrote popular books about Nazi Germany and later fled behind the Iron Curtain when she and her wealthy husband, Alfred K. Stern, were accused of being Soviet spies, died on Aug. 10 in Prague, friends reported.
She was 82 years old and had lived in the
        Martha Dodd Stern, an American author who in the 1930's and 1940's wrote popular books about Nazi Germany and later fled behind the Iron Curtain when she and her wealthy husband, Alfred K. Stern, were accused of being Soviet spies, died on Aug. 10 in Prague, friends reported.
She is survived by her husband, Julian L. Peabody, a lawyer; a daughter, Post Eddy Scharnberger of Los Angeles; two sons from a former marriage, Charles F. Willis 3d and R. Reese Willis, both of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Moses's philanthropic interests largely reflected the activities of her husband, Henry L. Moses, whom she married in 1914.
After her husband's death, she became president of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, which the couple established in 1942 to support education, music and the arts.
Ms. Weber is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Joseph M. Sammataro, a retired architect; two daughters, Sandra S. Phillips of San Francisco and Diana Sammataro of Medina, Ohio; two sisters, Vera Campion of Rockford, Ill., and Lois La Rue of Pompano Beach, Fla., and one grandson.
      
She died of cancer, her husband, H. Francis Shattuck Jr., said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Christina Stenhuis-Shattuck of Rowayton, Conn.; a son, John, of Cambridge, Mass.

       Tamara Deutscher, a writer and editor who with her husband, the late Isaac Deutscher, researched the leaders of Soviet Communism, died on Tuesday in London, where she lived.
Tamara Deutscher, a writer and editor who with her husband, the late Isaac Deutscher, researched the leaders of Soviet Communism, died on Tuesday in London, where she lived.
She collaborated with him on his biographies of Stalin and Trotsky and, after his death in 1967, she edited collections of her husband's writings.
Mrs. Sacerdote, who was born in Brooklyn and grew up in Mount Vernon, N.Y., is survived by her husband, Dr. Paul Sacerdote; two sons, Dr. Alan Sacerdote of Brooklyn and Marc Sacerdote of Manhattan; two brothers, Nathan Quittell of North Lauderdale, Fla., and Jules Quittell of New Rochelle, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      
She and her husband, John G. Mapes, who died last year, founded an opinion research company, the Group Attitudes Corporation, in 1950.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Robert; three sons, Robert of Seattle, James of Wellesley, Mass., and Jonathan of Williamstown; a daughter, Cary, of Williamstown; her mother, Ruth M. Chapman of Forsyth, Ga., and a sister, Ruth W. Hassler of Steinhatchee, Fla.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert; another son, Mark, of Westwood, Mass.
She is survived by her husband, Jean Isenberg of Chico, Calif., and two brothers, Paul Hochstein of Los Angeles and Robert Hochstein of Washington.
      
Her husband, Daniel, died in 1960.
Mrs. Hirsch and her husband established the Henry and Myrtle Hirsch Foundation, which provides grants in education and health care, mostly for young people and immigrants, primarily in the United States and Israel.
Her husband died in 1987.
Mrs. Brodenova came to the United States in 1940 and settled in New York with her husband, Boris Brodenov.
Her husband died in 1960.
She was 58 years old and died of cancer, said her husband, Walter.
She was 58 years old and died of cancer, said her husband, Walter.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Richard, of Paris, and Bruce, of Jersey City; a daughter, Mary, of Rye; her parents, Marion and Sylvester May of Manhattan; a sister, Patricia Schwartz of New Orleans, and a granddaughter.
      
Besides her son Peter, of Greenwich, Conn., she is survived by her husband, Joseph, of Manhattan; a son, Robert, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, William J. Gordon, a Chenango County judge and surrogate, died in 1975.
Mrs. Tupper's husband, Frederick, a musician, died in 1975.
Ms. Shapiro had practiced business law with her husband, Robert, in Hackensack, N.J., since 1983.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Adam and Matthew; a daughter, Amy; her parents, Stanley and Edith Weinstein of Bridgeport, Conn., and a brother, Peter Weinstein of Trumbull, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Frederick; a daughter, Nancy Bergen of Nashville; her father, Harry Spiewk of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Warren Bennia; her mother, Sylvia Carty of St. Paul, Minn., and two sisters, Celeste Carty of St. Paul, Minn., and Jacqueline Carty of New York City.
      
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Robert D.; two sons, Mark, of Sea Cliff, L.I., and Daniel, of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Leslie Levine of Syosset, L.I.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Walter Bonime; a son, Frank Cummings, of Chevy Chase, Md.
With her husband, Edgar Ansel Mowrer, a Pulitizer Prize-winning foreign correspondent for The Chicago Daily News, Mrs. Mowrer was close to events in Italy during the rise of Mussolini, in Germany during the rise of Hitler and in France until it fell to the Nazis in 1940.
Mrs. Mowrer, who was born in England and met her husband there in 1911, also wrote theater criticism and articles on politics for such publications as Vanity Fair and Town and Country and for British newspapers.
Besides her husband, her mother, her brother and her sister, Mrs. Sigmund is survived by three sons, Paul Jr., of Ann Arbor, Mich., David, of Detroit, and Stephen, of New Orleans.
She died of pancreatic cancer, her husband, Benjamin, said.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Margolin is survived by a son, Victor, of Evanston, Ill., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Wagstaff, who was known as Mickey, met her first husband, Eugene Falkenburg, on a tennis court in Spain, where he was chief engineer for Westinghouse.
Mrs. Wagstaff, who was known as Mickey, met her first husband, Eugene Falkenburg, on a tennis court in Spain, where he was chief engineer for Westinghouse.
After the death of her first husband, she married LeRoy Wagstaff, a retired chief engineer for American Home Products.
Mrs. Freeman and her husband, Edward Woolsey Freeman, moved into Wave Hill in the early 1930's.
Reticent About the War
        In an interview last year, Mrs. Cave said her husband, who died in 1930, spoke little of his time as a soldier.
''
        South Carolina records show that Mrs. Cave's husband was born in 1844 and enlisted in the Confederate Army in 1862.
She contributed money as well as her time, benefiting institutions like Smith College, from which she graduated in 1907 at the age of 19; Northwestern University Law School, from which her father, Levy Mayer, graduated, and Princeton, where she endowed scholarships in memory of her husband, Walter A. Hirsch, a lawyer, who died in 1938, and their son, Lawrence, who died in 1960.
''
        In 1940, two years after her husband's death and in the year in which both her daughter and her son left home to marry, Mrs. Hirsch took a suite at the Pierre for six months, to give herself time to decide where to live permanently.
It was the work of her husband, Anthony, a sculptor and the creator of many medals, including the inaugural medal for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York.
''And really, my husband wasn't making a portrait of me.
It was the work of her husband, Anthony, a sculptor and the creator of many medals, including the inaugural medal for the 1964-65 World's Fair in New York.
"And really, my husband wasn't making a portrait of me.
Her husband, John Alexander Frank, an architect, died earlier this month.
Dr. Arboit is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin Ainbinder; two daughters, Judy and Jane Ainbinder of Verona, and her parents, John and Anna Arboit of Pembroke Pines, Fla.
      
Ms. Brown is survived by her husband, Michael Hebel, and a son, Noel Neri.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michel; a son, Leonid, of Rome, Pa.; a daughter, Denise Hidalgo of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wittenberg's husband, Philip, to whom she was married in 1919, died three years ago.
In 1947, she divorced her first husband and married a Manhattan financier, Fred Schoeffer.
Miss Arden's second husband, Brooks West, an actor, died in 1984.
She was 62 years old and had homes in New York City and Malibu, Calif.
        Miss Kirk died of lung cancer, said her husband, the lyricist and producer Robert Wells.
"
        She is survived by her husband.
She is survived by her husband, Shelly; a daughter, Monica Meyer and a son, Kenneth Meyer, both of Greenvale; her parents, Bolling and Marguerite Ellis of Troy, N.Y.; a sister, Victoria Pelinski of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Alexis and Jessica Gruber of Canton, Ohio.
      
Her second husband, William Paul Blake, died in 1962.
She had undergone exploratory surgery four weeks ago, but the cause of death is not known, said her husband, Dr. Isidore Schwartzman.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Leslie Blake and Cheryl Bulbach, both of Manhattan; two sons, Stephen Short of Manhattan and Dr. Wayne Blackmon of Washington, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Keith C. Robertson; two daughters, Hope E. Robertson of Stockton, N.J., and Christina H. Robertson of Philadelphia; a son, Jeffrey K. Robertson of Hopewell, and her brother, Peter Hexter of Newtown, Pa.
      
In her private life, she endured tragedies (including her husband's death) and on stage was prone to suffer accidents, but she never let anything interfere with the sheer delight of her performance.
Bella Spewack, co-author of the book with her husband, Sam Spewack, asked Miss Martin if she had ever been on the New York stage.
"
        She and her husband owned a ranch in Brazil, Nossa Fazenda (Our Farm), next to a home owned by her friend Janet Gaynor.
After her husband died in 1973, Miss Martin worked less but never fully retired.
In 1982 she was in a taxicab accident in San Francisco that took the life of her close friend Ben Washer and severely injured Miss Martin, Miss Gaynor and Miss Gaynor's husband, Paul Gregory.
She later worked in Denver in George Morrison's dance band, where she met her husband, the band-leader Andrew Dewey (Andy) Kirk.
After coming to New York with her husband, Mrs. Kirk taught music for many years.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Bernice Brown of New York.
      
Pillar is survived by her husband, Richard; two sons, Russell, of Los Angeles and Matthew, of Hong Kong; a daughter, Meredith, of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Dr. Leonard Mondschein of Roslyn, L.I., and Michael Mondschein of Brooklyn.
      
Her husband, Samuel B. Grimson, a musician, died in 1955.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Sam Silbergeld; three daughters, Sandra, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Janet Silbergeld and Dr. Nancy Jecker, both of Seattle; a son, Dr. Danie Silbergeld, of Seattle; her mother, Jennie Driscoll, of Beavercreek, Ohio; two sisters, Ruth Hallman, of Beavercreek and Julie Stockman, of Dayton, Ohio; two brothers, Dr. Glenn Driscoll, of Fresno, Calif., and Carl Driscoll, of Lathrup Village, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ferro and her husband, Theodore, were the original writers of "Peyton Place" and "General Hospital.
" In 1924, she and her husband, Paul Hayes, who died in 1969, founded the Theater of the Dance, whose productions combined dance and music with poetry by such authors as T. S. Eliot and William Butler Yeats.
After a screen test and a role in the film "The Constant Husband" in 1955, she went to Hollywood and became a contract actress with Columbia Pictures.
In a 1981 interview she said that she and her second husband, the actor Thayer David, had been planning to remarry when he died in 1978.
Mrs. Sobieski is survived by her husband, James; two daughters, Emmy, of Seattle, and Mona, of Santa Monica; a son, Jamie, of Stockton, Calif., and a sister, Wendy Marsh of Amarillo.
      
She started a practice in Manhattan as a dental surgeon, sharing offices with her husband, the late Dr. David L. Poe, an otolaryngologist.
Among her clients were celebrities like Lillian Gish, Eugene Ormandy and Van Johnson,
        Her husband died in 1960.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband, D. John Phillips; a daughter, Lynn Raglione of Manhattan, and two brothers, Al and Irving, both of Sarasota.
She is survived by her husband, George; a daughter, Deborah, and a son, Barry, both of Brooklyn Heights, and a sister, Babette Hollister of Queens.
      
Mrs. Pandit, whose husband died in the 1940's, took part in the Indian freedom movement and was arrested several times by the British colonial authorities.
She met her husband, Szymon Dawidowicz, an escapee from Poland there.
Mrs. Gabel and her husband, Dr. Milton Gabel, were portrayed during the trial as the protective parents of a troubled woman, and seemed torn between wanting to support her in her moment in the spotlight and hoping that her testimony would not sway the jury.
Miss Bennett later attributed her husband's outburst to desperation over large financial losses.
"
        Miss Bennett is survived by her fourth husband, David Wilde, a former critic and publisher whom she married in 1973; four daughters, Diana Anderson of Los Angeles and Melinda Bena of Chappaqua, N.Y., from her second marriage to Gene Markey, a film writer-producer whom she married in 1932 and divorced in 1937, and Stephanie Guest and Shelley Wanger, both of Manhattan, from her marriage to Mr. Wanger, and 13 grandchildren.
      
She was 74 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schonfeld died of ovarian cancer, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, Moses; two daughters, Deborah Statt Winegar of Manhattan and Jo-Ann Harrison of Kiryat Ono, Israel; a son, Victor of London; a sister, Miriam Waldman of Charlotte, N.C., and two grandsons.
      

        Adele Sharpe Herzman, who with her husband was a collector of Chinese ceramics, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
She died of cancer, her husband, Stanley, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from previous marriages, a daughter, Lucia Scott of Stamford, Conn., and a son, Guy Thomas of Manchester, Vt.; two sisters, Dorothy Lewis of St. Louis and Ruth Hamilton of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Doll is survived by her husband.
      

        Marjorie Montrose Christiansen, a college administrator, died on Friday at Springmoor Health Center in Raleigh, N.C. She was 65 years old and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C.
        She died of cancer of the lung and brain, her husband, Elliot, said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a sister, Jean Kullander of Savannah, Ga; two daughters, Catherine Hollenberg of Clarks Summit, Pa., and Laura Morse of Wellesley, Mass, and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Wohlberg is survived by her husband, Jerome Eisenberg, and her sister, Helen Wohlberg Lambert, both of Lexington.
      
Surviving are her husband, Virgil; two daughters, Denise and Rachel, both of New Milford; her parents, Miguel and Rosalinda Picazo of Manila; eight brothers, Frank, Jojo, Miguel Jr. and Rico Picazo of the Philippines, Eddie, Ferdie and Abel Picazo of New Milford and Ramon Picazo of San Francisco, and four sisters, Rica Picazo of New Milford, Rosalinda and Racquel Picazo of the Philippines and Margot Fazeli of Australia.
      
Her husband, James Randall Creel, a retired judge of the New York City Criminal Court, died in July.
      
Samuel Rosen, a stage director who was Miss Revere's husband of 49 years, died in 1984.
Her husband died in Japan in 1951.
She died of a pulmonary embolism, said her husband, Julian Mueller.
"
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Selby-Wright is survived by her mother, Mary Chamberlain, and a sister, Claire Wright, both of England.

        Clare Rostan Appel, founder with her husband of the Appel Farm Arts and Music Center near Elmer, N.J., died on Dec. 15 at her home on the farm.
She died of breast cancer, said her husband, Albert D. Appel.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Appel is survived by two daughters, Judith Monroe of Elmer, N.J., and Aliza Morgan of Newark, Del.
"
        Besides her husband, Ms. Chusmir is survived by a son, Steven, of Fort Lauderdale; a daughter, Marsha Chusmir-Shapiro of Daytona Beach, and a grandson.
      
With her husband, Sidney, and another architect, Read Weber, Mrs. Katz founded the firm of Katz Waisman Weber in Manhattan in 1942.
When she retired in 1978 after the death of her husband, the firm was taken over by her daughter and son-in-law, Liisa and Donald Sclare.
Surviving are her husband, Peter; her stepson, Peter A., of San Francisco, and her sister, Sheila Saunders, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a sister, Joan Allard of Albany, and a son, Stephen, of Hastings.
      

        Simone Cousteau, who accompanied her husband, Jacques-Yves Cousteau, on hundreds of voyages aboard the research vessel Calypso, died on Sunday.
Survivors include her husband and a son, Jean-Michel.
      
