Miss Hutton is survived by her husband, Victor Schoen; three sons, and her sister, Betty Hutton, the actress and singer.
      

       Caroline Gruss, who with her husband donated millions of dollars to educational institutions in this country and in Israel, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness.
Caroline Gruss, who with her husband donated millions of dollars to educational institutions in this country and in Israel, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness.
She and her husband, Joseph S. Gruss, an investment banker, came to the United States as refugees in 1939.
With her husband or alone, she made frequent visits to schools.
Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.
Ms. LaRoche is survived by her husband, the Rev.
She is survived by her husband, Naphtali Lewis; a daughter, Dr. Judith L. Herman, of Cambridge; a son, John B., of Cambridge, and two grandchildren.
      
With her husband, the late actor William Tubbs, she was an important part of a postwar film colony in Rome that included Ingrid Bergman, Roberto Rossellini, Vittorio De Sica and others.
She is survived by her husband, John B. Holt, of Georgetown, Me.
The bill, sponsored by her husband and for which she lobbied for more than a year, grew out an experience the couple had driving in a snowstorm.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Gloria Mae St. Lifer, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
The autobiographical novel ''New Wind in a Dry Land'' and a volume of stories, ''The Tomorrow-Tamer,'' both published in 1964, also drew on the years she spent in West Africa with her husband, Jack, a civil engineer.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph W. De Fossett, a daughter, Michelle, her mother, Annie, of Manhattan, three sisters, Floretta St. Ange, of the Bronx; Faustina Jenkins, of Los Angeles, and Persis Myers, of Manhattan, and a brother, Kendrick, of Brooklyn.
      
In 1925 she established a practice in Jersey City, where her husband, Dr. Keith L. Madison, who died in 1980, had a general practice.
Martin Stadium at Washington State University in Pullman is a memorial established by Mrs. Martin and her husband, Clarence D. (Dan) Martin Jr., in honor of his father, Clarence Martin, who was Governor of Washington from 1933 to 1941.
Survivors, in addition to her husband, are a son by a previous marriage, the Rev.
She is survived by her husband, Joseph.
      
With her first husband, Walter Charles Wicker, a radio writer, producer and actor, she performed in two early soap operas, ''Today's Children'' and ''Harold Teen.
Mrs. Corday, who won an Emmy for her work on ''Days of Our Lives'' in 1978, created the daytime television series - the first color soap opera - in 1965 with her husband, Ted.
Miss Van Tuyl's husband, Dr. Douglas Campbell, died in 1983.
Mrs. Martin is survived by her husband, Robert, and two children, Dr. Brooks Martin, of Lake Tahoe, Calif., and Diana Seaward of Benman Island, British Columbia.
      

       Adele Miller, who with her late husband, Samuel, founded the Miller Advertising Agency in 1919, died last night of complications from Alzheimer's disease at Beth Israel Hospital.
Adele Miller, who with her late husband, Samuel, founded the Miller Advertising Agency in 1919, died last night of complications from Alzheimer's disease at Beth Israel Hospital.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Vladimir Ussachevsky, also of Manhattan, who is now composer in residence at the University of Utah, and a brother, Richard Kray, of Grosse Pointe, Mich. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street.
      

       Adele Miller, who with her late husband, Samuel, founded the Miller Advertising Agency in 1919, died Monday of complications from Alzheimer's disease at Beth Israel Hospital.
Adele Miller, who with her late husband, Samuel, founded the Miller Advertising Agency in 1919, died Monday of complications from Alzheimer's disease at Beth Israel Hospital.
She is survived by her husband, Jesse, a retired New York lawyer; a son, Dr. Gregory Siskind of Manhattan, and a brother, Nathaniel Drabkin, also of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert, of Falls Church, Va.; three sons, William D. Vandivier of Pittsburgh and John Elliot Vandivier and Robert B. Vandivier, both of Philadelphia; a sister, Bettye Fraley, and her mother, Daisy Finnell, both of Berea, Ky.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Ogden Mills Phipps of Westbury, L.I.
Mrs. Stein is survived by her husband, Dr. Max H. Stein; three sons, Jeffrey, of Hartsdale, N.Y., Ethan, of Irvington, N.Y., and Matthew, of Bayside, Queens; a brother, Irving Sperber of Englewood, N.J.; a sister, Beatrice Leis of Southbury, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bellin's last stage appearance was at the American Place Theater in 1984 when her husband, Paul Roebling, directed her in ''Zelda,'' by William Luce, a one-woman play about the wife of F. Scott Fitzgerald.
Ms. Bellin is survived by her husband and her son, Kristian.
      
Her husband, Thomas, died in 1948.
Her husband, Walter F. March, an architect, died in 1969.
She is survived by her husband, Richard W. Lawrence Jr.; three daughters, Ruth Wilson of Moab, Utah; Alida Currey of Grand Junction, Colo., and Elizabeth Lawrence of Burlington, Vt.; a brother, Richard Wadhams, also of Burlington, and two grandchildren.
      
In that year, Mrs. Varian moved to Orlando, where her husband had retired.
She is survived by her husband and by a son, Alfred, of Stowe, Vt.
      
Dr. Bogner is survived by her husband, Marten Sameth.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert Yost Hinshaw; two daughters, Janet H. Shabon, of Rutledge, Pa., and Lila H. Erlandson, of Livermore, Calif.; two sons, David Yost Hinshaw, of Ithaca, N.Y., and Foster Dulles Hinshaw, of Cambridge, Mass.
In 1968, she wrote a novel, ''The Black Ship,'' with her late husband, Paul.
Mrs. Nason was active for many years with her husband, James R. P. Nason, in developing properties in Connecticut, Nantucket Island, the Bahamas and Longboat Key.
Mrs. Nason was active for many years with her husband, James R. P. Nason, in developing properties in Connecticut, Nantucket Island, the Bahamas and Longboat Key.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Caroline N. Hollyday of New Canaan, Conn., and Sarah N. Clawson of Wayland, Mass., 13 grandchildren and 5 great-grandchildren.
      
''Widow,'' which was adapted for television in 1976, came out of Mrs. Caine's experiences after the death of her husband, Martin., in 1971.
Her husband, Georg Alikhanov, then personnel director of Comintern, the Communist International, had been arrested a few days earlier in a mass purge of senior officials of the organization.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; two sons, Mark and Ned, and a daughter, Dorsey, all of Bloomsbury; her mother, Katherine Symington, and two sisters, Lee Mathews and Kathy Seiler, all of Baltimore.
      
Mrs. Barr was fluent in French, Italian, Spanish and German and was crucially involved in her husband's curatorial activities and in the wartime effort to provide refuge in the United States for European artists.
''
        At the time of her death she was working on the chronology of her life with her husband.
Her secular career ended when she and her husband decided to become ministers in the Church of God.
She is survived by her husband.
      
She is survived by her husband, Lionel; three daughters, Connie, Naomi and Ruth, all of Jerusalem; a sister, Helen Rudolph of Queens, and a brother, Stanley Evans of the Bronx.
      
The college presented her and her husband, Oscar, with a certificate of appreciation for their work.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Harry and David, and a daughter, Jennifer, all of Queens.
      

       Representative Sala Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her late husband in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died today of complications arising from cancer.
Representative Sala Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her late husband in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died today of complications arising from cancer.
She was elected in 1983 to complete the term of her husband, Phillip, and was re-elected in 1984 and 1986.
''
        Politics was her business most of the time after she met her husband in 1950 at a convention of the California Young Democrats.
After winning the seat, she moved into offices at a Federal building in San Francisco that had been renamed for her husband.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Smith is survived by a daughter, Mrs. Richard B. Griffin Jr. of Washington; three sons, John T. Smith 2d of Washington, Gerard L. Smith of New York City and Hugh M. Smith of Easton, Md.

       Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.

       Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.
Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.
Eleanor B. Stevenson, who, with her husband, Willaim E. Stevenson, received the Bronze Star for their work with the American Red Cross in World War II in Europe, died Sunday at her home in Shell Point Village in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 84 years old Mrs. Stevenson went with her husband when he volunteered to established wartime Red cross units in European theaters of war.

       Representative Sala Galant Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her husband, Phillip Burton, in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died Sunday of complications of cancer.
Representative Sala Galant Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her husband, Phillip Burton, in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died Sunday of complications of cancer.
She was elected in 1983 to complete the term of her husband when he died and was re-elected in 1984 and 1986.
''
        Politics was her business most of the time after she met her husband in 1950 at a convention of the California Young Democrats.
After winning the seat, she moved into offices at a Federal building in San Francisco that had been renamed for her husband.
Surviving are her husband, Andrew; a daughter, Melinda, of Brewster; a stepson, Roger, of Sudbury, Mass., and a sister, Marguerite Britter, also of Brewster.
      
Left With Mixed Feelings
        At the time of her own departure, Mrs. Meiman said she was leaving with ''mixed feelings'' since her husband had to stay behind.
Miss Dehn's second husband, Herman Thomas, a retired captain in the Merchant Marine, died in 1982.
Her husband, Frederick, a New York publisher, died in 1946.
      
Mrs. Levy and her late husband, Benjamin, were among those who gave money to help establish the college from its inception in 1952 to its completion in 1955.
She and her husband, who was a senior partner of Salomon Brothers, the investment banking firm, established the college's Benjamin J. and Anna Levy Institute for Biophysics, and the Current Periodicals Room at the college library.
While serving as Lieutenant Governor, Mrs. Meiers commuted each weekend from Bismarck to the farm and ranch she and her husband, Glenn, own 150 miles northwest of Bismarck.
Besides her husband, survivors include four sons and a foster son.
      
''
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Youngman is survived by a daughter, Marilyn; a son, Gary, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Luce, whose husband, Henry Luce 3d, is a director of Time Inc., was a director of the Henry Luce Foundation, was on the board of the East Side Settlement House and was a member of the women's committee of the International Christian University.
She is survived by her husband; a son from a previous marriage, P. Richard Cassiday Jr., of Manhattan; her mother, Laura Sheldon of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Mrs. Herbert Bruckner of Hinsdale, Ill.
      
Her husband, Philip, is chairman of the Surburban Communications Corporation in Livonia, Mich., the publisher of 50 newspapers in the Detroit and Cincinnati areas.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
After her husband's death, she also became heavily involved in Catholic missionary work.
After her husband's death, she also became heavily involved in Catholic missionary work.
She is survived by her husband, Sydney Connell, a retired social worker; a sister, Rita Hirsch of Manhattan, and two stepsons, Joseph, of Brooklyn and Eric, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Paul.
      
My husband asked me what I knew about music.
Surviving Mrs. Frankel besides her husband are her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Harold M. Brown; a sister, MarionJust of Westwood, Mass., and three children, David, Margot and Jonathan, all of New York.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Deborah, of San Francisco; two sons, Howard 3d, of Apollo Beach, Fla., and Scott, of Bozeman, Mont., and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Israel's husband, Marvin, died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, James Haughton; four children, Elspeth, Claudia Leacock Dougherty, Robert, all of Manhattan, and David, of Golden Meadow, La.
Chance's first husband was the late Dr. Edmund A. Rohlehr.
Her second husband, Dr. Albion Chance, died in 1955.
She is survived by her husband, Wilbur; a daughter, Allyson, of Manhattan; a son, Louis, of Freeport, L.I.
Her husband, Dr. William E. Hunt, is professor and director of the division of neurologic surgery at the College of Medicine at Ohio State University.
Besides her husband, Miss Curtis is survived by a sister, Mary Curtis Davey of Los Altos, Calif., three stepchildren and three nieces and nephews.
Her husband, Leon, an engineer, died in 1965.
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
Marriage to Orson Welles
        Miss Hayworth, who had divorced her first husband, married Orson Welles in 1943, and they had a daughter, Rebecca.
She is survived by her husband, David Hawks, and their son, Wayne Palmer, both of Manhattan; her parents, Thelma and Joseph Simpson of Grenada, and four sisters, Margaret Prime of Brooklyn, Jennifer Simpson of Manhattan, Thorla Renwick of Dallas and Vernessa Hamer of London.
      
She delighted in television, and one of her funniest moments came on a show when she was asked whether her most recent husband was dead.
She is survived by her husband, Martin D. Kamen, professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego; two sisters, Carole Swanson, of Glendale, Calif., and Beverly Hill, of La Jolla, Calif., and a brother, Robert Swanson, of Lynwood, Calif.
      
She is also survived by her husband, Coyt, and eight grandchildren.
      
A talented painter and writer, she and her husband traveled extensively and counted as friends the foremost musicians and artists of their time.
Miss Damon's character had to deal with a television husband who once was cloned by aliens from outer space.
Surviving are her husband, John, a professor emeritus at N.Y.U.
She is survived by her husband, Richard; a son, Daniel, of Washington; a daughter, Susan Lindheim, of El Cerrito, Calif.; a stepbrother, Ralph Colp Jr. of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
Dr. Alihan, who also used the name Eskell, the name of her late husband, was in private practice as a psychologist.
In addition to her husband, surviving are three daughters, Whitney Wing Oppersdorf of Lincolnville, Me.
She attended the Universite Libre de Bruxelles there, and worked at the Labor College in Brussels, where she met her husband, William Ross, a labor organizer.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Yonatan, of Manhattan and Omri Eytan, of Tel Aviv, and a daughter, Tula, also of Tel Aviv.
She is survived by her husband, Harold; three daughters, Andrea Baum of Brooklyn, Ilene, of Sunderland, Mass., and Donna, of San Francisco, and a grandson.
      
Born Anne Rauschman in 1924, she married in 1947 and worked for many years as a public school teacher in New York, supporting her husband through his early career.
Mrs. David is survived by her husband; two sons, Jim and Craig, both of Los Angeles; her mother, Florence Tuttle of Glen Cove, L.I., and a brother, Al, of Warren, N.J.
Mrs. Monhoff's husband, the architect and artist Frederick Monoff, died in 1975.
A native of Glen Cove, L.I., she grew up in New York City and attended the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.
        Mrs. Nitze is survived by her husband of 55 years; two sons, Peter and William A., both of New York City; two daughters, Phyllis Thompson of Brookline, Mass., and Heidi Nitze of New York City, 11 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
A native of Glen Cove, L.I., she grew up in New York City and attended the Foxcroft School in Middleburg, Va.
        Mrs. Nitze is survived by her husband of 55 years; two sons, Peter and William A., both of New York City; two daughters, Phyllis Thompson of Brookline, Mass., and Heidi Nitze of New York City, 11 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
She was 45 years old and lived in Skillman, N.J.
        Mrs. Gallup's husband, Alec Gallup, is a co-chairman of the Gallup Organization, which conducts public opinion polls on politicians, trends and current events.
Mrs. Gallup, her husband and several other Gallup officials had been in London to celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Gallup affiliate there.
Her husband, Julius Seebach, died in 1982.
Although married, she did not use the name of her husband, John Dwyer of Evanston, who survives.
''
        Miss Page is survived by her third husband, the actor Rip Torn; their three children, Jonathan, Anthony and Angelica Torn-Burkhardt; a grandchild, Elija Burkhardt, and a brother, Donald.

       Nellie Obendorf, who along with her husband, Orville, survived almost two weeks in a Kansas snowdrift last April, died Saturday in a nursing home.
Nellie Obendorf, who along with her husband, Orville, survived almost two weeks in a Kansas snowdrift last April, died Saturday in a nursing home.
She is survived by her husband, David Silverberg; her mother, Helen G. Brody; a sister, Dr. Sheila B. Kamerman, and a daughter, Dr. Sue A. Shapiro, all of Manhattan.
      
In recent years she has been a volunteer at In Touch Networks, a radio reading service for the visually and physically handicapped, of which her husband, Jasha, is executive director.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Levi is survived by a daughter, Tamara, of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, Charles H. Fahy, a bank trust officer, died in 1958.
Ms. Hinderas is survived by her mother, Leota Palmer; her husband, Lionel Monagas, and a daughter, Michele.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Charles A. Perera; two sons, Donald A., of San Jose, Calif., and John B., of Cleveland; three daughters, Ellen P. Scott of San Diego, Carol P. Weingeist of Hanover, N.H., and Sylvia B. Perera of Sherman, Conn.; a brother, Samuel Brinton, and a sister, Alice Clement, both of Kennett Square; 11 grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Hawes, a daughter, Evalie Horner, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, G. Arthur Andrews, of Ossining; a son, William E., of Northport, L.I.
Her husband, Jacob Schapiro, also a lawyer, died in 1958.
She is survived by her husband, Shlomo Hagai of Manhattan, and a sister, Renee Posin of Oxnard, Calif.
      
She became involved with the Society for the Welfare of the Jewish Deaf in 1929 when her husband, Rabbi A. Felix Nash, became its director.
Her second husband, Shad Polier, died in 1976.
Official biographies state that Miss Maracci was born in Montevideo, Uruguay, but according to her husband, Lee Freeson, Miss Maracci was born in Goldfield, Nev.
Miss Maracci is survived by her husband.
      
Her husband, Allan, died in 1983.
Her husband, Llewellyn Watts Jr., longtime chairman of the board of governors of the New York Mercantile Exchange, died in 1975.
Elected to Assembly
        Mrs. Ryan went into politics after her husband, E. Gerard Ryan, a lawyer, died.
Mrs. Lieberman worked closely with her husband, a poet, and compiled a book of his poetry after his death in 1969.
Miss Bauersmith's husband, Barnett M. Warren, died in 1953.
      
She left Russia in 1917 and toured Europe with a dance company organized by her and her husband, Vecheslav Swoboda, formerly a soloist with the Bolshoi Ballet and now dead.
Miss Swoboda kept the school open after her husband died until 1954, when it became the company school of the Ballet Russe.
They were divorced in 1931, after Miss Negri had lost the bulk of her fortune through, she later wrote, her husband's mismanagement of her affairs during the stock-market crisis.
Her husband, Joseph T. Walker Jr., was a limited partner in Hornblower & Weeks-Hemphill Noyes Inc., an investment house.
Her first husband, H. R. Knickerbocker, a Pulitzer Prize-winning war correspondent with the New York Evening Post and Philadelphia Public Ledger, was killed in an airplane crash in India in 1949.
Edmund G. Brown Sr. to serve out the term of her husband, Edward, who died that year.
Until April she lived in Denver, where she and her husband had a fine arts appraisal business.
Until April she lived in Denver, where she and her husband had a fine arts appraisal business.
Survivors include her husband, Lester, and a daughter, Vivian Reinvald, of Tacoma.
      
Her husband, Cedric, died in 1968.
Her husband, Irving Price, a manufacturer of small appliances, died in 1962.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harold Lazarus; her mother, Louise Comens of Bethlehem; a sister, Dr. Iris Rotberg of Potomac, Md., and two sons, Eric, of Garden City and Mark, of Jackson, Miss.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stuart B. Glover; a brother, Allan H. Kalmus of Manhattan; two sons, James D., of White Plains, and Richard K., of Stamford, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
''There was a desolation of the spirit over her death,'' Canon John Reynolds told the congregation, which included Mrs. Ryan's sister, Nora, and her husband, Steve Fairbrass.
In 1949, with her husband and the novelist Pearl Buck, she was a founder of Welcome House (now Welcome House Adoption Sevices) in Doylestown, Pa., an organization that arranges for the adoption of children of American and Asian parents.
She is survived by her husband, J. Charles Bannett, and two daughters, Melissa P., of Berkeley, Calif., and Lorin P., of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, Walter N. Rothschild, chairman of the board of Abraham & Straus and a founder of the Federated Department Stores, died in 1960.
Miss Lonergan is survived by her husband, Richard Bertram, and her son, John Holtzman, also of Stuart.
      
She is survived by her husband, D. Rex Edwards; two sisters, Marjorie Smith of Rosedale and Bernice Patterson of Jamaica, Queens; an adopted son, Ralph Barkley of Virginia Beach, Va.; an adopted daughter, Freda Muldoon of Newburyport, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
Her husband, George, a consulting engineer, died in 1979.
She and her husband, the late Charles A. Oberwager, a New York City magistrate, were law partners.
Born in Forestville, Conn., Mrs. Weisbord and her husband, Albert, helped lead a citywide strike of textile workers in Passaic, N.J., in 1926.
A Socialist during World War I, she joined the Communist Party in 1919, but she and her husband were expelled from the party in 1929 for criticizing it.
Her husband died in 1977, the year her autobiography, ''A Radical Life,'' was published by Indiana University Press.
Her family loved from Mexico to Arizona, where she eventually joined them and met her future husband.
Her husband, Walter N. Rothschild, chairman of the board of Abraham & Straus and a founder of the Federated Department Stores, died in 1960.
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Sylvester; a sister, Barbara Hart Fogle of Marietta, Ohio, and three children by a previous marriage, Barbara D. Wick of Northfield, Ill., Beatrice O. Hart of London, and John B. Diebold of Nyack, N.Y.
      
''
        Her husband, James B. Herzog, died in 1964.
It was inadmissible as evidence, she wrote later, because her former husband had removed pages involving himself.
In 1930, her first husband, Kenneth Hawks, was killed in a plane crash while directing a movie.
As president of Castelli Graphics, on East 77th Street, Mrs. Castelli showed such major artists as Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg and James Rosenquist, who were also affiliated with the galleries of Leo Castelli, her husband.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Jean-Christophe; her mother, Edmee Haviland, and two sisters.
      
He was shot through the ear at point-blank range shortly after driving away from the home of Lady Delamere and her husband, Sir Henry Broughton, late on a January night in the Nairobi suburb of Karen.
Her third husband, from 1943 to 1955, was Gilbert Colvile, a wealthy and reclusive rancher who owned vast tracts in Kenya's Rift Valley.
Her husband, Howard L. Reiner, died in 1960.
''It is sort of a compendium of everything she had learned,'' her husband, Paris Theodore, said yesterday.
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Bogdon Raditsa, a former Yugoslav diplomat and journalist; a son, Dr. Leo, of Annapolis, Md.
Mrs. Linsky, whose husband, Jack, accumulated a fortune as a manufacturer of stapling machines and office stationery, donated their collection of European art from the Renaissance and later periods to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1982, two years after the death of her husband.
Mrs. Linsky, whose husband, Jack, accumulated a fortune as a manufacturer of stapling machines and office stationery, donated their collection of European art from the Renaissance and later periods to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1982, two years after the death of her husband.
Mrs. Linsky and her husband also endowed a pavilion that bears their names at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Marek is survived by her husband, Richard, who is president and publisher of E. P. Dutton, the book publishing company; a son, Alan; a daughter, Elizabeth; her parents, Maurice and Anita Ravage; a brother, Alan Ravage, and a sister, Susan Herron, all of Manhattan.
She performed as a wing-walker in the 1920's and '30s in the Inman Brothers Flying Circus with her husband, Rolley Roger Inman, a pilot.
''Whatever happens then, she'll get a rich husband.
Clare Boothe met her future husband in church: George Tuttle Brokaw, millionaire-playboy son of a clothing manufacturer.
It concerned a drunken, sadistic husband who is shot in the last act.
The play was an apotheosis of feminine bitchiness, concerning a devoted wife, the only sympathetic character, trying to win back her husband, who had been poached by a saleswoman.
''
        Because of personal problems and long separations from her husband that her duties entailed, Mrs. Luce did not seek re-election in 1946.
In 1967, she and her husband helped to found the Fine Arts Work Center in Provincetown, which provides fellowships for emerging artists and writers.
Mrs. Walker's husband died in 1976.
Mrs. Scalamandre, an artist and designer, founded the company in 1929 with her husband, Franco.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gino; a daughter, Adriana Scalamandre Bitter; seven grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Herbert J. Schlesinger, who is Albert J.
Dr. Weithorn is survived by her husband, Stanley S. Weithorn; a daughter, Lois A. Weithorn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a son, Michael J., of Los Angeles; her mother, Frieda A. Breslow of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and a sister, Elaine M. Brody of Philadelphia.
      

       Fay Koshelle, a founder with her husband of a children's camp in the Catskills, died Wednesday at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington in Rockville, Md., where she was a resident.
Mrs. Koshelle, a onetime Bronx resident, and her husband, the late William Koshelle, founded the Maple Lake Camp in Livingston Manor, N.Y., in 1925, and operated it for more than 30 years.
Fay Koshelle, a founder with her husband of a children's camp in the Catskills, died Wednesday at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington in Rockville, Md., where she was a resident.
Mrs. Koshelle, a onetime Bronx resident, and her husband, the late William Koshelle, founded the Maple Lake Camp in Livingston Manor, N.Y., in 1925, and operated it for more than 30 years.
She is survived by her husband, John; a son, David, of San Francisco; a daughter, Virginia, of Cambridge, Mass.
During the late 1960's and early 1970's, Miss du Pre and her husband, the conductor and pianist Daniel Barenboim, seemed a charmed couple.
Reviewing a 1980 concert, John Rockwell wrote in The New York Times: ''The consistently high quality of these particular benefits can be traced to the close professional and social circle in which Miss du Pre and her husband move.
''
        She is survived by her husband.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard Moss of Scarsdale; two sons, John, of Wayland, Mass., and William, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Vanessa, of Chicago, and her mother, Ethyl Hoffert of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Heilburn is survived by her husband, Douglas; a half-sister, Cynthia Benson of Northampton, Mass.
After the war she resumed her film career briefly, appearing in ''White Cradle Inn'' (1946), ''An Innocent Affair'' - also entitled ''Don't Trust Your Husband'' (1948), and ''The Fan'' (1949) before retiring from film work for good.
Collaborated With Husband
        Her most recent project was the restoration of the Homestead Inn, in Greenwich, Conn., that she undertook with her husband, John F. Saladino, a New York-based architectural designer.
Collaborated With Husband
        Her most recent project was the restoration of the Homestead Inn, in Greenwich, Conn., that she undertook with her husband, John F. Saladino, a New York-based architectural designer.
Mrs. Saladino is survived by her husband; a son, J. Graham, of Norfolk and Manhattan; her parents, Gladys and Wyatt Burl Hendrick, a brother, Robert, and a sister, Myra Grace, all of Lawton, and a sister, Elizabeth Maloney of Fairfax, Va.
        A funeral service is to be held tomorrow at 11 A.M. at St. Bartholomew's Church at 109 East 50th Street.
      
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel, and a sister, Constance Connors of Bethel Island, Calif.
Her husband, Prof. George Wislocki of Harvard University, died in 1956.
