'' But she also had personal reasons for deciding not to seek re-election that year: Her second husband, Arthur Hardwick, a Buffalo liquor store owner who had been in the New York State Assembly when Mrs. Chisholm was, had been injured in a car accident.
''I had no time for privacy, no time for my husband, no time to play my beautiful grand piano.
''I also dared the fleeting thought that among all these masculine forms perhaps I would find a husband.
The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Timothy Noah.
''
        In addition to her husband and her daughter, Ms. Williams is survived by her son, Will, and her sisters, Wistar Rawls of Monkton, Vt., Anne Williams of Ringoes, N.J., and Rosina Williams of Jersey City.
      
Her husband, Dr. Hugh Clark Davidson, said the cause was polycythemia vera, a bone marrow disease.
She is survived by her husband.
      
Her husband, Howard Ellis Cox, a New York lawyer, died in 1989.
'' But she also had personal reasons for deciding not to seek re-election that year: Her second husband, Arthur Hardwick, a Buffalo liquor store owner who had been in the New York State Assembly when Mrs. Chisholm was, had been injured in a car accident.
''I had no time for privacy, no time for my husband, no time to play my beautiful grand piano.
The cause was a rare blood disorder she had suffered with for many years, said her husband, Jay Kennedy.
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Thelen is survived by her husband, David, a history professor at Indiana; a son, Jeremy, of Providence, R.I.; a sister, Harriet Saeck of Sacramento; and one grandson.
      
In addition to her son, Mark, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, Victor, a lawyer and activist; a daughter, Abby, of Hamburg, N.J.; a stepson, Peter, of Clinton, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Joni, of Pittsburgh; a half-sister, Mary Jane Hubbard of Norwich, N.Y.; a half-brother, James Hubbard of Orlando, Fla.; and two step-grandchildren.
      
In 1943, she published her first novel, ''The Walsh Girls'' (Doubleday), about two New England sisters, one of whom rejoins the other after her German husband's death in a concentration camp.
Through her husband's involvement with the Roosevelt and Johnson administrations, she came to know many prominent Washington figures, including Eleanor Roosevelt, about whom she wrote profiles.
Justice Altman is survived by her husband, Herbert I. Altman, a former justice of State Supreme Court; two sons,, Michael T., of Woodmere, N.Y., and Daniel, of Teaneck, N.J.; a daughter, Sarah R. Stark of Raanana, Israel; a brother, William Jarblum of Los Angeles; and nine grandchildren.
      
In addition to ''Come September,'' Ms. Dee starred with her finger-snapping husband as a jealous young wife in ''If a Man Answers'' (1962) and as a maid posing as a successful publisher in ''That Funny Feeling'' (1965).
Her husband, Russell G. Derickson, a former pilot, died in 2003.

        Gwendolyn Knight, a painter and sculptor from the 1930's who emerged from the shadow of her husband, the painter Jacob Lawrence, late in her life, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Seattle.
Having devoted most of her career to oil portraits of friends, figure studies of dancers, and watercolor and gouache landscapes that seemed to be companion pieces to her husband's work, she suddenly began in the 1990's to draw horses and cats from memory -- quick, lyrical sketches rendered as etchings and monoprints.
Ms. Joh's husband, Owen, died in 1975.
''
        From 1920 to 1948, Mrs. Small worked alongside her husband, Elson, as he tended lighthouses in Maine and New Hampshire for the United States Lighthouse Service, later part of the Coast Guard.
After her husband's death in 1960, Mrs. Small worked in a Portsmouth department store and later as a head resident at Farmington State College in Maine.
This was named for her husband, who founded the New York Center with her and who died in 1998.
Her husband worked there for 45 years before he died in 1974.
In 1971, she moved to Jacksonville with her husband, Buck Fowler.
She is survived by her husband and her daughters, Tillie Anne, of Washington, and Elizabeth, of California.
      
The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her husband, the journalist Sidney Zion.
Besides her husband, a columnist for The Daily News, Ms. Zion is survived by two sisters, Sandra, of San Francisco, and Martha, of Miami; two brothers, Karl, of Portland, Me., and Robert, of Miami; two sons, Adam, of Brooklyn, and Jed, of Manhattan; and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Kauffman learned by chance at a 1986 reunion of her husband's family that Ms.
Petty was furloughed from the state school and lived with Ms. Kauffman and her husband for almost 20 years.
The cause was respiratory failure, her husband, Peter, said.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Lederer is survived by a sister, Ida Shimanouchi, of Medford, N.J.; a stepdaughter, Patricia Lederer Michaels, of Manhattan; and one stepgrandson.
      
Ms. Fittko and her husband, Hans, became part of the rescue mission of Varian Fry, an American who is credited with saving about 2,000 people, many of them artists and intellectuals, including André Breton, Marc Chagall and Max Ernst.
''
        Ms. Fittko was soon joined on the French side of the border by her husband, who had not been able to find sea passage.
Ms. Dolbeare is survived by her husband, Louis P. Dolbeare; a sister, Alice Lynd of Niles, Ohio; two children, L. Niles Dolbeare of San Francisco and Mary Dolbeare O'Kane of Seattle; and four grandchildren.
      
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, Dr. Howard W. Jones.
But she unwittingly stepped into the national spotlight when she and her husband, a gynecological surgeon, moved to Eastern Virginia Medical School in 1978 and set out to open a clinic that would allow conception outside a mother's body.
After three years and fierce denunciation from opponents who raised moral and ethical questions, Dr. Jones and her husband announced the birth of Elizabeth J. Carr on Dec. 28, 1981.
King Seegar, who also delivered her future husband.
In 1978, Dr. Jones and her husband left Johns Hopkins for Eastern Virginia Medical School shortly after the birth of the world's first in vitro baby was announced in England.
''
        In addition to her husband of 64 years, Dr. Jones is survived by two sons, Dr. Howard Wilbur Jones III of Nashville and Lawrence Massey Jones of Denver; a daughter, Dr. Georgeanna Jones Klingensmith of Denver; a brother, King Seegar of Towson, Md.
People with disabilities were often separated from their families and institutionalized at the time that Mrs. Goldenson and her husband, Leonard H. Goldenson, former head of ABC, were raising their daughter Genise.
Mrs. Goldenson and her husband lobbied for wheelchair access to sidewalks and restrooms; donated at least $60 million to research on neurological diseases; and even recruited NASA to their cause.
Her daughter Genise died at the age of 29 in 1973, and her husband died in 1999.
      
Her husband of 44 years, Alan R. Finberg, former general counsel of The Washington Post Company, died in 1995.
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Martin Stein.
She wrote how she and her husband had undertaken the process of ''ungardening,'' or changing what had become an environment of sterile lawn and plantings into carefully researched ecosystems representing swamp, prairie, rock barren and other native environments.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Stein is survived by four sons, Lincoln, of Glen Cove, N.Y.; Rafael, of Ramsey, N.J.; Joshua, of Acton, Mass.
Alice Thomas Ellis was the pseudonym of Anna Margaret Haycraft, who under her real name was an editor at Gerald Duckworth, the London publishing house run by her husband, Colin Haycraft.
Ms. Ellis's husband died in 1994.
Besides her son, whom she had with her first husband and who lives in Kiel, Germany, she is survived by two grandchildren.
      
In 1980, Ms. McNulty notably departed from her usual subjects with "The Burning Bed: The True Story of an Abused Wife" (Harcourt), an account of how in 1977 Francine Hughes, a battered Michigan housewife, killed her husband by setting him on fire after he passed out from drinking.
After her husband's death, in 1956, Ms. McNulty settled permanently on a farm they had bought in Wakefield and began to write books.
She left in 1963, when her husband, an assistant dean at Columbia University and a church deacon, accepted a post at Robert College in Istanbul.
Her husband, Harris L. Wofford Sr., died in 1981.
Ms. Burton is survived by her husband, Skip LaPlante; her son, Roan LaPlante; and her mother, Beatrice Soloway, all of New York City; and a half-brother, Richard Burton, of California.
      
''
        Mrs. Knippers is survived by her husband; her parents, Clarence E. and Vera LeMasters of Lakeland, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas LeMasters, of Fairfax, Va.
        She was found to have cancer in 2003 but kept a demanding schedule until recently.
Her first husband was the film director Horst Hächler.
In 1969, she and her husband moved to the Bay Area, where California Funk, a quasi-Surrealistic style that embraced ceramics along with goofy, exaggerated representations of daily life, was heating up.
Her second husband, Robert West Beyers, died in 2002.
Ms. Dworkin died in her sleep, said her husband, John Stoltenberg.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jeffrey M. Duban; a daughter, Jean Petrek-Duban of Brooklyn; a son, Paul Petrek-Duban of Bronxville; her mother, Emily Petrek of Manhattan; three brothers, John Petrek of Bainbridge Island, Wash., Jim Petrek of Danville, Calif., and Jerry Petrek of Denver.
      
Mrs. Dengrove's husband of 64 years, Dr. Edward Dengrove, a psychiatrist, died in 2003.
With her second husband, William Jaffe, she assembled an outstanding art collection that included European paintings, sculpture and antique furniture; Chinese porcelain; pre-Colombian artifacts; and Renaissance drawings.

        Ludmilla Nikitina Shapiro, a Russian-born journalist and photographer who with her husband amassed a collection of Soviet-era political porcelain considered the most comprehensive in North America, died on May 8 in Madison, Wis., where she lived.
Over six decades, Mrs. Shapiro and her husband, Henry, built their collection through donations, by scouring consignment shops and by occasional gentle larceny.
Mrs. Shapiro, who with her husband endured World War II and the terrors of the Stalinist regime in the Soviet Union, insisted that neither ideology nor aesthetics motivated the collection.
With her husband, Mrs. Shapiro came to the United States in 1954.
'' But for American audiences who were stunned by the athletic vigor of the Bolshoi at its New York debut in 1959, Ms. Struchkova will always be associated with the high-flying virtuosity that she showed in Soviet-style bravura duets with her husband, Aleksandr Lapauri.
Ms. Brady is survived by her husband, the sculptor Bill Epton, and her son, Alexander Brady Epton, both of New York City.
      
in Kansas City, Mo., and stayed there until the death in 1941 of her first husband, Earl Wilkins, a journalist.
Mrs. Claytor moved to Grand Rapids in 1943 after her marriage to her second husband, Dr. Robert Claytor, a physician, who died in 1993.
In 1979, Mrs. Talmadge testified before the Senate Select Committee on Ethics against her former husband, who was accused of improperly using campaign and office money.
In the early 1950's, Mrs. Talmadge and her husband started Talmadge Farms, which cured hams.
At the end of 1976, Mrs. Talmadge learned from a television news report that her husband had filed for divorce.
In the summer of 1979, Mrs. Talmadge, who said she was testifying reluctantly, told the Senate Ethics Committee about tens of thousands of dollars in cash that her former husband kept in an overcoat in the closet of their Washington condominium.
Although Mrs. Talmadge did not specify how the cash got into the coat, she testified that she and her husband had dipped into it for years whenever they needed extra money.
She said she used the cash to supplement the $50 weekly allowance from her millionaire husband.
She was later artistic director of Theater of the Open Eye, a New York-based company founded by the choreographer Jean Erdman and her husband, the mythologist Joseph Campbell.
She is survived by her husband, Stephen O'Neil, whom she married in 1989; two sons and two daughters from her first marriage, Emile, Kermit, Cathrine and Elizabeth; and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was complications after cardiac surgery, her husband, Daniel Hoffman, said.
Ms. Laredo is survived by their daughter, Jennifer Laredo, who lives in London with her husband, the cellist Paul Watkins, and by a granddaughter.
The cause was uterine cancer, said John Barlow, a spokesman for Ms. Bancroft's husband, Mel Brooks.
'' She appeared with Peter Finch in ''The Pumpkin Eater'' (1964), Harold Pinter's adaptation of a novel by Penelope Mortimer about a woman driven into a nervous breakdown by her husband's casual philandering.
By the time ''The Graduate'' came along, she was more than ready to play the alpha female and she got her wish with the character of Mrs. Robinson, the bored predator whose sexual binges with young Benjamin Braddock, the son of her husband's law partner are mechanical but necessary props for her self-indulgent ego.
Besides her husband and daughter, both of Scarsdale, Ms. Hochberg is survived by a sister, Merle Bogin, of Manhattan; another daughter, Brenda Hochberg, of Brookline, Mass.
In addition to her husband and her sister Eileen, of Stamford, Conn., Mrs. O'Brien is survived by her daughter, Kate, of Nantucket; her son, Miles, of Cockeysville, Md.
Ms. May's first husband, Painton Cowan, died in World War II.
With her husband, Pesach Burstein, Ms. Lux starred inYiddish-language plays and musicals from the 1930's on.
Among her most famous roles was Feygele in the operetta ''A Khasene in Shtetl'' (''A Village Wedding''), which she played opposite her husband.
'' The show, a musical version of the Book of Esther starring Ms. Lux, her husband and son, came to Broadway in a Yiddish-English production in 1968.
After her husband's death in 1986, Ms. Lux performed in a one-woman show and appeared often on radio.
Her second husband, Peter Hawley, a union organizer whom she married in 1942, died in 1996.
The cause was emphysema, said her husband, Thomas.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Thomas Kempner Jr. of Manhattan and James L. Kempner of Greenwich, Conn.; a daughter, Adeline Field Kempner of Manhattan; and six grandchildren.
She married Edward Lindsay-Hogg, an Irish aristocrat, and after a stint at art school in England she moved to New York in 1938 to further her husband's songwriting ambitions.
When World War II separated Ms. Fitzgerald from her husband, then back in England, she stayed in Los Angeles with their son, Michael Lindsay-Hogg, later to become an acclaimed film, television and Broadway director.
Mrs. Hall's husband died in 1995.
Her husband, Donald Melvin Wylie, a mechanic for Yellow Cab, would cook late-night dinners for the group of ambitious young black men who worked for her during the tax season.
'' Broadcast in the spring of 1958, it starred Ms. Bel Geddes as a wife who murders her philandering husband by bludgeoning him with a frozen leg of lamb.
Her second husband, Windsor Lewis, a theater director, died before her.
''Many of her novels offer a clinical dissection of America's failed marriages and of a culture that has not permitted women to have a life apart from their children and husband,'' said the reference book Contemporary Novelists.
She is survived by her husband Stanley Leff; her children, Daniel and Jean Rossner; her sister, Nancy Pike; and three grandchildren.
With her husband, Solomon, she ran AB, as it was fondly known in the trade, from 1953 to 1972.
The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company, Festival Productions, which was founded by her husband, George Wein
        Mrs. Wein was a biochemist but became professionally involved in music through her marriage in 1959 to Mr. Wein, the founder of the Newport festivals and the chief executive of Festival Productions.
Mrs. Wein had a hand in all of them but had especially close ties with the folk festival, which her husband founded in 1959.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Eugenia Manning of San Francisco and Theodora McLaurin of Hingham, Mass.
Correction:  August 19, 2005, Friday  An obituary yesterday about Joyce Wein, who worked on music festivals and charities with her husband, George, misstated the name of one of her projects.
She is survived by her husband, Jon Norton, and two stepchildren.
Her husband was close to Jackson Pollock and Barnett Newman, and she was the subject of one of Pollock's late black-and-white paintings, ''No.
After her husband's death, in 1980, she resumed her acting career, this time in avant-garde theater, and worked with the directors John Jesurun, Joan Jonas and Marianne Weems.
Mrs. Ballard's husband, Frederic, a prominent lawyer and former president of the American Bonsai Association, died in 2001.
Ms. Kerr, who retired from the paper this month, died after having been ill with cancer for some years, her husband, Gordy Thompson, said.
Justice Sussman is survived by her husband, David W. Sussman; their daughters, Jane and Rebecca; her parents, Judge Howard A. and Barbara Levine of Schenectady; and two brothers, Neil and James Levine, also of Schenectady.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, Dr. Stephen Kruskall, co-chairman of the emergency room at MetroWest Medical Center in Framingham, Mass.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
Ms. Parker is survived by her husband, Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, who is on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; their daughters, Christine, Kathleen and Jennifer, all of Stamford; her mother, Viola Trent of Greensboro, N.C.; and two sisters, Kay Holloway of Potomac, Md., and Judy Scales-Trent of Buffalo, N.Y.
      
Besides her daughter, who lives in Pennsylvania, Ms. Friedman is survived by her husband, Jeffrey Friedman, whom she married in 1984.
      
''
        She loved to read fiction and sometimes went dancing in salsa and jazz clubs with her second husband, Arthur H. Barnes, senior vice president for external affairs of HIP Health Plan of New York.
During her husband's years at Stanford, Ms. Yard immersed herself in Democratic politics in California, supporting Representative Helen Gahagan Douglas in her Senate race against Richard M. Nixon in 1950.
Ms. Nikel is survived by her husband, Sam Leiman; her daughter, Ziva Hanan; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren, all of Moshav Kidron; and a sister, Sara Bock, of Rockaway Beach, Queens.
      
''
        Mrs. Groszmann's husband and Lore's father was Ignatz, the chief accountant of a Vienna bank, who was fired after Hitler took over Austria.
The cause was complications of dementia, said her husband, Vice Adm. George Peabody Steele.
The population, once around 120, is now 300 to 400 in Kenya, and perhaps 500 in all of Africa, partly because of her efforts and those of her husband at the time, Jock Leslie-Melville, who died in 1984.
In addition to her husband and son, Ms. Leslie-Melville is survived by her daughter, Dancy Bruce Mills of Glen Arm, Md., and five grandchildren.
''
        She persuaded her second husband, Danny Bruce, to move to Kenya.
Ms. Horn's survivors include her husband, Sheppard Deering, of Upper Marlboro, Md.
chapter, and she and her husband, Raymond, a barber, had taken part in voter registration drives.
Parks, her husband and her mother, Leona McCauley, moved to Detroit.
Parks's husband, Raymond, died in 1977.
''My husband was also very interested and he supplied the money,'' she said.
'' The author was Alfred A. Cohn, who adapted it from a stage play by Samson Raphaelson (Mrs. Raphaelson's husband), not Mr. Raphaelson.
      
Bond, who had trained as an academic and did not know how to quilt, embarked on the project after her husband was sent to northern Alabama to supervise the black workers at the dam sites there.
Bond, whose husband joined the Foreign Service in 1944, taught at universities in Haiti, Liberia and Malawi and worked with women's and youth groups in Afghanistan, Tunisia and Sierra Leone.
Bond joined her husband in Alabama, she planned to finish her doctoral studies, but there was no local university at which she could enroll.
So, while her husband trained the builders, she went to work with their wives in the makeshift villages along the Tennessee River.
Ms. McCown is survived by her husband, Jonathan D. Miller; two brothers, John D. Jr., of Pound Ridge, N.Y., and James M., of Somerville, Mass.
With her second husband, Mrs. Nolte wrote a book, ''Wake Up in Bed, Together!
Many of her plays in the 1940's and 50's were written or directed by her husband, who became a Labor member of Parliament after World War II and a prominent campaigner for nuclear disarmament.
Her husband died in 1973.
Her husband told the reporter that he did not know she was a prison guard until Mr. Lelyveld informed him.
When she was released, she went to a nursing home in Bochum-Linden where her husband lived.
Her husband, Bernard Sznycer, died in 1970.
In the decades that followed ''The Best of Everything,'' Ms. Jaffe wrote 15 more popular books, several of which used the quartet-of-women narrative approach, including ''The Last Chance,'' a 1976 novel that one reviewer described as ''best devoured alone in bed, with a container of yogurt,'' and ''Class Reunion,'' a sudsy 1979 novel about three decades in the lives of four Radcliffe classmates, one of whom has a gay husband.
The cause was cancer, her husband, John Hays, said.
Ms. Hays is survived by her husband, the deputy chairman of Christie's auction house; their three children, Sophie, John and Henry; her parents, of Greenwich; and four siblings, Anne Bertolino of Boxborough, Mass.
Dr. Styles's husband of 47 years, the Rev.
Mrs. Littauer's scholarly career did not begin until her mid-50's, when her husband's health would no longer permit him to maintain his standards of horsemanship.
Her husband suggested she write a book about horses.
''
        Besides her husband of 73 years, and her son Arthur, of Essex, Mass., Mrs. Hodges is survived by two more sons, Fletcher III, of Manhattan, and John A., of Washington; 9 grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      
