She died of cancer, said her husband, Richard Bowers.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter by a previous marriage, Karen Bercovici of Montpelier, Vt.; a granddaughter, Toby Bercovici, and two stepchildren, Pamela Tengdin of Cranston, R.I., and Roger Bowers of Charlottesville, Va.
      
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
Mrs. Moran's husband, Charles Moran Jr., died in 1978.
Her husband, Joseph Cosnow, died nine years ago.
In addition to her husband, with whom she shared homes in Beverly Hills, Manhattan and Southampton, L.I., she is survived by two sisters, Anita Rosenow of Boulder, Colo., and Holly Benfer of Norco, Calif.
      
Her first husband was J. H. S. Lord Lucas-Scudamore.
Ms. Hibbert's husband, George, a businessman, died in the 1960's.
She died of complications of multiple sclerosis, said her husband, Theodore D. Mann, the artistic director and co-founder of Circle in the Square Theater.
Besides her husband and mother, Ms. Brooks is survived by two sons, Jonathan and Andrew, both of Manhattan and Mount Kisco; a stepbrother, Alan Brooks, and a sister, Joan Brooks Palermo, both of Manhattan.
She died of complications from lymphoma, said her husband, Donald Goddard.
With the help of her husband, she also turned the camera on herself, documenting her illness in a series of large-scale color photographs.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Marsie Scharlatt of Los Angeles, and two stepdaughters, Katie Goddard of Minneapolis and Nellie Goddard of Chicago.
      
Two of her most famous songs were written for the 1930 hit musical "Fine and Dandy," which had lyrics by Paul James (the pen name of her husband, James Paul Warburg, a banker) and was the first Broadway show for which all the music was composed by a woman.
Mrs. Edison's husband, Theodore M. Edison, died on Nov. 24.
Her husband, Mario Fratti, a playwright and a professor of Italian at Hunter College, said she died after kidney failure.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Valentina Fratti, an actress who lives in New York, and a nephew, Paul Dubman of San Francisco.
She died after heart surgery, said her husband, William Hamovitch, a retired economics professor and provost at Queens College.
Born in Montreal, she moved to Buffalo in 1946 with her husband and earned her master's degree in English at the University of Buffalo.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Susan Hamovitch of Brooklyn, and a brother, Monty Berger of Montreal.
      
She died of cancer, her husband, Roy, said.
She died of heart failure, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Philip J., and a daughter, Cynthia J., all of New York.
      
She had cancer of the small intestine, her husband, Sidney, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Karen Ferguson of Washington and Denise Pavia of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Richard L. Simmons; two daughters, Nicole Simmons of Bethesda, Md., and Janine Simmons of Los Angeles, and her father, Dr. Burton C. Grodberg of Saugus, Mass.
      
"The Professor and I" (1959) told of life with her husband the poet, and "Men, Women and Cats" (1960) reported further observations on family life.
Her husband died in 1972.
Besides her daughter, who lives in Washington, she is survived by her husband, William Henry Dance; two sons, Theodore Marsh Dance of Lake Worth, Fla., and William Henry Dance Jr. of Santa Monica, Calif., and a sister, Lorraine Dibble of Naugatuck, Conn.
      
"
        Dr. Szwajger's husband, a law student, was killed by the Nazis, who tricked him into turning himself in.
Her husband, Allan A. Ryan 3d, said the cause of death was cancer.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Melissa and Sally, both of Manhattan; a son, Allan A.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, William Bogert.
In 1975 she joined the Hartman Theater Company in Stamford, Conn., where she took the role of Marya in the theater's first production, "The Government Inspector," and met her husband, also an actor.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four sisters: Denise, of Brooklyn; Peri, of Newtonville, Mass.
She was married four times, twice to William M. Adams, her first and last husband, who died two years ago.
She is survived by her husband, Ivan Stux; her mother, Rosa Aytch of Philadelphia; two sisters, and a brother.
      
She is survived by her husband, Bert M.; two daughters, Robin Lee Reisman of Manhattan and Jodie Sue Reisman of Wilton, Conn.; a son, Michael J. of Manhattan; and a sister, Irene Topolcic of Virginia Beach, Va.
      
She worked at Duraloom Carpet Mills in the Bronx, where her husband, Godfrey Bloch, was president.
Mrs. Bloch's husband died in 1987.
An Association Spokeswoman
        Shortly after her husband's death in 1969, the producer Harry Rigby called Miss Keeler and invited her to return to Broadway in "No, No, Nanette.
"
        Her survivors include her mother, Dorothy Boroff of Manhattan; her husband, Richard, and two daughters, Molly and Daisy, the Tony-award winning child actress in "The Secret Garden.
Her husband died in 1944.
      
Her survivors include her husband of a year, Richard Girard; two sons, Matthew Gologor of Oberlin, Ohio, and Benjamin Gologor of Manhattan; her mother, Suzanne Tumarkin of Manhattan, and a sister, Nina Tumarkin of Cambridge, Mass.
      
Even after she became well known, Miss Hayes remained somewhat unsophisticated and shy in private, although her husband was a high-living sophisticate who cut a dashing figure in cafe society.
There was the time, for instance, when her husband took her to call on the writer Gertrude Stein and Miss Stein's friend Alice B. Toklas in their Paris home.
At the age of 13 she was hired to perform with the renowned John Drew in a romantic comedy, "The Prodigal Husband," produced by Charles Frohman, which opened in 1914 at the old Empire Theater at 40th Street and Broadway.
In her 1990 book she wrote that her own husband, Mr. MacArthur, "set about killing himself" with drink after Mary's death.
"
        Earlier, in 1938, Miss Hayes and her husband adopted a son, James MacArthur, when he was 7 months old.
Her death was a result of a myocardial flu virus, said her husband of nearly 50 years, Dr. Stephen Fromer.
Together with her husband, she worked at Medical Consultants V.I.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      

        Mrs. Silverstone co-founded the Jerusalem center with her husband, the late Murray Silverstone, former president of 20th Century Fox International.
Mrs. Silverstone, who was born Dorothy Littman in Brooklyn, returned to school after her husband's death in 1969, receiving a bachelor's degree from Fordham University in 1984.
Mrs. McPherson is survived by her husband of over 60 years, Edward R. McPherson Jr.; two daughters, Anne McPherson Tracy of Ridgefield, Conn., and Jane McPherson Nickerson of Greenwich, Conn.; a son, Stephen Mather McPherson of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Frank, founded a development corporation based in Brooklyn that in the 1920's and 1930's built many homes in Brooklyn and Queens and on Long Island.
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Branscombe, a retired textile manufacturing executive; two sons: Peter, of Fairfield, Conn., and John, of Manhattan, and a sister, Betty Omohundro of Ponte Vedra, Fla.
      
Mrs. Jones-Pugliese's husband, Anthony Pugliese, a painter and sculptor, died in 1953.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Gail G. Schulhoff of Baltimore, and Judith G. Richter of Merion, Pa., and four grandsons.
      
Among her principal beneficiaries were the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Beth Israel Medical Center, which named its Schnurmacher Nursing Home last year in recognition of the many years of support received from her and her husband of 61 years, Adolph.
Mrs. Schnurmacher's husband survives her.
      
In 1970, Ms. de Groot retired from acting to assist her husband, the food and wine expert Roy Andries de Groot, who died in 1983.
Her husband, Nathan, died in 1915.
      
Surviving are her husband, Max Greenwood; a daughter, Gwenn Miller; her mother, Sarah Stoler of Stowe, Vt.; a brother, Will Stoler, of Montpelier, Vt., and her sister, Ann Stoler of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      
Mrs. Everson's husband, an engineer and executive in her father's Higgins Ink Company, died in 1969.
Mrs. Lambert was the widow of Gerard Barnes Lambert, her second husband, whose family's fortune was built on Listerine mouthwash and the manufacturing concern that became part of the Warner-Lambert Company.
She is survived by her husband, Paul King; her mother, Kathleen Quinn of Larchmont; a sister, Patricia Quinn of Los Angeles, and a brother, Michael, also of Los Angeles.
      
Surviving are her husband of 63 years, Charles Cogen; two sons, Joel, and Edward; four grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was a series of strokes, said her husband, Bruce Currie.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Jenne Magafan Currie of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, Nathan, died in 1915.
      
Dr. Batlin's husband, Dr. Thomas Quincy Garvey Jr., a neurosurgeon, died in 1972.
The cause was a series of strokes, said her husband, Bruce Currie.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Jenne Magafan Currie of Manhattan.
      
According to her official biography, her first husband, Paul A. Sokolov, was a member of the Russian nobility.
Her second husband was the actor, producer and director Gregory Ratoff.
Her husband, Percy E. Boas, a cotton broker, died in 1982.
Mrs. Gerrity is survived by her husband, Edward J. Gerrity; a daughter, Katharine C. 2d of Greenwich; a son, Edward 3d of Rye Brook, N.Y.; two sisters, Angela Marshall of Dalton, Pa., and Grace Kavanagh of Peoria, Ill., and a brother, Robert, of Scranton.
      
Her husband, Anthony, said the cause was liver cancer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Anita Karen Toney of Fairfax, Calif., and Adele Susan Toney of Syracuse.
      
Her husband of 47 years, Reuben Grove Clark, a banker, died in 1968.
She is survived by her husband, A. Felix duPont Jr., a member of the duPont family of Wilmington; two daughters by her previous marriage, Louise Truesdale Loening of Landenberg, Pa., and Priscilla Loening Hanford of Paradise, Calif.; a son, Christopher T. duPont of Ketchum, Idaho; a stepson, Michael Hoyt duPont of Union, Wash.; a stepdaughter, Katharine duPont Gahagan of Wilmington, and a sister, Anne Truesdale Broadhurst of Wilton, Conn.
      
Ms. Hemingway was separated from her husband and is survived by two daughters.
      
Her husband, Irwin F. Fredman, said she had had a heart attack.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Lisa of Baltimore and Catherine of Manhattan, and a sister, Helen Neuburg of Princeton, N.J.
      
She died of breast cancer after a four-year battle, her husband, Stephen P. Dessau said.
Besides her husband, survivors include a daughter, Julianna Sara, and a son, David Stephen; her parents, Dr. Milton Pack and Phyllis Pack of Brooklyn, and two brothers, Dr. Philip Pack of Scarsdale and Dr. Michael Pack of Boston.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, William Donald Rader.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Rader is survived by three daughters, Judith Anne, of Boston, Jennifer Caroline, of Springfield, Ohio, and Elizabeth Rader Edwards of Riverside, Conn.; two sisters, Judith Sperry Beavers of Old Greenwich, Conn., and Joy Sperry Emery of Ballston Lake, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Schaffer and her husband, Alexander, founded the New York City branch of A La Vieille Russie in 1941.
Her association with George Washington University began after her husband, a former vice president of Sol Hurok Concerts in New York, was named executive director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
In addition to her husband and son John, Mrs. Feinstein is survived by another son, Robert, and a daughter, Margaret, both of McLean, and a brother, Peter Richman of Lexington, Mass.
      
Dr. Harrison is survived by her husband, David; a son, Andy of Evanston, Ill.; a daughter, Rachel Harrison of Brooklyn; her parents, Rose and Harry Horowitz of Deerfield Beach, Fla., and a sister, Eleanor Dain of Kingston, R.I.
      
Worked in Brazil
        Traveling to Brazil with her husband, who was Ambassador to Brazil from 1945 until 1946, Dr. Berle volunteered in hospital wards in Rio de Janeiro, where she organized efforts to expand the practice of preventive medicine.
After the death of her first husband in 1971, Dr. Berle in 1975 married Dr. Andre F. Cournand, a physican who was awarded the Nobel Prize for medicine in 1956.
Her husband, James Cooper, died in 1982.
Vera's husband died in 1960.
She is survived by John Fitzallen Moore of Libertyville, Ill., a son by her first husband, the poet Louis Untermeyer; six grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      
The cause was bone cancer, said her husband, Schuyler G. Chapin, who is dean emeritus of Columbia University's School of the Arts and a former general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.
In addition to her husband of 46 years, she is survived by four sons, Henry B. of Manhattan; Theodore S. of Manhattan; Samuel G. of Hingham, Mass., and Miles W. of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; two brothers, Henry Z. Steinway of Manhattan and Frederick Steinway of Amherst, Mass., and a sister, Lydia G. Cochrane of Chicago.
      
Mrs. Buell is survived by her husband, Clarence Addison Buell; two sons, Lawrence I., of Boston, and Frederick H., of Warwick, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      

        Pat Nixon, the quiet consort who stood by her husband, Richard M. Nixon, in the White House and out, through victory, defeat, sorrow and illness, died yesterday at their home in Park Ridge, N.J. She was 81.
" Dislike of Politics
        On the eve of Richard Nixon's inauguration as President in 1969, Pat Nixon was asked if she had ever encouraged her husband to enter politics.
Politics was not what I would have chosen for him because, after all, you don't see as much of your husband as you would like and it's a hard life.
What Mrs. Nixon did was subjugate her instinct for privacy and homemaking and become her husband's faithful companion in his turbulent years in the political arena, from the happy early years after his election as United States Representative from California in 1946 until his humiliating resignation as President of the United States in August 1974, under the shadow of impeachment proceedings that grew out of the Watergate scandals.
In 1968, the writer Gloria Steinem interviewed Mrs. Nixon aboard an airplane while she was accompanying her husband on the Presidential campaign.
Her composure rarely wavered in her appearances with her husband in such trying circumstances as his televised Checkers speech in 1952, when he denied unethical use of an $18,000 political fund ("Pat doesn't have a mink coat"), the ordeal in Caracas, Venezuela, in 1958, when a stone-throwing, spitting, anti-American mob besieged the Nixon limousine; and the Nixons' grim, hand-in-hand walk down a red carpet from the White House after his resignation on Aug. 9, 1974.
Despite the early traumas and Mrs. Nixon's wish that her husband retire from politics, she was enthusiastic enough on the eve of his nomination as the Republican Presidential candidate in 1968 to say, "This really is the American dream, where people from humble circumstances can, through sheer hard work, go up the ladder.
Before she was a year old, her mother, Kate, a German-born woman with a son and daughter from a previous marriage, prevailed on her husband to leave the mines.
As the President's wife, Mrs. Nixon traveled more than 100,000 miles, campaigning for her husband, accompanying him to foreign countries and, on several occasions, representing him at ceremonies abroad.
Seclusion at San Clemente
        After her husband's resignation, Mrs. Nixon remained in seclusion for nine months with him at their estate in San Clemente, Calif., and moved to New York in 1980.
Besides her husband and her daughters, Ms. Cox of Manhattan, whose husband, Edward F. Cox, is a lawyer, and Ms. Eisenhower of Berwyn, Pa., whose husband, David Eisenhower, is a military historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Nixon's survivors include two grandsons, Christopher Nixon Cox and Alex Richard Eisenhower, and two granddaughters, Melanie and Jennie Eisenhower.
Besides her husband and her daughters, Ms. Cox of Manhattan, whose husband, Edward F. Cox, is a lawyer, and Ms. Eisenhower of Berwyn, Pa., whose husband, David Eisenhower, is a military historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Nixon's survivors include two grandsons, Christopher Nixon Cox and Alex Richard Eisenhower, and two granddaughters, Melanie and Jennie Eisenhower.
Besides her husband and her daughters, Ms. Cox of Manhattan, whose husband, Edward F. Cox, is a lawyer, and Ms. Eisenhower of Berwyn, Pa., whose husband, David Eisenhower, is a military historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Nixon's survivors include two grandsons, Christopher Nixon Cox and Alex Richard Eisenhower, and two granddaughters, Melanie and Jennie Eisenhower.
She and her husband, Jack, joined Leonard and Isabel Goldenson and Jane Hoving in 1946 to found United Cerebral Palsy of New York City.
With her husband, she was a principal donor to North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College, where the Ethel and Jack Hausman Department of Pediatrics attests to their support.
Besides her husband of nearly 65 years, Mrs. Hausman is survived by two sons, Richard and Michael, both of Manhattan; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Thierry Noyelle; her parents, Chester and Irene Nic, and a sister, Mary Ann Nic, all of Philadelphia.
      
Between 1959 and 1969, she contributed 11 covers to The New Yorker, signed B. Szanton to distinguish them from the cartoons and covers of her husband, who signed his work B. Tobey.
Surviving are her husband of 17 years, Robert A.
Her husband died in 1973.
Mrs. Antonucci is survived by her husband, Anthony J.; a son, Peter A. of Manhattan; a sister, Marie Oberacker of Amherst, N.Y.; a brother, Anthony Sciolino of Buffalo, and one grandson.
      
Her husband of nearly 40 years, Edwin Martenet, died in 1972.
Survivors include her husband, Sidney; two daughters, Elizabeth Millet of Manhattan and Jessica Rosenberg of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      
After the death of her first husband, Ralph Anoushian, she received her master's degree in Education from Queens College in 1978.
Her survivors include her husband of 20 years, Stanley; a son, Walter Frisch of Manhattan; a daughter, Devin Feldman of Queens; a brother, E. Jerrold Miller of Capri, Italy, and four grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband of 47 years; three daughters, Christiana MacDonald of Paris, and Bibi Besch and Drea B. Gillogly, both of Los Angeles; a son, Andrew F. Besch of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
Over the next four decades, she wrote 34 more books for children, many of them illustrated by her husband, David Johnson Leisk, who wrote children's books under the pen name Crockett Johnson.
She and her husband, Tom Torre Bevans, founded The Cornwall Chronicle in 1991.
Besides her husband and sister of West Cornwall, surviving are two daughters, Anne Bevans of West Cornwall and Jane Duber of Lillooet, British Columbia; a son, John, of West Cornwall, and a granddaughter.

        Halina Rodzinski, who worked for Polish charities and wrote "Our Two Lives," a memoir about her husband, the conductor Artur Rodzinski, died on Tuesday at her summer home in Lake Placid, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan.
Mrs. Rodzinski's 1976 memoir, "Our Two Lives," received critical praise for its vivid portrayal of her husband as an autocratic, temperamental genius who conducted with a baton in his right hand and a loaded revolver in his hip pocket.
Her husband, Arthur Freed, died in 1990.
Mrs. Cooper's husband, Rudolf, a high school teacher, died in 1968.
While her husband was a talented designer of planes, she emerged as the hard-driving supervisor and shrewd manager of the corporate finances.
Miss Seberg and her husband, Romain Gary, a French novelist and former diplomat, sued Newsweek and settled for several thousand dollars.
She spent 11 years as a full-time volunteer until the death of her husband, Allan, in 1960, when she joined the salaried staff.
Mrs. Dubnick is survived by her husband of 43 years, Dr. Lester Dubnick; her daughter, Monica L. Mowery of Scarsdale, N.Y., and a sister, Stella Monchick of West Palm Beach, Fla.
      
Mrs. Nevil is survived by her husband of 48 years, Harry J. Nevil Jr.; a daughter, Deborah L. of Scotia, N.Y.; two sons, Laurence F. of Saugerties, N.Y., and Robert M. of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Louise Starzenski of Galway, N.Y., and London; two brothers, Foster Nichols 3d of Brookville, N.Y., and Allen Nichols of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and four granddaughters.
      
Carrying on a family tradition, she raced horses throughout the country with her husband, and their son Aaron became a handicapper, starting at the age of 8.
Besides her husband, her survivors include her parents, Ruth and Jack Streit of Brooklyn; two sons, Phillip, of Manhattan, and Aaron, of Manhattan and Hallendale, Fla., and two sisters, Myrna Heilbrun of Manhattan and Nettie Streit of Brooklyn.
"
        Dr. Donahue's husband, Lester, died in 1963 after 41 years of marriage.
      
Miss Smithson worked in partnership with her husband, Peter, for the last 43 years.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1949, Miss Smithson is survived by a son and two daughters.
      
Mrs. Lanier's husband, Albert G., died last September.
Mrs. Paulsen's second husband, Howard C. Paulsen, died in 1959.

        Alice Wicks Olson, who received an apology from President Gerald R. Ford years after her husband committed suicide following a secret Government drug experiment, died last Thursday in Frederick, Md.
Mrs. Olson's husband, Dr. Frank R. Olson, died in 1953 when he jumped from a 10th-floor window of the old Hotel Statler in New York.
That inquiry forced the Central Intelligence Agency to acknowledge in 1975 that her husband, a civilian chemist for the Army, had been an unwitting participant in an experiment in which people were given varying doses of LSD to observe their reactions.
After the death of her husband, Mrs. Olson counseled alcoholics and drug addicts in Frederick.
She and her husband, Samuel, founded the business in 1948.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter, but she retained her original married name.
The movie focused on Mrs. Shwayder's career and remarriage late in life, and how she coped with the losses of her first husband and sons Warren, who died in a scuba diving accident, and Richard, who died of cancer soon after.
Her survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter.
Mr. Gothelf's daughter, Sue Marx, joined Pamela Conn in directing the film "Young at Heart," which focused on Mrs. Shwayder's career and remarriage late in life and how she coped with the losses of her first husband and sons Warren, who died in a scuba accident, and Richard, who died of cancer soon after.
Survivors include her husband; a sister, Anne Klein of Laguna Beach, Calif.; six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Horwood was active in organizations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she studied and where her husband, Murray, was a professor.
Her husband died in 1957.
Surviving are her husband, Marion G. H. Gilliam; her mother, Natalie Davenport of Great Barrington and John's Island, Fla.; a sister, Baroness Bernard D'Anglejan-Chatillon of Paris and Vero Beach, Fla.; a half brother, William C. Ladd of Brewster, Mass.
Mrs. Ridder's husband of 20 years, Charles H. Ridder, publisher of The Catholic News, the weekly newspaper for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New york, died in 1964.
In addition to her husband of 64 years, she is survived by two sons: Denis K. and Michael J.; nine grandchildren, and three great grandchildren.
      
In Germany, the American Government helped Ms. Karin and her husband, Norbert Horowitz, also a graduate of the Moscow State Jewish Theater, to create a Yiddish theater that performed for Holocaust survivors throughout Europe.
Came to U.S. in 1949
        In 1949, Ms. Karin and her husband immigrated to the United States, where she began to act in the Yiddish theater in New York City.
She is survived by her husband, Fred Lazarus 3d, and their three children: Fred 4th, of Baltimore; Eleanor, of Watertown, Mass., and Margaret Crawford of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; a sister, Eleanor Strauss of Cincinnati; and two children by her previous marriage, to George Rau: Elizabeth Bloch of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., and George Rau Jr. of Crested Butte, Colo.
      
She is survived by her husband, Eugene J. Morris, and their son, Richard.
      
" A scene in which she was bullied by her husband was called one of that year's big moments on Broadway.
The cause was meningitis, said her husband, Leonard Gelstein.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1984, she is survived by their daughter, Megan Elizabeth Gelstein; her mother, Kathryn Johnson of Brooklyn; and a sister, Janet Grimminger of Townsend, Del.
      
She is survived by her husband, Peter; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Jessica, and her parents.
      
Although she spent most of her life in New York City and Massachusetts, she had her first one-woman exhibition in 1949 at Washburn University in Topeka, Kan., where her husband, George Klein, worked briefly as a psychologist at the Menninger Clinic.
Miss Boris's husband died in 1971.
Mrs. Schoen is survived by her husband of 47 years, Donald R.; two sons, Robert of Southport, Conn., and John of Riverside, Conn.; two daughters, Claire Werner of Norwalk, Conn., and Susan Terray of Woods Hole, Mass.
She died after a fall, said her husband, Charles.
She lectured at museums on the Shakers and with her husband wrote extensively on Shaker furniture and other American decorative arts.
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Charles; two daughters, Susan Curcio of Chatham, Mass., and Shelley Brown of Glen Ellen, Vt.; a son, Philip Atwood Carpenter of Chester, Vt.; a brother, Robert Winnett of Pittsburgh, and eight grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Stark, who was a fashion model in the 1930's, designed women's hats for several years before helping her husband, Arthur Stark, found Stark Carpets in 1935.

        Jean Eckart, who designed sets with her husband, William, for many Broadway shows, including "Fiorello!
The cause was lung cancer, her husband said.
She met her future husband, whom she married in 1943, when they were both students in New Orleans, and they attended the Yale School of Drama together.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Edwin Levy of Topeka, Kans.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Michael, who stepped down in June as president of Columbia University.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Edward Rosenthal of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Hannah Wit of Oakland, Calif.; a son, David Wit of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Julie Sovern of New York City and Elizabeth Sovern of Mount Kisco, N.Y.; two stepsons, Jeffrey Sovern of Queens and Douglas Sovern of Oakland, and four grandchildren.
      
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her husband, Phillip J. Smith; her father, Clifford Nolte of St. Louis, and a brother, Douglas, of St. Louis.
      
Her first husband, Theodore Roosevelt Bolden, died in 1968.
She is survived by her second husband, Hubert DePass of Orlando, Fla.; two daughters, Barbara Hurst and Jeanne Drysdale, both of Queens; two stepdaughters, Beverly Bressant of Orlando, Fla., and Claire Johnson of Queens; a stepson, Raymond DePass of Queens; nine grandchildren, 14 great-grandchildren, and one great-great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Emanuel Feinberg; a brother, Edward Gilbert; a daughter, Dr. Jaimy Honig, and two grandchildren, all of New York City.
For it, she drew from the dozens of similar roles she had played on the Yiddish stage to portray a kindly meddler trying to find a husband for her granddaughter (Amy Irving).
In an interview when "Crossing Delancey" opened, Mrs. Bozyk said that her 37 years with her husband had been like 74 because they'd spent their entire days and nights together.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, the actor Harris Yulin.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barton L. Goldberg of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sisters, Elizabeth Welles of Boca Raton, and Lori Yarum of New York; and a brother, Brad J. Goldberg, of New York City.
      
The cause was Burkitt's lymphoma, a rare form of cancer, said her husband, Peter Powell.
She is survived by her husband and a son, Gus Powell, who attends Oberlin College in Ohio.
      
The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Keith Westerberg.
In addition to her husband, survivors include her parents, William M. and Dorothy Clark of Arlington, Va., and a brother, John, of Sarasota.
      
She had served in numerous humanitarian organizations since moving to the Greenwich area with her husband in 1967.
She is survived by her husband, Peter; two sons, Stuart, of Seattle and Bruce, of Fort Collins, Colo.; two daughters, Ellen Uebele of Eden Prairie, Minn., and Leslie Franks of Portland, Ore., and six grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bosworth is survived by her husband, Nicholas Pearson, a sculptor; two children, Lukas and Julia; her parents, Stanley Bosworth, headmaster of Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn Heights, and Anne Bosworth, head librarian of the school, which they jointly founded in 1965; a sister, Virginia Frisch of San Francisco, and a brother, Adam Bosworth of Seattle.
      
She returned to New York with her husband in 1970 and for the next three years worked as a reporter for The Record of Bergen County, N.J.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Casey Allen.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Kim Allen of Minneapolis; a son, Kerry Allen of New York City; a sister, Mary Behr, and two grandchildren.
      
In 1964, she took legal action in Hawaii to obtain a court order forbidding a jazz musician, Joseph Castro, from maintaining, as had been rumored, that he was her husband.
Chemicolloid Laboratories was founded by Mrs. Pepe with her first husband, David O'Keefe, who died before her.
Mrs. Pepe is survived by her second husband, Anthony C. Pepe.
      
She is survived by her husband, J. Mitchell Jablons; a daughter, Pamela Jablons of Manhattan; a son, Dr. David Jablons of San Francisco, and a sister, Grace Burke of Colonie, N.Y.
      
Many of these successes, including eight open-pair victories in the international tournament in Deauville, France, were with her husband, Howard Schenken, who died in 1979.
She graduated from Vassar College and after her marriage founded the Aimee and Patrick Butler Family Foundation with her husband.
Her husband died three years ago.
She is survived by her husband; her father, Gerald; her mother, Sharon, and her sister, Missy Farr-Kay, all of Phoenix.
      
Her husband, John S. Judge, died in 1973.
Efforts on West Side
        Along with her husband, Dr. Arthur C. Logan, a surgeon, she was involved in efforts to stabilize the West Side as an integrated community during urban-renewal efforts there.
Mrs. Logan's husband died previously.
From 1945 to 1970, she collaborated with her first husband as the freelance writing team of Jhan and June Robbins, whose articles appeared in Readers' Digest, McCall's, Redbook, Good Housekeeping and This Week.
Her second husband, Earl Reno, died in 1975.
Moved to London
        In 1936, she and her husband, Bert Hicks, opened a series of clubs in Paris and in London, which she was to make her home for half a century.
"
        Miss Hall's husband died in 1963.
      
Mrs. Callahan's first husband, Peter D. Kiernan Jr., died in 1988.
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Callahan, whom she married last year; five sons, Peter D. 3d, of Harrison, N.Y., John S., of Pelham, N.Y., Gregory F., of Chappaqua, N.Y., Dr. Michael J., of Manhattan, and Stephen P. G., of Charlotte, Vt.; two daughters, Dr. Mary Carroll Kiernan of Arlington, Va., and Ann Madeleine Lewis of Loudonville, N.Y.; three sisters, Joan Malone of St. Petersburg, Fla., Macy Ann Beha of Rye, and Madeleine Halpin Bailey of Manhattan, and a brother, Myles Gilson Reilly of New Canaan, Conn.
      
In 1936 she solicited petitions to get Franklin D. Roosevelt on the ballot of the American Labor Party; in 1948 she was the radio coordinator for the Liberal Party during Harry S. Truman's campaign for the Presidency; in 1952 and 1956 she and her husband, Morris, conducted broadcast campaigns for the Liberal Party for the two Presidential campaigns of Adlai E. Stevenson, and most recently she aided the campaigns of Gov.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Tecia Brill and Helcia Chaliapin, both of New York, and a brother, Morris Davidson of Miami.
      
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
She is survived by her husband, the tenor Peter Sieffert, and her father.
      
Mrs. Mitchell, who had been suffering from brain lymphoma, was hit by a car early last month, said her husband, Jan, the New York businessman, art collector and former owner of Luchow's restaurant and the Longchamps restaurant chain.
Mrs. Mitchell and her husband, from whom she was separated, were among the founders of the Israel Museum in Jerusalem.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by three sons, David and Alexander, of Manhattan, and Oliver, of Tempe, Ariz.; her mother, Margot Hobbins of London, and a brother, Dr. Peter Hobbins of Zug, Switzerland.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Noel Perrin.
With her husband, Lee, an insurance executive, Mrs. Coffey was a major contributor to the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center and its Brenner Pavilion and to Mount Sinai Medical Center, where the couple established the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Outpatient Geriatrics Clinic and the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Non-Invasive Cardiology Area.
Mrs. Coffey's husband died in June.
She is survived by her husband, Ted Wass, an actor, and their two children, Julian and Tilly.
She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Ward Brackett of Westport, a portrait painter who also designs stamps for the Postal Service, and her son, Gordon Brackett of Ridgefield, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Ted Wass, an actor, and their two children, Julian and Tilly.
Earnest's husband, Joel, died many years ago.
She was born in Manhattan and attended Nightingale-Bamford School there and the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn.
        She is survived by her husband, Joseph W. Gerrity Jr.; four sons, Richard, Joseph W. 3d, Robert and Daniel; three daughters, Nancy Achilles, Susan Chase and Cynthia Holland, and 14 grandchildren.
      
The cause was a viral infection following a bone marrow transplant, said her husband, Charles E. Coates 3d.
Besides her husband, also a lawyer in Greenwich, Mrs. Coates's survivors are her three daughters, Susanna, Margaret and Catherine; her parents, Donald T. and Betty Richardson of Fairfield, Conn.; and her three sisters, Susan R. Duncan of Simsbury, Conn., Leslie B. Richardson of Yardley, Pa., and Lisa Richardson-Bach of Marblehead, Mass.
      
Along with her husband, Dr. Walter Briehl, she received her psychoanalytic education in Vienna in the 1920's.
Six years later, she and her husband moved to Los Angeles, where she established the training program for child analysis in the Southern California Psychoanalytic Society and Institute and worked as training and supervising analyst.
She and her husband were active in human-rights causes, helping European analysts escape from Europe in the 1930's and establish themselves in the United States.
Her husband, a pioneer of group therapy methods, died in 1982.
She and her husband, Frank Heineman, founded the Manhattan importing firm of Menswear International in 1957.
She is survived by her husband, Mike Sletson; a brother, Peter Angelo Simon of Brooklyn; two stepsons, Roy Aaron Sletson of Lebanon, Conn., and Jay Robert Sletson of Spring Mill, Pa., and a stepgrandson.
      
Born in Bern, Mrs. Blom went to Mexico in 1940 with her husband, Franz Blom, a Danish archeologist and cartographer.
She and her husband married in 1943 after meeting on an expedition in Mexico.
      
Mrs. Marshall's husband of 50 years, H. Hannath Marshall, died in 1990.
      
She is survived by her husband, Sandford; four children from an earlier marriage, Joshua, Daniel, Jordanna and Benjamin Abrams; her mother, Pearl Resnick, widow of Jack Resnick, the New York real-estate developer; a sister, Marilyn Katz; and two brothers, Burton and Ira, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband of 58 years, Winston T. Kellogg of Easton; a sister, Joan M. DeWind of Sherman, Conn.; three daughters, Joanna K. Uhry of Manhattan, Constance Casey of Wilmette, Ill., and Emily K. Hackett of Stamford, Conn., and nine grandchildren.
      
In 1942 Mrs. Landon moved with her family to Washington, where her husband was a Government specialist on Southeast Asia.
Mrs. Landon's husband died on Aug. 26.
