
        Dominique de Menil, a connoisseur, art collector and creator with her husband, John, of the Menil Foundation in Houston, died yesterday at her home in Houston.
Mrs. de Menil and her husband, whose fortune came from oil-well technology, became widely known for commissioning the nondenominational Rothko Chapel near Houston, designed by Philip Johnson and dedicated in 1971.
The house in Houston in which she and her husband lived and raised their five children was open to people of every age, nationality, color and religion.
Her husband, Allan Lopato, died 30 years ago.
''I knew she had a cousin in Boston,'' her friend, Bea Lacativa, said, recalling that it was not until she called the cousin's telephone number when Miss Karff was hospitalized last year that she learned that the cousin had also been her husband.
She is survived by her husband, L. Daniel Dannenbaum; a son, Daniel George Dannenbaum, and two stepdaughters, Marianne Kierstead of Merrimack, N.H., and Alison Lang of Lillooet, British Columbia.
      
At the University of Wisconsin, she studied agricultural bacteriology, earning a master's degree and a doctorate and meeting her husband, Henry Bunting, a medical student who shared her interest in hiking and bird watching.
When her husband died of a brain tumor in 1954, however, Mrs. Bunting-Smith was forced to look for a full-time job.
''
        Ms. Sunn, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Dave Parmenter; a daughter, Jan Carreira of Los Angeles; her parents, Elbert and Roen Sunn of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; a brother Eric of Makaha, and three sisters, Val Fenwick of Kailua-Kona, Anella Dehr of Makawao, Hawaii, and Kula Sunn of Haiku, Hawaii.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dave McNeely, political columnist for the Austin American-Statesman; her parents, Sandy and Lorrainne Kent of Austin; two stepdaughters, Michelle Mueller of Houston and Candace McGriffy of Austin; and a brother, Gale Kent of Littleton, Colo.
      
There was a prizefight atmosphere, with tickets scalped at a then-shocking rate of $50 each, and an international gallery of spectators that included King Gustaf, a group of stowaway French schoolboys in a eucalyptus tree at one end of the court and Wills's future husband, Frederick Moody, who introduced himself to her after the match.
Wills was fond of noting that although she lost the match, she not only gained perspective on necessary changes to her game, which tended to be without nuance and relied on battering her opponents into submission with repetitious forehand ground strokes, but also gained a husband.
Described as ''one of the most beautiful girls in Southern California'' by Irene Selznick, Dorothy Hart was 19 when she met her first husband, Mr. Hearst, the third of William Randolph Hearst's five sons, while sailing on a yacht off Santa Barbara.
Mrs. Hearst, hoping to set an example for her husband, who rarely showed up for work, took a job writing a column for Harper's Bazaar.
Her first husband was Irving Willat, a film director.
After she won her Olympic gold medal, her husband, Aurel Naicu, who had limited success as a discus thrower and coach, bought an expensive American car in Mexico City and sent it to Bucharest.
Soon after, Manoliu and her husband were divorced.
She is survived by her husband of 63 years, Blake McKelvey, Rochester's city historian emeritus, and a brother, Richard Trepp of Springfield, Mass.
      
But when her husband, Albert, died at the age of 33 in the early 1940's, leaving her with three young children, she pulled up stakes, moved to Washington and went to work, first as a secretary for Catholic Charities and later as an independent public relations woman.
The cause was complications from pulmonary hypertension, said her husband, John A. Osmundsen.
In it, she summed up in a few words her view of the newspaper business: ''We love newspapers the way a plain woman loves a charming, no-good husband.
Ms. Kreig was divorced from her first husband, Albert A. Kreig, who died in 1988.
She is survived by her husband, William McAfee; three sons, Raymond Kreig of Anchorage, Andrew Kreig of Washington and Lawrence Kreig of Framingham, Mass.
In 1948, she and her husband, Dr. Maurice Goldhaber, determined that  beta rays were identical with electrons, which settled an argument among their peers.
Besides her husband of 59 years, she is survived by two sons, both theoretical physicists, Dr. Alfred Goldhaber of Setauket, N.Y., and Dr. Michael Goldhaber of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Liselotte Leoni of Nice, France, and two grandchildren.
Her husband, Everett Conley Davis, 83, was also killed in the fire.
Her husband was retired from his law practice.
That she was  known to many largely because of  her marriage to Ernest Hemingway, from 1940 to 1945, caused her unending irritation, especially when critics tried to find parallels between her lean writing style and that of her more celebrated husband.
She is survived by her husband, Jonathan Adam Smith Sherman of Westfield; her parents, Ellen and Frank Avenoso of Charleston, S.C.; a brother, Kenneth Avenoso of Portland, Ore., and two grandparents, Lillian Stark of Manhattan and Dorothy Shotsky of Rockville Centre, N.Y.
      
Her husband died in 1990, and the following year she married Jeremiah Milbank, a philanthropist whose family was involved in investment banking and founded the International Center for the Disabled.
Mrs. Milbank is survived by her husband; her children, Sandra Rodgers of Winchester, Mass., Gail Moloney of Greenwich, Conn., Lynn Manger of Manhattan and John W. Sheppard Jr. of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Lionel Jackson of Montecito, Calif.; a sister, Katharine Reese of Havre de Grace, Md., and 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She died of a heart attack, her husband, F. Bosley Crowther 3d, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara C. Marziali of Charlottesville, Va.; a son, F. Bosley Crowther 4th of Los Angeles; a brother, Edward George Benson Jr. of Storrs, Conn. and a sister, M. Ophelia Benson of Seattle.
      
Although she had barely mentioned her husband in ''Life Without George,'' she tried her hand at serious, cathartic fiction with ''We That Are Left,'' a thinly disguised 1961 account of her marriage.
Even so, when the Salina town board named her to succeed her husband, Richard, as town justice after he was killed in a motorcycle accident in 1971, there were those who thought she did not belong on the bench.
Her husband's friends, she recalled, told her it was not a job for a lady.
Mrs. Burnham, a large, imposing woman who had run her own real estate business and served as her husband's clerk during his nine years as town justice, was not intimidated.
The appointment, which made her the 16th woman to serve as judge in New York and the first in Onondaga County, was not popular with her husband's Republican allies.
At the end of the year, when the Republicans named a man to run in a special election to fill out her husband's term, Mrs. Burnham felt miffed enough to leave the Republican Party but not enough to become an actual Democrat.
A native of Earlville, N.Y., Mrs. Burnham attended the Utica School of Commerce and moved to Mattydale, a Salina hamlet, in 1952 when her husband, who was a lawyer, took a job with an insurance company in Syracuse before starting a private practice there.
By the time of her husband's death, Mrs. Burnham had spent enough time in his courtroom, an attached garage that had been converted to a family room, to know pretty much what to expect.

        Lily Harmon, an artist who worked in portraiture, assemblage and book illustration, and whose third husband was the collector Joseph H. Hirshhorn, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Her subjects tended to be relatives or art-world friends: her grandmother; the painter Helen Frankenthaler; Mimi Gross, the daughter of the sculptor Chaim Gross; and the mother of her first husband, Philip Graham Harden, shown in a work from 1931 titled ''My Nude Mother-in-Law.
In the 1950's, she and her husband, Otto Hagel, also a photographer, refused to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee and were blacklisted.
A retrospective of the work of her and her husband is planned next year at the Santa Barbara Museum of Art.
Her husband, Joe Barnes, a New York Herald Tribune correspondent in the 1930's and editor of The New York Star in the 1940's, died in 1970.
She is survived by her husband, William Burge of New York, to whom she had been married for 40 years.
      
''
        Her husband, David, said the cause was scleroderma, a rare rheumatoid disorder.
As it happened, Mrs. Sayre's husband, a crystallographer then working for I.B.M., was a host of the meeting, and he and his wife, who had met Dr. Franklin in Paris in the late 1940's, spent a lot of time listening to the visiting scientists complaining about Dr. Watson's portrayal of Dr. Franklin and speculating on whether her photograph had played a significant role in the discovery of the DNA structure.
After holding a series of jobs in advertising and magazine publishing, Mrs. Sayre, who met her husband while working briefly at a radiation laboratory in Cambridge, turning out short stories, some of which were included in annual anthologies.
Her husband is her only survivor.
The cause was heart failure, said her husband, Dr. Jeremiah Stamler, also a professor emeritus at the school.
Beginning in 1958, Professor Stamler, a sociologist by training, and her husband, a cardiovascular specialist, conducted studies to identify risk factors linked to heart disease.
In addition to her husband, Professor Stamler is survived by a son, Paul J., of St. Louis, and a sister, Gertrude Asher of the Bronx.
      
Later postings took her to Japan and to Kenya, which at the time was a British colony, where her future husband was a legislator and owner of a 100,000-acre ranch near Mount Kenya.
Over the years she was active in Siamo (We Are), the Federation of Italian-American Educators and the National Italian American Foundation, of which her husband was a founder.
Her husband died in 1978.
      
She was divorced from her first husband, James Henry Baker Jr., who died in 1956.
Her second husband, Gordon Alexander, died in 1987 after 43 years of marriage.
Her survivors include her husband, Philip, executive director of the Children's Aid Society; a son, Peter, of Chicago; a daughter, Julie Adler of Boston, and a grandson.
      
After her husband's death in 1982, Mrs. Whitney gave $8 million to the Yale Medical School, then the largest gift in the school's history.
The trust also gave $2 million for acquisitions, and Mrs. Whitney chose a Toulouse-Lautrec painting from her husband's collection, ''Marcelle Lender Dancing the Bolero in 'Chilperic,' '' to give the gallery in his memory.
A former resident of Sag Harbor, N.Y., she was 81 and had moved to London last year to continue work on a biography of her late husband, the avant-garde composer Stefan Wolpe.
Her husband of 52 years, Herman N. Schwartz, died in 1982.
Among them was her husband, Roy Harrington, a casino maintenance man who came along in 1990.
In addition to her husband and three children, Mrs. Harrington is survived by two sisters, Agnes Tate-Sanders and Tamogene Tate, both of Philadelphia, and a brother, Jay-Cee Tate of North Carolina.
She entered the Vienna Academy at 16, where she studied with Alfred Jerger, and later, Rudolf Grossmann, a baritone who became her first husband.
Ms. Rysanek is survived by her husband of nearly 30 years, Ernst-Ludwig Gausmann, a former journalist; a stepson, Marcus Gausmann; a brother, Kurt, and sister, Lotte Rysanek, who was a lyric soprano with the Vienna State Opera.
She is survived by her husband, Neil Mazzella; her parents, Dr. Nathan and Dolly Beechman Schnall of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Jane Segal and Claudia Cohen, both of Philadelphia.
Her husband, Delbert Shuman, an International Harvester engineer, died in 1981.
But she turned down the offer because her future husband, Konrad Wolff, a pianist and musicologist, lived in Paris.
She and her husband, Martin, moved from Mount Vernon, the Westchester suburb where they had raised their two daughters, to a town house at 37 Bank Street in Greenwich Village.
''
        Always, she returned to Manhattan to spend weekends with her husband.
The daughter of a fisherman who operated a hotel, Mrs. Meilleur, whose maiden name was Levesque, was educated at a local convent, married a man named Leclerc and had four children before her husband died of pneumonia in the early years of the century.
In 1915 she married Hector Meilleur and moved to Rapide des Joachims, Quebec, where her husband worked as a forest ranger during the summer and as a lumberman during the winter, while Mrs. Meilleur had six more children, bringing her total to 10.
She later lived in Morgan City and New Orleans, where she met her husband, Joseph Ellis Cormier, who had six children when the couple were married.
Ms. Holmes and her husband, Roshi Bernard Tetsugen Glassman, a Zen teacher, founded a group of nonprofit and for-profit companies and gave it the name of the Buddhist and Hindu circle of life, the mandala.
She and her husband then founded the Zen Peacemaking Order, an international community that pursues meditation and interfaith expression and whose headquarters they recently moved to New Mexico.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Guy and Audrey Holmes of Stockton, Calif., and three brothers: David, of Plattsburgh, N.Y., Vernon, of Oakland, and Warren, of Stockton.
Besides her work as a photographer, Ms. McCartney performed as a keyboardist and backup singer in two of her husband's post-Beatles bands, Wings and the unnamed ensemble that toured in 1989 and 1993.
As the wife of a musician who had long been a teen-age heartthrob and was the last Beatle to be married,  Ms. McCartney first attracted the ire of her husband's fans, and eventually the respect of many of them.
''
        Ms. McCartney met her future husband while photographing the Beatles in London in 1967, and the pair carried on an occasional romance for more than a year.
Correction:  April 21, 1998, Tuesday  The obituary of the photographer Linda McCartney yesterday gave an incorrect name in some copies for the most recent studio album by her husband, the former Beatle Paul McCartney.
The obituary also misstated the given name of her first husband in some copies.
Dr. Lukomnik is survived by her husband, Len Rodberg; two children, Simon and Josie Rodberg of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Lukomnik of the Bronx, and her brothers, David and Jon Lukomnik, both of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, David, said the cause was pancreatic cancer.
A native of Nashville who obtained a bachelor's degree in education and a master's in fine arts from the University of Cincinnati in 1968, Dr. Schele (SHE-lee) was more or less contentedly teaching studio art at the University of South Alabama in Mobile when her husband, a Cincinnati-trained architect who had long been fascinated with pre-Columbian architecture, suggested that the couple spend their 1970 Christmas vacation visiting Mayan ruins in Mexico.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Schele is survived by a brother, Tom Richmond of Chicago.
      
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Seymour Schorr.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Grandy is survived by her mother, Frances Grandy of Manhattan; two daughters, Allegra Fitch of Brooklyn and Lydia Silverman of Riverdale, the Bronx, and three grandchildren, Zachary Fitch and Julia and Evan Silverman.
      
She is survived by her husband, Vincent Connelly, who is a partner at the Chicago law firm of Mayer, Brown & Platt; two daughters, Courtney and Carleigh; a son, Robert; a sister, Mary Fitzgerald, and a brother, Thomas Fitzgerald, both of Arlington Heights, Ill.
      
The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Leon Taub.
Survivors include her husband; two brothers, Robert Richter of Manhattan and Lewis Richter of Newbury, Ohio; and two sons, Paul and Fred, both of Seattle.
      
In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Ms. Skelly is survived by her husband, Eugene Altman of Scottsdale, and a son, Jonathan Altman of Los Angeles.
      
Lyricon also plans to release an album of her performing in ''Finian's Rainbow,'' from a production recorded in Westchester, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Bill Savory.
      
Ms. Twigg-Smith, who had been married to Thurston Twigg-Smith, former publisher of The Honolulu Advertiser, had lived since 1970 in Hawaii, where she and her husband had put together a substantial collection of contemporary art.
''Stand By Your Man'' made her  synonymous with the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
Ms. Wynette became a part of the 1992 Presidential campaign after Hillary Rodham Clinton, stressing that her support of her husband was more than routine, told an interviewer, ''I'm not sitting here like some little woman standing by my man like Tammy Wynette.
She is survived by her husband, George Richey; five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco,  and seven grandchildren.
''Stand By Your Man'' established Ms. Wynette in the role of a long-suffering but determinedly loyal wife, holding the family together even when her husband strayed.
It ended when Ms. Wynette walked out on her husband to live with George Jones, the revered and, at the time, hard-drinking country singer.
One night, visiting her at home, he walked in while she and her husband were having an argument.
In 1992, her name and best-known song entered the Presidential campaign when Hillary Rodham Clinton, stressing that her defense of her husband against charges of adultery was more than routine, said in a ''60 Minutes'' interview: ''I'm not sitting here like some little woman standing by my man like Tammy Wynette.
''
        In addition to her husband, George Richey, she is survived by five daughters, Jackie Daly, Gwen Ignaczak and Tina Jones, all of Nashville, Georgette Smith of Alabama and Deirdre Richardson of Los Angeles; a son, Kelly Richardson of San Francisco and seven grandchildren.
Her husband, Dr. Joseph Anderson, died about 30 years ago.
Mrs. Sonz is survived by her husband, Ben Sonz Sr.; a daughter, Ann Mantranga of Sausalito, Calif.; two sons, Benedict Sonz Jr. of Bethesda, Md., and Paul Sonz of Mill Valley, Calif.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
      
The cause was complications of leukemia, said Dr. Nicholas Rand, her husband and a professor of French literature at the University of Wisconsin.
Aside from her husband, there were no other immediate survivors.
      
''
        It was only in 1935, after her husband, without her knowledge, showed her work to the director of the Museum of Modern Art, Alfred H. Barr, that she began her career.
During her later marriage, when her Air Force husband was posted to Cambridge, Mass., Mrs. Maxwell talked the chairman of the Harvard biology department into helping her sign up for postgraduate courses.
By the time her husband was transferred to Ohio, Harvard professors had arranged for her to continue her studies at Ohio State.
But when her husband was transferred to Washington a couple of years later, her unofficial formal education came to an end because Georgetown University would not admit women.
She is survived by her husband, John, of Chapel Hill; two sisters, Ardelle Morgan Carter of Lake Wales, Fla., and Mary Jane Martin Bright of Kinston, N.C., and five brothers, W. Ray Martin of Tucson, Ariz., and James T. Morgan, George G. Martin Jr., Robert H. Martin and M. Gene Martin, all of Danville, Va.
      
For one thing, she and her husband, Stuart, a microbiologist at the University of Pennsylvania, had helped start Pennsylvania's first birth control clinic six years earlier, and her experiences there dealing with often overburdened and sometimes abused wives had led her to see the need for broader family counseling.
After her marriage in 1922, Mrs. Mudd spent a decade as her husband's unpaid laboratory assistant, first at Harvard, later at the Rockefeller Institute in New York and then at the Henry Phipps Institute in Philadelphia, winning credit as co-author of 14 of his scientific papers.
After her retirement from the Philadelphia Marriage Council, now affiliated with the University of Pennsylvania, Dr. Mudd, who remarried after her first husband's death in 1975, continued to see patients well into her 80's.
Ms. Hoepli-Phalon is survived by her husband, Richard A. Phalon Sr., a contributing editor of Forbes magazine; a sister, Eleonore A. Hoepli Didriksen of Wellesley, Mass.

        Natasha Gelman, who with her husband, Jacques, amassed an outstandingly fine group of 20th-century European paintings and sculptures and who was a friend and patron of Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera and many other Mexican painters, died on Saturday at her home in Cuernavaca, Mexico, after a long illness.
After her husband's death in 1986, Mrs. Gelman had continued to add to the collection.
''
        Ms. Faye had tried to change her screen image in that film noir melodrama, as the wife whose husband wants to dump her for the character played by Ms. Darnell.
''
        So she spent the next eight years raising her children and appearing with her husband on a successful Sunday evening radio program, ''The Phil Harris-Alice Faye Show.
''
        Ms. Faye had tried to change her screen image in that film noir melodrama, as the wife whose husband wants to dump her for the character played by Ms. Darnell.
''
        So she spent the next eight years raising her children and appearing with her husband on a successful Sunday evening radio program, ''The Phil Harris-Alice Faye Show.
According to family legend, after a single political meeting in Boston, the actor Zero Mostel was so taken with Dr. Lansing that he followed her to a bus stop, pretended he was her abandoned husband and in an impromptu performance worthy of the Broadway stage made an impassioned plea that she return to him and their babies.
One reason for the delay between the dissertation and the book was that after her husband died in 1970, she concentrated on her teaching at Eastern Michigan while stepping up her political activities, unsuccessfully running for several offices, including a House seat.
Mrs. Kormendi wrote, directed and produced plays for the theater troupe, which she founded with her husband, Laszlo Kormendi, in 1954.
She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994.
Lisa James of the university's Office of University Relations said that Professor Grenander and her husband prospered ''through long-term investments in the stock market.
''
        After their marriage the couple were inseparable, but after experiencing a stillbirth and three miscarriages Mrs. Cookson, who suffered from a lifelong blood disorder, endured years of suicidal depression until her husband suggested she try to overcome her despair by writing.
Her husband is her only survivor.
      
Ms. Jones's husband died in 1982 and she has no immediate survivors.
      
In the 1930's, long before Montana became a popular hideaway for show business stars, Miss Nolan and her husband, John McIntire, an actor whom she married in 1935, maintained a log cabin in the Rockies 3 miles from the Canadian border and 14 miles from the nearest mail drop.
They appeared frequently on ''Cavalcade of America,'' where Miss Nolan once played Ann Rutledge to her husband's Abe Lincoln.
Dr. Boulton is survived by her husband; three sons, Carter Bancroft, of Huntington, N.Y., and Michael and John Bancroft, both of Seattle; three stepdaughters, Janet Boulton, of New York, Nancy Boulton, of Lincoln, Mass., and Tiffany Wallace, of Lexington, Ky., and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        Mrs. Whaley, whose husband died in 1987, is survived by three daughters, Emily Whipple, Anne Le Clercq and Martha Adams, all of Charleston, and seven grandchildren.
      
''
        Ms. Merritt is survived by her husband of 52 years, Benjamin Hines, and by four children, Norman, Benjamin Jr. and Denise, all of Hollis, and Dennis, of St. Louis.
Mrs. Lipman and her husband, Howard, also collected 20th-century sculpture and grew to be close friends of such artists as Alexander Calder, Louise Nevelson and David Smith.
''Life with Father,'' by Howard Lindsay (Miss Stickney's husband) and Russel Crouse, opened at the Empire Theater on Nov. 8, 1939.
As Miss Stickney remembered, she and her husband went home and cried: ''Little did we realize that the play would last through World War II.
At the same time, as playwright and director, her husband was himself enjoying halcyon days.
As with ''Life with Father,'' she tried it out in summer stock before bringing it to Broadway in 1960, in a production directed by her husband.
Her husband died in 1968.
She and her husband played the king and queen in Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Cinderella'' in 1957, and in 1968 she appeared in Stephen Sondheim's ''Evening Primrose.
''
        She retired from full-time filmmaking in 1942 to bring up the children (eventually seven) she had with her husband, John V. Farrow, a movie writer, director and producer, and made only occasional films until 1963.
''
        In her major scene, she resumes drinking after her husband (Lloyd Nolan) has repeatedly berated her for flirting with a young television crewman while the couple were acting in a commercial.
Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
There she met her future husband, a young executive with Standard Oil.
Ms. Pfeffer is survived by her husband, Khalid Chahi of Manhattan, a son, Sami, and her mother, Shirley Pfeffer of Brooklyn.
      
In addition to Mr. Price, she is survived by her husband, Stefan Brecht (the son of Bertolt Brecht); a daughter, Sarah, and a son, Sebastian, all of New York City.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, James and Matthew, of New Haven, and John, of New York, and two brothers and two sisters, all of England.
The cause of death was complications from emphysema, said Harold Snyder, her husband.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Beryl Snyder Trost, and two sons, Brian and Jay, all of New York, and five grandchildren.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, William Damon of Manhattan; a sister, Nancy Keiser of Springfield, Mo., and a brother, John, of Fargo, N.D.
      
Her husband died just over a year ago.
In addition to her sister June, of Hendersonville, Va., she is survived by her husband, Glenn Jones of Dickson, Tenn.; another sister, Anita Carter of Goodlettsville, Tenn.; three sons, Glenn Daniel, David Lawrence, and Kevin Carter Jones, all of Dickson, and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Rennie and her husband, William Roxburgh Rennie, a manufacturers representative, were married in 1940.
They were active supporters of the English Speaking Union, an organization that promotes relations between the United States and Britain, and after her husband's death in 1985, Mrs. Rennie succeeded him on the board of the organization.
''
        Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above her career, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000 so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George P. Halperin.
''
        Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above her career, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000 so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George P. Halperin.
After Mr. Churbanov was jailed, Ms. Brezhnev said she was unaware of his bribe-taking and divorced him, saying he had been a bad husband.
If her own poems, short stories, plays, and an unpublished novel did not put her in a league with the coterie of young writers who gravitated to her orbit in Paris, it was partly because they included such literary luminaries as William Styron, James Baldwin, Richard Wright, Terry Southern, a middle-aged Irwin Shaw and her own husband, Peter Matthiessen.
Her husband, David J., died in 1962.
Her husband, Dr. Julian Timoner, a chiropractor who persuaded state authorities to release the body without an autopsy, said he believed that his wife had accidentally taken a fatal overdose combination of her prescribed medication and her usual sleeping pills.
On the day in 1993 that she began her first assignment, at Fort Bragg, N.C., her husband recalled yesterday, President Clinton announced his ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy on homosexuals in the military, prompting Rabbi Timoner to make an announcement of her own: she would gladly provide a full range of counseling for gay soldiers.
In addition to her husband, Rabbi Timoner is survived by her mother, Mary Surasky of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Aviva, of Paris; a son, Samson, of Germantown, Md.
She is survived by her husband of 73 years, Carl S. Shoup; their daughter, Dale S. Mayer, of Center Sandwich, N.H.; a son, Paul S., of Charlottesville, Va., eight grandchildren  and nine great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband died in 1984.
She endowed the gallery at Hunter in the mid-1980's in memory of her husband, who died in 1977.
She remained there for more than 20 years, said her husband, Arthur, whom she met when he joined the company in 1963.
In her spare time, she painted, sketched, raised prize-winning dahlias and tended a poolful of ornamental goldfish called koi on the grounds of the house she and her husband designed and built together in 1976.
''
        In addition to her husband, of Mill Neck, Mrs. Albert is survived by her mother, Florence Carman of Franklin Square, N.Y.; a stepson, Ross M. Albert of East Norwich, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Ronda Kornfeld of Greensboro, N.C., and four stepgrandchildren.
      
She first established herself as an illustrator in the 1960's, providing the drawings for the ''Frances'' series written by her husband, Russell Hoban, a prolific author of children's books.
Mrs. Smith is survived by her husband, Robert Kimmel Smith, an author; a daughter, Heidi M. Smith of San Francisco; a son, Roger K. Smith of New York City, and a sister, Harriet M. Levine of Orangeburg, N.Y.
      
Ms. Levin is survived by her husband, Dr. Lowell S. Levin; three daughters, Brooke A. Levin of Oakland, Calif., Jill S. Levin of Albuquerque, N.M., and Lori Levin Albert of New Haven; her mother, Estelle Greenberg of Warwick, R.I., and five grandchildren.
      
Seeking work in Washington in World War II, she landed a job at a law firm and was so good at taking legal dictation that she began to study law, first in Washington and later at Indiana University, where she obtained two law degrees while her husband, Charles Otis Stout, was studying for his doctorate.

        The Mexican writer Elena Garro, whose novels, plays and stories exploring the clash between illusion and reality in Latin America made her one of Mexico's most important literary figures behind her former husband, Octavio Paz, died on Saturday at  Cuernavaca Hospital, south of Mexico City.
Ms. Bedi was divorced from her husband.
Earlier this year, Ms. Lewis said she got the idea for ''The Charlie Horse Music Pizza'' during a conversation with her husband, the publisher Jeremy Tarcher, in which they decided that what children liked most was music, pizza and the beach.
Both her husband and daughter collaborated with her in her projects.
Mrs. Michelfelder's husband, William, died in 1992.
Following his style, she collected anecdotes and how-to case histories for a book she wrote, ''How to Help Your Husband Get Ahead in his Social and Business Life,'' published in 1953.
Mrs. Blumkin encouraged her husband to cut prices, helped him branch into new products and dreamed up innovative advertising.
Mrs. Blumkin's husband died in 1950.

        Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia.
Like her husband, Dr. Jonathan M. Mann, she was 51 and lived in Columbia, Md.
As a director of the foundation she formed with her husband, Donald D. Harrington, a Texas oil man, Mrs. Harrington also contributed large sums to dozens of diverse charities and organizations, including the Deafness Research Foundation in New York and the Harrington Arthritis Research Center in Phoenix.
In 1974, Mrs. Harrington suffered two blows, the deaths of both her husband and, a few months later, their only child, Sally Harrington Goldwater, the wife of Robert Goldwater, the younger brother of Senator Barry Goldwater.
''
        Mrs. Irwin, whose husband, Keith, died in 1994, is survived by two other daughters, Jane Croll of Des Moines, and Ann Bauer of Dubuque; a son, Rees, of Ames, and four grandchildren.
      

        Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman during political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died today at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis.
Muriel Humphrey was at her husband's side for these elections and when he died after returning to the Senate, she was a logical and sentimental choice to succeed him until the 1978 election, when she did not run to keep the seat.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.
In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
Greg Foster, a former champion hurdler and a family friend, said he had spoken with Griffith Joyner's husband, Al Joyner, and with her sister-in-law, the track star Jackie Joyner-Kersee, and had been told that Griffith Joyner was believed to have suffered a heart seizure.
Hector Rivera, a spokesman for the Orange County sheriff's department, said a 911 call was received yesterday at 6:30 A.M., Pacific time, from Griffith Joyner's husband indicating that she was unresponsive and not breathing.
In addition to her husband, her survivors include their 7-year-old daughter, Mary.
      

        Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman in the political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died on Sunday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis.
Muriel Humphrey was at her husband's side for these elections and when he died after returning to the Senate, she was a logical and sentimental choice to succeed him until the 1978 election, when she did not run to keep the seat.
They married in 1936, and Mrs. Humphrey worked as a bookkeeper at a utility company to put her husband through college.
In her roles as the wife of a public figure and in her own brief time in the Senate, Muriel Humphrey supported the social programs that her husband championed.
''
        In addition to her husband and her son Hubert 3d, Mrs. Brown is survived by a daughter, Nancy Solomonson, and two other sons, Bob and Douglas, all of suburban Minneapolis; 12 grandchildren, and 3 great-grandchildren.
      
When they hired her in 1965, it's a safe bet that the men who ran the English department at the University of Connecticut knew that Dr. Butler, a native of Cleveland who grew up in Elyria, Ohio, was a 52-year-old widow who had returned to school after her husband's death, received a doctorate in Renaissance literature from the University of Virginia just two years earlier and spent the intervening years teaching at the University of Tennessee.
Mrs. Rosenberg's son, siblings, parents and other relatives died in the Holocaust, but her husband survived.
Over many years, Mrs. Spaeth and her husband, Otto L. Spaeth, an industrialist and a vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, put together a collection that concentrated on European and American art between the two world wars, including works by Picasso, Matisse, Alexander Calder, Edward Hopper, Georgia O'Keeffe, Stuart Davis and Charles Sheeler.
The cause was aplastic anemia, said her husband, Jonathan Arac.
Ms. Kay is survived by her husband, Mr. Arac, and by her brother, Jeffrey Kay of Takoma Park, Md.
      
Dr. Edey was long active in, and on the boards of, the Scherman Foundation, which works in various fields; the Edey Foundation, set up by her husband, Maitland A. Edey, an editor at Time Inc. and an author, which supports conservation activities on Martha's Vineyard, and the Martha's Vineyard Community Foundation.
A regular visitor with her husband, Giuseppe di San Giuliano, to the Salzburg Festival, she would not miss a night of the Maggio Musicale season in Italy directed by Zubin Mehta, a frequent guest in her home.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
She graduated from American University here and lived in Arlington, Va., with her husband, William J. Weller, whom she married in 1990.
One of the co-founders was her future husband, designer Otl Aicher.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl, who died at home in Leutkirch, in southern Germany, is survived by four of her five children, Eva, Florian, Julian and Manuel; another child, Pia, died in a car accident in 1975, and her husband died in 1991.
      
From 1952 until 1964, she and her husband ran The Times's bureau in Ottawa, where they became prominent figures in Canada's political and journalistic circles.
Mrs. Hamerstrom and her husband, Frederick, met and married on the East Coast and then both attended the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Hamerstrom, always proud that she had flunked out of Smith College, received a bachelor's degree in 1935.
'' about the hunting trips she had taken at her husband's side.
Her husband died in 1990.
The cause of death was lung cancer, said Gary D. Yanker, her husband.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rice is survived by her son, Andrew; her father, John H. Rice of St. Louis, and two brothers, John Rice 2d of Charlotte, N.C. and James Rice of Oakhurst, Calif.
      
Ms. Topf is survived by her husband, Jon Gibson, a composer with whom she often collaborated, and a son, Jeremy, both of Manhattan; her mother, Celia Topf Straus of Lauderhill, Fla., and three sisters, Bobbi Straus of Port Washington, N.Y., Peggy Schwartz of Amherst, Mass., and Margie J. Topf of Boston.
      
She is survived by her husband, Stephen Soreff, and two sons, Alexander, of New York City, and Zachary,  of London.
      
Mrs. Barger, whose husband, Ernest, was a plumber who later operated a bowling alley managed by his wife, was the mother of two children when she joined a housewife's duckpin league in the late 1930's and discovered that she had a rare talent for a difficult game.
Her husband, Eric Butler, a family doctor, died in 1967.
In 1956, she won the Clarence Derwent Award, then Britain's highest stage prize, for best supporting performance in Arthur Miller's ''View from the Bridge,'' in which she played a wife trying desperately to ignore her husband's incestuous feelings for his niece.
'' Ms. Gattai's husband, Jorge Amado, the author, was also friends with Mother Cleusa.
While at Columbia she met Dr. Frank Calderone, then a district health officer on the Lower East Side who would soon become deputy commissioner of health for New York City and her second husband.
Her husband, Carl, died in 1962.
The two women had been fatally shot the previous Friday night at a Phoenix residence they had previously shared with Mrs. Judd when her husband was out of town.
There was later speculation that a local physician other than husband had performed the expert cutting.
There she met her second husband, Emmanuel Benson, an art historian and educator.
The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Philip.
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
But it was through her husband that she became an major influence in establishing friendly relations between the United States and Japan.
She and her husband were a team.
''
        Ms. Crockett is survived by her husband, Robert O. Crockett Jr.; three children, Jennifer, Elizabeth and Robert, and three grandchildren.
      
After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
Mrs. Gilkeson, whose husband and son predeceased her, is survived by five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
To be sure, Mrs. Lukens, who told David's story in a 1989 novella, ''Song of David,'' had some help, including loving assistance from her husband, Dr. John H. Lukens, a clinical psychologist, from David's four siblings, including his little sister, and from other parents, some of whom moved to Rockland County so they could join Mrs. Lukens's enterprise and their children could benefit from Camp Venture.
Ms. Baer is survived by her father, Alan Van Norman of San Diego, and her husband, Alan Baer of San Francisco.
      
After the war and against her husband's wishes, Mrs. Korein pursued investment in Manhattan, beginning with 715 Park Avenue, an apartment building on the southeast corner of 70th Street.

        Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in the Santa Ynez Valley of California from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92.

        Catherine Wheeler Pillsbury, a philanthropist who with her husband, Evans S. Pillsbury 2d, owned and operated cattle ranches in California's Santa Ynez Valley from the 1930's to the 50's, died Friday at her home in Montecito, Calif. She was 92.
She published two novels in the late 1940's, and in 1950 Doubleday asked her to write a biography of Eva Peron, who with her husband, Juan, was at the peak of power in Argentina.
From the time she arrived in America in 1940 with her husband and two young sons until the time she died, Mrs. Kissinger lived in the same apartment in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, where  she was well known and well regarded by the once large German-Jewish  emigre community there.
When she arrived in New York she quickly mastered the language and, to supplement the money earned by her husband and her sons, she became a cook and a caterer in Washington Heights.
She refused to leave the neighborhood, even after her husband died 10 years ago and her elder son asked her to move in with him and his wife downtown.

        Valerie Hobson, a British movie star who stayed loyal to her husband, John Profumo, after he figured in a sex scandal as a member of Britain's Conservative Government in 1963, died on Friday at a London hospital.
In 1975 she and her husband went to Buckingham Palace, where he was honored for his good works by being made a Commander, Order of the British Empire.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Mark Havelock-Allan and David Profumo.
      
Mrs. Zola and her first husband, Edmond Cahn, were also instrumental in securing a scarce exit visa from Nazi Germany in 1937 for Albert G. Rosenberg, an 18-year-old second cousin.
When she saw her second husband, John F. Butler, flossing his teeth one day, she realized how painful and ungainly it was to wrap the ends of a length of dental floss tightly around one's index fingers to pull it taut.
Mrs. Shaw is survived by her husband, Donald H. Shaw; her mother, Martha Henning of Westwood; two other stepdaughters, Victoria Louise Shaw-Williamson and Donaly Shaw, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Jean Cockcroft of Westwood.
      
Ms. Feuillere's career -- she first used the stage name of Cora Lynn before taking her husband's name -- began slowly with small parts in several mediocre films, although she is remembered for her lead role in the film version of Marcel Pagnol's play ''Topaze.
It was a sideline, as an English tutor, that changed her life twice over, leading her both to Martin Elianoff, a lawyer who became her husband, and to Armand Hammer, the American businessman who helped the couple immigrate to the Philippines in 1930.
After a brief reunion when the war was over, she and her husband separated but never divorced.
Mrs. Malsed's husband died in 1973.
Two years after her husband's death Ms. Godden moved to Scotland to live with her daughter Jane.
Ms. Walsh is survived by her husband, Mark; a son, Carter; her parents, Mollie Bucy of Baltimore and David Long of Crownsville, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Sam Gulkin; a brother, Dr. Martin Kurman of Manhattan, and a sister, Bernice Winarsky of Springfield.
      
In her 40's when she married Harold G. Henderson, a Columbia professor of Japanese art who had served on General MacArthur's staff and composed Emperor Hirohito's renunciation of divinity, Miss Benjamin soon drew her husband into her scholarly detective work.
After her husband's death, she moved her business to Hunter, about 40 miles southeast of Albany, in 1974 and continued to be active until 1995.
Miss Graham's husband, Harry Guttenberg, who ran a well-known theatrical costume company, died of kidney disease in 1980.
The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, Jeff Slayton, her former husband and longtime dance partner, said.
Her reputation has seemingly been eclipsed by that of her late husband, Yvor Winters, the poet, professor and critic who wrestled Hart Crane's ''Bridge'' into print and made Stanford -- and Los Altos -- a magnet for three generations of poets.
''You might also want to take care of your husband.
After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
Devastated by her husband's death in 1968, Miss Lewis, who never took his name off the mailbox and maintained his writing shed as a shrine, sought to deal with her grief by revisiting the Southwest, rediscovering her fascination with the local Indians and producing a series of memorable poems.
Under the influence of her husband, she had done her share of experimenting, but the woman who had begun her career by taking part in the imagist revolution that sought to strip poetry of its former artifice, ended it the same way, using spare, lyrical language to describe and celebrate the simplest scenes of nature.
''Never again need you be embarrassed by smearing friends, children, relatives, husband, sweetheart,'' the early advertising said, pointing out that older formulations tended to leave greasy marks on glasses, cigarettes and teeth.
Her husband, Theodore Abel, died in 1988.
Her husband, Ronald D. Arron, is a violinist with the Met Orchestra.
Ms. Arron is survived, in addition to her husband, by two sons, Joseph and Edward of Manhattan; her parents, Richard and Berenice Hagerty La Quinta, Calif.; a sister, Colleen Fretz of Belize, and two brothers, Richard Hagerty Jr. of Modesto, Calif., and Dale Hagerty also of La Quinta.
Correction:  December 25, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday, and in some copies on Sunday, about Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, misstated the position of her husband, Ronald D. Arron, in the Metropolitan Opera  Orchestra.

        Janet Brewster Murrow, a radio broadcaster and relief worker during World War II in London, where her husband, Edward R. Murrow, was CBS's star war correspondent, died on Friday at the North Hill retirement community in Needham, Mass., where she lived.
