She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
Her company, the JCA Literary Agency, was founded by her husband, John A. S. Cushman, in 1976; he died in 1984.
After the couple married and came to the United States in 1884, it didn't take many years of nagging before Lady Violet, as she preferred to be known, had persuaded her husband to seek thespian adventure, initially, as it turned out, in a horse-drawn traveling medicine show in which Dr. Sam, as he was known, would hawk a cure-all mixture of gasoline and red pepper on the first night in a town, then stage a tent show on the second.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Louis Duddleston, and a son, James Breyley Jr., both of Raleigh; a daughter, Diana Caldwell of Anchorage, and seven grandchildren.
      
After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Mott established her own charitable organization, the Ruth Mott Fund, which for the last 20 years contributed more than $1 million a year to hundreds of local and national organizations concerned with the arts, the environment, health and international affairs.
She is survived by her husband, Irving; a son, Anthony Marc Benjamin, and a daughter, Lisa Stern Lasday, all of New York.
      
She and her second husband, Nathaniel Alexander Owings, a founding partner of the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, fought to keep the developers away from the wild beauty of Big Sur.
The name came from the turkey farm in West Nyack, N.Y., where Ms. Potter lived with her husband, J. Sanford Potter, an architect.
By the mid-1950's she was in business on her own, working from a barn on her farm with her husband drafting the patterns for her clothing.
Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
'' In 1925 she and her husband both subscribed to the idea of an open marriage, in keeping with her statement that marriage amounted to ''domestic prostitution'' and ownership of women.
She wrote less effectively on socialism, an interest she developed from her husband's involvement in Fabian Society politics and her observation of the victims of the Depression.
''
        Her husband died in 1970; she is survived by three sons, two daughters, 19 grandchildren and 28 great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Godowsky, who had been her brother George's tryout singer, played a similar role for her husband, posing in bright red beret and bottle-green dress as a photographic test subject.
Mrs. Godowsky, whose husband and brother Ira both died in 1983, is survived by a son, Leopold 3d, of Manhattan; three daughters, Alexis Gershwin of Beverly Hills, Calif.; Georgia Keidan of Chappaqua, N.Y., and Nadia Natali of Ojai, Calif., and eight grandchildren.
With her husband, Milton, she started the research center's International Study of the Organized Persecution of Children.
Her husband was born in Lodz, Poland, and became a lawyer there before coming to the United States in 1939.
Husband: How do I know where you put things?
She also met her future husband, Herbert Engel, who worked there as a soda jerk; they were married in 1952.
'' She and her second husband, Harry Rosenthal, also endowed clinics and parks in Israel through Hadassah.
In 1915, Bessie married and moved with her husband, Lewis Cohen, to New London, Conn., where her son and daughter were born.
Mrs. Durr and her husband, Clifford, a lawyer, were New Deal veterans who were in the thick of the civil rights movement in their native Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's.
''
        In 1955 Mrs. Durr and her husband helped a black civil rights leader, E. D. Nixon, bail Mrs.
Her husband, Mortimer Lahm, died in 1967.
      
In 1981, she and her husband, Richard Kness, a dramatic tenor, founded the Ambassadors of Opera and Concert Worldwide, an independent company that brought opera, musicals and vocal concerts to places as distant as Singapore, Guam, Malaysia, Pakistan and the Fiji Islands.
As singing actors, she and her husband had to die standing up on tiny stages, and they once had to pry a member of their company from an Asian sewer.
Ms. Grillo is survived by her husband and a son, Jonathan, a tenor.
      
But Mrs. Boyars, who by then had married her second husband, Arthur Boyars, fell out with her business partner.
Correction:  February 11, 1999, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Marion Boyars, an independent publisher with offices in London and New York, misspelled the surname of her first husband.
Her struggle with Alzheimer's was documented recently in ''Elegy for Iris,'' a memoir by her husband, the critic and novelist John Bayley, who was at her bedside when she died.
The quiet life there, and in the house in Oxford to which she moved in 1986, has been described memorably by her husband, an Oxford don, in ''Elegy for Iris,'' his memoir of their lives together.
Miss Murdoch became like ''a very nice 3-year-old,'' her husband said, and she needed to be fed, bathed and changed.
Her husband, Dr. Louis W. Max, died four years ago after 66 years of marriage.
After her husband's death in 1963, she divided her time between the Salisbury Hotel in Manhattan and her home in Lincolnville.
She helped her husband with his campaign in 1952 as the Presidential candidate of the Progressive Party.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; a daughter, Jill; two sons, Brian and Tim, and a sister, Renee Cohen.
      
The woman was Rivera's wife, the tortured artist Frida Kahlo, whose husband's philandering gave her reason to fear the worst, but not, as it happened, from Miss Bloch.
As the the daughter of a womanizing father, Miss Bloch made clear, she had no designs on Kahlo's womanizing husband, a pledge that laid the groundwork for a remarkable friendship.

        Mathilda Terner, who engaged in philanthropy with her industrialist husband, Emmanuel, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88 and also maintained a home in Oakhurst, N.J.
Together Mrs. Terner and her late husband made possible the Mathilda and Emmanuel M. Terner wing of St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, which opened in 1989.
She and her fourth husband, Maj. Edward Waddy, were divorced.
In addition to her husband, Michael P. Iannucci, she is survived by two sisters, Helen LaRue of West Hartford, Conn., and Lillian Denote of Bristol, Conn.
        ''This Was Burlesque,'' billed as a musical satire based on Ms. Corio's recollections, opened at the Casino East Theater on Second Avenue and 12th Street in Manhattan and ran for 1,509 performances before it moved to the Hudson Theater on Broadway and ran for 124 more.
''
        Ms. Corio and her third husband, Mr. Iannucci, a former linebacker for the Pittsburgh Steelers, made millions from the show.
The cause was heart failure, Eugene Feeney, her husband and only survivor, said.
The young wife hoped that Time's growing success would eventually allow her workaholic husband to join her in the kind of social whirl she loved.
Five years later, after her husband had lost his money and, she said, become unfaithful and quarrelsome, she sought to have the marriage declared illegal, explaining that she would rather have an annulment than a divorce because as a prospective single mother she preferred to have an illegitimate Tolstoy than a legitimate Bakovsky.

        Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin.
She was to remain, with only intermittent visits home, for the next 52 years, although her husband died in 1958.
Her husband died in 1965, and Mrs. Chu moved to Columbus in 1986.
It was there that she met her future husband, Andrew Tilberis, an artist, who was her tutor.
She and her husband later adopted two children, Robert, now 17, and Christopher, 14.
In addition to her husband and sons, she is survived by her relatives in England: her mother, of Bath; her sister, Lois Stuart-Black of London, and her brother, Dr. Grant Kelly of West Sussex.
Mrs. Rivkin had lymphoma for the last six and a half years, her husband, Donald H. Rivkin, said.
Though she was born in Denver and attended Goucher College in Baltimore, she arrived in New York in 1952 to work for the Carnegie Endowment for Peace and very quickly became what her husband described as ''the most passionate of New Yorkers.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, she is survived by two sons, David of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Daniel of Paris; a daughter, Judith Davison of New York; a brother, Harry H. Herman of Washington, and seven grandchildren.
''
        Forsaking the Footlights For a Backstage Role
        Miss Lortel gave up a career as an actress in 1939 in deference to her wealthy husband's wishes and in 1947 began an experimental summer theater for American and foreign plays and playwrights in the barn of the couple's summer estate in Westport.
In 1955 her husband, Louis Schweitzer, gave her a Manhattan theater, now known as the Lucille Lortel Theater, as a 24th wedding anniversary gift.
''I wouldn't have anything to do with my husband until we came back to New York,'' she said, and even then she waited for two more ceremonies,  one at City Hall and a religious service in Manhattan performed by the Jewish chaplain at West Point.
The year after her marriage, Miss Lortel appeared on stage with Jean Arthur and Claude Rains in ''The Man Who Reclaimed His Head,'' but her husband objected to her absence in the evenings.
''My husband's mother disapproved of acting, and he was very possessive,'' Miss Lortel said in a 1996 interview.
''
        One of Miss Lortel's favorite possessions in her memento-filled midtown apartment at the Sherry-Netherland Hotel, where she lived after her husband's death, was a box covered with notices of plays she had produced.
''
        In 1974 Dr. Ainsworth, who was divorced from her husband in 1960, moved to Charlottesville, home of the University of Virginia, where she was a professor from 1975 to 1984.
''
        She is survived by her husband, the publisher Bernard Geis; two sons, Peter, of La Honda, Calif., and Stephen, of Geneva; a sister, Jean S. Gottlieb of Fort Myers Beach, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
Her husband, Walter M. Weglyn, died in 1995.
Her first husband, Harold E. Erb of Garden City, N.Y., died in 1957, and her second husband, William H. Sullivan Jr. of Scarsdale, died in 1985.
Her first husband, Harold E. Erb of Garden City, N.Y., died in 1957, and her second husband, William H. Sullivan Jr. of Scarsdale, died in 1985.
Dr. Moulton's husband, Dr. Louis J. Gilbert, died in 1989.
She is survived by her husband, Alex Herenchak; a daughter, Valerie, and a son, Gregory, all of Allentown, and a stepdaughter, Linda, of Stroudsburg, Pa.
      
''
        Ms. Klaus's desire to become a lawyer also derived from the experience of watching her mother battle  the court system for 10 years over her husband's estate.
Ms. Lewis died on the way to a hospital after collapsing on a Manhattan street, her husband, Sandy Eames, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Alex, and a daughter, Elizabeth, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Clayton Lewis of Luxembourg.
      

        Edith Lewin, who with her husband, Bernard, amassed the largest privately owned collection of Mexican modernist art and then gave it away, died on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 88.
Ms. Lewin is survived by her husband, and a son, Ralph, also of Palm Springs.
      
Her husband, F. Leighton Meserve, died in 1968.
She and her husband, a New York developer, endowed the Virginia and Leonard Marx Professorship in Child and Parent Development and Education at Teachers College in 1993, as well the Marx Lecture Series at Teachers College.
Mrs. Marx is survived by her husband; their son, Leonard Jr. of Greenwich, Conn.; two daughters, Mary Lynn Bianco of Los Angeles, and Jennifer Gruenberg of Scarsdale; two sisters, Muriel Ducibella of Orange, Conn., and Jane Smith of St. Louis; a brother, Rudolph Wise Jr. of Baldwin, Mo.
''I birthed those children and bore the pain,'' she later told her husband.
''
        Mrs. Carter's husband, Matthew, died in 1988.
She and her husband and colleague, Dr. Charles F. Brush 3d, surveyed coastal Guerrero for the American Museum of Natural History.
In addition to her husband, survivors include a daughter, Dr. Karen A. Brush, and a son, Charles F. 4th, both of Manhattan.
      
She and her husband, Fredbjorn Bjornsson, who died in 1993, were among the first Danish dancers to tour internationally, appearing with a small group of soloists at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1955 and with the full Royal Danish Ballet at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1956.
She and her husband, Fredbjorn Bjornsson, who died in 1993, were among the first Danish dancers to tour internationally, appearing with a small group of soloists at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in 1955 and with the full Royal Danish Ballet at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1956.
Mrs. Kingman was in Taiwan to attend a reception for her husband, the painter Dong Kingman, at the Taiwan Museum of Art in Taichung.
She  wrote three more books, all, like her first, under the name Helena Kuo, and another with her husband.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kingman is survived by two stepsons, Eddie Kingman of Garden Grove, Calif., and Dong Kingman Jr. of Manhattan, and four step-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, H. Maxcy Smith, died in 1985.
      
Upon her arrival, she is said to have turned down a part as one of the angels in the Warner Brothers all-black spectacle ''Green Pastures,'' in which her husband starred as De Lawd, and she later refused to accept the stereotypical roles of servants that were offered by the studios.

        Leah Ray Werblin, a vocalist in the Big Band era and later, with her husband, the owner of the Elberon Farm in thoroughbred racing, died in her sleep May 27 at her home in Rumson, N.J. She was 82.
Unlike her husband, who attended journalism school but eventually ran his own advertising agency, Mrs. Whitney decided against professional journalism training and went straight to work for Time Inc. as a promotional copywriter.
Mrs. Whitney's husband served as her sounding board on all editorial matters until his death in 1995.
She is survived by her husband, a son and a daughter.
Her parents were divorced when she was 9, and soon after she was adopted by her mother's second husband, Dr. Sigmund Sidney, a dentist.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Jan Stripling, a former principal dancer with the Stuttgart Ballet.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Wendy White-Tomson, and a brother, James, both of Kent, England.
      
The cause was complications after vascular surgery, said her former husband Marcus Raskin.
She was 94, and her main residence was in Purchase, N.Y.
        After working as an editor of the old Stage magazine, Mrs. Cullman began investing with her husband, Howard S. Cullman, who was chairman of what was then called the Port of New York Authority and was prominent in the tobacco industry, serving on the board of Philip Morris  Inc.
When her husband learned that, he proposed that she read the scripts of forthcoming Broadway productions and he study the financial prospectuses issued by their producers.
Ms. Rubinstein was predeceased by her husband, Victor Silson, and her brother, Oscar Kolin, who was chairman of Helena Rubinstein Inc. and died in 1995.
She was 69 and lived in Mitchellville, Md., a Washington suburb, with her husband, former Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson.
In addition to her husband and her son Henry, who lives in Washington, she is survived by two other children, Nancy Carlson of St. George, Vt., and Michael Richardson of Upper Montclair, N.J.; a sister, Mary Conrad of Albuquerque, N.M.; two brothers, T. P. Hazard Jr. of Rockville, Md., and Oliver C. Hazard of Bedford, N.Y., and seven grandchildren.
      
She was divorced from her first husband, William Alexander Cooper, in 1969.
Her second husband, Cranston W. Holman, died in 1993.

        Sola Sierra, who campaigned to bring to justice those responsible for the death of her husband and hundreds of other Chilean dissidents during the dictatorship of Gen. Augusto Pinochet, died on July 1 at a hospital in Santiago, Chile, where she lived.
Mrs. Sierra spent 23 years doing human rights work in Chile after her husband disappeared in 1976.
Two days after Mr. Pizarro vanished, Mrs. Sierra and her children moved in with a sister, Adrina Sierra, whose support allowed her the time to search for her husband and work with the Association for the Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared.
Her husband, John Lindsey, from whom she was divorced in 1954, died in 1983.
      
The cause was hepatitis, her husband said.
She accompanied her first husband, John Franklin Campbell, a Foreign Service officer, to Ethiopia, where she became a special assistant to Emperor Haile Selassie and arranged a national exposition of Ethiopian crafts.
Back in the United States, she assisted her husband, the first editor of Foreign Policy and author of ''The Foreign Affairs Fudge Factory.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Moore's immediate survivors are two sisters, Stephanie Hughes of Phoenix, and Lisa Hughes of Honolulu.
      
Ms. Wight's health slowly declined after her husband died in 1995 at age 78, said Thomas McCormack, the former editor in chief of St. Martin's Press, which published the first five Herriot books.
Her husband, whose real name was James Alfred Wight, vividly depicted his wife as the endearing and supportive Helen Herriot in his memoirs, beginning with ''All Creatures Great and Small.
One episode in the first Herriot book describes how Ms. Wight met her future husband.
Ms. Hussain showed widely in India and in Europe
        She is survived by her husband, Ishaat, and a daughter, Shazmin.
      

        Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, whose marriage to John F. Kennedy Jr. catapulted her and her understated glamour to fame, was reported lost and presumed dead on a flight Friday to Martha's Vineyard, Mass., along with her husband and her sister Lauren Bessette.
Along with her husband, she lent her presence, and sometimes her name, to numerous benefits and cultural events.
Ms. Carter was one of three daughters of Ezra and Maybelle Carter, who formed the country singing group the Carter Family along with her cousin, Sara, and A. P. Carter (Sara's husband and Ezra's brother).
Mrs. Saidenberg danced professionally until she and her husband moved to New York in 1942.
Her husband died in 1997.
She is survived by her husband, Celestino Miranda; a son, Terry Sanders of Los Angeles, five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
In her heyday, Mrs. Marron, who lived in Brielle, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla., held five world fishing records; one women's record, for a 722-pound swordfish caught in 1954 off Chile, remains unbroken, according to the International Game Fish Association in Dania Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Marron traveled the world for big-game fish with her husband, Louis E. Marron, who holds the men's record with a 1,182-pound swordfish caught off Chile in 1953.
She is survived by her husband, David Zolotnitsky; a brother, Yuri; a son, Yuri, and a stepdaughter, Tatiana Zolotnitsky, all of St. Petersburg.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Frank, a longtime ring announcer.
''
        Mrs. Shain, a native of Jersey City who worked as an interior decorator and bookkeeper after attending New York University, agreed reluctantly to accompany her husband to a Golden Gloves bout at Madison Square Garden one night in the late 1960's.
Mrs. Shain and Carol Castellano, whose husband, Tony, was a judge, were the next female judges, gaining their licenses in March 1975.
''
        Mrs. Shain, who worked with her husband in promotions and sales at a toy company when she was not involved in boxing, remained active as a judge until last December.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Harvey Shultz, of Hackensack, N.J., and a daughter, Barbara Brocklehurst, of Franklin Lakes, N.J., both from a previous marriage; a brother, Jack Inwood, of Paramus, N.J.; a sister, Florence Schiffman, of Tamarac, Fla., and three grandchildren.
Hagler's corner man need not have worried about Mrs. Shain being squeamish amid boxing violence, as her husband noted in remembering a conversation Ali once had with her.
The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, James.
Besides her husband, Ms. O'Leary is survived by two daughters, Glynis O'Leary and Abigail O'Leary, both of McLean; her father, Boniface Brazaitis, and a sister, C. B. Lovell, both of Columbia, Md.
      
In 1946, Ms. Hansen's husband, Kenneth, opened Scandia, a French and Scandinavian restaurant on Sunset Boulevard.
Ms. Hansen's husband died in 1980; she is survived by a sister, Else Thomasen of Denmark.
      
Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empire built by her late husband, Arthur Murray, and played such an important part in promoting their ''dancing in a hurry'' business that the entertainer Sam Levenson joked that Mr. Murray had become rich ''by the sweat of his frau.
She wrote two books, ''My Husband, Arthur Murray,'' with Betty Hannah Hoffman, in 1960, and ''Family Laugh Lines,'' a collection of anecdotes about celebrity friends, in 1966.
In addition to her daughter, survivors include her husband, Oded Carmi, and two sisters, Betty and Carey Sheely of Belle Glade.
Her first husband, Jim Little, died  at age 45.
Her second husband, James Strong, died in 1988.
The 1975 book ''Eight Is Enough,'' by her husband, Tom Braden, tells of their family of eight children.
Rather, it was said in Washington, the main magnet was Mrs. Braden herself, a slight woman (5 feet 5 inches tall, admittedly too thin at 103  pounds) with short auburn hair and a wide smile -- blithe, as her husband said, and everlastingly cheerful.
''
        ''The title refers to the amount of freedom the author has received from her husband,'' Ms. Dowd wrote.
Later she and her husband moved to California, where Mr. Braden -- with the assistance of a $100,000 loan from Mr. Rockefeller, whom he had known for years -- bought a small daily newspaper, The Oceanside Blade-Tribune.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Braden's survivors include five daughters, Mary Poole of Alexandria, Joan Ridder of Denver, Susan Zarker of Takoma Park, Md., and Nancy and Elizabeth Braden, both of Denver; two sons, David, who lives in Taiwan, and Nicholas, of Alexandria, and 12 grandchldren.
In 1945 she married Albert William Levi Jr., her second husband and a social scientist who was invited that year to join the faculty of the experimental Black Mountain College, near Asheville, N.C. Black Mountain was a short-lived laboratory for innovative teaching and art whose faculty and students included Josef and Anni Albers, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, David Tudor, Robert Rauschenberg and Charles Olson.
In 1951 she separated from her husband, whom she later divorced, and in 1952 she went to New York with Tudor.

        Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany.
None of this endeared her to the Soviet public, who began to grumble early in her husband's tenure that she was too pushy, too flashy and too influential.
Favorable articles began to appear in the press, and thousands of letters and telegrams of sympathy arrived at the hospital in Munster, where her husband kept a faithful vigil that touched many Russian hearts.
' ''
        She first became known in the West in 1984 when she accompanied her husband, then a ranking member of the Soviet Politburo, to Britain, where they were received by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
In this role, she became one of her husband's conduits to the Russian intelligentsia, which was then rallying to his call for more ''glasnost,'' or openness.
In addition to her daughter, of Houston, she is survived by her husband.
      
She was legally separated from her husband, Michael Charles.
Professor Lax had pancreatic cancer, said her husband, Peter Lax.
Besides her husband of 51 years, who is also a professor of mathematics at N.Y.U., she is survived by a son, Dr. James D. Lax of Manhattan,  and three grandsons.
      
In 1938, Ms. Hoyte and her husband bought the three-story brownstone at 6 Hamilton Terrace between Convent and St. Nicholas Avenues.
Ms. Hoyte's husband, Lewis Hoyte, died about 30 years ago.
Miss Cullberg and her husband separated in 1949, and ''Medea,'' like many of her works, was interpreted by several Swedish critics as a piece that universalized her private emotions of the time.
Miss Cullberg and her husband reconciled in 1959 and both joined the new Stockholm City Theater, she as a stage director.
She moved to Washington when her husband, Wayne Parrish, a magazine publisher, was offered the editorship of a Washington-based aviation magazine.
Ms. O'Farrell was often seen in cinematic roles written by her husband, Frank Launder, the British screenwriter and director whose boisterous ''St.
In the early 1950's, Ms. O'Farrell combined stage work with small parts in her husband's films, including ''The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan''; ''The Genie,'' with Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and ''The Square Ring,'' a boxing tale in which she divorced her husband because she could not bear to see him battered.
In the early 1950's, Ms. O'Farrell combined stage work with small parts in her husband's films, including ''The Story of Gilbert and Sullivan''; ''The Genie,'' with Douglas Fairbanks Jr., and ''The Square Ring,'' a boxing tale in which she divorced her husband because she could not bear to see him battered.
After the deaths of her mother in 1964 and husband in 1972 (neither of whom had approved of her career choice) she began to take a much more personal and active role in what witches simply call the craft.
''
        Ms. Heskes is survived by her husband, Jacob Heskes; a daughter, Deborah Aviva Kraut of Bethesda, Md.
Slowing down in the mid-1980's after the death of her husband, Mrs. Sarraute nonetheless never stopped writing, occasionally demonstrating that she remained as fascinated with her explorations of language as she had been a half-century or more earlier.
Ms. Mortimer also wrote two highly praised volumes of memoirs and several television screenplays, including her adaptation of ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' the 1973 biography of Vita Sackville-West and her husband, Harold Nicolson, by Nigel Nicolson, their son.
''
        She met Piscator, her third husband, in 1936 while studying for a doctorate in literature at the Sorbonne.
Ms. Piscator wrote books including ''The Piscator Experiment: The Political Theater,'' which was published by James H. Heineman in 1967, a year after her husband's death.
Her death was reported at Dhaulagiri base camp by her husband, Gary Scott Pfisterer, the American leader of the team.
Besides her husband, her survivors include her parents, Brenda and Douglas Harrison, of Saltash, Cornwall.
      
One famous image showed an Indian princess sitting shyly in sunglasses surrounded by 265 tigers her husband had shot.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Allan Lenzner.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, Benjamin, of Northfield, Minn., and Samuel and David, of New York; her mother, Mary Adasko, and a brother, Hardy Adasko, both of Brooklyn.
      
She gave incomparable performances of works by the French organ masters, including Charles-Marie Widor, Louis Vierne, Jean Langlais, Marcel Dupre and her husband, who died 13 years ago.
She met her future husband at the conservatory when he substituted as a teacher one year for Dupre.
Mrs. Durufle became the co-organist with her husband at St. Etienne-du-Mont in Paris, a post he had held himself since 1930.
Mrs. Durufle suffered severe pelvic and rib injuries and both of her husband's legs were broken.
Years of surgery and physical therapy followed, but neither she nor her husband ever completely recovered.
In 1989, three years after her husband's death, not having performed in concert for 15 years, Mrs. Durufle agreed to participate in a Durufle Festival in New York organized by her former student, Dennis Keene, the organist, conductor and artistic director of Voices of Ascension.
During her joint tours with her husband, before the accident, Mrs. Durufle tended to play the flashier pieces.
''My husband was a very great virtuoso at the organ,'' she said, ''but once he became my husband, I worked at it more than he did.
''My husband was a very great virtuoso at the organ,'' she said, ''but once he became my husband, I worked at it more than he did.
She is survived by her husband, Brian Boylan; her mother, Adele Beudert of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; her sisters, Martine, of Brooklyn and Michele Richard of Old Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Claude, of East Hampton, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Grace and Serena Boylan of London.
      
Ms. Manzoni is survived by her husband, Michael G. Hron; two stepsons, Benjamin and Jonathan, and a sister, Susan Klimpl, also of Chicago.
      
She is survived by Jack Bradford, her husband, their children, Dan and Laura, and four children from previous marriages: Richard, Marcia, Ann and Kenny, as well as eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
In the integration struggle, rocks were thrown through her window, a burning cross was placed on her roof and the newspaper published by her and her husband, L. C. Bates, was ultimately destroyed financially.
The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said her husband, Robert Press.
''
        She said some asked advice about the dictatorial atmosphere of hospitals and the terror and loneliness of internship, adding, ''The women, in particular, wrote to me about sexism, discrimination, problems juggling career, home, family, husband.
Mrs. Yang's relationship to the Communist government was at times tense, although in general she and her husband occupied a privileged position.
After the Beijing massacre of 1989, when troops moved in to suppress the pro-democracy demonstrations in Tiananmen Square, Mrs. Yang and her husband gave a joint television interview deploring the brutality of the government's actions.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Bergman was found dead in her bedroom in a home she shared with her husband, Dino Andrade, in the Venice Beach area.
Besides her husband, no survivors were immediately identified.
      
With her husband she wrote ''The Enjoyment of Art in America'' (1947) and ''Six Centuries of French Master Drawings in America'' (1950).
After her husband's death in 1977 Mrs. Slatkin became interested in the decorative arts, building a collection of early-American glass that she donated to the State University of New York at Plattsburgh.
Besides her daughter Jessica, she is survived by her husband, Frank L. Mansell; four sons, Robert L. Miller of Los Angeles, Charles B. Miller of Twin Bridges, Mont., Christian F. Miller of Hamilton, Mont., and Gordon L. Miller of Santa Fe, N.M.; another daughter, Devon Mansell Laycox of Sherborn, Mass.

        Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris.
After her husband's death she helped found an annual summer festival in Lille, France, with her nephew, the conductor Jean-Claude Casadesus, and in 1975 she started the Robert Casadesus International Piano Competition, in Cleveland.
She also devoted herself to performing and publishing her husband's compositions.
      
''She came back and felt good,'' her husband, David, said.
At 11, she met her future husband, then 13, in 4-H clubs.
In 1965, a friend took Mrs. Snetsinger birding for the first time in Minnesota, and when her husband took a corporate job in Missouri she pursued her interest with a group of birders.
She is survived by her husband, John Hansbury, and a brother, Jeffrey.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, the historian and biographer Kirkpatrick Sale.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Rebekah Sale and Kalista Sale Parish, both of New York; a brother, Ben Apfelbaum of Atlanta; and a granddaughter.
      
She and her husband also helped finance the Jack and Pearl Resnick Film Division of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.
Mr. Farkas wrote that Enrico Caruso had four children from a relationship with Ada Giacchetti, a soprano who had left her husband to live with the tenor before his marriage to Miss Benjamin.
She is survived by her husband and daughter.
She is survived by her husband, Bob; two sons, Alex Allison of Nutley and Robert McBride of Stone Ridge, N.Y.; a daughter, Dorothy McBride of Montville, N.J.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
She is survived by her husband, Benjamin Kaplan, a retired justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; a son, James Kaplan of Northampton, Mass., a daughter, Nancy Mansbach of Newton, Mass.,  and four grandchildren.
She collaborated with her husband, Edward Maisel, on ''Tai Chi for Health,'' published in 1972.
She is survived by her husband.
      
Her second husband, George Brussel Jr., died in 1961.
      
She had cancer, said her husband, James L. Greenfield.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sisters, Anne Schwertley of Manhattan and Jane Schwertley of Gainesville, Fla.
      
''
        In addition to Ms. Swansen, who lives in Pittsville, Wis., Mrs. Zimmermann is survived by her husband, Arnold; another daughter, Lloie, of Pittsville; a son, Thomas, of New Hope, Pa.; two grandchildren, and one great-granddaughter.
