She is survived by her husband, Antonio Gonzalez, a gypsy flamenco guitarist; two daughters, and a son.
      
Her husband, Earle, said she died of a heart attack.
Mrs. Murray, whose sister and first husband died many years ago, is survived by Mr. Murray.
      
The witch's perplexed husband, Darrin, was played first by Dick York and then by Dick Sargent.
She is survived by her husband, the actor Robert Foxworth, and three children from an earlier marriage to William Asher, the producer of "Bewitched.
" Her first husband was the actor Gig Young.
      
She was elected president of the cultural, philanthropic and social organization in 1971 while her husband was the Deputy Permanent United States Representative, from 1969 to 1973.
Besides her husband and her daughter, of San Francisco, she is survived by another daughter, Victoria P. Corbett of Manhattan; a son, David W., of Mountain View, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, William; three sons, Thomas, of Summit, N.J., Jonathan Warner of Pelham, N.Y., and William Warner of Buffalo; a daughter, Ann Resmond of San Francisco; a sister, Katherine Homer Fryer of Manhattan, eight grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Haines is survived by her husband, Robert; two sons, Matthew and Daniel, both of Manhattan; a sister, Bella Finger Kleinman of the Bronx; a daughter-in-law, Francine Kane of Manhattan, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Joel H. Hupper; a daughter, Anne Gans of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a son, David of Sudbury, Mass.
With her husband, Harold A.
"
        Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Paul of Orwell, Vt.; two daughters, Suzanne Stone of Narbeth, Pa., and Joanna Stone of North Leverett, Mass.
Her husband, Joseph E. Cadden, died in 1980.
She said she considered taking her maiden name back after her husband's death, adding: "My name was Chase.
Mrs. Smith did not remarry after the death of her husband.
In 1966, she formed Jean Muir Ltd. in partnership with her husband, Harry Lueckert, a former German actor she had married in 1955.
Miss Muir, who had no children, is survived by her husband.
Dr. Andre-Schwartz did much of her research in collaboration with her husband, Dr. Robert S. Schwartz, now deputy editor of The New England Journal of Medicine.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Andre-Schwartz is survived by a son, Louis-George Schwartz of New York City; two sisters, Francoise Poutiers of Bordeaux, France, and Claude Andre of Paris, and a brother, Jean-Pierre Andre, also of Paris.
      
In a 1968 interview, she said it required a sympathetic husband (in her case, the economist Ewan Clague), domestic help and "the constitution of an ox.
Dr. Whipple's husband died in 1987.
Ms. Lingg's husband, Erwin C. Lessner, died in 1959.
Her first husband, George Kinnell, died in 1937.
"
        Ms. Moffet's husband, the actor Mike Kellin, died in 1983.
With her husband, J. M. Kaplan, a financier who founded the J. M. Kaplan Fund in 1945, she was instrumental in the campaign to save Carnegie Hall when it was threatened with demolition in 1960.
"
        Her husband, Ken Pittman, a store chain executive, died in 1990 of H.I.V.-related pneumonia without knowing he was infected.
Five months after her husband died, Mrs. Pittman, who had worked as a jewelry saleswoman in Toronto, was told she also had the virus.
At a news conference at the time of the award, Mrs. Pittman observed that while she was happy with the judgment, "No amount of money can compensate me and my family for the loss of a husband and a father.
Miss Adler, whose husband, Joseph Foshko, the artist, died many years ago, is survived by a daughter, Judy Sure, of Nantucket; three grandchildren, and two great grandchildren.
      
After her husband died in 1960, she taught at the League Center for Seriously Disturbed Children in Crown Heights, Brooklyn.
She had cancer of the colon, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Luke, of Cortona; a daughter, Abigail Vazquez of San Francisco; two grandchildren, and a sister, Ethel Braun of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, Edward, an architect, died in 1967.
      
Her husband, Louis Horwitz, a social worker, was working with the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency in the resettlement of refugees.
When her husband was posted in Tunisia, she began to explore the past of her new home and the site of ancient Carthage.
Her husband died in 1979.
Her husband, Charles, died in 1988.
Mrs. Hort Mann is survived by her husband, Billy Mann; her parents, Susan and Michael Hort of Scarsdale, N.Y.; her grandparents, Dr. Selig and Blanche Strax of Queens; two brothers, Andrew and Peter, of Manhattan, and a sister, Shoshana, of Scarsdale.
      
She is survived by her husband, Nathan; two sons, Judah and Micah, both of Somerville; two brothers, Aaron Seidman of Brookline and Abe Seidman of Beverly Hills, Calif., and a sister, Sara Levine of Dallas.
      
Flower is survived by her husband, Prof. Abraham Edel; a stepdaughter, Deborah Edel of Manhattan, and three stepsons.
      
Her best performance was that of an unfulfilled wife who persuades a drifter to kill her husband, in "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946).
Her husband was a New York lawyer and civil rights advocate who served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and was president of the New York City Board of Education in the mid-1960's.
Mrs. Ries's husband, Ludwig, began the collection in 1958 with trips to New England villages to rummage at antique stores and thrift shops.
"
        Born in Frankfurt, Mrs. Ries received a law degree from the University of Frankfurt and arrived in Forest Hills with her husband in the late 1930's.
She did not practice law but joined her husband in a window-display business.
She also recorded most of Beethoven's solo and chamber works, works by her husband, by Schoenberg, Debussy and Piston, and the Ginastera Piano Sonata, which was composed for her in 1952.
Mrs. Harris is survived by her second husband, Jake Heggie of San Francisco; two sons, Shaun Harris of Livermore, Calif., and Dan Harris of Indio, Calif; three daughters, Patricia Connelly of Santa Monica, Calif., Maureen Forman of Palm Desert, Calif., and Lane Murray of Tahoe City, Calif., and a brother, Norman Duffey of Lakeland, Fla.
      

        Dr. Beatrix T. Gardner, a psychologist who with her husband, Dr. R. Allen Gardner, taught a chimpanzee sign language in the 1960's and the 1970's, died while traveling with her husband in Padua, Italy, on June 5.

        Dr. Beatrix T. Gardner, a psychologist who with her husband, Dr. R. Allen Gardner, taught a chimpanzee sign language in the 1960's and the 1970's, died while traveling with her husband in Padua, Italy, on June 5.
Reached yesterday at the University of Nevada in Reno, where he and his wife had worked as a team, her husband said the cause of death was a central nervous infection.
Other than her husband, Dr. Gardner had no immediate survivors.
She lives in Ellensburg, Wash., at the Chimpanzee and Human Communications Institute, said Deborah Fouts, who with her husband, Roger, is co-director of the institute.
      
Her best performance was that of an unfulfilled wife who persuades a drifter, played by John Garfield, to kill her husband in the screen adaptation of James M. Cain's gritty novel "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (1946).
After her husband's death, she began her long association with the Museum of Modern Art and its international council.
She also contributed to the "Oxford Garden Companion" and to books by her husband, Charles Alexander Jencks, a post-modernist architect and professor at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Architecture.
She is survived by her husband; a son, John; a daughter, Lily Clare; two stepsons, Cosmo and Justin Jencks, all of London, and her mother, Clare Lady Keswick of Portrack, Scotland.
      
Mrs. Sawyer's husband, David H. Sawyer, a media and political consultant, died at 59 on July 2 while under treatment for a brain tumor.
The cause was cancer, her husband, Richard, said.
After studying at Northwestern University, she went with a friend to Denver, where she got a job and met her first husband, Hugh Tighe, who was later transferred to Pueblo.
"
        In addition to her husband, of Englewood, Colo., Mrs. Morrow is survived by the three children from her first marriage, Marilou Butler of Valdosta, Ga., Nanci Lee of Hong Kong and Teri Francis of San Jose, Calif.; two stepchildren, Pam Zimmer of El Cajon, Calif., and Randy Morrow of Littleton, Colo., and 10 grandchildren.
      
In 1928, Dr. Ernst Scharrer, her future husband, working in Germany, discovered what he called gland-nerve cells in the hypothalamus of a fish's brain.
Dr. Swap is survived by her husband, Walter; a son, Clifford; a daughter, Alison, all of Winchester; her parents, John and Pauline McAllister of Fairfield, Conn.; two sisters, Joan Howard of Winterville, Ga., and June McAllister of Stratford, Conn., and a brother, Jef McAllister of Great Falls, Va.
      
A patron of the arts, she and her husband founded the Samuel Bronfman Collection of Canadian Art.
Her husband died in 1971.
      
Her husband, Dr. S. Bernard Wortis, died in 1969 after 35 years of marriage.
      
After establishing herself as a designer in Berlin, she left for London with her husband in the 1930's.
She also collaborated with her husband on a number of books and articles and was co-author, with him, of two books: "Born Under Saturn" (1963) and "The Divine Michelangelo" (1964).
I be going there as a friend to help that husband deliver his baby.
"
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      

        Sylvia Weinberger, who used a sprinkling of matzoh meal, a pinch of salt and a dollop of schmaltzmanship to turn chopped liver into a commercial success, died on July 23 at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 89 and had lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Mrs. Weinberger started making chopped liver for a luncheonette she and her husband, Irving, had opened in 1944 on the Grand Concourse at 169th Street in the Bronx.
"
        Mrs. Weinberger, a Hungarian refugee, came to the United States in 1937 with two young sons to join her husband.
She helped support the family by working as a seamstress while her husband worked in a laundry until they had saved enough to buy the luncheonette.
The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, Jeff Sovern.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her parents, Murray and Shirley Beckenstein of Bellevue, Wash.; two daughters, Lindsay Madeline and Melanie; and a sister, Randi Fisher of London, Ont.
      
She is survived by her husband, Charles M. Kinsolving Jr.; a son, Ronald Hammer of Darien, Conn.; a brother, Dr. Richard Brockman of Manhattan; a sister, Susan Brockman of Manhattan; her stepmother, Elizabeth Brockman of Manhattan, and one grandson.
Ms. Cayne is survived by her husband, Maurice Cayne; a daughter, Naomi Finerman of San Rafael, Calif., and a brother, David Liebert of Carlsbad, Calif.
      
In addition to her husband of 39 years, she is survived by two daughters, Cathy, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Cynthia, of New York City, and two stepchildren, Karen, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Arthur Jr., the publisher of The Times, and seven grandchildren.
She and her husband gave their collection of prints of theaters, costumes and stage sets to the Pierpont Morgan Library, of which she was a Fellow in Perpetuity.
She is survived by her husband of 54 years, Burton; a daughter, Prof. Sari Biklen of Syracuse; a son, State Representative Alex Knopp of Norwalk, Conn.; two sisters, Isabelle Yolen and Sylvia Wittenberg, both of Laguna Beach, Calif.; a brother, Leonard Irving of Fairfield, Conn., and four grandchildren.
      
"Will, she'll embarrass you," one of her husband's friends warned.
But Mrs. Hobby turned him down, saying that she had a husband, two children and a job.
Then she told her husband.
"
        Her husband had been ill, but he improved once she was back in Houston.
Dr. Kaplan is survived by her husband of 15 years, Charles P. Lazarus; two sons, Dr. Phillip Kaplan and Dr. Peter Kaplan, a daughter, Jennifer Kaplan-D'Addio, all of the Upper East Side; a brother, Frank Singer of California, and two grandsons.
One who apparently was not was Beverly Paterno, whose husband was the heir to a real estate fortune, calculated at the time as worth 63 million 1941 dollars.
After her husband's death, the Princess, who lived in a small house in Marbella (where a wealthy Hohenlohe cousin owns the Marbella Club) spent much of her time visiting rich friends around the world.
Mrs. Simpson's husband died in 1976.
In the 1940's she and her second husband, Joe Orr, operated their own rodeos, with Mrs. Orr providing exhibitions of saddle bronc riding, a specialty that rodeo experts say requires so much more skill and finesse than bareback riding that it no longer exists as a competitive event on the women's rodeo circuit.
With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 1989, Mrs. Titus supported endeavors like the film program at the Museum of Modern Art, biochemistry at Duke University and ophthalmological research at the Wilmer Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
Before World War II, she lived in Paris with her first husband, Benno Slesin, the general manager for Europe for Warner Brothers.

        Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, to which she gave dozens of paintings collected over the years by her and her second husband, Samuel A. Marx, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Her third husband, Wolfgang Schoenborn, a developer who helped to turn the old Pacific port of Acapulco into a fashionable resort, died in 1986.
"
        In 1959, with her husband, Doug, Mrs. Wood established the first of her institutes, in Washington.
Her husband died in 1987.
Miss Brooks was active in promoting her husband's political career and that of Kennedy, who was their elder son's godfather.
In 1957 and 1958 she produced "Mr. Adams and Eve," a situation comedy about married film stars, in which her co-star was Howard Duff, her third husband.
"
        In 1949, Miss Lupino and Collier Young, a movie executive and producer who was then her husband, founded Filmakers, an independent production company, for which she directed candid films with feminist themes.
Mrs. Landes's husband died in 1989.
Her husband, the art historian Michael Levey, shared her delight in literature and the arts.
She remained at home, looked after by paid companions, friends and her husband, who in 1987 quit his job to help care for her.
She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Kate.
      
After her husband's death in 1935, Mrs. Day acted as the technical adviser for the Broadway production of "Life With Father" in 1939 and contributed heavily to its sequel, "Life With Mother," in 1948.
According to her friends, Miss Chang's insights into human emotions, especially those of women in the throes of thwarted romance, were grounded in her experiences with a cruel father who abandoned her mother and her first husband, Hu Lan Cheng, a Chinese writer who collaborated with the Japanese in World War II and later betrayed Miss Chang with another woman.
Her second husband, Ferdinand Reyher, a friend of Bertold Brecht's whom she met at the MacDowell Colony in New Hampshire, died in 1967.
She married Quentin Roosevelt in England in April 1944, two months before her husband, an Army captain, participated in the D-Day invasion.
She received her undergraduate and medical degrees from Cornell, where she met her husband, Harold, a general practitioner who died in 1988.
She is survived by her husband, the writer and producer Norman Corwin; a daughter, Diane Corwin Okarski of Spokane, Wash., and a son, Anthony, of Thousand Oaks.
      

        Helen K. Nearing, who with her husband, Scott Nearing, wrote about leaving the congested streets of Manhattan to find peace and happiness through hard work and self-sufficiency on a New England farm, died on Sunday in an automobile accident near her home in Harborside, Me.
Nearing, whose husband died at 100 in 1983, had continued to live alone in the farmhouse they built 40 years ago overlooking Penobscot Bay.
Nearing and her husband wrote more than 50 books during their half-century of homesteading, including "Living the Good Life" and "Continuing the Good Life," written initially in pamphlet form and then published by Schocken in 1954 and 1970, respectively.
"
        "The Maple Sugar Book," which she wrote with her husband and which was published by Schocken in 1950, told not only of the art and history of sugaring but also of the practical details of sugar making.
"
        Her latest work, to be published this month by Tilbury House, "Light on Aging and Dying," is a collection of quotations inspired by the death of her husband 12 years ago.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Kidder is survived by her son, Michael R. Kidder of New Hampshire, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Cummings and her husband, Nathan Cummings, the founder of the Consolidated Foods Corporation, who died in 1985, were longtime collectors.
She graduated in 1953 from Connecticut College, to which she and her husband donated the Joanne and Nathan Cummings Art Center and endowed a scholarship for needy students.
Her death, which her husband, William Ramsay, said was caused by an aneurysm, occurred two days before that of her mother, Dorothy Robinson Kidder, who died of cancer at age 78.
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
Her husband, J. Kenneth Bradley, the Republican state chairman for Connecticut for many years, died in 1969.
But Ms. Hsu gained wider popularity after she escaped Communist China with the three youngest of munists executed her husband, Mo Tze Shin, the director of Chiang Kai-shek's secret police force, the Shanghai Bureau of Criminal Investigation.
Her book "Mao Zedong Killed My Husband" was a best-seller in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southeast Asia.
But that would have made her a mere 14 in 1914, when as a Chicago debutante she scandalized North Shore society by dropping out of Madame Young's finishing school to form a dance team with Carl Hyson, a wealthy young man who later became her husband.
She is survived by her husband of 40 years, Dr. Arthur Kriegel; and four children, Maurice, Danielle, Irene and Emmanuel.
      
The Colonial Dames own the site on East 61st Street that includes what is now the Abigail Adams Smith Museum, which once stood on an estate owned by President John Adams's daughter Abigail and her husband.
She was a partner of Raphael & Dorman with her husband, Benjamin R. Raphael, a Brooklyn Law School classmate whom she married in 1939.
Her second husband, Paul Albert, died last year.
She is survived by her husband, James M. Hopkins; her mother, Helen Barer of Cranbury, N.J., and her brother, Sol, of Westfield, N.J.
      
Mrs. Hazen and her husband also established the Gwynne Hazen Cherry Memorial Laboratory in Oncology and Hematology, in memory of their other daughter, at the Marion Davies Hospital, a unit of the University of California, Los Angeles, Medical Center.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Aissatou Parks of Manhattan; her mother, Elizabeth Dearing of Tuskegee, Ala.; her father, Charles, of Manhattan; two sisters, Carole, of Tuskegee, and Bianca, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Charles, of Tuskegee, and Andre, of Manhattan.
      
As she relaxed next to her husband, David Perry, an importer of fine classical guitars, she seemed content with the way her life has turned out.
Mrs. Dollinger's first husband, Kermit Johnson, was the only member of a citywide strike committee actually employed at the Fisher plant chosen for the strike.
Besides her husband of 51 years, Sol Dollinger, Mrs. Dollinger is survived by their son, Ronald, also of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren.
The same year, she made a daring escape from Athens to London that involved dying her hair black to match a fake passport and hiding out in a cramped bordello while her husband, Costas Loundras, tapped around their Athens flat in her high-heeled shoes to trick the guards into believing that she was still under their arrest.
Her husband of 49 years, Edward C. Delafield, a banker, died in 1976.
      
She is survived by her husband, Seymour; two sons, Ralph, of Manhattan, and Victor, of Oakland, Calif.; a sister, Lois Schmittlinger of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fisher's survivors all live in Oklahoma City; her husband, Warren, died  several years ago.
"My husband hated it," she said.
"
        Even so, three years after her husband's death, she was persuaded to attend the 1960 contest, but she later called the organizers cheap for not reimbursing her for $1,500 in expenses.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Avery L. Smith.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Avery L. Smith.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      
Mrs. Goodman, whose early marriage to William Snyder ended in divorce, began writing "Sun Signs" in New York after an announcing job that had been promised her second husband, Sam Goodman, fell through.
And when the New York authorities ruled that her 18-year-old daughter, Sarah Snyder, had committed suicide in 1973, Mrs. Goodman, citing her daughter's astrological chart among other evidence, refused to believe that the body identified by her husband was Sarah's.
The director was Don Siegel, who would become her third husband.
Her husband, the columnist Murray Kempton, said the cause was complications after hip surgery.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Christopher, of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, the columnist Murray Kempton, said the cause was complications after hip surgery.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Christopher, of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Fuchs's husband, Ludwig Stein, died in 1992.
In addition to her son, she is survived by her husband Dr. Leo S. Palitz and a sister, Pauline Sorkin, all of New York; two grandchildren, and five great-grandsons.
      
She met her husband, Felix Slatkin, a conductor and violinist and the concertmaster of the 20th Century-Fox studio orchestra, at a young artists' competition in the Hollywood Bowl; Mr. Slatkin won.
Ms. Aller remained active professionally after the death of her husband, in 1963.
Dr. Lidz is survived by her husband of 56 years, Theodore Lidz, a Yale professor emeritus of psychiatry, and three sons, Victor, of Villanova, Pa., Charles, of Pittsburgh, and Jerome, of Eugene, Ore.
      

        Kate Witte Ericson, an artist who collaborated with her husband, Mel Ziegler, on indoor and outdoor installation works noted for their beauty, complexity and  social awareness, died on Sunday at her home in Milanville, Pa. She was 39 and also had a home in Manhattan.
The cause was brain cancer, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ericson is survived by her parents, H. A. and Alma Ericson, of Norwalk, Conn., and a brother, Scott, of Arlington, Tex.
      
Mrs. Daniel's husband, Mell Daniel, a painter, died in 1975.
She, her husband and son set up shop in Long Beach in a rented Quonset hut and began selling pies in 1948.
Mrs. Callender's husband died in 1984.
Ms. Sullivan is survived by her husband, Alan H. Bomser; her stepmother, Patricia Sullivan of Bronxville; a brother, Eugene Sullivan of Larchmont, N.Y.,  and two sisters, Jane Burke of Bronxville and Mary Tracy of Boston.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Edmond, of Hamilton, Ontario, and Bernard, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
When things went bad in Arkansas, for example, she packed up her children, left her first husband behind and struck out for California in search of a better life.
In ordinary marriage, sex is supposed to be for  your husband.
She is survived by her second husband, Harvey Blackston; six children, Marcia Evans of Riverside, Calif., Ronald, Auluavance, Josalyn and Tanya Tillmon of Los Angeles, and Caffie Tillmon of Stockton, Calif.; 20 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband of 50 years, Jay S. Baumann, the president of Terminal Barber Shops and treasurer of Sierra Realty Corporation, died in 1991.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.
" With her husband, John, she wrote and produced "Quick Changes," a satirical revue that had a successful run in Chicago.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Eliza Damiecki  of Bridgehampton, L.I., and Hilary Adams of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Since her husband's death, Mrs. Kahn had donated more than $15 million to the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the Dallas Museum of Art, Southern Methodist University and other beneficiaries.
Mrs. McGreevy is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan, and her sister, Carol Donahoe of Denver.
      
Mrs. Bruce -- whose husband, David K. E. Bruce, was the United States envoy to France, Germany, Britain, China and NATO before his death in 1977 -- was known for her legendary soirees at their Georgetown home, at once properly old-fashioned and glitteringly up to the minute.
"
        Her husband, who worked for every President from Harry S. Truman to Gerald R. Ford, was called out of retirement to head the American delegation at the Paris  peace talks on Vietnam in 1970, and again in 1973 to be chief of the United States mission to Beijing.
Her husband of three months was  later indicted.
"That part was virtually written as the play was rehearsed," said Manny Franks, her husband and agent, in a 1952 interview.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Peter Zapp, an actor whom she married on her  deathbed; by her parents, Judy and Jack LaMott, and three brothers and three sisters.
      
Her first husband, James Amos Porter, who had headed Howard's fine arts department, died in 1970.
During much of its construction, Mrs. Duchamp was her husband's sole confidante.
When her husband was mobilized in Paris at the outbreak of World War II, she ran the gallery for some months.
Ms. Leustig is survived by her husband, a brother and a sister.
      
Mrs. Zabar was a founder with her husband, Louis, of Zabar's gourmet delicatessen and food emporium on Broadway at 80th Street in Manhattan.
Mrs. Zabar's second husband, Louis Chartoff, died about 15 years ago.
She is survived by her husband, Dean Compton, her sons, her mother and a sister.
      
Mrs. Zabar was a founder with her husband, Louis, of Zabar's gourmet delicatessen and food emporium on Broadway at 80th Street in Manhattan.
Mrs. Zabar's second husband, Louis Chartoff, died about 15 years ago.
With her husband, Jim Young, she created a Winnie-the-Pooh coloring book, using a character that was in the public domain.
In addition to her husband and business partner, Ms. Boucher is survived by a sister, June Dutton of Sausalito, Calif; two sons, Douglas, of Belvedere, Calif., and Theodore, of Davis, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Since her husband's death, Mrs. Kahn had donated more than $15 million to the Dallas Symphony Orchestra, the Dallas Museum of Art, Southern Methodist University and other beneficiaries.
Among her students are current members of symphonies in Los Angeles and New  Orleans, said her husband, Edwin, a retired cellist with the Los Angeles Philharmonic.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Geber is survived by two sons, Stephen, the  principal cellist with the Cleveland Orchestra, and David, a cellist with the American String Quartet and chairman of the Manhattan School of Music's string department, and six grandchildren.
      
When the Westport Arts Center was built in the mid-1980's, she underwrote its concert hall, which is called Artur Holde Hall after her husband, who died in 1962.
Mrs. Loring is survived by her husband of more than 50 years, Murrel Loring;  a daughter, Sherry Loring-Warren of Los Angeles; a son, David, of Reno; a sister, Lois Mudrick of Los Angeles, and three grandsons.
      
Her husband, Bert L. Kuhn, also a journalist, died in 1926 after four years of marriage.
The character played by Ms. Roker, Helen Willis, was a black woman with a white husband, Tom (Franklin Cover), television's first interracial couple.
Her husband, Warren, died in 1994.
Her husband, A. Sumner Gambee, died in 1978.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert, a son, John S., of Las Vegas, and a  daughter, Anne Rothenberg of Taunton, Mass.
      
In addition to her husband and her sister, Margaret Schwartz of Endicott, N.Y., she is survived by a brother, Paul R. Camp of Orono, Maine.
      
Ms. Geffen's husband, the muralist Stuyvesant Van Veen, died in 1988.
"
        Mrs. Livingston's husband, Graham, died in 1973.
"
        Ms. Sulka founded the National Shakespeare Company in 1963 with Philip Meister, her husband, with the aim of taking Shakespeare to schools and universities on bus tours throughout the country.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. James Marston Fitch, the architectural historian and critic, and a brother, John Rickman of Chapel Hill, Tenn.
      
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, David, a retired corporate lawyer; a daughter, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; two sisters, Annette Bloch of Manhattan and Frances Epstein of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Brown's husband, James Barrett, died in 1967.
Her husband, Peter L. Hughes Jr., died in 1971.
Some were written with her husband, Charles, also a professor emeritus of history at Indiana.
Besides her husband, survivors include two sons, Mark, of Maryville, Mo., and Peter, of Austin, Tex., and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to Ms. Phillips of Paterson, N.J., she is survived by her husband, George, and a sister, Marion Phillips of Manahawkin, N.J.
      
Ms. Tucker's third husband, Harry Nasland, died in 1988.

        Pearl Wong, who with her husband, James, operated Pearl's Chinese Restaurant in mid-Manhattan, serving Cantonese fare to the famous and not-so-famous for 18 years until her retirement in 1985, died on Wednesday in her home in Manhattan.
In 1985, Mrs. Wong joined her husband in retirement.
She is survived by her husband and sister.
      
Later that year, Mrs. Kennedy's husband, who had suffered a stroke in 1961 that left him an invalid, also died.
"
        "The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys," by Doris Kearns (Simon & Schuster, 1987), also said that Rose and Joseph Kennedy were less than ideal parents, that Mrs. Kennedy eventually became the more remote and even withdrew from her husband into the isolated comfort of her religion, because of "the complicatedly intense relationship she had experienced with her father so many years before.
In 1938, Mrs. Kennedy accompanied her husband to the Court of St. James's and was formally welcomed by King George VI.
Later that year, Mrs. Kennedy's husband, who had suffered a stroke in 1961 that left him an invalid, also died.
"
        "The Fitzgeralds and the Kennedys," by Doris Kearns (Simon & Schuster, 1987), also said that Rose and Joseph Kennedy were less than ideal parents, that Mrs. Kennedy eventually became the more remote and even withdrew from her husband into the isolated comfort of her religion, because of "the complicatedly intense relationship she had experienced with her father so many years before.
In 1938, Mrs. Kennedy accompanied her husband to the Court of St. James's and was formally welcomed by King George VI.
This afternoon, after the church service, she was buried next to her husband, who died in 1969, in Holyhood Cemetery in Brookline.
      
She is survived by her husband of 30 years, George Campbell; a daughter, Heather, of Santa Fe, N.M.; and two sons, James, also of Santa Fe, and Nial, of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Ryan called her husband "Johnny" and her father declared, "It is my deliberate conviction that you are the nicest girl in this here republic.
She is survived by her husband, Lionel I. Pincus, chairman of E. M. Warburg, Pincus & Company, a venture banking firm; two sons, Henry A. and Matthew S., both of Manhattan; and three brothers, Brent Poulton, of Medford, Ore., Kent Poulton, of San Francisco, and Michael Poulton, of Lausanne, Switzerland.
      
She is survived by her husband of 52 years, Richard K. Manoff; another son, Dr. Gregory P. Manoff of Santa Fe, N.M.; a sister, Martha Deutscher of New York, and six grandchildren.
      
Together with her late husband, Fred M. Forrest, a psychiatrist, Dr. Forrest developed urine tests to detect drugs in the body, phenothiazines, used in the treatment of schizophrenia.
After the death of her husband of 38 years, Harry, in 1977, she joined the law firm of Etra & Etra, where her partner was her brother-in-law, Max Etra, chairman of Yeshiva's board from 1953 to 1977.
Ms. Dunfee met her future husband, David Clarke, in an acting class.
"
        She is survived by her husband; two daughters, K. C. Ligon of New York City and Susan Bennett of Seattle, and two grandchildren.
      

        Kathleen Tynan, a writer best known for her biography of her husband, the critic Kenneth Tynan, died yesterday at King Edward VII Hospital in London.
"It was such a weird thing, to write about your husband," she said at the time.
Mrs. Tynan was also the co-editor of "Profiles" (1990), selected essays by her husband, and the editor of "Kenneth Tynan: Letters," which came out in England last fall (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) and will be published in the United States by Random House in the spring.
She is survived by her husband of 69 years, William Seaman; two sons, Gideon, of Manhattan and Jonathan, of Brooklyn, eight grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Nilufer Gulek, of Ankara, Turkey.
      
Mrs. Hayter had her first solo show in 1942 at the New School for Social Research and the first of several joint exhibitions with her husband at the Sidney Janis Gallery in 1949.
For 32 years, Mrs. Taylor served as the unsalaried principal of the Concord Baptist Elementary School, which she established in 1960 with her husband, the Rev.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Taylor is survived by her daughter, Martha LaCroix; a brother, Eugene Scott; a sister, Elizabeth Taylor; a sister by adoption, Ruby Harris, and a grandson.
      
She died of a stroke, said her husband, Nathaniel Lang.
She is survived by her husband; her daughters, Geraldine Jacobs of Woodstock, N.Y., Sarah Cleary of Warwick, N.Y., and Elizabeth Marino of Great Neck, and seven grandchildren.
      
In addition to her stepson Robert, of Naples, she is survived by her husband, Ernest Nossen; another stepson, Edward Nossen of Cherry Hill, N.J., and five stepgrandchildren.
      
Mrs. Masson and her husband actively supported the former Truesdale Hospital, now the Charlton Memorial Hospital, in Fall River.
The cause was a heart attack, said her husband, Dr. Thomas F. McNair Scott.
She married the following year and moved to England with her husband where she did research on the biochemistry of diabetes at the University College Medical School in London.
After her husband completed his wartime service in England, the couple settled in Philadelphia, where she went to work for the University of Pennsylvania's Children's Hospital.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Robert, of Bern, Switzerland; a daughter, Carolyn Hoehn of Heidelberg, Germany; a sister, Helen Sutton Gulick of Sacramento, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
Besides her son, a resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Goldberg is survived by her husband, Stanley; a daughter, Helene of New Haven; two brothers, Howard Lublin of Manhattan and Seldon Lublin of Newburgh, N.Y., and a granddaughter.
      
Dr. Bard is survived by her second husband, Irving Staroben of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Doron D. Bard of Gaithersburg; a sister, Nurie Relis of Manhattan, and a grandson.
Her first husband, Seldon Bard, and a son, Etan R., died in a 1974 terrorist bombing of a Rome-bound T.W.A.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, R. Peter Straus.
In addition to her husband of 45 years, who is chairman of Straus Communications, Mrs. Straus is survived by her mother, Louise Mayer Blumenthal Sulzberger of Longboat Key, Fla., and Saranac Lake, N.Y.; four children, Diane Tucker of Bedford, N.Y., Katherine Caple of Wellesley, Mass., Jeanne Tofel of Manhattan and Eric Straus of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; two sisters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann Sand, both of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Roy R. Krebs, died in the mid-1940's.
Her husband, Edward C. Sweeney, a former president of the Explorers Club, died in 1967.
The cause was colon cancer, said her husband, Stan Young.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Sadie Tripp; a brother, David Tripp, both of Farmington, Mo., and two sisters, Kay Taylor of Dahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Karen Eaton of Topeka, Kan.
      
As the designer for Lawrence of London, which she founded with her first husband, Norman Lawrence, in the 1950's, Mrs. Green helped to bring rainwear into the fashion spectrum by offering water-repellent coats that could also be worn on sunny days and as evening wraps.
She taught courses in American folk music at the University of Southern California, and was an author, with her husband, of "Charles Ives and His Music" (1955).
She is survived by her husband, Leonard, and a sister, Janis Ogelvie.
      
Mrs. Fishko's husband, Sol, died in 1989.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Dr. William Houlton; three sons, Laif, Joel and Andrew, and four grandchildren, all of Minneapolis, and two sisters, Jewell Kraemer of Wausau, Wis., and Ardeth Becher of St. Paul.
      
Her husband, Harold A. Reitz, died in 1976.
It was written in collaboration with her husband, David M. Sadker, a fellow professor at American's school of education.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Sadker is survived by two daughters, Robin and Jacqueline; a brother, Dr. Murray Pollack of Potomac, Md., and her father, Louis Pollack of Boca Raton, Fla.
      
Her husband, F. Henry Berlin Jr., died in 1976.
She is survived by her husband, Alan; a daughter, Bobbe Dodge of Ossining, N.Y.; a son, Steven of Los Angeles, and two sisters, Belle Lipsett of Kensington, Calif., and Pearl Jacobson of Davis, Calif.
      
Mrs. Feld is survived by her husband of 70 years, Samuel B.; two sons, Dr. Alan, of Las Vegas, and Stuart P., of Manhattan, two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      
Her second husband, Charles Solomon, a former president of the American Contract Bridge League and the World Bridge Federation, died in 1975.
The cause was heart failure after a long illness, said her husband, Victor Jackson.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Michael, of Chapel Hill, N.C., and Henry, of Berkeley, Calif.; two sisters, Lillian Stamler of Stony Creek, Conn., and Jean Krosner of New York City; three grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. M. Lawrence Furst; a son, Merrick, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura F. Jacobs of Merion, Pa.; her mother, Anne Platzer of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
Along with her husband, Erwin, she established the Countess Madeleine Galleries Ltd. in Manhattan.
Besides her husband of 48 years, she is survived by her son, Thomas, of Huntington, L.I.
She and her husband were also instrumental in the translation and publication of the "Guide to Russian Scientific Literature" in the 1940's and wrote the textbook "Russian for the Scientist" (1959).
In addition to her husband and her daughter Tamar, she is survived by another daughter, Marina Naumann of Norwich, Vt., and four grandchildren.
      
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985) and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Among the eight books she turned out over the next dozen years was one about her father: "Oakes Ames, Jottings of a Harvard Botanist," (Botanical Museum of Harvard, 1979); one about her husband: "The Plimpton Papers, Law and Diplomacy" (University Press of America, 1985), and even one about her father-in-law, a wide-ranging literary collector: "A Collector's Recollections, George Arthur Plimpton" (Columbia University Library, 1992).
She and her husband, Cecil N. Rudnick, financed laboratories for research on Alzheimer's disease at the medical school and a meditation chapel at the college's Jack D. Weiler Hospital in the Bronx.
In addition to her husband of 57 years, Mrs. Rudnick is survived by two sons, David, of Palm Beach, and Andrew, of Buffalo, and two grandchildren.
      
After her husband died, she took over as the head of the family foundation, the Mary and Barry Bingham Sr. Fund, which gave $59 million to a wide variety of institutions.
She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II.
It was while she was a classics major at Radcliffe College that she met her husband, then a student at Harvard University.
The parents moved into the so-called Little House on the family estate, an Italianate villa where Mrs. Bingham continued to live after her husband's death.

        Tania Kurella Stern, a physical therapist and a co-translator, with her husband, of the work of many noted German writers, died on Monday at her home in Wiltshire, England.
Miss Namoura's husband, Habib Katibah, died in 1958.
Her husband, William Jenkins Foster, died in 1958.
Her husband, Patrick Murray Twyne, died in 1967.
Miss Leighton's husband, Arthur H. Bunker, died in 1963.
Mrs. Rice's husband, J. Parker Rice, died in 1965.
Her husband, Edward Z. Rowell, a speech and philosophy professor at the University of California, died in 1975.
Her husband at the time, Jim, described the fashions, which included painted jersey, silk and chiffon dresses, and hip-hugger bell bottoms made from old draperies, as "somewhere between here and Mars.
She is survived by her husband, Gladding, a retired Red Cross executive; a daughter, Sylvia Lucas of Columbia, S.C., and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jacob E. Goldman; a brother, Rabbi Burton Mehler of the Bronx; three sisters, Jean Kelman of Queens and Gloria Mehler and Mindella Lamm of Manhattan; three sons, Shalom L., of East Thetford, Vt., and Ari L. and Dov E., of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
Dr. Fitchen is survived by her husband, Douglas B. Fitchen, a Cornell professor; a son, John H., of La Jolla, Calif.; and two daughters, Katherine F. Nisbet of Bozeman, Mont., and Sylvia Fitchen of Tucson, Ariz.
      
She is survived by her husband, Hugo Mareno and her daughter of Manhattan; her parents, Harlow and Roslyn Hermanson of Belmont, and two sisters, Emily Hermanson Levin of Great Neck, L.I., and Julie Hermanson Ratner of New York City.
Correction:  April 13, 1995, Thursday
        An obituary yesterday about Ellen Hermanson, an advocate for survivors of breast cancer, misspelled her husband's name.
She began touring Europe again in 1946, after she and her husband returned to Budapest.
Miss Bird's husband, Ralph Gundlach, died in 1978.
