The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Patrick Thaddeus.
In addition to her husband, an astrophysicist at Harvard and at the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory, Dr. Thaddeus is survived by a daughter, Eva Thaddeus of Albuquerque; a son, Michael Thaddeus of Manhattan; a sister, Alison Wilson of Palo Alto, Calif.; and a brother, Curtis Farrar of Washington.
      
''
        In 1997, Ms. Heckart's husband died suddenly on his morning walk.
She is survived by her husband, Justin Arndt; a son, Christopher Arndt, of San Clemente, Calif.; and two granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Earley Jr., a physician whom she wed after the war; a son,  Stanley III; a daughter, Judith Earley; two brothers, Senior Bishop John Adams of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and E. Avery Adams; and a sister, Dr. Lucy Rose Adams.
Miss Lee was married five times, but her great love, she acknowledged, was her first husband and collaborator, Mr. Barbour.
She eventually received a $65,000 trust fund, and retained the house her husband gave her in 1923.
She was 78 and lived in Roxbury, Conn.
        Arthur Miller, her husband, said the cause of death was lymphoma.
In the later phases of her long career, Ms. Morath produced books with her husband: he provided words and she the pictures.
In 1960, she was photographing the filming of ''The Misfits'' in Reno, Nev. One of the stars was Marilyn Monroe, who was accompanied by her husband at that time, Mr. Miller.
'' The 1973 film ''The Sting,'' which she produced with her husband at the time, Michael Phillips, and Tony Bill, won seven Academy Awards, including best picture.
In her mid-20's Ms. Phillips and her husband met the actor-producer Tony Bill, and the three optioned ''The Sting'' and ''Steelyard Blues,'' which became a film starring Jane Fonda and Donald Sutherland and was made with the support of Richard Zanuck and David Brown.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Louis Reiss; two sons, Dr. Prasad Jallepalli and Satish Jallepalli; two stepdaughters, Shauna and Stephanie Reiss; her mother, Radha Rampalli; and three sisters, Padma, Sita and Vijayanti Rampalli.
      
''
        She is survived by her husband, James H. Warner, of Sioux City; her daughters, Ms. Gray, of Austin, and Ms. Rielly, of New York City; a stepdaughter, Shonda Warner of London; and a stepson, Trent Warner of San Francisco.
      
Mrs. Kempner and her husband, Alan H., gave money and time to the Kempner Rare Book Library at Columbia University.
She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Dr. Geraint James of London; two daughters, Auriole Sherlock Davis of Canterbury and Amanda Sherlock James of London; and two grandchildren.
      
She was 50 and had lived in Tel Aviv since Mr. Naharin, her husband and an internationally known choreographer, became artistic director of Batsheva 12 years ago.
In  ''Haru No Umi,'' a duet choreographed by Mr. Naharin in 1982, Ms. Kajiwara embodied love lost, poignantly eluding her husband onstage.
She staged her husband's works for the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet, the Frankfurt Ballet, the Cullberg Ballet, the Lyons Opera Ballet and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Kajiwara is survived by a brother, John, of New York City.
      
Her first husband, Kurt Hirsch, was an American Army officer who took her to Hollywood in 1947.
She is survived by her daughter and her third husband, Paul von Schell, according to The Associated Press.
The cause was emphysema, her husband, Louis Auer, said.
In the early 1980's, she and her husband moved to La Quinta.
She grew up on the small farm in Yellow Springs that had been her family's since the 1850's;  she later returned there with her husband and children.
Her husband, Maurice T. Moore, a partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, died in 1986.
After the war, Ms. Whitmore wrote articles, lectured widely and appeared on the radio quiz show ''Information Please,'' where she met her second husband, Clifton Fadiman, the program's M.C.
A Daunting Hurdle: Divorce
        In many ways, the group captain  might have made an ideal husband.
So did her husband,  though he was said to have called her Ducky in private.
''
        Although the princess and her husband appeared to have a happy family life, by the late 1960's there were nasty public quarrels.
She was linked romantically with Anthony Barton, a friend of her husband, and then had a relationship with Robin Douglas-Home, an aristocrat and former army officer who was the nephew of a former prime minister and played the piano in nightclubs.
Anne, the princess royal and the queen's only daughter, was permitted to divorce her husband, Capt.
'' She had two sons before her husband, increasingly concerned about the rise of Hitler, decided to leave France.
'' She had two sons before her husband, increasingly concerned about the rise of Hitler, decided to leave France.
But Ms. Laurier, who knew Ms. Bernstein's husband of 62 years, the painter and etcher William Meyerowitz, said he told her and others that his wife was two years older than he was; if so, she would have turned 116 in two weeks.
When she visited the Museum of the City of New York in the late 1980's to discuss a possible exhibition of her husband's work, curators decided to exhibit her work instead.
''
        By the 1930's, she did not follow the art world toward greater abstraction, though her husband did.
They chose Ms. Stuart, and she sang ''Little Girl Blue'' at two of their shows, said her husband, Wolfgang Neumann, an architect.
Her nerves got the better of her at the audition, her husband said, and Mr. Pasternak reportedly told her: ''You can't sing, you can't walk, but there is something that you have.
''She realized she wasn't cut out for Hollywood,'' her husband said.
In addition to her husband, daughter and son, Jeffrey Krolik of California, she is survived by two grandchildren.

        Theresa Castro, who with her husband, Bernard, made Castro virtually a synonym for convertible sofa and who was an energetic charitable benefactor in New York and Florida, died on Sunday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 85.
Correction:  March 15, 2002, Friday  An obituary on March 6 about Theresa Castro, who with her husband established the company that makes Castro Convertible sofas, omitted some survivors.
She is survived by her husband, Lawrence LeShan, and their daughter, Wendy, who also lives in Riverdale.
      
With her husband, Bob Connolly, Ms. Anderson made five full-length films on difficult, seemingly unpromising issues, each of which took several years to film.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Anderson is survived by her brother, Michael, and her daughters Katherine, 14, and Joanna, 10.
Her husband died on the Russian front in 1942 while serving in a penitentiary unit.
The cause was cancer, said her husband, Douglas Knight Jr., who survives her along with their son, Aniruddha, a dancer who is the last direct inheritor of the music and dance traditions preserved in his family for 10 generations.
In 1936, when her painfully diffident husband was crowned King George VI after the abdication of his older brother, she became the strength behind the throne, helping transform him from a stammering, insecure second son into a loved and respected monarch.
When the war was over, Elizabeth's social life, essentially an extended search for a husband in the guise of a series of amusing diversions, began in earnest.
''
        Another duty was bucking up the flagging spirits of her husband, who hated the spotlight but who was required to make many public appearances, particularly as his father's health waned and his older brother proved more interested in a racy social life than in boring regal duties.
''
        Edward and Mrs. Simpson
        The coziness of their early years was abruptly shattered in 1936, when King Edward VIII, as Bertie's older brother styled himself on ascending the throne, announced that he had fallen inconveniently in love with the very married Wallis Simpson, an American whose earlier divorce from her first husband had already ruled her out as a possible royal bride.
Elizabeth may have seemed complaisant and sweet, but she had a ''steel hand within a velvet glove,'' in the words of Lord Halifax, the foreign secretary, and she never forgave David or Wallis Simpson for throwing her husband to the wolves.
It was not until 30 years later, with Bertie long dead, that Elizabeth was to come face to face again with her hated sister-in-law, whom she always called in private ''the woman who killed my husband.
With the death of her husband, Elizabeth had to face the fact that she was no longer on center stage, would have to leave Buckingham Palace, and would, if protocol was strictly followed, have to curtsy to her own daughter, Queen Elizabeth.
Reveling in meeting and chatting to new people (''If we do not pass on, I shall soon pass out,'' her husband once said as Elizabeth persisted in chatting at a public appearance), she was also eternally tactful and diplomatic.

        Theresa Castro, who with her husband, Bernard, made Castro virtually a synonym for convertible sofa and who was an energetic charitable benefactor in New York and Florida, died on Sunday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 85.

        Shelley Mydans, a journalist who with her husband, the photographer Carl Mydans, covered the war in Asia in World War II and later wrote a novel based on their 21 months in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Thursday in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 86.
She and her husband were Life magazine's first photographer-reporter team to cover the war.
After their release, she and her husband both returned to the Philippines.
Mrs. Mydans is survived by her husband; their son, Seth, a foreign correspondent for The New York Times; their daughter, Shelley, known as Misty, of Sacramento, Calif.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      
Her husband, Stephen, said she  died of pneumonia in Accra Military Hospital.
''You cannot go and be begging to your husband for every little thing, but at the moment, that's what the majority of our women do.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sister, Georgina Nkulenu; her daughter, Vincentia Canacco; her sons Vincent Malm, Christian Biassey and Stephen Jr., and six grandchildren.
In addition to Ms. Crispen, survivors include Mrs. Sawyer's husband of 10 years, George A. Sawyer of Alexandria; three stepchildren, Nancy Sawyer, Jeffrey Sawyer and Debra Moulton; and six grandchildren.
      
After moving to Montreal, Mrs. Spiegel and her husband ran a business making purses and other leather goods.
She is survived by her husband; their son, Julius, who is the Brooklyn parks commissioner, and their daughter, Mindy Spiegel of Montreal.
      
She's used to questions about her husband, Charles, a filmmaker and journalist whose execution in Chile during a 1973 military coup was dramatized in the Oscar-winning movie ''Missing.
Mrs. Horman's life revolves around her dead husband.
) The event, at Studio 54, is to take place on what would have been her husband's 60th birthday.
She hopes to renew interest in her husband's case in a preoccupied world.
Her hope of uncovering the truth behind her husband's murder was rekindled in 1998 with General Pinochet's arrest in London on a Spanish warrant charging him with human rights violations.
Mrs. Horman, 57, decided to devote herself to her husband's case after working for 30 years as an information technology consultant.
Composure regained, Mrs. Horman slips her large, oval glasses back on and talks about the circumstances surrounding her husband's death.
There are the declassified State Department documents, released in late 1999, that suggest that the Pinochet regime would not have killed her husband when it overthrew Salvador Allende, the Socialist president, without a green light from American intelligence -- a claim denied by American officials for two decades.
She thinks her husband died because he knew too much.
Even so, she's certainly been out there, traveling the world to publicize her husband's case.
She goes to a bookshelf, pulling out a photo album, in which her husband is frozen in time.
''
        Ms. Boreman insisted that she had made the movie only because her husband at the time, Chuck Traynor, threatened her with violence.

        Helen Levitov Sobell, a voice in the struggle to spare Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and free their co-defendant, Morton Sobell, her husband, died on April 15 in Redwood City, Calif. She was 84.
The authorities also suspected Mrs. Sobell of being the real cause of their inability to exact information about espionage from her husband.
In 1945 she divorced her first husband, Clarence D. Gurewitz, and married Mr. Sobell.
Mrs. Handler experienced complications after having colon surgery several months ago, said her husband, Elliot.
Mrs. Handler, though, seemed unmoved, her husband said.
Mrs. Handler was a founder of Mattel and helped run the company for 30 years, until she and her husband, then co-chairmen, resigned in 1975 amid a scandal.
She ran the breast prosthesis company, Ruthton Corporation, for 15 years, fitting women, including Betty Ford, for the artificial breasts herself, before selling it to a division of Kimberly-Clark, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband of 63 years; a daughter, Barbara Segal of Los Angeles; a brother, Aaron Mosko of Denver; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      
When he learned that her husband was to be transferred to China, he trained her to be a yoga teacher.
Her husband, she said in a 1996 interview in Yoga Journal, was ''dead set against'' her yoga courses.
Her husband, meanwhile, had been ordered back to Czechoslovakia, where he died in 1946.
She married four times, divorcing her first husband, a cosmetics salesman, and her second, Agustín Lara, who was Mexico's greatest songwriter.
She was widowed by her third husband, Jorge Negrete, the country's leading male star, and by her last, Alex Berger, a French financier.
Her husband was jealous and rough.
Ms. Félix first met Mr. Negrete, who would be her third husband, filming ''The Rock of the Spirits.
She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor of art history at Brandeis.
When Ms. Gaehde (the name is pronounced GAY-duh) arrived in the United States from Germany with her husband in 1949, only a handful of Americans knew anything about her specialty, the repair and preservation of artistic works on paper.
She is survived by her husband and by two sons, Stephan, of Brookline, Mass., and Nicholas, of Concord, Mass.
      
Her second husband, Carl Coates of the Sensational Nightingales, died in 1999.
Ms. Bower is survived by her husband, John, and a son, Mark, both of Washington Township.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert E. Hillman, whom she married in 1940; two sons, David, of Manhattan and Donald, of Chestnut Hill, Mass.
Returning to the United States in 1936, she and her husband settled in Cambridge, Mass., where Mr. Fairbank was appointed to Harvard's department of history.
Mrs. Fairbank's husband died in 1991.
She had two daughters, Martha Levinson and Kate Ewing, both of Manhattan, and a son, Paul T. Levinson of Milton, Mass., with her husband, Henry W. Levinson, who also survives, as does a sister, Rachel Achenbach of Boxford, Mass.
Her husband said she did not like death.
Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the country's major private collections of 17th-century Dutch drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Bruegel.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her two daughters, Sarah Abrams and Rebecca Abrams Benn, both of New York City; a brother, Michael Stocker, of Syracuse and New York City; and a grandson.
      
She was separated from her husband, Mark Scher.
Mrs. Johnson and her husband, Raymond Johnson, a Saks Fifth Avenue executive who died in 1965, were prominent members of cafe society, constantly seen and photographed at El Morocco, the Stork Club and other fashionable nightclubs of the era, and at numerous charity benefits.
Mrs. Johnson, then Laura Safir, met her future husband in 1956, three years after arriving in Manhattan from Europe.
The cause was pulmonary failure after an illness of several months, said Harry Mathews, the writer and her first husband.
In Paris and Montreal, where she waited with her husband and son for permission to enter the United States, she also worked in the theater.
Mrs. Spaisman, who lived in Manhattan, supported herself by working as a recreation director at the Jewish Institute for Geriatric Care, first in Manhattan and then in New Hyde Park, N.Y. On a typical day, she left for work at 7 and returned at 5 to cook dinner for her husband and son.
Mrs. Garin is survived by her husband, Michael N.; their three sons, Kristoffer A. of Manhattan, and Aleksander A. and Nickolas A. of Bronxville; and her sister, Lillian Daviknes of Hvalstad, Norway.
      
The screenplay was written by Ms. Abady's husband, Michael Krawitz, and starred her sister as her mother.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Great Barrington, Mass., and her sister, of Los Angeles, she is survived by her brother, Samuel Abady of Bronxville, N.Y..
She was introduced to journalism through her first husband, Asa Wirt, who worked for The Associated Press.
Partly autobiographical, the book is about a woman who learns of her husband's wide-ranging infidelities only as he is dying in a hospital.
In 1966 her husband died suddenly after surgery, leaving her with two boys.
Among her husband's papers, Ms. Gould found a diary written in code.
In ''Such Good Friends,'' Julie Messinger, a young mother, uncovers a similar diary as her husband lies dying.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
Her husband, Theodore J. Martineau, died in 2000.

        Davida S. Herwitz, who built a major collection of modern art from India with her husband, Chester, died on Sunday in a hospital in Rockville, Md.
In 1940, she met her future husband -- also a local celebrity -- silently and anonymously at a local pool.
During their 19-year marriage, while Mr. Robinson became a five-time world middleweight champion, Mrs. Robinson stopped performing to travel with her husband.
'' She played a lady in waiting and met her husband, James, during the production; he played a pallbearer.
Mrs. Hayes, who was often busy entertaining clients for her husband, who had gone into advertising, also became involved in other neighborhood causes, like fighting the large apartment houses that Robert Moses eventually built south of Washington Square.
Her husband, David S. Roswell, an economist, died in the 1960's.
      
The Times's rules then barred her from being hired as long as her husband also worked there.
''She can arrive home after a hectic day of reporting at the United Nations, and within minutes she's an excellent hostess and a marvelous companion to her husband,'' The Post reassured its readers.
Mrs. Spoerri came to Wölfli's work through her husband, Theodor, a psychiatrist at Waldau who, at the invitation of the Swiss curator Harald Szeemann, helped reintroduce Wölfli's work to the art world at Documenta 5 in 1972.
At the time of her husband's death, almost nothing was known about the contents of Wölfli's books, the bulk of his creation.
After studying ballet, she began reviewing dance in 1939 in the Marianne and then collaborated with her Russian-born husband, the dance photographer Serge Lido.
In 1975, Mrs. Lederer underwent what she would call her ''only troubled time'' when her husband left her for another woman.
In 1975, Mrs. Lederer underwent what she would call her ''only troubled time'' when her husband left her for another woman.
She provided financial as well as emotional support, working as a seamstress during World War II in a factory and sporadically making clothes thereafter for her husband and for friends.
The 1988 documentary film ''Straight, No Chaser'' showed proof of their mutual devotion, as Mrs. Monk shepherded her husband through airports and hotels.
A small, delicate and sensible woman who contrasted with her bearish, abstracted husband, she was never interviewed at length about her husband; they both kept their family life private.
A small, delicate and sensible woman who contrasted with her bearish, abstracted husband, she was never interviewed at length about her husband; they both kept their family life private.
But in Nat Hentoff's book ''The Jazz Life,'' Ms. Monk made revealing comments in discussing her and her husband's clashing sense of home décor.
The Times's rules then barred her from being hired as long as her husband also worked there.
''She can arrive home after a hectic day of reporting at the United Nations, and within minutes she's an excellent hostess and a marvelous companion to her husband,'' The Post reassured its readers.
She is survived by her children: the actor Miguel Ferrer; Maria, a designer; Gabriel, a painter married to Debby Boone; Monsita Teresa; Rafael, a voice-over actor, and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, a dancer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Rebecca, of West Boylston, Mass.
Besides her son Eric, of Larchmont, N.Y., she is survived by her husband of 50 years, David Gelman; another son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Amy Haugesag of Kansas City, Mo.
The cause was leukemia, her husband, Robert H. Preiskel, said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her sons, John, of San Francisco, and Richard, of New York, and a grandson, Malakai, of San Francisco.
      
Although her husband loved opera, he considered visual artists to be little more than ''decorators,'' Mrs. Wattis said.
Mrs. Wattis and her husband established a foundation for cultural and scientific causes in 1958.
In 1969, before becoming dealers, Ms. Solomon and her husband, Horace, opened 98 Greene Street Loft, one of the first so-called alternative spaces in New York, where poetry readings, dance performances, concerts and art shows took place.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
She and her husband had a farm near the battlefield.
Her survivors include her husband, Waldon Peter Snyder, known as Pete, a former Marine Corps aviator; six children; six grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
      
She and her husband, Mel, had been part-time residents of Highmount for 17 years.
They also had homes in New York City and Singer Island, Fla.
        After attending the initial Belleayre concert 11 years ago, she and her husband volunteered to be the artistic directors and expand the presentation into an annual summer series.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four sons, Steven, of Ossining, N.Y.; Michael, of Blaine Island, Me.
Mrs. Marshall's anthropological career began when her husband, Laurence K. Marshall, a founder and president of the Raytheon Corporation, retired in 1950 with the thought that it was time to get reacquainted with his family.
In 1953, Mrs. Soria and her husband, Dario, founded Angel Records as an American distribution outlet for some of the labels of the British company EMI.
In 1953, she left Judson and the Philharmonic to join her husband in starting Angel Records.
Her first husband, Frank Gardiner Wisner, a former deputy director at the Central Intelligence Agency, died in 1965.
It was founded with a donation from her husband, Max Stern, whom she married in 1950.
Her husband fancied Agent 99 in the ''Get Smart'' television comedy.
Years later, her husband, Howard S. Phillips, an American publisher in Mexico, discovered them and ordered her to return them to Rivera.
Mrs. Goldman played an active role in the real estate activities of her husband, who by his death in 1987 was one of the largest private landlords in New York City.
After her husband's death, she turned her attention increasingly to philanthropy, creating the Lillian Goldman Charitable Trust to administer her gifts.
''
        Ms. Lutyens was also a producer of the 1947 Broadway presentation of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Medium'' and ''Telephone,'' working in partnership with the industrial designer Norman Bel Geddes, her husband, and the producer Blevins Davis.
She was divorced from her first husband, Archibald Lutyens.
She finally had to relinquish decision making concerning the island, which she had assumed in 1969 with the death of her husband, Lester.
Lester Robinson, Mrs. Robinson's husband, was the great-grandson of Eliza Hutchinson.
After her husband's death, Mrs. Robinson rejected numerous offers for the island, including a large one from Japanese interests.
But after her marriage to her first husband, Harry Bull, the editor of Town & Country magazine, and the birth of their son, Sandy, she began to take the harp more seriously.
The cause was a rare form of lung cancer, her husband, James Armstrong, said.
Ms. Lipton is survived by her husband; Chloe, who, with some help, lives on her own in Emeryville, Calif.; and a daughter from her second marriage, Daria Armstrong.
      
The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, the sportscaster Jack Whitaker.
She had moved back to New York after the death of her husband and married again in 1966, a man she referred to only as Lou in interviews.
The cause was breast cancer, said her husband, the trombonist Ray Anderson.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Raven is survived by a son, Raven Anderson, and a daughter, Anabel Anderson, both of Setauket, and a sister, Deborah Libaire of Bellport, N.Y.
      
''
        With Jimmy Miller, who wrote plays under the name of Ewan McColl and was to become her husband, she formed an agitprop group in Manchester called Theater of Action and then created a company called Theater Union, which introduced the British to the American concept called the Living Newspaper, improvisations based on the day's news.
The cause was leukemia, her husband, Charles L. Reinhart, said.
Ms. Reinhart usually worked in tandem with her husband, who became the festival's director in 1969 after a pioneering career, begun in the 1950's, in producing and managing modern dance companies as well as developing dance projects for the National Endowment for the Arts and State Department cultural exchange programs.
Ms. Reinhart and her husband, who married in 1977, were indefatigable in seeking out new choreographers from abroad.
Unlike her husband, Ms. Reinhart did not begin her career specifically in dance but in broader area of arts administration.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Reinhart is survived by her daughter, Ariane M. Reinhart of New York; her mother, Florence Keren of Washington; and three stepsons, Taylor, of Los Angeles; Adam, of Honolulu; and Scott, of Geneseo, N.Y.
      
Paul Wilmot, a former husband, guessed 73 was closer.
Dr. Robert Furman, her husband of 48 years and her colleague, died Sept. 21 at 78.
Ms. Mink is survived by her husband; their daughter, Gwendolyn; and a brother, Eugene Takemoto.
      
The couple had one child, Kathryn, now of Stamford, Conn., who took the name of Ms. Hunter's second husband, Robert Emmett.
Surviving are her husband, David Alan Chesler; two sons, Stanford, of Newton, Mass.
Besides enjoying the work, she needed the income because her husband had been killed in a hunting accident.
Her first husband, Santiago Rodolfo Burastero, died in 1959 after a car accident near Mar del Plata, Argentina.
Her second husband, Julio Caccia, suffered a heart attack at her burial ceremony Sunday at the Argentine Actors' Association mausoleum in Buenos Aires and was admitted to the hospital, news reports said.
Her husband, Benjamin, a carpenter, died in 2000, throwing her into a depression that Mr. Williams said he believes led to her death.
In addition to her son, of Manhattan, Ms. Lessing is survived by her husband, Tito Enrique Canepa, also of Manhattan, and a daughter, Dr. Cathy Canepa of White Plains.
      
In addition to her sister Peggy, she is survived by two other sisters; two brothers; her husband, Lt. Cmdr.
Ms. Velikanova, a mathematician by profession, became a dissident in 1968, when she went to Red Square with her husband, Konstantin Babitsky, who was one of only seven people to demonstrate openly against the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia that crushed the Prague Spring reforms.
In 1973, with her husband, Prof. Joseph Southern, she founded Black Perspectives in Music, the first musicological journal on the study of black music.
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.
She and her husband, Howard Soule, who died several years ago, moved to Hawaii in 1957 and lived in a Diamond Head apartment in Honolulu.

        Eileen Simpson, a writer who probed the depths of her difficult early life and, in a well-known memoir, the tumultuous years with her husband John Berryman and their circle of poet friends, died on Monday at a hospital in Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, Raouf Boudjakdji; four children; three grandchildren; her mother; and a brother.
By then she had become involved with a very small circle of activists who distributed a clandestine journal called The Coastal Worker, organized by Bogdan Borusiewicz, a passionate proponent of independent labor unions who was later to become Ms. Pienkowska's husband.
A year later her husband, still a fugitive, attended the baptism of their son while disguised as an old woman.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Kinga; and her son, Sebastian.
      
Ms. Tiger's second husband, Charles Roach, died last December.
The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her husband, Peter L. Goldman, said.
Besides her husband of 41 years, a Newsweek contributing editor, Ms. Dudar's survivors include her sister, Nancy Gallanty, of the Bronx.
      
Dr. Nichols is survived by her husband, Rodney W. Nichols; two daughters from a previous marriage, Courtney T. Pyle of Manhattan and Lindsey S. Pyle of Austin, Tex.
On Nov. 22, 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that an Idaho law that automatically gave Mrs. Reed's former husband preference over her as administrator of their dead son's estate violated the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law.
The ruling overturned many similar laws around the country, including another Idaho law declaring the husband the head of the family, with the right to determine where it lives, as well as a 1948 Michigan law prohibiting women from serving alcoholic drinks in bars.
Mrs. Reed and her former husband, Cecil, from whom she was divorced in 1958, applied to a court to administer their son's small estate, which consisted chiefly of a clarinet, phonograph records, clothes and $495 in a savings account.
They eventually moved to Boise, where her husband worked for the Idaho Highways Department.
'' During that production she met her future husband, the actor and publisher Peter Murray Hill, who died in 1957.
As her husband's wealth grew, her art purchases and their philanthropy kept pace.
Although the Lists gave art to several New York museums, after her husband's death in 1987, Mrs.
Dr. Labalme is survived by her husband, George Labalme Jr.; three daughters, Jennifer R. Labalme of Indianapolis, Lisa G. Osterland of Montreal and Victoria A. Labalme of Manhattan; a son, Henry G., of Manhattan and West Cornwall; a sister, Ann H. Poole of Princeton; and six grandchildren.
      
The cause of death was a stroke, her husband, John Corcoran, said.
She is survived by her husband; her 13-year-old daughter, Jessica Smith; her mother, Barbara of Philadelphia; and her father, John of Benson, Ariz.
        She summed up her career by saying: ''I needed to run for all the wrong reasons.
A student trip to the Soviet Union in 1934 impressed her with the promises of socialism, and after graduation she started traveling extensively with her first husband, Abbott Simon, a leader of the radical left-wing American Youth Congress.
Ms. Van Devanter, a native of Arlington, Va., is survived by her husband, Tom Buckley, and their daughter, Molly; a stepdaughter, Brigid Buckley of Raleigh, N.C.; and Ms. Van Devanter's mother, Helen Van Devanter of Sterling, Va.
      
She is survived by her husband, Gregory Jaynes; a sister, Lisa Greenleaf Miller of New Haven; a brother, Newcomb Greenleaf of St. Johnsbury, Vt.; a stepson, Todd Jaynes of Dahlonega, Ga.; a stepdaughter, Whitney Jaynes Laidlaw; and two grandchildren.
      
In World War II, while her husband served in the Navy, she and he signed petitions protesting the relocation of Japanese-Americans to internment camps.
The cause was complications of acute myelogenous leukemia, said her husband, Fred Harrison.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Lillian Epstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sons, Eric, of Brewster, N.Y., and Bradley, of Washington; a sister, Roberta Goldstein of Greenbrook, N.J.; and two brothers, Neil Epstein of Trumbull, Conn., and Richard Epstein of Norwalk, Conn.
      
The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, David Paskin, who was Ms.
Besides her daughter, a resident of Babylon, N.Y., Ms. Grossman is survived by her husband of 51 years, Herbert Grossman, a conductor, and by a brother, Blair Chotzinoff of Denver.
Her husband, Harold L. Renfield, who predeceased her, had assumed her surname when they wed. She is survived by a son, Robert L.; a daughter, Anna Jo Dubow; nine grandchildren; two great-grandchildren; a brother, Joseph; and a sister, Jean Miller.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Kinnear is survived by two daughters, Robin Kinnear of Birmingham, Ala., and Susan Kinnear Neul of Summit, N.J.; two sons, J. Wesley Kinnear IV of Mill Valley, Calif., and William Mitchell Kinnear of Wilmette, Ill.; and seven grandchildren.
      
The cause was metastasized breast cancer, said her husband, Jay Broad.
Besides her husband, Ms. Bader is survived by her mother, Evelyn Bader of Brooklyn; and her sister, Stephanie Bader of Manhattan.
      
She and her husband, Herman Lowe, who died in 1961, were Washington correspondents for Variety, TV Guide and other publications.
There they brought up four children, Albert, Vivien, Miriam and Michael, who survive her, along with her husband, four grandsons and a sister, Anneke Prins Simons of Jersey City.
She helped her husband on a Red Cross mission watching over a flood of Belgian, British, Dutch and French war prisoners, although the Germans forbade her to report on what she saw.
Her husband, Bill Fulbrecht, is an artist and kindergarten teacher at Public School 321 in Park Slope.
Her husband, Christopher Fremantle, died in 1978.
      
branch in Ansonia, Conn., where her husband was a Baptist minister, and became active in the state's foster care system.
Her husband, Rowland Watts, a civil liberties lawyer, died in 1995.
She is survived by her husband, the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, whom she married in 1968; a son, Peter Matson; 10 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Wells and her second husband were sent by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on a top secret mission to Africa to look for possible postwar homelands for Jews.
She married for the first time on a lark to experience the Palace of Weddings in Moscow, only to discover that the immediate divorce she and her husband had planned was a bit trickier.
She and her husband had bylines on Page 1 of The Herald Tribune on the same day.
Dawn never married, saying that her music was her husband and children.
