Mrs. Todd's husband, Webster Bray Todd, a former state Republican state chairman in New Jersey, died in 1989.
She died of breast cancer, said her husband and law associate, Edgar S. Cahn.
Mrs. Cahn converted to Judaism and, at her husband's urging, applied for and won a scholarship to Yale Law School.
She died of cancer, her husband, Paul J. Ash, said.
"
        Her only survivor is her husband, who is executive vice president of the Sam Ash Music Corporation.
He is her former husband, not her husband.
He is her former husband, not her husband.
She died of cancer, her former husband, Paul J. Ash, said.
Sole was in business with her late husband, George J.
Mrs. Adams died of cancer, said her husband, Wiliam Howard Adams, a lawyer and historian.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Sarah W. Adams, a historic preservation specialist of Ithaca, N.Y., and Mary Chatham, an artist of Manhattan, and a son, William S., a lawyer, also of Manhattan.
      
Her husband, John F. Normano, died in 1945.
In addition to many magazine articles, she was the author of "A Million Homes a Year," (Harcourt Brace, 1945) and, with her husband, Samuel I. Rosenman, an adviser to Presidents Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, she wrote "Some Giants and a Pygmy in the White House," (Harper & Row, 1976).
She died of polycythemia, a blood ailment, said her husband, Dr. Alexander D. Langmuir.
Dr. Baumgartner's first husband, Nathaniel M. Elias, a chemical engineeer, died in 1964.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred, professor of the humanities at Quinsigamond Community College in Worcester; her mother, Beth Arick of Brookline, Mass.
Mrs. Provaznik, whose husband, Frantisek, died in 1948, is survived by a daughter, Dr. Alena Polesny, of Altamont, N.Y.; three grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
She died of breast cancer, her husband, Robert, said.
Mrs. Henabery was president of Jeanne Henabery Associates, a public relations firm she started in 1970, and was also affiliated with her husband in his broadcast consulting company, Bob Henabery Associates.
Her husband, Judge Alexander Bicks of Federal District Court in Manhattan, died in 1963.
Her husband, Yuri Kossoff, died in 1972.
Her husband, Jacob, died in 1987.
She is survived by her husband, Leonard Haber, a New York architectural and industrial designer; three sons and a daughter from her marriage to the Texas businessman Clinton Murchison: Clint Murchison 3d, Burk Murchison and Robert Murchison, all of Dallas, and Coke Anne Saunders of Manhattan, and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Kelly, chairman of the history department at D'Youville College in Buffalo; two daughters, Jennifer, of Manhattan, and Elizabeth, of Buffalo; her father, Joseph Paradise of Rye, N.Y.; a sister, Judith Moskowitz of Manhattan, and a brother, Steven Paradise of Washington.
      
"
        Her third husband, Michael Fessier, a writer, died in 1988.
In 1929 Miss Bry and her husband, Maurice Shevelson Benjamin, a founder of the brokerage firm Benjamin, Hill & Company, commissioned the noted architect Ely Jacques Kahn to design an Art Deco apartment for them in the Beresford building on Central Park West.
She is survived by her husband, Sidney, also an officer of Polyplastex; two sons, Roger, of Milford, N.J., and Dennis, of Tarpon Springs, Fla., who are also Polyplastex officers, and three granddaughters.
      
Mrs. Dietz, a native of Manhattan, took over direction of the Woolen Corporation in 1950 on the death of her first husband, Louis Surut, who founded the concern in 1920.
Dr. White died of cancer, said her husband, Gerard M. White, a retired cost engineer.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
She is survived by her husband, who is the chairman of Hamilton Industries.
      
Mrs. Mertz became a general partner in Publishers Clearing House, the magazine-subscription business, soon after its founding in 1953 by her husband, Harold E. Mertz, and their daughter, Joyce Mertz Gilmore.
She and her husband were later divorced.
She died of bone marrow cancer, her husband, the writer Louis Auchincloss, said.
She designed covers for her husband's novels and was the co-author of a forthcoming centennial history of the New York Botanical Garden.
Besides her husband, she is survived by three sons, John and Andrew, both lawyers, of Manhattan, and Blake, an architect, of Mansfield, Mass; a sister, Susan Winchester of Prides Crossing, Mass., and one granddaughter.
      
Her husband, David L. Wickens, an economist, died in 1970.
Although she never held elective office, her influence in politics was considerable, beginning in 1934 when she arrived in Washington with her husband, Walter, a Manhattan investment counselor.
After her husband died in 1973, Mrs. Louchheim moved back to Manhattan.
She and her husband, Andre, were active in the underground group Straight-Shooters.
Her husband died last year.
Mrs. Borland wrote two books and collaborated for many years on short stories and novellas with her husband, the nature writer Hal Borland, who died in 1978.
Her husband, the landscape artist, John F. Folinsbee, died in 1972.
She is survived by her husband, James, a retired labor mediator; two sons, Lewis, of Staten Island, and Emory, of Seattle; two daughters, Julia, of Mirano, Calif., and Carolyn Lewis of Fort Myers, and eight grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Rumsey; a daughter, Louise Griggs of Hanover, N.H.; a son, David, of Forest Hills, Queens; seven grandchildren, and four great-grandchildren.
      
She died of heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Binghamton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schumann was the principal donor to the Florence and John Schumann Foundation, which she established with her husband, John J. Schumann Jr., a former president and chairman of the General Motors.
She died of breast cancer, her husband, Irving Palmer, said.
She died of breast cancer, her husband, Irving Palmer, said.
Together with her late husband, Max Silverstein, and the late Rabbi Stephen Wise, she helped found the World Jewish Congress, which first met in Geneva in 1936.
She died of lymphoma, said her husband, William R. Ginsberg, a professor of environmental law at Hofstra University Law School.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Mark, an architect in Manhattan, and Joshua, a biologist and a research fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford University.
      
Her husband, Alfred, a teacher at the Horace Mann School in the Bronx, died in 1981.
She raised money for several organizations, including the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which gave scholarships to Sephardic youths in Israel, and Fountain House, a Manhattan rehabilitation center for the mentally ill.
        She is survived by her husband, Salvador J. Assael, president of Assael International, which produces cultured pearls; a daughter, Arlette, of Sausalito, Calif.; and two brothers, Daniel Vock, a lawyer, of Greenwich, Conn., and David Vock, a businessman, of Nice, France.
      
Her husband, Elie Abel, former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, said she had been in a deep depression and had taken her own life.
Earlier, when her husband was a foreign correspondent, she was the ORT representative in Zagreb, Yugoslavia, and worked at a clinic for autistic children in London.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Mark, foreign editor of The San Francisco Chronicle; a daughter, Suzanne Abel-Vidor, director of the Grace Hudson Museum in Ykiah, Calif.; a brother, Arthur C. Prevost of Sunnyvale, Calif., and one grandchild.
      
Miss Loeser is survived by her husband and three children: Jan DeVries of Media, Pa.; Peter Jon, of New York City, and Derek, of Santa Monica, Calif. Another daughter, Emily, died of leukemia in childhood and is remembered in Miss Loeser's story "Whose Little Girl Are You?
Mrs. Lehfeldt is survived by her husband, Hans; a son, Richard, of Washington, D.C., and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband, James Henry Rowe, an adviser to Presidents Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, died in 1984.
She died of breast cancer, her husband, Max, said.
In addition to her husband, a theatrical producer and former art dealer, she is survived by her father, Dr. David Shapiro of Palm Beach, Fla. A memorial service is to be held in New York on a date to be announced.
      
She died of a stroke, said her husband, Heywood Hale Broun, the writer, broadcaster and actor.
Her husband is her only immediate survivor.
She is survived by her husband, Louis Chandler, retired professor of nuclear physics at Rutgers University.
      
Mrs. Kramer is survived by her husband, Donald, a retired procurement officer for the Grumman Aerospace Corporation; two sons, Donald, of Boston, and Theodore Charles of Brattleboro, Vt.; a daughter, Meredith Ann Brown of Harwinton, Conn.; two brothers, Robert G. Schwartz of Exton, Pa., and Louis Schwartz of Buffalo, and four grandchildren.
      
With her husband, Hubbard, Betsy Cobb, as she was known professionally, wrote about ways to acquire, maintain and enhance living space.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Thomas Youngblood Simon of Los Angeles, and two granddaughters.
      
Her second husband, Ernest W. Boissevain, died in 1984.

        Louise Brayton Kline, a preservationist who oversaw the construction of several buildings at Bard College when her late husband was president there, died on Monday at her home in Barrytown, N.Y. She was 79 years old.
She wrote "Cookbook of the Seven Seas" (1968), and also edited several of her husband's books.
She is survived by her husband, Owen Baird of Brooklyn; a son, Buddy Scott also of Brooklyn; three grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
She began her career in 1929 as a co-director of Camp Treetops with her husband, Douglas.
Her husband, a former editor of Architectural Forum, died in 1979.
Her husband, Leon R. Whipple, a professor of journalism at New York University, died in 1964.
In the 1920's, she wrote magazine articles as Lillian Day, adopting the surname of her first husband.
In 1931, she wrote the novel "Kiss and Tell" and the next year she collaborated with her second husband, Lyon Mearson, on the novel "Our Wife.
" Later she was co-author of the mysteries "Murder in Time" and "Death Comes on Friday" with her third husband, Norbert Lederer.
Her husband, William C. O'Keeffe, a life insurance executive, died in 1975.
Owned Noted Art Collection
        With her husband, Siegfried, a banker and philanthropist who died in 1961, Mrs. Kramarsky owned an art collection that was exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and included works by Van Gogh, Cezanne, Toulouse-Lautrec, Renoir, Seurat and Gauguin.
With her husband, whom she married in 1921, and children she left Germany in 1932, fleeing the rise of Hitler and anti-Semitism.
She died of cancer, her husband, the sculptor Tony Rosenthal, said.
At the end of World War II, she met her husband, then a lieutenant in the United States Army, while attending a sculpture course he was teaching at an Army school in Biarritz in France.
Miss Page's first husband, Mr. Fisher, died in 1969.
She is survived by her husband and a brother, Dr. Irvine Page of Hyannis, Mass.
      
She studied and practiced with her husband, Morris A.
Gross was the head of the Office of College and Career Planning at the New York City Board of Education from 1985 to 1988, when she moved to Chicago after her husband, Theodore L. Gross, was named president of Roosevelt College.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Donna, of Los Angeles; a son, Jonathan, of Manhattan, and two sisters.
      
Her husband, Winter Mead, an executive for the Prudential Life Insurance Company, died in 1953.
She died of cancer, her husband, Moshe M. Budmor, said.
She began the first classes in Jewish folk dance at the 92d Street Y and with her husband created the Jewish Dance Repertory Group.
She is survived by her husband, a former professor of music at Trenton State College.
      
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Allison Bishopric Jr.; a brother, J. Rawson Collins of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss Schafer's husband, the actor Louis Calhern, died in 1956.
She is survived by her husband, George; two daughters, Cornelia Grassi and Giovanna Grassi, both of London, and a brother, Julius Hegeler of Danville, Ill.
      
She died of Alzheimer's disease, her husband, Jules, said.
Her husband survives her.
      
She is survived by her husband, Michael; her mother, Beatrice Gittleman; two sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, and Mark, of Plainview, L.I., and two sisters, Shula Brudner of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Toby Edelson of Suffern, N.Y.
      
Her husband, Henry, a Manhattan lawyer, died in 1975.
Before moving to Florida in 1955, Mrs. Shatz and her late husband, Hyman, operated Phileidor Farms in Carmel, N.Y., where they bred prize Guernsey cows.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Himan Brown, a radio and television producer; two sons from a previous marriage, Alan Fishman of New York and Barry Fishman of San Rafael, Calif., and a grandson.
Mrs. Pilpel died of a heart attack, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, Irvin B. Schwartz, executive administrator for psychiatry at New York Medical College; two children from a former marriage to Robert C. Pilpel, an executive at the Hudson Guild Settlement House, who died in 1987; a daughter, Judith E. Appelbaum, and a son, Robert H. Pilpel, both of Manhattan; two sisters, Juliette Brudney of Cambridge, Mass., and Ruth Frank of Sanibel, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
She was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Westbrook, Conn.
        Mrs. Baxter died of cancer, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, Ralph, a retired drug abuse counselor; a sister, Stephanie Urdang of Stamford, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Sherri, of Southbury, Conn., and Dana, of New Milford, Conn.; a stepson, Anthony, of Seattle, and a grandson.
      
Mrs. Masey suffered from manic depression, said her husband, Jack.
Besides her husband, who is the president of Metaform Inc., a design concern, Mrs. Masey is survived by a sister, Virginia Olinger of Worthington, Ohio.
      
Ms. Donay is survived by her husband, Donald Goddard, a writer.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Bertrand L. Taylor 3d, who is an investor; their daughter, Lauren, and their son, Lindsay, all of Naples, Fla.
      
She died of cancer, her husband, Ernest, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Dr. Adrienne Dunbar of Coral Gables, Fla., and Gail, of New York; a son, Dean, of New York, and a granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Liberman is survived by a daughter, the writer Francine du Plessix Gray, of Warren, Conn., a sister, Lila Duchess of Caylus, France, and two grandsons.
      
Miss Warren's husband, Z. Wayne Griffin, a film producer, died in 1981.
Her husband, Dr. Curt F. Buhler, keeper of printed books for the Pierpont Morgan Library, died in 1985.
Her mother started the Red Cross chapter in her hometown of Bloomfield, N.J. Mrs. Teaze's late husband, Moses, was president of the chapter and of the Westport-Weston chapter after the couple moved to Connecticut in 1950.
Besides helping her husband, Olaus, build the Beneficial Loan Society, now known as the Beneficial Corporation, into one of the nation's largest consumer-loan concerns, Mrs. Caspersen was the director of the Beneficial Foundation and chairwoman of the O. W. Caspersen Foundation, a major contributor to health and educational programs.
Her husband died in 1971.
The Master Institute, which began as a music school with a collection of Old Master art works, was founded by Mrs. Horch in 1922 with her husband, Louis.
In 1971, after Mrs. Horch and her husband moved to Florida, the museum was closed, and its holdings became the Louis and Nettie Horch Collection at Brandeis University.
After she moved to Greenwich in 1970, she and her husband, John Van Zwienen, worked together as writers, illustrators and graphic designers.
Moon died of cancer, said her husband, Hampden.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six sisters and two brothers.
      
Her husband, Samuel McCrea Cavert, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, died in 1976.
Ms. Bozzo is survived by her husband, Rogelio Chomnalez of Manhattan, and her parents, Manuel and Dora, and a brother, Carlos Antonio, all of Buenos Aires.
      
Her first husband, Clendenin J. Ryan, a financier, died in 1957.
Miss Booth's husband, Reinhold Fehlberg, died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, Col. William R. Cameron; two daughters, Catherine, of Washington and Laurie Desimone, of Carmel; a son, Bruce, of Santa Maria, Calif.; two sisters, Nancy Easterbrook of Carmel and Winifred Cox of Tiberon, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Benjamin Stilwell of Guam, and two granddaughters.
      
Her husband, Col. Frank E. Harris, whom she married in 1928, died in 1947.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Dr. Bennetta Jules-Rosette, an anthropologist, of Leucadia, Calif.; two brothers, Dr. Samuel C. Bullock, of Philadelphia, and Joseph B. Bullock, of Washington; a granddaughter, and a great-granddaughter.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. David Schachter, professor of physiology and cellular biophysics at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons; a son, Jonathan, a post-doctoral researcher at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass.
She died of breast cancer, and her husband, the actor Vincent Price, was at her bedside, a family spokesman said.
" She is survived by her husband.
      
She is survived by her husband, William, chairman of Time Warner Trade Publishing; two sons, Jeffrey and Richard, both of Manhattan, and a daughter, Nancy, also of Manhattan.
      

        Katya Alpert Gilden, who with her husband, Bert, wrote novels under the name of K. B. Gilden, died on Sunday at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
She is survived by her fourth husband, Phillip Tutton, and a son.
      
Mrs. Kweller is survived by her husband, Murry; two sons, Bruce, of Queens, and David, of Jackson, Miss.
From 1970 to 1972, she starred in shows in Las Vegas, Nev., and later founded a film company with her husband, Brett Halsey.
Mrs. Hollins wrote "On Gilbert Head," a critically praised journal of her life in the 1930's with her first husband, the painter Stephen Etnier, on an island in Maine.
She is survived by her husband, H. Clifford Page; a son, Ronald, of Burke, Va.; a daughter, Lois Drew of Manhattan; a sister, Alice LeGrand of Fair Lawn, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      
Besides her daughter, of Kew Gardens, Queens, Mrs. Naaman is survived by her husband, Walter; her parents, Doris and William Davis of Plattekill, N.Y.; three brothers, Wilbert Davis of Manhattan and Robert and Frank Davis, both of Plattekill; a sister, Yvonne Ellis of San Diego; and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by two children, Nicholas, a director, and Eliza, by her third husband, Jeremy Hutchinson, a lawyer.
She is survived by her husband, Leo, a retired high school teacher, and a sister, Esther Giordiano of Floral Park, Queens.
      
Her husband, George Gaylord Simpson, a scientist, died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, Ralph; a daughter, Kathleen Wheatman of Fremont, Calif; three sons, David, of Rye, Philip, of Yonkers, and William, of Farmingdale, L.I., and six grandchildren.
      
She went into private practice in Manhattan and in 1945 she moved to Chicago, where she performed legal work for her husband, a banker.
On television she was a co-star of "My Favorite Husband," on CBS from 1953 to 1957, and "Sally" on NBC in the 1957-58 season.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, William Randolph Hearst 3d, publisher of The San Francisco Examiner, and Austin, of Manhattan, vice president of Hearst Entertainment and Syndication, a division of the Hearst Corporation, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
Correction:  June 25, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Austine McDonnell Hearst, a former reporter whose husband is the editor in chief of the Hearst newspapers, misstated the occupation of her first husband, Igor Cassini.
Correction:  June 25, 1991, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about Austine McDonnell Hearst, a former reporter whose husband is the editor in chief of the Hearst newspapers, misstated the occupation of her first husband, Igor Cassini.
Her husband, Benjamin Paisner, a Manhattan businessman, died in 1967.
A native of Budapest, she came to the United States in the early 1940's and, with her husband, operated Sorel Belt Creations in Manhattan.
With her husband, Michel, who died in 1989, Mrs. Sorel operated the Shelton Apartments Inc., a real estate firm in Manhattan, from 1947 to her death.
Ms. Jernigan is survived by her husband, the composer Philip Glass, a stepdaughter, Juliet, and a stepson, Zachary, all of Manhattan; her mother, Pauline Bauer of Jupiter, Fla., and a sister, Audrey Hart of Key West, Fla.
        A memorial service will be held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, on Friday at 1 P.M.
      
By the 1970's they lived apart, and a Chinese book published last year asserted that Ms. Jiang had to request permission from the party Central Committee's Work Office to see her husband.
She died of lymphoma, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, Stanley R. Katz, the mayor of Deal; four sons, Richard, of West Long Branch, N.J., Steven, of Livingston, N.J., Robert, of Minneapolis, and Jonathan, of Tucson, Ariz.; a sister, Helen Rosengarten of Monmouth Beach, N.J., and 10 grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from emphysema, her husband, James Fox, said.
Miss Porter's second husband, G. Sumner Collins, died in 1977.
She is survived by her husband, Lee; her mother, Jenny Hart; a brother, Herbert Hart of Monte Carlo, Monaco; and, by a former marriage, a daughter, Elise Hart of Berkeley, Calif., and two sons, Michael Sheffrin of Majorca, and Ivan Sheffrin of Washington, and a grandson.
      
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
Appraising the film, Bosley Crowther wrote in The New York Times that "as the long-suffering wife, Mildred Dunnock is simply superb, as she was on the stage" in her "portrayal of a woman who bears the agony of seeing her sons and husband turn out failures.
"
        She is survived by her husband of almost 60 years, Keith Urmy, who is a retired executive of Chemical Bank in Manhattan; their daughter, Linda McGuire, an actress who teaches at the Educational Center for the Arts in New Haven; a granddaughter, Patricia McGuire, an actress who is a member of the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., and two grandsons.
      
She came to this country from Russia with her husband, Max, in 1915.
Her husband died in 1962.
She was 57 years old and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schnall died of gall bladder cancer, her husband said.
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Eleven books that followed were written in collaboration with her first husband, Dr. John L. Beatty, a professor of history at the University of California at Riverside, who died in 1975.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Carl Uhr, a professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside; a daughter, Alexandra Beatty, and two grandchildren.
      
Her first husband, Richard Lewisohn Jr., died in 1976, and her second husband, Richard Feldon, died in 1988.
Her first husband, Richard Lewisohn Jr., died in 1976, and her second husband, Richard Feldon, died in 1988.
After her husband's death in 1964, she took over his business, Dutton, Mast & Company, a textile concern in Manhattan.
Her survivors include her husband of 21 years, Kip Gowans, a producer; a daughter, Kate Colleran Sullivan; a son, Matthew Remick Colleran; two stepdaughters, Justine Gowans Solly and Nicola Gowans, and her mother, Pat Packard.
Her husband, Alfred, died in 1988.
For nearly four decades beginning in the early 1920's, Miss Marshall, together with her husband, Lawrence Langner, and Theresa Helburn, co-founders of the Theater Guild, guided the subscription company through its glory years as one of the most successful producers of Broadway plays.
Her first husband, Henry Zeeman, died in 1963 and her second husband, Morty Jacobson, died in 1969.
Her first husband, Henry Zeeman, died in 1963 and her second husband, Morty Jacobson, died in 1969.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Richard Schickel, the film critic.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Charlotte Foy, of Troy; a daughter, Alexandra Rubinstein, of Pasadena, Calif., and two step-daughters, Erika Schickel, of Los Angeles, and Jessica Schickel, of Northampton, Mass.
      
Her husband, Raymond, is chairman of the resort in the Catskills, the nation's largest independently owned family resort hotel.
Mrs. Parker is survived by her husband, Raymond; a brother, Jules Winarick of Southampton, L.I.
Her husband, David Scribner, a lawyer, died in April.
Mrs. Halperin's husband, S. William Halperin, died in 1979.
Her husband, Ambassador Bunker, died in 1984.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jules Cohen, a New York cardiologist; two sons, David, of Los Angeles, and Michael, of Scarsdale, N.Y.; a daughter, Linda, of Boston, and three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Charles R. Corcoran, an insurance executive, died in 1978.
Her husband, Johann, a music teacher, died in 1967.
Her husband, Hermon Davis, a musician, died in 1965.

        Irina Nijinska, a dancer and teacher who spent much of her life in a one-woman crusade to preserve the choreography of her mother, Bronislava Nijinska, died on Tuesday at the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital in Inglewood, Calif. She was 77 years old and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
        She died of cardiac arrest, her husband, Gibbs S. Raetz, said.
When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Natalie Raetz of Long Beach, Calif., and a son, George Raetz of Denver.
      
Her husband, Charles E. Wyzanski, a former chief judge of Federal District Court in Boston, whom she married in 1943, died in 1986.
Her husband, Charles E. Wyzanski, a former chief judge of Federal District Court in Boston, whom she married in 1943, died in 1986.
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
She is survived by her husband of 45 years, Dr. Robert Dell, who also is a retired Pace professor of English, and two sons, Douglas, a Nynex executive in Middleton, Mass., and Blair, a law student in Texas.
      
She died of emphysema, her husband said.
In 1966, President Lyndon B Johnson named her husband Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, making him the first black Cabinet member in the nation's history.
Besides her husband, Dr. Weaver is survived by a brother, Hampton D. Haith of Winston-Salem, N.C.
      
Ms. Brock is survived by her husband, Abel Bomberault.
      
She died of a stroke, her husband, Jack, said.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Erlanger is survived by a daughter, Peri, of Manhattan; two sisters, Lillian Picoult of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and Rose Finkelstein of Ellenville, N.Y., and four brothers, Ruby Mayer of Lakewood, N.J., Harvey and Murray, both of Fort Lauderdale, and Leonard, of Hauppauge, L.I.
      
Ms. Lefcourt is survived by her husband of 26 years, Robert, of New York City; a daughter, Jenny; a son, Daniel; her mother, Marjorie Hoffman of New York City, and a sister, Elaine Hoffman Rattet of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Mayer also helped her husband research and edit several reference books he wrote for artists, including "The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques," first published in 1940 and now considered a classic in the field.
Besides her son, Dr. Linus Abrams of Brookline, Mass., Dr. Abrams is survived by her husband, Nathan, and a daughter, Lydia, of New York City.
      
Donald Schapiro, her husband of 39 years, said she died of cancer.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Schapiro's survivors include a daughter, Jane G., also of Manhattan; a son, Robert A., of Columbia, Md., and a sister, Judge Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum of United States District Court in Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Weiss's husband, Louis, died in 1950.
In addition to her son Lawrence, she is survived by her husband, Bernard L. Gladieux Sr.; two other sons, Bernard Jr. of Gilbertsville, Pa., and Jay A. of New Canaan, Conn.; a brother, Lowell Skilliter of Toledo, Ohio; a sister, Lois Jones of Harrisburg, Va., seven grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Her husband, Paul, said she died of cancer.
Besides her husband she is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth of Meredith, N.H.; three sons, Mark of Fort Meyers, Fla., Peter of Hightstown, N.J., and David of Washington; her father, Walkley Ewing of Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, David Ewing of Winchester, Mass,; a sister, Elizabeth Purves of the Westchester town of Larchmont, and four grandchildren.
      
Ms. Carr is survived by her husband, Anthony M. Radice; a daughter, Julia; her mother, Dorislee Kadis Carr, and a half-sister, Amy, all of New York City.
      
She is survived by her husband, Harry A. Jacobs Jr., former chairman of Bache Group Inc., now known as Prudential Securities; a daughter, Nancy Jacobs Haneman of Rye, N.Y.; a son, Harry A.
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
Mrs. Cline is survived by her husband, Hugh F.; a daughter, Lynn Hunter Cline of Princeton, and a son, Hugh D., of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Greenland is survived by her husband, Leo; two sons, Seth and Andrew; a sister, Yvette Rosenzweig, and a granddaughter, all of New York City.
      
Her first husband, Paul Donnelly, a representative for a Kansas City shoe company, acted as the head of the garment company in its early days, but she assumed full control when they were divorced in 1932.
She is survived by her husband, L. Emery Katzenbach, the former chairman of White, Weld & Company, an investment banking firm; two daughters, Mrs. Pamela M. Thye of Wellesley Hills, Mass., and Caroline N. Sidnam of New York City; a son, Robert D. C. Meeker Jr. of Elizabethtown, N.C., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Prelinger is survived by her husband, Dr. Ernst Prelinger, a Yale University psychologist; two daughters, Dr. Katherine Holden of Sharon, Conn., and Edith Holden Roth of Mamaroneck, N.Y.; a stepson, Richard Prelinger of New York City; three stepdaughters, Elizabeth A. Prelinger of Washington, Polly Prelinger of San Francisco, and Jane Rothkopf of New York City; and six grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Horwitch and her husband, Arnold, moved from Chicago to Scottsdale in 1955.
Surviving in addition to her husband are their five children, Mark, of San Francisco; Mindi and Wendy, of Los Angeles; Carrie, of Seattle, and Deena Semler of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Joan Siewert of Lake Forest, Ill.
      
Mrs. Chaplin, who became known as Lady Oona after her British-born husband was knighted in 1975, was an 18-year-old Brearley graduate and fledgling actress in 1943 when she became the fourth wife of the internationally beloved actor and director, who was then 54 years old.
After her husband's death in 1977, Mrs. Chaplin stayed on, becoming something of a recluse.
Two years later, it was learned that Mrs. Chaplin had renounced her American citzenship and become an English subject like her husband.
Throughout her life, Oona O'Neill Chaplin was a gracious, quiet presence overshadowed by her ebullient husband.
Mrs. Chaplin always told friends and interviewers that she was content to remain a wife and mother, and always said she never noticed the difference between her age and her husband's.
Her first husband, Charles Hoff, died in 1949.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
Mrs. Ellsworth's daughter, a Barnard College graduate and former editor for the Encyclopedia Americana in New York, is now Patricia Wilson, a resident of Holland, Mich. Mrs. Ellsworth's first husband, Mr. Farrell, lives in Manhattan.
"
        Ms. Mason is survived by her husband, Stephen Carden, and their two children, Polly, 8, and Clayton, 4.
In 1943 Mrs. Zeisler divorced her husband, and in 1946 she married Ernest Zeisler, a physician and author.
In 1942 the author said the pen name had been used to protect her daughter, Eleanor Perenyi, who was living in occupied Europe, and because Mrs. Stone's husband, Ellis, was the United States naval attache in Paris, where they were living.
But when my husband was stationed at St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands, the place seemed to get me started.
She died of a heart attack after a long illness with lung cancer, said her husband, Donald.
She is survived only by her husband.
      
In 1940 she married Edmund Whitman, her first husband's business colleague at the United Fruit Company.
Mrs. Commins's books included a biography of her husband, "What Is an Editor?
" (1978); "All About the Symphony Orchestra and What It Plays" (1961); "Lullabies of the World" (1967), and a compilation of letters exchanged by her husband and the playwright Eugene O'Neill.
In the mid-1950's she and her husband, George Anders, who died in 1987, began their own publishing company, Hearthside Press, which specialized in works on cooking, crafts and gardening.
She is survived by her husband, Jonah Perry Sr.; her mother, Eva Rutledge; a son, Jonah Jr.; a daughter, Nicol, and several brothers and sisters.
      
Mrs. Kaye, the widow of the actor Danny Kaye, wrote the music and lyrics for many of her husband's films, including "Up in Arms" (1944), "Wonder Man" (1945), "The Kid from Brooklyn" (1946), "The Secret Life of Walter Mitty" (1947), "The Inspector General" (1949) and "The Court Jester" (1956).
Mrs. Kaye wrote the music and lyrics for her husband and accompanied him on piano.
"
        For most of her career, Mrs. Kaye wrote songs and music solely for her husband.
" She also produced and edited "Assignment Children," a Unicef film that starred her husband.
She was also writing a catalogue of show-business material that she and her husband had donated to the Library of Congress.
She made her first comedy appearance at the Apollo Theater in Harlem with her husband, George Wiltshire, who died in 1976, and his partner, Pigmeat Markham.

        Roberta Strauss Feuerlicht, an author of 18 books of history and biography who frequently espoused liberal social and political causes, died yesterday of congestive heart failure, her husband said.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Herbert Alan Feuerlicht of Manhattan, and a son, Ira, of Brooklyn.
      
'I Got to Know Grief'
        In 1943, her husband was arrested and imprisoned for anti-fascist activities.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Cahill is survived by five daughters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary E. Cahill of Washington, Regina Blake Keeley of Potomac, Md., Teresa Cahill of Boston and Eileen Campbell of Merchantville, N.J.; two sons, William T. Jr. and John P., both of Collingswood, N.J.; a brother, George Myrtetus of Scotch Plains, N.J., and 13 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Donald; two sons, David, of Manhattan and Adam, of Kenova, W. Va., and a sister, Frances Edlitz of Rockville, Md.
      
Mrs. Feldman is survived by her husband, Edgar; a brother, Sherman Yellen; a daughter, Mindy Schanback, and a grandson, Benjamin, all of Manhattan.
      
Her first husband, Charles Wilson Kingsbury Sr., a career officer in the Army, died in the early 1950's; in 1968 she married E. Swift Newton, an Irish businessman, who died in 1974.
She is survived by her second husband, Frank Pileggi, of Manhattan.
Her second husband, Albion Hughes, also a journalist, is deceased.
Among her subjects were the land, sea and animals of Long Island, Maine, Connecticut and the Bahamas, places where she and her husband lived and vacationed.
Mrs. Blum is survived by her husband, Robert E.; a son, John R. H., and a daughter, Alice B. Yoakum, both of Lakeville; a brother, Donald Halsey of New Orleans; 10 grandchildren, and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Silas, died in 1966.
She and her husband, Peter, who died in 1988, operated the New Yorker Bookstore, an Upper West Side institution that closed in 1982.
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
      
She is survived by her husband, Justice William C. Thompson of the Appellate Division; three sons from her first marriage, to Robert Ross, which ended in divorce: John Hart Ross of Washington D.C., James Franklin Ross and William Stewart Ross, both of Brooklyn, and a daughter from her second marriage, to Stanley E. Kooper, Dr. Grace Kooper, of Cumberland, R.I.
Her husband, James H. McGraw Jr., died in 1970.
Her husband, Willard, died in 1983.
She was 77 years old and lived in New York City and Jupiter, Fla.
        She had suffered from a blood disorder for more than 20 years, said her husband, Lynn Phillips.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Michael, of St. Louis, four grandchildren and a brother, Edward, of Bridgehampton, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Kriendler, who had been suffering from osteoporosis, diabetes and pulmonary disease, collapsed at her Fifth Avenue apartment yesterday morning and died at Mount Sinai a short time later, her husband said.
Besides her husband, there are no immediate survivors.
      
She is survived by her husband, Herbert; two sons, David, of Bayside, Queens, and Peter, of Roslyn; two daughters, Karen and Jennifer, of Roslyn; her mother, Miriam Glickman of West Lawrence, L.I.
Her husband, Dr. Harry Sobotka, a biochemist at Mount Sinai Hospital, died in 1970.
      
Miss Kempton's husband, A. M. McNamara, a lawyer and business executive, died several years ago.
      
