In addition to her daughter, Ms. Adler is survived by her husband, Dr. Eugene B. Silbermann, a New York obstetrician and gynecologist; a stepdaughter, Allison Adler of Manhattan; a sister, Beverly Zaccheo of Long Island City, Queens; two granddaughters and a grandson.
      
Her first husband, W. Maurice Steppacher, who was vice president and treasurer of the WDAS radio station in Philadelphia, died in 1936.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
Surviving are her husband, Raymond L. Poston of Washington; four children, Jeffrey L., Carol D., Ramsey R. and Katharene J., all of Washington, and a sister, Diane J. Welch of Kansas City, Mo.
      
Surviving are her husband, Milton; a son, Michael, and a daughter, Eve, both of White Plains; her father, Abraham Letich of Queens; two sisters, Davida Luttenberg of New Hyde Park, L.I., and Judith Kaplan of Ocala, Fla., and a brother, Larry Letich of Verona, N.J.
      
She died of heart failure, said her husband, Markus Mizne.
During the early years of World War II, she hid in France and Luxembourg but was able to leave in 1942 when her husband, who had escaped to Brazil, obtained a performer's visa for her.
Her first husband, Edward B. Mayer, died in 1932.
Besides her brother, the former Congressman and Governor, she is survived by her second husband, Albert G. Isaacs Jr.; a son, Edward E. Mayer of Esher, Surrey, England; a stepdaughter, Betsy Cooper of Waverly, Pa.; two sisters, Katherine Rozendaal of Schenectady, N.Y., and Sara Scranton Linen of Greenwich, Conn.; three stepgrandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
She graduated in 1924 from Alfred, where she met her husband, George J. Openhym, a fellow student.
Her second husband, Robert S. Herzog, died last year.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Leo Simon, a clothing retailing executive, died in 1966.
She also worked more than 20 years as an agent for Frank Travel Service
        She is survived by her husband, Henry, senior partner of the Frankenthaler Kohn Schneider & Katz law firm in Manhattan; three daughters, Margaret A. of Washington, Barbara K. Katz of Manhattan and Alice K. Domby of Atlanta, and six grandchildren.
      
She was often arrested by colonial police in what was previously called Southern Rhodesia for campaigning with her husband against white rule and spent six weeks in prison in 1961.
She died of bronchial pneumonia as a result of cancer, said Brian Astbury, her husband.
In 1972, with Mr. Astbury, her second husband, she founded the Space Theater in Cape Town, the first theater in South Africa to welcome actors and audiences of all races.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by three daughters, Mavourneen, of Cheltenham, England; Colleen King of Cape Town, and Melanie Whetstone of London, and seven grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
Her husband, David, died in 1967.
Her first husband, W. Maurice Steppacher, who was vice president and treasurer of the WDAS radio station in Philadelphia, died in 1936.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
With her husband, Watson Blair, she also had homes and gardens in Southampton and Brookville, L.I.
Her first husband, Alexander Bloomfield McFadden, a cotton broker in Memphis, died, and in 1953, she married Mr. Blair, a banker with J. P. Morgan & Company.
In addition to her husband and Miss McFadden, of New York, Mrs. Blair is survived by four sons, George McFadden of New York, John H. McFadden of London, Watson B. Blair of Seattle and Wolcott R. Blair of St. Louis, and 11 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, W. Howard Chase; two daughters, Anne, of Glen Rock, N.J., and Alison, of Kinnelon, N.J.; one son, Thomas, of North Plainfield, N.J.; eight grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      
She was 56 years old and lived in Santa Ynez, Calif.
        She had breast cancer for three years, said her husband, Andre, the stage and film director and actor.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, an actor, and a daughter, Marina, both of Manhattan, and by a brother, Fred Nebelthau of Bremen.
Surviving are her husband, Michael, a mathematics professor at Pace University; three stepchildren, David of Manhattan, Daniel of Highland Park, Ill., and Donald of Brooklyn, and three brothers, Charles Frank of Ardsley, N.Y., and Howard and Edward Frank, both of Boston.
      
Her husband, Gerald Schwartz, a chemist and industrial hygienist, is dead.
Surviving are her husband, Ray Manley; two daughters, Rebecca Chenitz of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Kim Manley of Greenbrae; a sister, Lucille Allison of Greenbrae, and her mother, Yvette Allison of Summerfield, Fla.
      
In 1954, she and her husband and son, both of them also lawyers, became the first family to be simultaneously sworn in to practice before the United States Supreme Court.
She is survived by her husband, Paul; two daughters, Sharon, at home, and Deborah, of Bethesda, Md.
She is survived by her husband, Mark Pearce, and a son, Alexander.
      
Like her husband, who saw his team win three pennants but never a World Series championship, Mrs. Yawkey, too, was denied the ultimate goal.
She was visiting Hawaii with her husband, Walter E. King, on a trip to where they had spent their honeymoon.
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
She was 53 years old and also had homes in Oyster Bay, L.I., and Vail, Colo.
        She died of cancer, said her husband, Oscar L. Tang.
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Juliana Koo of Manhattan, who is the widow of V. K. Wellington Koo, a Nationalist Chinese diplomat who was an ambassador to Washington and a member of the International Court of Justice at the Hague; three daughters, Tracy Tang Limpe, Dana and Kristin, all of Manhattan; a son, Kevin, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Genevieve Young of Manhattan and Shirley Young of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Manhattan.
      
Surviving are her husband, William H.; three daughters, Beatrice F. Manz of Milton and Andrea F. Schoenfeld and Elise F. Pachter, both of Washington; two sons, Peter M. of Milton and Anthony W. of Belmont, Mass.
She died of breast cancer, said her husband, Dr. Girard Franklin, also a psychoanalyst.
Dr. Friedman, as she was known professionally, felt it important not to hide her illness because of the effect on therapy, her husband said.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Gary, of San Francisco, and two daughters, Lisa, of Philadelphia, and Eve Lynes, of San Mateo, Calif.
      
Pictures of her appeared in Vogue and Harper's Bazaar and after moving to the United States with her husband in 1939, she worked both as a model and as a photographer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Mia Fonssagrives-Solow, a sculptor and jewelry designer, and a son, Tom Penn, a metal designer, both of New York City; by two sisters, Lilian Bernstone and Kajsa Lundquist, both of Sweden, and by two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sarcka and her husband, Wayne, established Spring Lake Ranch at Cuttingsville, Vt., in 1932 for people with mental and emotional problems and ran it for 30 years.
After her husband's death in 1969, Mrs. Sarcka returned to Queens.
Her husband, Dr. Sol Hirschman, is dead.
Her husband, Milton, who was a perfume business executive, is dead.
She was 94 years old and lived in McLean, Va.
        Mrs. Clay, a graduate of Barnard College, was living with her husband in Berlin in 1948 when one of the cold war's worst crises developed.
Miss Sherman is survived by her husband of 56 years, Henry S. Maurer; their son, Henry S. Jr., of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a daughter, Arnelle Liblit of Commack, L.I., and one grandson.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her daughter, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, two other daughters, Susan Kosowski of Fishkill, N.Y., and Kate Draper of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Dr. Peter Wedeen; two sons, Dr. Van Wedeen of Boston, and Dr. Glenn Wedeen of Manhattan, and her father, Hugo Ullman of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband of 32 years, George C., an investment banker; a daughter, Diana, of Manhattan; two sons, George, of Riverside, Conn., and Jonathan, of Manhattan; a sister, Sheila English of New Haven; a brother, Alexander White of Manhattan and Chatham, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
Her husband of 36 years, Dr. Irving J. Sands, a neurologist and psychiatrist, is deceased.
Her husband died in 1990.
She is survived by her husband, Robin, and a daughter, Shoshanna.
      
Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig, and their daughter, Miranda Craig who lives in Los Angeles.
      
She died of heart failure, said her husband, Michael Herman.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, Alexander Bodnar of Floral Park, L.I.
      
Miss Walker is survived by her husband, David Craig; a daughter, Miranda Craig, and a sister, Betty Lou Barto, both of Los Angeles.
      
Surviving are her husband of 30 years, Robert E. Lewis, a literary agent; two daughters, Ellen J. and Sarah E., both of Manhattan; a brother, James Simonson of Minneapolis, , and a sister, Sonja Schrag of La Crosse, Wis.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      

        Leueen MacGrath, an actress and playwright who co-wrote the 1955 Broadway musical "Silk Stockings" with her third husband, George S. Kaufman, died on Friday at her home in London.
With her husband, Ralph Scaffidi, a trumpet player, she moved to Bakersfield in 1968 where they formed and ran the Osborne Guitar Company, which later became the Osborne Sound Laboratories, a manufacturer of amplifiers and public-address systems.
In addition to her son, who lives in Bakersfield, she is survived by her husband, another son, Peter, of Clovis, N.M.; a daughter, Susan Chidgey of Bakersfield; a brother, Elvy Orsborn, and a sister, Louise Orsborn.
      
Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      
She returned to New York, but her career had declined and her second husband's medical expenses depleted her savings.
Her husband was John Scott Mabon, a publishing executive who was the acting director of University of Michigan Press.
In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, she and her husband, Arpad Szenes, a Hungarian-born painter she married in 1930, fled to Rio de Janeiro.
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Mandelbaum is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph Mandelbaum, himself a past president of the League School; two sons, Paul Mandelbaum, of Brooklyn, and Dr. Joel Mandelbaum, of Kingston, N.Y.; a daughter, Jo Travis, of Branchville, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
Her fourth husband, Oscar-winning screenwriter Waldo Salt, died in 1987.
Her last book, published in 1987, was "Sutherland and Bonynge: An Intimate Biography," about Dame Joan Sutherland and her husband, the conductor Richard Bonynge.
She is survived by her husband, Milton; three daughters, Elizabeth Hersh, of Washington; Emily Abel, of Santa Monica, Calif., and Margaret Nelson of Middlebury, Vt.; two sons, James, of Takoma Park, Md., and Thomas, of New York; a sister, Joan Aron, of Washington, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Dr. Matthew Levine, a psychiatrist, is deceased.
The book chronicled her experiences accompanying her husband on fishing trips around the world.
She is survived by her husband, Gabriel; a son, Jeffrey, of Arlington, Mass.
She was a regular monthly contributor to her husband's publications, "Physical Culture" and "Health Review," lectured on fitness, appeared on television talk shows, developed her own line of creams and lotions, and maintained a counseling service on mental and physical health in her apartment until the time of her death.
Her husband of 35 years, E. J. Audi, who ran a furniture and carpet business, died in 1968.
She committed suicide by asphyxiation, said her husband, Harold Garrett-Goodyear, a history professor at Mount Holyoke College.
Besides her husband, she leaves a daughter, Cordelia, of South Hadley; her parents, Sylvester Garrett and Molly Yard, former president of the National Organization for Women, of Washington, and two brothers, James Garrett of Pittsburgh, and John Garrett of Rochester.
      
In the Depression, she worked on mural projects for the art agencies established by the Works Progress Administration, and in 1941 she collaborated with her husband on a mural for the United States Forestry Sevice in Laconia, N.H.
She and her husband of 62 years, former United States Representative Herbert Tenzer, took leading roles at the university for many years.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Tenzer is survived by a son, Barry, of Manhattan and Quogue, L.I.
Surviving are her husband of 14 years, Henry J.
Jacob Kalich, her husband and colleague from 1919 until his death in 1975, wrote more than 40 scripts for her, and Joseph Rumshinsky, the well-known composer, did most of her music.
Miss Picon was particularly touched in 1946 when she and her husband were among the first entertainers to visit European camps for displaced people.
' "
        Her husband told Miss Picon: "Molly, that's our job.
She died of complications of leukemia, her husband, Charles Eisenmann, said.
Surviving are her husband of eight years; their daughter, Catherine Eisenmann; her mother, Barbara Brewster of Ossining; and three sisters, Deborah Ferrenz of Silver Spring, Md., Abigail McGahey of Tyngsboro, Mass., and Alison Henderson of North Andover, Mass.
      
Mrs. Lee and her late husband, Burt Lee, had lived in White Plains from the late 1940's to 1976, when they moved to St. Thomas, V.I.
Dr. Estrin's husband, Dr. Irving Jonathan Estrin, died several years ago.
Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Jeremiah, a lawyer in Manhattan; three daughters, Mara Ferris of Brookline, Mass., and Thea Gutman and Rebecca Menon, both of Manhattan; a sister, Naomi Fatouros of Bloomington, Ind., and two grandchildren.
      
Dr. Symonds is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin Symonds, a psychiatrist and deputy chief surgeon of the New York City Police Department; a sister, Edith Zuaro, of Long Island, two brothers, Milton Schacter and Dr. Sherman Schacter, both of Manhattan, two nephews and three nieces.
      
Mrs. Levy became a limited partner in Goldman, Sachs & Company in 1976 at the death of her husband of 42 years, Gustave L. Levy.
She died of leukemia, said her husband, Edwin Miller.
Her first husband was the conductor Gerhard Joel; he died in 1946 but she retained Joel as her professional name.
In addition to her husband, Miss Joel is survived by a son, Eric Miller of Manhattan, and three brothers, Irving Tarnower of Teaneck, N.J., Dr. William Tarnower of Topeka, Kans., and Gerald Tarnower of Dallas.
      
She was married at the age of 19 to a French mathematician, Paul Dienes, and she did not decide to become an artist until she was 29 and living in Wales with her husband.
Mrs. Dienes's husband died in London in 1955.
She emigrated to the United States in 1963 with her husband, T. James Rudd.
She died of complications after surgery for lung cancer, said her husband, Albert.
She and her husband were among seven veteran journalists who returned to China in 1985 at the invitation of the Government.
She died of a stroke, said her husband, Israel Seeger.
She is survived, in addition to her husband, by two sons, William and Michael, both of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
      
Her husband of nearly 50 years, Dr. Benedict J. Bernstein, also a psychoanalyst, died last year.
She died of complications after surgery for lung cancer, said her husband, Albert.
She and her husband were among seven veteran journalists who returned to China in 1985 at the invitation of the Government.
Dr. Pulaski is survived by her husband of 52 years, Charles A. Pulaski; a son, Charles A. Jr., of Tempe, Ariz.; a daughter, Elizabeth Mertens of Glen Head, L.I., and three grandchildren.
      
In addition to her husband, Mr. Clark, she is survived by two sons, George Cabot Lodge and Henry Sears Lodge, both of Beverly; 10 grandchildren, and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
With her husband, Julian, Mrs. Bornstein lent support to many civic and educational centers in Fair Lawn.
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, Robert B. Hirschhorn; her parents, Glenn and Jimmie Ellis of Hot Springs, Ark.
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
With her husband, Julian, Mrs. Bornstein lent support to many civic and educational centers in Fair Lawn.
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Dr. Louis Nathanson, a radiologist and member of the Albert Einstein College faculty, died in 1968.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Joseph, a theatrical producer and manager; three sons, James, of Pomona, Jeremiah, of New York City, and Joseph Jr., of Teaneck, N.J., and a daughter, Jennifer, of New York City.
      
Surviving are her husband, Robert B. Hirschhorn; her parents, Glenn and Jimmie Ellis of Hot Springs, Ark.
Mrs. Robertson is survived by her husband, William Sterling Robertson 3d, and two sons, Evan Alexander and Ian Stewart.
      
She and her husband, Dr. Sol Cohen, shared a private practice in Co-Op City.
In addition to her husband, Dr. Roque Cohen is survived by two daughters, Michele and Jennifer, both of Harrison, and a brother, Alfredo of Cordoba.
      
She returned to Atlanta in 1943 when her husband joined Morehouse College.
She won the Wimbledon mixed-doubles titles in 1924 with J. Brian Gilbert, defeating her future husband and Dorothy Shepherd Barron in the final.
She joined the Brooklyn College faculty, where her husband was also on the anthropology faculty, in 1947 as an adjunct professor and became a full-time faculty member in 1965.
Professor Jablow is survived by her husband, Joseph, and her daughter, Lisa, also of Manhattan.
      
I leapt forth only a few minutes before midnight, in a supreme effort from my mother, whose husband had assured her that I would be named Independencia if I arrived on the Fourth.
I leapt forth only a few minutes before midnight, in a supreme effort from my mother, whose husband had assured her that I would be named Independencia if I arrived on the Fourth.
She is survived by her husband, William S.; a daughter, Page E., also of Maplewood; two sons, John O.

        Sophie Leavitt, an author of cookbooks and, with her husband, a collector of contemporary art who contributed works to several museums throughout the country, died on June 23 in her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 86 years old.
Mrs. Leavitt died of natural causes, said Brenda Collins, a spokeswoman for Levitt-Weinstein Memorial Chapels of West Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mrs. Leavitt and her husband, Boris, both lifelong collectors of art, lent many pieces from their substantial collection for temporary or permanent exhibition.
Mrs. Leavitt and her husband were co-founders of the direct-marketing retail division of the Horn and Hardart Company.
Mrs. Leavitt is survived by her husband; three children, Lana Rosenfeld of Manhattan, Allen J. Leavitt of Las Vegas, Nev., and David L. Leavitt of Coatesville, Pa., and five grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Simon, died in 1943.
Surviving are her husband; a daughter, Wendy Stark Morrissey, and a brother, William Brice, both of Los Angeles, and one grandchild.
Mrs. Sherman took charge of the company when her first husband, Arthur Cohen, who founded it, died in 1974.
In addition to her son, who lives in Philadelphia, Mrs. Sherman is survived by her second husband, Melvin Sherman, a daughter, Barbara Cohen Stanley, of San Francisco, a brother Stanley Silverstein, of Charleston, W.Va., and five grandchildren.
      
She was 49 years old and lived in Rye Brook, N.Y.
        She was in Little Rock for treatment for cancer at the University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Center, her husband said.
She and her husband, William P. Weinberg, became half-owners of Wilhelmina International Limited, the parent company of the Wilhelmina Artists and Wilhelmina Models.
Her survivors include her husband and her parents, Adam and Greta Boyce of Mount Prospect, Ill.
      
In addition to her husband, Mr. Clark, she is survived by two sons, George Cabot Lodge and Henry Sears Lodge, both of Beverly; 10 grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Ley and her husband, Wolfgang Ley, founded Escada in 1979 and built it into an international company that had sales topping $800 million last year.
She designed for Mondi, a German sportswear manufacturer, for 10 years before founding Escada with her husband, whom she had married in 1974.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Sven Ley, of Munich, and two children from a previous marriage, Karin Srb, of Munich, and Kristian Srb, of Water Mill, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Freeman died of cancer, said her husband, Joel.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Freeman is survived by a daughter, Gail Weed Westcott, of Simsbury, Conn.; two sons, Jonathan, of Yonkers, and Ethan, of London and Vienna; a brother, Rabbi Herbert Gilner of Chambersburg, Pa., and two grandchildren.
      
She died of complications from cancer, said her husband, Harris E. Wainwright Jr.
        Mrs. Wainwright, who had been with Manufacturers since 1976, was vice president for corporate personnel.
She is survived by her husband, Harris, and her parents, Mr. and Mrs. Loring D. Dalton of Naples, Fla.
      
In addition to her son, Jonathan, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her husband, Dr. Norman Sher; a daughter, Katherine, of San Francisco, and a brother, Dr. Robert Hollenberg, of Hamilton, Ontario.
      
Mrs. Holden's husband, Philip Dana Holden, an investment banker, died in 1973.
"
        At the time, she lived in Baxley, Ga., and was married to her first husband, William D. Miller.
She began to gather the most interesting people she knew at the Park Avenue duplex she moved into with her husband, Leon J. Livingston, in 1941.
" A Brief Closing
        When Miss Parnis's husband died in 1962, she went out of business.
She remembered that she went into her husband's office and said she had just bought a Matisse.
She said that it had never occurred to her that she could go to the bank herself, without her husband, and get a loan.
As a girl, she collected pennies for a new dispensary that became a forerunner of the hospital that her future husband helped to found in 1927 -- Bronx-Lebanon on the Grand Concourse in the Tremont section.
After her husband's death in 1961, Mrs. Loeb persuaded the hospital board to convert part of a waiting room into a gift shop that she would run with a few volunteers.
Her husband, she noted, was keen on long-distance running well before it became fashionable.
She was 58 years old and lived in Key Biscayne, Fla.
        She died of cancer, said her husband, Peter Kory.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Douglas, of Covelo, Calif.; her parents, Lil and Albert Tarshis of Las Vegas, Nev.; a sister, Lolo Berkoff, and a brother, Stanley Gordon, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her second husband, Jan Karski.
      
The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Herbert Fensterheim.
A native of Chicago and a 1944 graduate of Cornell University, Ms. Baer scored her first success as an author in 1965 when Macmillan began "Follow Me!," a travel guide for single women looking for a husband abroad.
Mrs. Dunnington's husband, Walter, died in 1971.
She is survived by her husband of 71 years, Fausto Santolalla Bernal, 101 years old; two daughters, Irene Santolalla Silva and Maria Teresa Santolalla Silva, and a son, Javier Santolalla Silva, all of Lima; nine grandchildren, and 11 great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 51 years, George J. Ames, a partner in Lazard Freres & Company; four daughters, Ruth Solie of Northampton, Mass., Joan Berkowitz of Guilford, Conn., Margery E. Ames of Manhattan and Dorothy Cummings of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, William H. Patterson of Cincinnati, and five grandchildren.
      
Concurring in her husband's break with President Roosevelt, Mrs. Douglas supported the Republican candidate in 1940, Wendell L. Willkie.
She is survived by her husband, Howard; two sons, Robert, of Westfield, N.J., and Barry, of Novato; a brother, Arnold Fassler of Williamsville, Vt.; a sister, Sue Kellerman of San Rafael, Calif., and three grandchildren
      
Her husband, Willard D. Morgan, talked her into trying photography, although she resisted at first, calling it journalism rather than art.
Ms. Peterson is survived by her husband, Charles; a son, Wesley; a daughter, Ronnie, and three grandchildren, all of Middletown.
      
Her husband, Prof. Ernest Van B. Jones, died in 1966.
      
Mrs. Hunnewell is survived by her husband, Richard F. Hunnewell; six children, Joseph J. Haggerty, of Stowe, Vt., Louis D. Haggerty, of San Jose, Calif., Angela B. Haggerty, of Norwalk, Conn., Lucie B. Cook, of Plaistow, N.H., Bryan Haggerty, of Boston, and Leah Clark, of Waccabuc, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      
Her husband of 48 years, Peter H. Solomon, a shoe company executive, died in 1988.
Miss Sale's husband, Sam Wren, an actor and director, died in Hollywood in 1962.
Miss Libman's husband, Harry A. Woodward, died in 1975.
Mrs. Del Monte died of cancer, said her husband, Roy.
Mrs. Del Monte is survived by her husband.
      
She died of pneumonia, said her husband, Felix Fibich.
She is survived by her husband.
      
Mrs. Somerville is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Kelley; a son, Chad; a twin sister, Tamara Westover, all of Rye, and her father, Paul Buiar of Pound Ridge, N.Y.
      

        Lillian Vallish Foote, a theater and film producer who worked closely with her husband, the playwright Horton Foote, died on Wednesday in Princeton, N.J. She was 69 years old and had homes in New York City and Wharton, Tex.
Mrs. Foote was the producer of several plays and films, among them "1918," "On Valentine's Day" and "Courtship," all of which were written by her husband.
Her other credits include "The Roads to Home" at the Manhattan Punchline Theater and the three part mini-series "Story of a Marriage," also by her husband, broadcaston public television in 1987.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by four children, Barbara Hallie, Horton Jr., Walter and Daisy, all of New York City.
      
Her husband, John Wesley Hanes Sr., joined in the venture, and they owned many stakes winners in England, Ireland and the United States.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Irving C. Gayner; two sons, Stephen, also of Forest Hills, and Jay D., of Manhattan; a sister, Dorothy Kasman of Manhattan, and one granddaughter.
      
Her first husband, Morris Treistman, died in 1937.
During that period, Mrs. Chorley and her husband entertained foreign officials and royalty.
Her husband, Irving M. Granowitz, a certified public accountant, died in 1975.
The foundation and the awards program were founded by Mrs. Fordyce, Mrs. Lasker and her husband, Albert, in 1944 to draw attention to major achievements in basic and clinical medical research and stimulate Federal financing of research.
Mrs. Fordyce's husband, A.
She is survived by her husband, Philip; two daughters, Alison Buffum of Narrangansett, R.I., and Roo Sheridan of Los Angeles, and four grandchildren.
      
" She turned it down to stay in Los Angeles to help her husband through his ordeal.
" She turned it down to stay in Los Angeles to help her husband through his ordeal.
"
        Mrs. Ashworth's husband, Dr. Osbourne O. Ashworth, a physician, died in 1945.
Besides her daughter, a Manhattan resident, Ms. Lobsenz is survived by her husband, Dr. Harry Abrahams; a son, Michael Lobsenz of Boyds, Md., and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Fenwick was left with two children and her husband's debts.
Mrs. Kinnear's husband, James W. Kinnear Jr., a vice president of United States Steel, now the USX Corporation, died in 1990.
Professor Shklar is survived by her husband, Gerald Shklar, a professor at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine; two sons, David, of Cambridge, and Michael, of Leminister, N.H., and a daughter, Ruth, of Berkeley, Calif.
      
"Bernice would always say, 'I could beat them in the courts, but I can't beat them on the field,' " Steve Gera, her husband, said.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Gera is survived by two brothers and two sisters.
      
Looking back on her three decades as a columnist, she concluded that of all marital problems, "the single greatest pitfall of all times" is the inability of husband and wife to communicate.
The cause of death was cancer, her husband, Dr. Geoffrey Ginsburg, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Jeremy Swan, and stepmother, Rona Swan, both of Beverly Hills, Calif.; her mother, Pamela Swan of Long Beach, Calif.; four sisters, Elizabeth Condit of Gainesville, Fla., Caroline Swan of Los Angeles and Eleanor Donohue and Geraldine Swan, both of Long Beach; two brothers, Jeremy Swan of Studio City, Calif., and Gordon Swan of Los Angeles.
      
Together with her husband, John F. Raynolds 3d, former president of Outward Bound USA, she wrote "Beyond Success -- How Volunteer Service Can Help You Begin Making a Life Insead of Just a Living.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two children from a previous marriage, a son, Jayson Kuhn of Silver Spring, Md., and a daughter, Jennifer Irwin of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and by two grandchildren.
      
Mother Khadijah founded the mosque in 1939 with her husband, Sheik Daoud Ahmed Faisal, who served as its imam, or spiritual leader, until his death in 1980.
She and her husband worked to bring immigrant Muslims and new American converts to the faith together in one mosque.
She also traveled around the country with her husband, addressing women's groups on Islam.
Mother Khadijah, who was born in Bermuda, is survived by her second husband, Imam Omar Bey, and by several nieces and nephews in Bermuda.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert C. Wilder; a daughter, Rachel W. Smeragliuolo of Baltimore; two sons, Clinton D., of San Francisco, and Robert D., of Washington; a sister, Doris Gould of Atlanta, and a granddaughter.
      
"
        Mrs. Cooper's husband, James Wayne Cooper, a senior partner of the New Haven law firm of Tyler, Cooper & Alcorn, died in 1989.
Professor Friedlaender is survived by her husband, Stephen Friedlaender; two sons, Lucas Friedlaender and Nathaniel Friedlaender, both of Newton, and a brother, Alexander L. Fetter, of Palo Alto, Calif.
      
Miss Booth's portrayals of a woman struggling to cope with her husband's alcoholism and their barren life together garnered every dramatic award, including a Tony and an Oscar.
Her second husband, William H. Baker Jr., an artist and farmer, died of heart disease in 1951.
She was 62 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y.
        Mrs. Paine's death was reported by her husband, Kenneth Paine, who said she died of cancer at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Nicolas, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Jenifer, of Boston; two stepdaughters, Emily Paine of Los Angeles and Rachel Wilson of London, and three grandchildren.
      
At the age of 50, when her children had grown up, she decided to become an underwater photographer, learned to dive and moved to St. Croix with her husband.
"
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Viertel is survived by a daughter, Alice Krieger of Manhattan; two sons, Tom of Manhattan, and Jack of Tarrytown, N.Y.; a sister, Joy Golden of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of the Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.
Her husband, John O. Wagner, died in 1974.
Surviving are her husband of nine years, Juris Jurjevics, the editor in chief of The Soho Press, and the couple's daughter, Rosa Audrey.
She is survived by her husband of 56 years, Richard Ewell, a retired actor.
      
She met her first husband, Hugh Comer, in the New Hope Zion Church, where he was a deacon.
Her husband of 48 years, Benjamin, died in 1986.
Rosebud's first husband, Arthur de Cinq-Mars, died in 1949.
Rosebud Yellow Robe Frantz is survived by her husband, Alfred Frantz; a daughter, Tachawin Moy, of Brooklyn; a granddaughter, Karen Winona Moy, of Manhattan; and a sister, Evelyn Robe Finkbeiner, of Bad Pyrmont and Garmisch-Partenkirchen, Germany.
      
She moved with her parents to the United States in 1939 and attended Queens College and the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, where she met her husband, Robert Lee Manning, an art collector who became director of the art gallery at Finch College in Manhattan.
From her father, Mrs. Manning inherited thousands of Italian and French paintings and drawings, to which she and her husband added major works.
In 1962-63, she and her husband organized the first United States exhibition of Genoese painting, which traveled from Dayton, Ohio, to Sarasota, Fla., to Hartford.
She is survived by her husband; her daughter, Sandy Manning Dolnier, and a grandson, John Robert Dylan.
      
Mrs. Bernheim, whose late husband, Leonard, was a stockbroker, suffered a paralyzing stroke in 1985.
Mrs. Bernheim's husband died in 1980.
In addition to her husband and daughter, she is survived by a son, Carl T., of Toronto; another daughter, Marianna M. Clark, of Cherry Hill, N.J.; a sister, Oleta McCarty, of Pensacola, Fla.; 13 grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband of 19 years, Dr. Peter Finch; her parents, Sylvia Shepherd of Manhattan and Archibald Shepherd Jr. of Florida; a daughter, Abi Shepherd-Finch of Manhattan; a brother, Lawrence of Manhattan, and her grandmother, Doris Allman of Barbados.
      
Besides her son, of Plainville, she is survived by her husband, Milton M. Koskoff; a daughter, Harriet K. Ziering of San Francisco; two brothers, Alan and Daniel Farber, both of Worcester, Mass; a sister, Lillian Feinberg of New York City, and a grandson.
      
She died of complications from lung-cancer, said her husband, Harold.
Besides her husband, Dr. Fromm is survived by her sister, Selma Margolis, and her brother, Nathan Glikin, both of Union, N.J.
      
The lawyer, Ian Miller, said that Mrs. Fulton's husband, David Fulton, 70 years old, a mining engineer, was also presumed dead, as was Dan Cooper, 45, a Canadian real estate developer who was a passenger when the Fultons' 22-foot fishing boat capsized in choppy waters on Thursday morning.
Mrs. Fulton's first husband, William Miles, lives in Los Angeles.
Her second husband, William Dunlop, is deceased.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Milton Epstein.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Harriet Silverstein of San Diego, and three brothers, Simon, also of San Diego, Israel, of Delray Beach, Fla., and Abraham, of Yardley, Pa.
      
Surviving are her husband, Martin; a son, Steven; a daughter, Susan Weprin, who is married to a nephew of the Speaker, and a granddaughter, all of Manhattan.
      
Her third husband, George V. Fuller, died in 1960.
Mrs. Lynn is survived by her husband, Lawrence R.; her mother and stepfather, Sylvia and Ralph Lippman of Manhattan; a brother, Keith Stanger of Ypsilanti, Mich., and four stepbrothers, David Lippman of Eureka, Calif., Dr. Jay Lippman of Manhattan, Jonathan Lippman of Rye, N.Y., and Dr. Leonard Lippman of West Hartford, Conn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Aubey Neill, of Baldwin; a sister, Myrna Shrouder; a brother, Ken Chong, and her parents, Zena and Linton Shrouder, all of the Bronx.
      
Her death was reported yesterday by her husband, Matteo Bocchino, who said she died of heart disease.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Richard David Jones of Three Rivers, Mass.
"
        Mrs. Furman is survived by her husband, Robert; a daughter, Julie Rosenthal, and two sons, Matthew and Ted, all of New York City.
Her husband, James P. Roach, who died in 1978, was the sports editor of The New York Times from 1958 to 1973.
She died of natural causes, said her husband, Sy R. Robins.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Claudia Whitman of Peaks Island, Me., and Debbie Robins of Los Angeles, and a brother, Norman Friedlander of Massapequa, L.I.
      
She was 49 years old and had homes in St. George and in Palm Springs, Calif.
        She died of cancer, said her husband, Al Adamson, a film director.
She met her husband in 1969, when he was casting "Satan's Sadists," in which she starred, and appeared in many of his later films, including "The Female Bunch.
"
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Barney Gelfan, and a brother, Carl Gelfan, both of Los Angeles.
      
Mrs. Cohen's husband, Eugene, died in 1990.
She was a trustee of the Brearley School and of Vassar College, and she shared her husband's many philanthropic interests and his pleasure in collecting art.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Anton O. Kris; two sons, David S. and Michael M. Kris, and a sister, Mary Ellen B. Wohl.
      
Her husband of 34 years, Mario Assante, a physician, died several years ago.
With her husband, Dr. R. Gordon Hoxie, she contributed to the growth of C. W. Post College on Long Island and established the Center for the Study of the Presidency.
Her husband became chancellor of Long Island University in 1964.
In 1968, Mrs. Hoxie and her husband started the Center for the Study of the Presidency, based in New York and Washington.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Hoxie is survived by a brother, Dr. Wallace C. Lobitz of Portland, Ore.
      
She was also a member of the National Writers' Union, of which her husband, Robert Claiborne, was an organizer and founder.
Left to Rear 3 Children
        Her husband died of cancer when she was 27, leaving her to rear three children, Nathan, Lorraine and Kenneth.
Surviving are her husband of 39 years, Dr. Lawrence Bergner, a physician; her mother, Clara Neufeld of Brooklyn; two sons, Daniel of Manhattan, and Robert of Montreal, and a granddaughter.
      
Her husband, L. Bancel LaFarge, an architect, died in 1989.
Her third husband, Mitchell Wilson, a physicist and novelist, died in 1973.
Besides her son David, of Zionsville, Ind., she is survived by her husband, Howard, and another son, Phillip Theodore, also of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Kevin; a son, Matthew; three daughters, Anna, Katherine and Margaret, all of Bedford Hills; her mother, Anna Bondhus; her brother, Nelson, of Farmington, Conn., and a sister, Diana Bortolin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
With her husband, the late Dennis Green, she served as scriptwriter for "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes," starring Basil Rathbone.
Her husband of 30 years, Reinaldo Herrera-Uslar, the Marques de Torre Casa, who owned sugar cane plantations, died in 1962.
Judge Lehrich's husband, Henry, a lawyer, died in 1966.
Her first husband, Dr. Edward Wallace, died in 1943.
With her first husband, Richard Brault, a French engineer whom she had met in Cincinnati and married in 1923, Miss Boyle briefly lived in New York City, where she attended Columbia University.
The couple then went to Europe, where Miss Boyle stayed for almost 20 years, living in England as well as France and Austria, and taking a fellow American expatriate, Laurence Vail, as her second husband in 1931 after she was divorced from her first.
Mrs. Carter died of cancer, said her husband, Stephen Carter.
In addition to her husband, Stephen, an architect and photographer who contributed to her articles, Mrs. Carter is survived by two brothers, Dr. Thomas Killip, of Manhattan, and Colbeth Killip, of Ogonquit, Me., and an aunt, Priscilla Balaban, of Wilmington, N.C.
      
Mrs. Bauer and her husband were partners in the Manhattan law firm that carried his name, Morris K. Bauer.
Mrs. Bernstein's husband, Samuel, died in 1969.

        Emily Martenet Gnichtel, who was active in New York philanthropic organizations, died Tuesday evening at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. She was 56 and lived in Madison, N.J., and at the Onteora Club in Hunter Township, N.Y.
        She died of heart failure after a short illness, said her husband, William Van Orden Gnichtel.
She and her husband, a lawyer, lived in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in the 1980's, where she organized horseback-riding classes.
She is survived by her husband, to whom she was wed in 1959; her mother, May Davies Hopkins Martenet, of Virginia Beach, and her two sons, William Van Orden Gnichtel Jr., of Montebello, N.Y., and Edwin Gnichtel, a student at Drew University in Madison.
      
She did much of her research on the topic with her former husband, Ivo K. Feierabend.
In addition to her daughter, Professor Lorwin is survived by her husband of 18 years, Alain Virnot; two sons, Tom, of Paris, and Steve, of Plainsboro, N.J; a brother, Boris, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Saunders's husband, Frank, died in 1989.
She died of pancreatic cancer, her husband, Julian, said.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Andrew, of Longmont, Colo.; two daughters, Laurie Braun of New Rochelle, N.Y., and Carol Shutzer of Swampscott, Mass.
In addition to her husband, her sister, who is now Margaret Maxwell of Vancouver, and her sons Kelly and Casey, Mrs. St. Aubin is survived by a brother, Lou; two other sisters, Pearl McInnis and Kay Morrison; three other sons, Ricky, the former head football coach at the University of California at Santa Barbara; Rocky, a telephone company employee, and Kelly's twin brother, Kerry, a Richard Hofstadter fellow in history at Columbia University, plus three grandchildren.
      
