Mrs. Goodman and her husband, Howard Goodman, known as Happy, who died last year at 81, were cofounders of the Happy Goodman Family act.
Friends said Mrs. Goodman never really recovered from her husband's death.
The cause was pneumonia, said John Cummings, associate chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, where I. Michael Heyman, Mrs. Heyman's husband, is a former chancellor and a professor at the law school.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son James and three grandchildren.
      
The cause was respiratory failure after pneumonia, said her husband, Steven Fink.
In addition to her husband, surviving are their daughter, Amanda Fink, also of Pasadena; a stepson, Stuart, of New York; and a brother, Dr. Barry Braiker of Beverly Hills, Calif.
      
Before the semifinals, she told her husband she was nervous and wanted to quit the Olympics because of the pressure.
Years later, her husband remembered in The Times: ''I had to talk much.
Her husband died in 1977.
She met her first husband, Ronald George Brown, a journalist, during that period.
She also toured the United States, South America and Cuba, performing folk songs, theater songs and liturgical chants with her husband, Harold Sternberg.

        Elizabeth Kenowsky Fisher, who with her husband, Zachary Fisher, helped bring the aircraft carrier Intrepid to its Hudson River berth as a floating museum, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
For many years, Mrs. Fisher was deeply involved in charitable work alongside her husband, a leading New York builder, especially to benefit the country's military, its veterans and their families.
Miss Klinger's husband, Jacobo Klinger, died in 1976.
With her husband Herbert Berghof (who died in 1990), she ran the HB Studios in Manhattan and was celebrated not only as an actress but also as a teacher of acting and author of books on the subject.
''
        But once she came onstage, and said Martha's first line: ''Jesus H. Christ,'' followed by her imitation of Bette Davis saying ''What a dump,'' and as she pitched into verbal battle with her husband, the intervening years passed in a cloud.
After a divorce from her husband, a business executive, she lived in London and changed her legal name to Justine Rendal.
The cause was endometrial cancer, said her husband, Allen Steinberg.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Schechter is survived by her son, Zachary.
She was Ms. Schechter, not Mrs. (Her husband's name was Allen Steinberg.
She frequently shared the stage with her husband of 35 years, Richard Merrell, an actor and writer, who died in 1988.
''
        With her husband she appeared in ''The Gin Game'' at the Missouri Repertory Theater.
One woman is always hair, hemline and husband.
Troy's younger sister Vy Higginsen and Mr. Wydro, who is Ms. Higginsen's husband, the show told the story of a young woman named Doris Winter who sings in a gospel choir and becomes an international pop star.
The cause was a brain tumor, said her husband, Roberto Benabib.
Besides her husband, Ms. Spindler is survived by her mother, Sally Spindler of Tampa, Fla., and a sister, Bonnie, of San Francisco.
      
She often appeared with her husband, known by his stage name, Robert Gerringer, with a slight change in the spelling of his surname.
Her husband, Maj. Gen. Goff Hamilton, served with Queen Victoria's Own Corps of Guides, as had his father.
She picked it up four years later, upon her husband's retirement, and kept writing and doing the research for it in England while fighting her illness.
The settings of the books shifted with her husband's postings, from Berlin to Cyprus to Kenya.
The cause was complications of uterine cancer, said her husband, Gary Zarr.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Emily; her mother, Linda Hall of Jefferson, N.Y.; and a sister, Debra Hall of New York City.
      
In addition to her daughter Elisabeth, who lives in Boston, Ms. Kornblee is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard V. Kornblee of Weston; another daughter, Mary K. Gabriel, also of Boston; a son, John C. Kornblee of Rocky Hill, Conn.; and three grandchildren.
      
She performed with Graham from 1932 to 1938, then returned to California and founded the San Francisco Dance Theater with her husband, the composer Ray Green, and a Graham colleague and lifelong friend, Gertrude Shurr.
Ms. Partridge was actually on the fringes of the group, somewhat distantly connected by marriage to Duncan Grant, the Post-Impressionist painter and designer, as well as by her husband's first marriage, to Carrington.
Among them was her future husband, Reginald Sherring Partridge, known as Ralph.
She was devastated by the deaths of her husband, in 1960, and of their son, Burgo, named for a Trollope character, three years later.
She wrote some of her early papers with her first husband, William M. McCord.
Both he and her second husband, Carl A.
She is survived by her mother, Grace, of Manhattan; her husband, Paul Fishleder, an editor at The New York Times; and her daughter, Lily.
      
Ms. Wood is survived by her stepson and a stepdaughter, Sara Gearry, of Coeburn, Va.
        Because of her husband's cigar business, Ms. Wood traveled to Cuba.
Besides her daughter, she is survived by her husband Joseph F. Cullman III of Manhattan, the chairman emeritus of the Philip Morris Companies in New York; a son, Barney Straus Jr., of Evanston, Ill.; a brother, Leon Paley of Far Rockaway; and a grandson.
      
''
        Among her survivors are her husband, Odell Day; four brothers, Edward Parrott and Earl Johnson of Darlington, and Allan and Wesley Parrott of New York; a sister, Hattie Miller of Landover, Md.
For some time she had been unable to recognize her family because of memory loss, said her husband, Prince Bernard, in 2001.
She and her husband, Prince Bernard, a German, and their two oldest daughters, then infants, were forced to flee in a truck, then by ship, to England when the Nazi army invaded The Netherlands in 1940, when her mother was still queen.
Queen Juliana, in turn, stood by her husband during several scandals in which he was involved.
Princess Juliana is survived by her husband and four daughters and numerous grandchildren.
Her main dancing partner, Edmond Audran, became her husband, but he died in a car accident in 1951.
But two years later she was persuaded to return to the stage by her new husband, Raymond Roi, who survives her.
The cause was lung cancer, which was diagnosed a year ago, said her husband, Lee J. Seidler.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, William Lopatin of Sanibel; a daughter, Laurie, of San Jose, Calif.; and a grandson.
      

        Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio.
Dr. Rhoda Fisher's dismay over books about parenting that she thought lacked scientific merit led her and her husband, who died in 1996, to collaborate on ''What We Really Know About Child Rearing: Science in Support of Effective Parenting'' (Basic Books, 1976).
She contributed a chapter on this subject to ''From Placebo to Panacea: Putting Psychiatric Drugs to the Test'' (John Wylie, 1997), which her husband edited with Dr. Roger P. Greenberg.
This led her to interview circus clowns and professional comedians, including Sid Caesar, Jackie Mason and Tommy Smothers, and write, with her husband, ''Pretend the World Is Funny and Forever: A Psychological Analysis of Clowns, Comedians and Actors'' (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981).
Sometimes, her role was to promote the work of her camera-shy husband.
From 1951 to 1961, she practiced clinical psychology in Houston, where her husband taught at the Baylor College of Medicine.
When her husband died of a heart attack in 1968, Mrs. Schott inherited auto dealerships in Cincinnati and interests in insurance, brick manufacturing, concrete products and landfills.
Mrs. Lindsay, whose energy was suggested by her vigorous bicycle rides in Central Park and the countless coffee hours she held during her husband's campaigns, was her husband's most trusted adviser.
Mrs. Lindsay, whose energy was suggested by her vigorous bicycle rides in Central Park and the countless coffee hours she held during her husband's campaigns, was her husband's most trusted adviser.
''
        She was also protective of her husband's most precious asset, time -- not to mention his peace of mind.
''
        The verbal skills of the slender, green-eyed woman were suggested by her answer when asked how she felt when her husband was described as ''the creator of all urban evil,'' by The Post in 1971.
Dr. Mattei is survived by her husband of 31 years, Michael Mattei; her mother, Bulisa Akyuz of Izmir; two brothers, Yusef Akyuz of Sudbury, Mass., and Hayim Akyuz of Izmir; and two sisters, Kadem Senkal of Istanbul and Beki Notrika of Tel Aviv.
While Mrs. Lauder and her husband were apart she met and became close to Mr. van Ameringen, who became president and chairman of International Flavors and Fragrances, a company that formulates fragrances for many well-known beauty houses and has no connection with the Lauder empire.
Thus, she rejected President Nixon's offer to make her ambassador to Luxembourg (she blamed her husband, who reportedly said, ''I'm not going to carry her bags'').
Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family.
''
        She became active in human rights issues after the arrest of her first husband, Yuli Daniel, for anti-Soviet essays written together with his friend Andrei Sinyavsky, in 1965, the same year she received her doctorate in linguistics.
Ms. Bogoraz's second husband, Anatoloy Marchenko, was another prominent dissident, with whom she wrote a number of appeals and who was arrested in 1980.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Selnick, of Las Vegas, from whom she had separated; a daughter, Milan Reinoehl; a brother, Anthony; and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Lester stopped taking theatrical pictures after her husband died, Dr. Henderson said, because she felt dispirited about Broadway's new directions after the musical ''Hair'' opened in 1968.
Mrs. Berman, an optometrist by profession, and her husband, Philip, were benefactors of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, among other institutions.
She practiced as her husband built his fortune in trucking and heavy equipment, keeping her optometrist's license into the 1980's.
Her death resulted from complications of breast cancer, said her husband, Joseph Lelyveld, former executive editor of The New York Times.
Besides her husband, Ms. Lelyveld is survived by her daughters, Amy Lelyveld of New York and Nita Lelyveld of Los Angeles; one granddaughter; and her sisters, Susan Mermelstein of Newton, Mass., and Annie Fox of Brooklyn.
      
In 1948 she moved to London, where she met her husband, Bertrand Taylor, who died in 1986.
Her husband told James Chaney, a native of the area who would be killed with Andrew Goodman and Michael Schwerner that summer, not to go to Philadelphia ''because they'd kill you in Neshoba County.
Correction:  May 12, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Winson Hudson, a pioneer of the civil rights movement in Mississippi, misstated the year in some copies for the killing of the rights worker James Chaney, who had been warned by her husband against going to Philadelphia, Miss.
The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Ronald, said.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Fuller is survived by her sons, Jonah and Gabriel; her daughter, Cecily; and one granddaughter.
A relative whose husband played with Cab Calloway's band introduced her to Micheaux.
While her husband built Allied Maintenance -- later Ogden Allied Maintenance -- into one of the country's leading fuel suppliers to airlines, Mrs. Fraad saw to their private art collection.
Her husband died in 1987.
In addition to her daughter Paula, Ms. Pape is survived by her husband, Gunther Pape; another daughter, Cristina Maria; and two grandsons.
      
Her husband, Sol Lerner, died in 1986.
Broadside, begun by Ms. Cunningham and her husband, Gordon Friesen, in 1962, published more than 1,000 topical songs during its 26-year run, including some of the first works by Bob Dylan, Phil Ochs, Janis Ian, Buffy Sainte-Marie and Tom Paxton.
Mrs. McMenamin's husband of 51 years, Edward B. McMenamin, a former secretary of Columbia University, died in 1994.
She recovered and was able to write her book and, in 2000, help her husband establish an Internet venture, HauteDecor.com, a virtual interior design center that foundered, like many other Web ventures of the time.
In addition to her husband, father and stepmother, Ronnie M. Eldridge, a former City Councilwoman, she is survived by her sister, Kelly, and her brothers, James, Kevin, Patrick and Christopher.
      
After she and her husband, Boris Shub, divorced, she drifted into publishing.
When Mrs. Seril and her husband, Nathan, became sole owners of the building in 1974, two-thirds of its 225 apartments were covered under the city's rent control law, which originated as a federal plan in World War II to prevent war profiteering.
According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      
Karol was married in 1953, settled in Seattle with her husband, Robert Kucher, and operated a clothing store.
In addition to her husband and her brother, Karol Kennedy Kucher is survived by two sons, John, of Seattle, and Charlie, of Hailey, Idaho; four daughters, Kathryn Etherington, of Wenatchee, Wash.; Mary Jane Kucher, of California, and Heidi Pray and Suzanne Sanchez, both of Seattle, and five grandchildren.
Brand's husband, the Shakespearean actor Morris Carnovsky, died in 1992.
In the early 60's, with her husband's career as an actor re-established, Ms.
Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the actress and acting teacher Phoebe Brand Carnovsky on Monday misstated the forum in which the director Elia Kazan named her and her husband, the actor Morris Carnovsky, as Communists.
Her husband, Ernest R. Hansen, a bank president, died in 1983.
She soon established herself as a charismatic performer with the Horton Dance Group, starring in highly dramatic works by Mr. Horton like ''Salome'' (1937) and ''The Beloved'' (1948), in which she portrayed a wife accused of adultery by her puritanical husband.
Other company members included Rudi Gernreich, who became an innovative fashion designer and a stage designer for some of Ms. Lewitzky's later productions, and Newell Reynolds, Ms. Lewitzky's husband, who later became an architect.
Ms. Lewitzky and her husband lived in New Mexico in the 1990's but returned to Southern California in 2001.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Nora Reynolds, a dancer, and two grandsons, Keenan and Ross McCune.
      
Mrs. Auerbach and her future husband, Walter Auerbach, a stage designer and photographer, moved to Tel Aviv, then part of Palestine, and opened a studio specializing in portraits of children.
Her third husband, Sam Reavin, died in the early 1990's.
Moreover, her channeling sessions, combined with a heavy travel schedule, contributed to the breakup of her marriage, and her husband left her in 1979.
She became the publisher in 1973, taking the position after the death of her husband, James S. Copley.
In addition to her son, David, of La Jolla, Mrs. Copley's survivors include a sister, Mary Frances Davison of Santa Maria, Calif.; a brother, Frank E. Kinney of Cedar Rapids; and two stepchildren from her husband's first marriage, Michael Copley of San Diego and Janice Obre of New York.
      
After her husband, Larry Kruteck, died in 1996, she took time off from her music career.
''
        She left the paper in 1960 to live in Brussels with Charles A. Brofferio, whom she described as ''an ill-suited husband'' she divorced a year later.
''
        She lives on Beekman Place with two of her three children -- both attend public schools -- and, despite seeing her husband only on weekends, makes time for Saturday-morning tennis with another female executive, Kathryn Wylde, who heads the Partnership for New York City.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Philip Carlson.
In addition to her husband and daughter, Ms. Revsin is survived by a brother, Ethan Revsin, of New Albany, Ohio, and two grandsons.
It was a fateful move, because Mrs. Child by then was struggling to learn to cook and her husband was suffering the consequences.
The three became partners in a cooking school they called L'École de Trois Gourmandes in Paris and set to work on their cookbook, even as Mrs. Child followed her husband to postings in Marseille, Bonn and Oslo.
''
        With help from her husband she appeared on a set replicating a home kitchen and cooked the dishes of the week, then served them to herself, complete with wine.
For the first books, she would test her recipes upstairs in the open kitchen in Cambridge, Mass., outfitted with a Garland range, while her husband painted in a studio in the basement.
One year she and her husband sent out Valentine's cards with a photograph of them together in the bathtub in Paris.
Her husband, in fact, often said that one of his earliest duties was dyeing water with beef extract so that it could pass for red wine on black and white television -- the producers could afford real Burgundy only for the stew, not for the star's glass.
At 1:46 a.m. on Jan. 21, 1961, John F. Kennedy, after attending his five inaugural balls, showed up, supposedly unannounced, at the doorstep of the Georgetown house then belonging to Mrs. Alsop and her husband, Joseph, the political columnist.
Her husband's friend Franklin Roosevelt Jr. invited them to supper with his parents at the White House.
After her first husband died during World War II, she decided to switch careers and earned a medical degree at the Royal Free Hospital.
With her husband, Dr. Marton received a George Polk Award in 1957.
Writing for United Press, the precursor of United Press International, Dr. Marton covered the Communist takeover of Hungary, often in competition with her husband, Endre Marton, a reporter for The Associated Press.
Mrs. Stone's death, exactly two years after her husband's, was announced by their son, Norman.
Reviewing ''Ants on the Melon'' in The New York Times Book Review, Brad Leithauser wrote, ''Given how much darkness the book contains -- meditations on the atom bomb, her husband's death, a drowned girl, the literal dark of blindness -- it casts a surprisingly bright afterglow.
She was abandoned as an infant; grew up poor; danced her way across the cabaret stages of Europe as a teenager; worked with Maurice Chevalier, Josephine Baker and Edith Piaf; was interned during World War II; saved her husband from the Nazis; raised four children; could still dance the cancan in her 60's; smoked a pack of cigarettes every day of her adult life; and was awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Order of the British Empire.
''
        Miss Kelly returned to Paris, where her husband, who was Jewish, was in hiding.
Her husband of 61 years, Charles S. Whitman Jr., a civil court judge, died in 2002.
Besides her son Charles, her survivors include another son, John R., husband of the former governor; a daughter, Janet; and three grandchildren.
      
Ms. Leigh is survived by her husband Robert Brandt and by Kelly Curtis and Jamie Lee Curtis, her daughters with Tony Curtis.
Dr. Lehmann, who first visited the island in 1938, did her early work there with her husband, the archaeologist Karl Lehmann.
In 1966, while still married to her husband, she wrote a thinly veiled account of his infidelity in ''Mate in Three.
For nearly 50 years, Mrs. Meyerhoff and her husband, Robert, a real estate developer, collected art by American masters like Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg and Frank Stella, which filled Fitzhugh Farm, their 300-acre home and horse farm about an hour and a half north of Washington.
Besides her husband, who lives in Maryland and Manhattan, and Mrs. Greene of Coral Gables, Fla., she is survived by two sons, Neil and John of Baltimore; a sister, Joan B. Katz, also of Baltimore; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
'' The film starred Estelle Parsons as Mrs. Hill and James Earl Jones as her husband, Barney, who also said he was abducted.
The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Morton H. Halperin, said.
She was involved most recently with America Coming Together, an advocacy group allied with the Democratic Party, her husband said.

        Lilian Kallir, a pianist known for her elegant Mozart performances, both as a soloist and in duet recitals with her husband, the pianist Claude Frank, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Kallir met her husband when they were both students at Tanglewood, in 1947, but they did not marry until 1959.
Ms. Kallir also gave performances with her daughter, who survives her, as does her husband.
      
In 1938 she married a surgeon, Arthur Dintenfass, and had three children; after World War II they settled in Atlantic City, where she ran her husband's medical office for several years.
She married, but her husband died two years later after he was bitten by a snake.
Parks was a partner with her husband, Alexander H. Cohen, one of the last old-time independent theatrical producers, with 101 Broadway and West End shows to his name.
Parks's own views were very much those of a liberal Democrat, and she went so far as to give up limousines for bicycles, cheerfully waving to her husband as he went by in his big black car.
'' In 1984 she and her husband co-produced Dario Fo's play ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist.
The cause was metastatic melanoma, said her husband, John Frank Goldsmith.
Besides her husband, her survivors include a son, David Lerner of New York, from an earlier marriage to Mortimer Lerner, and three stepchildren, Kate Paradise of Boston, Elizabeth Hilton of Chicago and John F. Goldsmith Jr. of Plainfield, Ill..
      
She later received a master's degree in comparative religion from Norwich University, in Northfield, Vt. From 1978 to 1987 she and her husband lived in Saudi Arabia.
In addition to her daughter Nasreen Alkhateeb, of Brooklyn, and her sister Nafeesa Ahmad, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Alkhateeb is survived by her husband, Mejdi; a brother, Muhammad Ahmad, of Horsham, Pa; her sisters Shahara Ahmad-Llewellyn of Manhattan and Sayyida Ahmad Jordan of Los Angeles; her daughters Layla Alkhateeb of Arlington, Va., and Maha Buthayna Alkhateeb of Potomac Falls, Va.; and a grandson.
      
She had left a suicide note at home that she had painstakingly written, edited and rewritten, her husband, Brett Douglas said in a telephone interview yesterday.
Besides her husband, Ms. Chang is survived by her parents, Shau-Jin and Ying-Ying, and a brother, Michael, all of San Jose; and by a son, Christopher.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.
She is survived by her husband; her parents, Beatrice and Michael Mezzacappa; and her sister, Diane Alvaro.
      
She was 66.The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, the novelist Avery Corman, said.
Besides her husband, the author of ''Kramer vs. Kramer,'' Ms. Corman is survived by her parents, Ben and Roslyn Lishinsky of Delray Beach, Fla.; two brothers, Michael Lishinsky of Williams, Ore., and Howard Lishinsky of Metuchen, N.J.; and two sons, Nicholas, of Manhattan, and Matthew, of Los Angeles.
      
Her husband, Alexander L. Crosby, died in 1980.
An Academic Beginning
        Moving with her husband to Boston, Ms. Sontag earned her master's degrees from Harvard, the first in English, in 1954, the second in philosophy the next year.
''
        Born Sylvia Kossovsky in New York in 1913, Ms. Herscher effectively began her theatrical career when Alexander Cohen, a producing partner of her husband, Seymour Herscher, helped her obtain a job as Styne's secretary.
Ms. Herscher's husband died in 1994.

        Maude Lloyd, a dramatically expressive ballerina who became an articulate dance critic, writing in collaboration with her husband, Nigel Gosling, died on Nov. 26 at her home in London.
Because Ms. Lloyd's conversation was as expressive as her dancing, and because she and her husband were inseparable, Richard Buckle, editor of Ballet magazine in London, suggested in 1951 that the couple write dance criticism as a team.

        Frances Chaney, a radio star whose budding film career was stifled after she and her husband, Ring Lardner Jr., were placed on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Nov. 23 at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Chaney's first husband, David Lardner, was a younger brother of Ring Lardner Jr.'s.
'' She collaborated with her husband on two of his New Deal-era murals, one in what is now the Roosevelt Public School in Roosevelt, N.J., and the other in the Bronx General Post Office.
Later she took on character parts in television sitcoms like ''Blondie,'' in which she played the matronly Cora Dithers opposite her husband, who played Dagwood's irascible boss, Mr. Dithers.
