Miss Sharp was appointed a North Carolina Superior Court judge in 1949, and she was appointed to the state's high court in 1962.
Another uncle, Irving Lehman, became Chief Judge of the State Court of Appeals.
She also was a member of the advisory committee to the Supervising Judge for  the Civil Court in Manhattan and served on the citywide task force on Housing Court.
Chief Judge Judith S. Kaye, the first woman on the Court of Appeals in Albany, the state's highest tribunal, recalled Justice Amsterdam's trailblazing  achievements in a 1991 article in the New York Law Journal.
The State Supreme Court was more than 250 years old before a woman was elected to it, Judge Kaye wrote, and even today women do not enjoy the status of equals in the legal profession.
"
        Justice Amsterdam is survived by a sister and brother-in-law, Cynthia and Judge Milton Sanders, with whom she shared a home on Second Avenue for 59 years, as well as another sister, Sybil Chizner of Hollywood, Fla.

        Judge Genevieve Blatt, the first woman to be elected to statewide office in Pennsylvania and to serve on the state's appellate court, died on Thursday at a  retirement home in Hampden Township, Pa. She was 83 and a former resident of Harrisburg.
She won election on her own the next year, was re-elected in 1983, became a senior judge a year later and retired from the bench in 1993.

        Helen Wilson Nies, a former Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which specializes in patent law, died on Wednesday, her 71st birthday, at Beebe Hospital in Lewes, Del.
President Jimmy Carter named Judge Nies to the United States Customs and Patent Appeals Court in 1980, and President Ronald Reagan reassigned her to the Federal Circuit when that jurisdiction was established in October 1982.
She became Chief Judge in June 1990, and served in that post until March 1994.
Judge Nies, a native of Birmingham, Ala., graduated from the University of Michigan in 1945 and, three years later, from Michigan Law School.
Judge Moskowitz first won election to the State Supreme Court in 1982 and was assigned to Criminal Term, Kings County.
The judge scolded the Mayor for his trouble, pointing out that he was lavishing his attention on a case involving ''little people.
