
        Justice M. Dolores Denman, the first woman to serve as presiding judge in the Appellate Division of New York State Supreme Court, died on Jan. 17 at her second home in Naples, Fla. She was 68 and lived in Buffalo.
Justice Denman, a former Buffalo city judge and Erie County Court judge, was elected to State Supreme Court in 1976.
Justice Denman, a former Buffalo city judge and Erie County Court judge, was elected to State Supreme Court in 1976.
She was an assistant prosecutor in Erie County before becoming a city judge in Buffalo in 1972.
She divorced Mr. Markey the following year, complaining to a judge that they had been married for 14 months and that in all that time, he had spent only four evenings alone with her.
The judge granted the divorce, but suggested that if she ever contemplated a future marriage, she should spend more than a month getting to know her man.
She played in the first rendition of Pigmeat Markham's ''Here comes  the judge'' skit, immortalized for a later generation by Flip Wilson.
She served as a judge in many piano competitions as well as giving lectures and master classes around the country.

        Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Judge McDonald, a graduate of Columbia's law school, was named the administrative judge for the five New York City Family Court complexes in 1986.
Judge McDonald, a graduate of Columbia's law school, was named the administrative judge for the five New York City Family Court complexes in 1986.
She had the title of administrative judge of the Family Court of New York City and retired from the post in 1995.
In 1995, with difficult custody decisions being complicated by AIDS, and by relatives who had taken in the children, grown to love them and become unwilling to give them up without a fight, Judge McDonald said: ''A lot of the custody cases in the last few years have been families fighting each other.
In 1976, she became a Family Court judge.
She was briefly supervising judge of the Family Court in New York County before becoming the administrative judge.
She was briefly supervising judge of the Family Court in New York County before becoming the administrative judge.
''
        While she was the administrative judge, she also headed the New York Judicial Committee on Women in the Courts, which was established after a two-year study had found that ''gender bias against women litigants, attorneys and court employees is a pervasive problem.
Besides her daughter, K. Ann McDonald of Manhattan, a litigation lawyer with the Manhattan law firm of Robinson Murphy & McDonald, Judge McDonald is survived by a brother, Malcolm Patrick Austin of Chicago.
      

        Margaret Connors Driscoll, the first woman to be chief judge of the Connecticut Juvenile Court, died on Tuesday at the Carolton Chronic and Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Bridgeport, Conn.
        Judge Driscoll was named to the juvenile court in 1960 and was chief judge there from 1976 to 1978.

        Margaret Connors Driscoll, the first woman to be chief judge of the Connecticut Juvenile Court, died on Tuesday at the Carolton Chronic and Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Bridgeport, Conn.
        Judge Driscoll was named to the juvenile court in 1960 and was chief judge there from 1976 to 1978.

        Margaret Connors Driscoll, the first woman to be chief judge of the Connecticut Juvenile Court, died on Tuesday at the Carolton Chronic and Convalescent Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. She was 85 and lived in Bridgeport, Conn.
        Judge Driscoll was named to the juvenile court in 1960 and was chief judge there from 1976 to 1978.
From 1978 until she retired in 1985, she was a judge on the Connecticut Superior Court.
She was once described as having a voice, when angry, ''that could bring back Judge Crater.

        Phyllis Propp Fowle, a New York lawyer who was the first woman to be an officer of the Army judge advocate general's corps, died Thursday in Manhattan.
Colonel Propp, as she was known to her former Army colleagues, was made a distinguished member of the corps at a banquet in her honor in April 1999 at the Judge Advocate General's School in Charlottesville, Va.
        A native of Laurel, Iowa, and a 1930 graduate of the University of Iowa, she earned her law degree there and was the only woman in the law school's class of 1933.
As a captain in 1942, she persuaded the Army to transfer her to the judge advocate general's corps.
After her divorce that year from Representative Gilman, she married Manuel G. Guerreiro, a former judge on the Family Court of New York City, who died in 1994.
She is survived by a daughter, Najuma Ide Christian of Berkeley; her parents, Judge Alphonso A. and Ruth Christian of St. Thomas; three sisters, Dr. Cora Christian of St. Croix, Reubina Gomez of St. Thomas and Alicia Wells of Philadelphia; two brothers, Alphonso Christian of Washington and Delano Christian of San Francisco; and a stepson, Imetai Malik Henderson of New York.
      
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      
She was the daughter of Ernst Pakenham-Walsh, a judge on the high court in Madras, India, and Marion Pakenham-Walsh.
In addition to Ms. Carter, Mrs. Dyk is survived by her son, Timothy, of Washington, a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; five grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
After a lengthy preliminary hearing, the trial judge in January 1986 ordered all seven to stand trial on a total of 135 counts of molesting 14 children.
She and Ms. Goodman, not then a judge, and others were renting a house on Fire Island.
She married Judge Irving L. Levey in 1947.
