
        Judge Mary Johnson Lowe, a Federal judge in the Southern District of New York who was known for her rulings in discrimination cases, died  Saturday at a hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 74 and had homes in the Bronx and Las Vegas.

        Judge Mary Johnson Lowe, a Federal judge in the Southern District of New York who was known for her rulings in discrimination cases, died  Saturday at a hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 74 and had homes in the Bronx and Las Vegas.
Judge Lowe was the second black woman appointed to the Federal judiciary, according to The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education.
As a senior judge, a status she acquired in 1991, she sat on the bench here for part of the year, and had been doing some judicial work while in Las Vegas.
Earlier, she was a judge of the Criminal Court of the City of New York from 1971 until 1973, when she was named an Acting State Supreme Court Justice assigned to the Manhattan Supreme Court's Centralized Narcotics Term.
The conviction was overturned with unusually harsh language when the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit found that Judge Lowe had prevented the presentation of important evidence.
''
        Judge Lowe was born in Manhattan and grew up in Harlem.
Judge Lowe's marriages to Edward Hatfield Lowe and Ivan A. Michael ended in divorce.
Her first arrest on marijuana charges and a judge's order to perform community service prompted Ms. Rathbun to join the Shanti project, one of the first AIDS support groups.
''
        As an editorialist, she was both a judge and a connoisseur of the foibles of the city's political and intellectual elites.
A United States district judge found them guilty and gave them suspended sentences of four months in prison and $100 fines.

        Eva Shain, the first woman to serve as a judge at a heavyweight championship boxing match when she was assigned to the Muhammad Ali-Earnie Shavers bout at Madison Square Garden in 1977, died Thursday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital and Medical Center.
''
        Mrs. Shain went on to judge amateur bouts for eight years.
In July 1974, the New York State Athletic Commission named Carol Polis, the wife of a former boxer and referee, Bob Polis, as the first woman to be a professional boxing judge in the state.
Mrs. Shain and Carol Castellano, whose husband, Tony, was a judge, were the next female judges, gaining their licenses in March 1975.
Mrs. Shain received word that she would judge the Ali-Shavers bout, on Sept. 29, 1977, only hours before the fight.
''
        Mrs. Shain, who worked with her husband in promotions and sales at a toy company when she was not involved in boxing, remained active as a judge until last December.
Frank Shain, the ring announcer at seven title fights for which Eva Shain was a judge, recalled that the first time they worked together, ''As I announced the judges, there was about a three-second pause -- it was so emotional I couldn't get her name out.
Soon after, she married Jeffrey Dell, a scriptwriter for the movie producer Alexander Korda, and they wrote a play called ''The Judge,'' which was staged in London in 1938.
Jerry Brown in 1977, Ms. Bird, a pioneering liberal lawyer who had never been a judge, became one of the most controversial figures in California politics.
Judge Stephen Reinhardt of the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, who had known her for years, said Ms. Bird had ''a total passion for, and commitment to, justice.
''
        ''In some ways, she was just too good to be a judge, he said.
''
        After the death penalty was reinstated in California in the late 1970's, Judge Bird never upheld a death sentence, voting to vacate such sentences 61 times.
But on the morning of election day, The Los Angeles Times published an article, citing anonymous sources, suggesting that the Supreme Court had deliberately delayed issuing a split decision overturning a law mandating prison sentences for those convicted of using a gun in certain crimes, so as not to hurt Judge Bird's chances at the polls.
