Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.

        Myriam J. Altman, an appeals judge of the New York State Supreme Court since 1994, died on Jan. 29 at New York University Hospital.
A New York judge since 1978, she was appointed to the Appellate Division by Gov.
She was a judge on the New York City Civil Court from 1978 to 1987, sitting as an acting justice of State Supreme Court for most of those years, presiding over civil and, later, criminal cases.
Her father, Joseph Eugene Corrigan, was a judge.

        Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
Judge Motley was the first black woman to serve in the New York State Senate, as well as the first woman to be Manhattan borough president, a position that guaranteed her a voice in running the entire city under an earlier system of local government called the Board of Estimate.
Judge Motley was at the center of the firestorm that raged through the South in the two decades after World War II, as blacks and their white allies pressed to end the segregation that had gripped the region since Reconstruction.
's Legal Defense and Education Fund, led by Thurgood Marshall, for which Judge Motley, Jack Greenberg, Robert Carter and a handful of other underpaid, overworked lawyers labored.
Judge Motley won cases that ended segregation in Memphis restaurants and at whites-only lunch counters in Birmingham, Ala. She fought for King's right to march in Albany, Ga. She played an important role in representing blacks seeking admission to the Universities of Florida, Georgia Alabama and Mississippi and Clemson College in South Carolina.
Judge Motley was a tall, gracious and stately woman whose oft-stated goal was as simple as it was sometimes elusive: dignity for all people.
''
        In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her as a judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York at the urging of Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, a Democrat, and with the support of Senator Jacob K. Javits, a Republican.
She became chief judge of the district in 1982 and senior judge in 1986.
She became chief judge of the district in 1982 and senior judge in 1986.
Judge Motley once called the day Mr. Meredith accepted his diploma in 1963 the most thrilling in her life.
After becoming a federal judge in 1966, Judge Motley ruled in many cases, but her decisions often reflected her past.
After becoming a federal judge in 1966, Judge Motley ruled in many cases, but her decisions often reflected her past.
Her hope as a judge was that she would change the world for the better, she said.
''
        Correction:  October 5, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Constance Baker Motley, the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, misstated the given name of her surviving brother and the means by which she was named to fill a vacancy as Manhattan borough president.
The article also misstated part of the name of the civil rights organization that was then the parent of the Legal Defense and Educational Fund, for which Judge Motley began volunteer work in 1943.
The cause was breast cancer, according to an announcement by Judith S. Kaye, chief judge of the Court of Appeals, who selected her in 2001 for the special panel, a pilot project for the state court system.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani appointed her a Civil Court judge in 1995, after which she was assigned to Family Court and Criminal Court.
The Integrated Domestic Violence Court was created by Chief Judge Kaye to bring before a single judge all court proceedings involving domestic violence cases.
The Integrated Domestic Violence Court was created by Chief Judge Kaye to bring before a single judge all court proceedings involving domestic violence cases.
Justice Sussman is survived by her husband, David W. Sussman; their daughters, Jane and Rebecca; her parents, Judge Howard A. and Barbara Levine of Schenectady; and two brothers, Neil and James Levine, also of Schenectady.
      
Ms. Parker is survived by her husband, Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, who is on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; their daughters, Christine, Kathleen and Jennifer, all of Stamford; her mother, Viola Trent of Greensboro, N.C.; and two sisters, Kay Holloway of Potomac, Md., and Judy Scales-Trent of Buffalo, N.Y.
      
In 1987, in one of its most vigorous campaigns, it opposed the nomination to the Supreme Court of Judge Robert H. Bork, whom Ms. Yard publicly condemned as ''a Neanderthal.
