As a judge who never went to law school, Mrs. Burnham was hardly an anomaly.
''I became a judge and stopped being a lady,'' she said.
The appointment, which made her the 16th woman to serve as judge in New York and the first in Onondaga County, was not popular with her husband's Republican allies.
Over the next two decades she dispensed justice with such consistent compassion, good humor and common sense that in 1989 the National Judges Association named her the outstanding non-attorney judge in the United States.
She performed more than 3,000 marriage ceremonies, earning the nickname ''the marrying judge,'' in part because when it came to marriage, Mrs. Burnham was a judicial romantic who would go just about anywhere anytime in the cause of Cupid.
''Now I'm not a judge or a lady,'' she said.
Over the years she also reviewed children's books for The New York Times and was a  judge of its Book Review's list of best-illustrated books.
She was among the first women to reach the New York bench at any level and was a judge for 24 years after a stint as the city's Director of Finance.
In 1965, Mayor Wagner made her a Civil Court judge and she won election to a 10-year term the next year.
Mrs. Harrington won the right to raise her child in 1976 by demonstrating to a dumbstruck judge what she could manage: she changed the baby's diaper with her teeth.
Termed an unindicted co-conspirator, she was sent to prison by a Federal judge in Harrisburg, Pa., who found her guilty of contempt of court.
Her father was a judge who became the first editor of the paper that eventually became The Miami Herald; her mother was a concert violinist.

        Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philadelphia.
It may not say much about Pennsylvania that the first black woman to gain a seat on a state bench was born in Wewoka, Okla., received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa and studied law at Indiana University, but it is to the state's credit that once Judge Stout established a practice in Philadelphia in 1954 it did not take the local legal community long to recognize that it had gained a treasure.
In 1988, she received an interim appointment to the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, making her the first black woman in the country to be a judge on a state's highest court, a position she held for a year, until she turned 70, the court's mandatory retirement age, and returned to the bench in Philadelphia.
Slackers could expect no leniency, but if she saw a glimmer of remorse and a spark of resolve to do better, Judge Stout, who had a fine eye for the line between teen-age excess and hard-core crime, could be accommodating.
In one of her more celebrated cases, while assigned to juvenile court in 1965, within 24 hours after a white sailor from Georgia was severely beaten while trying to defend a 16-year-old white girl from being raped at a subway station by eight black gang members, Judge Stout had tried, convicted and sentenced seven of the thugs to long prison terms and placed the eighth on probation.
This and several other long sentences she imposed on violent gang members over the next few weeks made Judge Stout such a hero in Philadelphia that when the executive director of the local chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union sent form letters to members of the Philadelphia bar protesting her ''swift justice,'' he received so many angry replies that he sent a second letter, beginning, ''I am sorry that our criticism of Judge Stout has upset you.
This and several other long sentences she imposed on violent gang members over the next few weeks made Judge Stout such a hero in Philadelphia that when the executive director of the local chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union sent form letters to members of the Philadelphia bar protesting her ''swift justice,'' he received so many angry replies that he sent a second letter, beginning, ''I am sorry that our criticism of Judge Stout has upset you.
''
        Her tough stance made her a pariah to local gangs, and when her mail included a number of death threats, Judge Stout was predictably outraged.
Indeed, she gave so many impassioned lectures on the importance of education that youthful defendants learned to assure her that they attended school regularly, a tactic that might have worked more often if Judge Stout had not learned to check school attendance records.
''
        When lawyers sought leniency for their youthful clients on the ground that they had deprived upbringings, Judge Stout was unmoved.
She might have grown up poor, but her parents were both teachers, and Judge Stout, who credited her mother with instilling her lifelong habit of hard work, learned to read at 3, entered the third grade at 6 and started college at 16, first at a black school in nearby Missouri and later at the University of Iowa before returning to Oklahoma as a music teacher.
Throughout her career Judge Stout lectured widely, invariably stressing the importance of using correct English, especially when she addressed law students.
