As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
She retired as a judge at the age of 76, but remained active in the legal system, serving as a judicial hearing officer for the state appellate division until last year.
''She was really one of the first feminists to make a legal and judicial career in the metropolitan area,'' said Justice Jack B. Weinstein, a senior federal judge with the United States District Court in the Eastern District of New York.
A collegiate badminton champion, Ms. Letheren later served as a judge in the gymnastics competition at the Summer Olympics of 1976, 1980 and 1984, according to her official I.O.C.

        Helen R. Kaufman, a philanthropist and community volunteer who was the widow of Irving R. Kaufman, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in New York, died on Feb. 21 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Judge Kaufman died in 1992.
After a few days, a federal judge put The Times under a temporary restraining order, the first time in American history that such an order of prior restraint had been imposed.
At the beginning of the next year the Watergate burglars pleaded guilty, and one of them, hoping to get a more lenient sentence, wrote to John J. Sirica, a federal district judge, to inform him that perjury had been committed and that higher-ups were behind the break-in.

        Barbara L. Kaiser, a former judge of Westchester County Family Court, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Born in Brooklyn, she earned a law degree at Columbia University and practiced law in Westchester before becoming a judge.
In 1987, Judge Kaiser, who opposed compulsory retirement for judges, reached 70, the state's mandatory retirement age for Family Court judges, and could not finish her elected 10-year term.
''I don't look at myself as Judge Judy, but I'll tell you the truth, I've learned to stop the nonsensible rhetoric when it gets really destructive.
