Surviving are two sons, William, of Greenwich, a member of the Connecticut House of Representatives, and Martinus, of Juneau, Alaska; a brother, Sam Soames of London; a sister, J. S. Judd of Salisbury, Wiltshire, England; two stepsons, Judge Eugene H. Nickerson of Federal District Court in Brooklyn and Adam H. Nickerson of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I.

       Burnita Shelton Matthews, a senior judge on the Federal District Court here and the first woman appointed to a Federal trial court, died Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital after suffering a stroke.
Burnita Shelton Matthews, a senior judge on the Federal District Court here and the first woman appointed to a Federal trial court, died Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital after suffering a stroke.
Judge Matthews was named to the bench by President Harry Truman in 1949 and assumed senior status in 1968, allowing her to go into semiretirement while still hearing cases.
Earlier in her career, Judge Matthews had practiced law for almost 30 years and had developed a reputation as an advocate for women's rights.
In another celebrated case, Judge Matthews in 1955 refused to order the State Department to issue a passport to the singer and actor Paul Robeson.
While sitting on the Court of Appeals in 1971, Judge Matthews ruled that disabled people receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration were entitled to hearings before their benefits were terminated.
''
        Judge Matthews studied law at the National University Law School, now part of George Washington Univerity, and received her degree in 1919.

       Burnita Shelton Matthews, the first woman to serve as a Federal district judge, died here Monday at the age of 93 after a stroke.
Burnita Shelton Matthews, the first woman to serve as a Federal district judge, died here Monday at the age of 93 after a stroke.
Judge Matthews was named to the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia by President Truman in 1949.
Judge Matthews presided over a number of major trials, including the 1957 bribery trial of James R. Hoffa, then vice president of the teamsters' union, at which he was acquitted.
Matthews would be a good judge,'' there was ''just one thing wrong: she's a woman.
''
        While Judge Goldsborough told her some years later that his opposition had been mistaken, she received an icy welcome from her fellow judges, who agreed among themselves to assign her all the ''long motions,'' the most technical and least rewarding part of the court's docket.
Judge Matthews never retired from the court.
Judge Matthews retained a strong sense of her own role as a pioneer, and never wavered in her commitment to expanding opportunities for women.
Judge Matthews included that check among the papers she donated to what is now the Burnita Shelton Matthews Collection at the Arthur and Elizabeth Schlesinger Library on the History of Women in America, at Radcliffe College.
On the Court of Appeals, Judge Matthews ruled that the Social Security Administration could not cut off disability benefits without a hearing.
Judge Matthews is survived by four sisters-in-law and 11 nieces and nephews.

       Kathleen M. Kane, the first female judge of the Nassau County District Court, died of complications Tuesday after undergoing surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. She was 87 years old and lived in Tampa.
Kathleen M. Kane, the first female judge of the Nassau County District Court, died of complications Tuesday after undergoing surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. She was 87 years old and lived in Tampa.
After practicing law in Mineola, L.I., for 20 years, she was elected a judge of the Nassau County District Court, where she served from 1953 to 1970, when she retired.
