Mrs. Cullman was the grandniece of the late Herbert H. Lehman, former New York State Governor and Senator, and a grandniece of Irving Lehman, former Chief Judge of the New York Court of Appeals.
She was an administrative law judge for the Parking Violations Bureau for almost 20 years, starting in 1973.
Mr. Hays, a judge of the United States Circuit Court, died in 1980.
"
        John Russell, a former art critic for The New York Times and a longtime friend of Mrs. Onassis, remembered her as a shrewd judge of people, but one who was always mindful of their feelings and was careful not to hurt them if her judgments were negative.

        Lois G. Forer, an author, a retired Philadelphia judge and a lifelong advocate for the young, the elderly and the poor, died on Monday at Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
Judge Forer, an authority on criminal justice, spent 32 years practicing law and 16 years on the bench.
As a private lawyer, she worked for wealthy clients and corporations, and as a judge she tried both criminal and civil cases.
She became a judge of the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia in 1971 and retired as a senior judge in 1987.
She became a judge of the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia in 1971 and retired as a senior judge in 1987.
Judge Forer received national attention with her first book, "No One Will Lissen: How Our Legal System Brutalizes the Youthful Poor" (1970).
Her "Criminals and Victims: A Trial Judge Reflects on Crime and Punishment" (1980) tried to make sense of seeking to mete out justice in an environment of abstract theories of the way things are supposed to be.
A judge, she asserted, finds little in the way of either practical guidance or spiritual comfort from abstractions.
Since her fourth-stage lymphoma was diagnosed eight months ago, Judge Forer finished two more books.
Judge Forer is survived by her husband, Morris L. Forer; two sons, Stuart, of Warwick, R.I., and John, of Philadelphia; a daughter, Hope Forer Ross of Manhattan; a sister, Marion Schott of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and two grandsons.
Correction:  May 14, 1994, Saturday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Lois G. Forer, author and retired Philadelphia judge, referred incorrectly to the publication of her book "What Every Woman Needs to Know Before (and After) She Gets Involved With Men and Money.
In addition to her sister Nancy Vick, of Bedford, N.Y., she is survived by her companion, Paul Wigsten; her parents, Judge Clarence C. and Jane Newcomer, of Lancaster, Pa., and Philadelphia, and another sister, Judy Birkett of Lancaster.
Mrs. Cliburn's mother was an actress and her father was a judge and adviser to state officials.
In 1937, she became a judge in Iroquois County before being elected to the House of Representatives in 1938.
A judge dismissed the $5 million complaint earlier this year.
Dr. Gardner was a former research associate at Children's Hospital in Boston and a staff psychologist at the Judge Baker Center in Boston.
