Surviving are her husband, Joseph H., a retired judge; a daughter, Patricia Vradenburg, a screenwriter, of Encino, Calif.; a son, Michael, editor of Tikkun magazine, of Berkeley, Calif.; a brother, Irving Hirschman of Basking Ridge, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her son, Robinson O. Everett of Durham, retired chief judge of the United States Court of Military Appeals, and three grandsons.
      

        Shirley R. Levittan, an Acting State Supreme Court judge from 1974 until she retired last year, died yesterday at New York University Hospital.
Judge Levittan, who was born in Brooklyn on Sept. 8, 1918, graduated from Barnard College in 1939 and received a master's degree in French literature a year later at Syracuse University.
The judge, who was not married, is survived by a sister-in-law, Olive Levittan of Halifax, Nova Scotia.
      
She is survived by two daughters, Judge Aileen Hirschman Belford of Fall River, Mass., and E. Judith Hirschman Berger of Manhattan; a son, Dr. Richard James Hirschman of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      
Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today.
; a daughter, Jan Doughery of Sedona, Ariz; a brother, Martin Whitman of New York City; a sister, Judge Phyllis Beck of Philadelphia, and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Brewster helped stabilize Yonkers's municipal finances during a period of budgetary strain and turbulence over millions of dollars in fines that a Federal judge threatened to impose on the city to pressure compliance on housing desegregation.
"
        A sharp judge of character, she had a rapier tongue and a distinctive, commanding voice that she used to prick pretension.
Mrs. Kinnear was a horticultural and artistic judge and a director of the Garden Club of America from 1977 to 1979, when she received the club's Zone Horticultural Award.

        Judge Frances Williamson Lehrich, a lawyer and former New York City magistrate, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She died of a heart attack, said her daughter, Jacqueline L. Becker of Boca Raton, Fla.
        Judge Lehrich, who was born in Brooklyn, forged a distinguished legal career at a time when such opportunities were all but closed to women.
A graduate of Girls High School in Brooklyn and Barnard College, Judge Lehrich attended Yale Law School, where she was the first woman to become a member of the Yale Law Journal.
Judge Lehrich was the third woman in the city's history to be appointed to the bench.
After leaving the bench in 1951, Judge Lehrich continued to practice law and to be active in civic affairs.
Judge Lehrich's husband, Henry, a lawyer, died in 1966.
