In a memorandum about the settlement, Judge Jack B. Weinstein of Federal District Court said the principles involved, accepted by the city, ''set an important standard for the entire system.
She taught law at Florida State University, clerked for a federal judge in California and was an associate at the firm of Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton.
As lawsuits against Merck began to multiple, Ms. Lewis was appointed by a federal judge to a panel of lawyers charged with overseeing the gathering of records concerning Vioxx from the company.
At the time of the suit, people were typically being kept for 39 or 40 hours while they were being booked and fingerprinted, going through other police procedures and then waiting to appear before a judge to be charged and make a plea.
She convinced the judge that 24 hours was, indeed, the most reasonable time limit.
The judge required the city to justify periods longer than that on an individual basis.
Ruling in the case in 1990, the United States Supreme Court upheld the Minnesota law with a 5-to-4 vote, finding it constitutional because of its provision allowing patients to seek permission from a judge instead of from their parents.

        Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend.
She would have broken that record in February, when she was scheduled to be judge of the terrier group at Madison Square Garden.
A walking encyclopedia on the standards of more than 400 breeds worldwide, she was one of only two dozen people licensed to judge all 165 breeds and varieties recognized by the American Kennel Club.
''As a judge, she was authoritative and friendly.
Although she said she was possibly the slowest judge in American Kennel Club history during her first few years, by 1973 she had worked her way to Westminster to judge the toy group.
Although she said she was possibly the slowest judge in American Kennel Club history during her first few years, by 1973 she had worked her way to Westminster to judge the toy group.
''I have to get through to you that I adore to judge,'' she was quoted as saying in The Wall Street Journal earlier this year.
