Mrs. Gragg, who lived in Detroit, is survived by a son, J. Robert Gragg, a retired probate judge; and two sisters, Ann Henderson and Marie Moore, and two grandchildren.
      
''I judge books by my customers who buy them and spark others to read them.
Miss Guilfoyle worked in the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan and in the National Bureau of Casualty Underwriters, as a law assistant to Federal District Judge Mary H. Donlon and, from 1977 until her retirement in 1980, as a staff lawyer at the United States Court of International Trade.
After graduation, she clerked for Judge Irving Kaufman.
Ms. Zemach was the illustrator or author of more than 40 children's books, including ''Duffy and the Devil,'' ''The Judge,'' ''A Penny a Look,'' ''Salt'' ''Mommy, Buy Me a China Doll,'' ''It Could Always Be Worse'' and ''To Hilda for Helping.
In 1983 Federal District Judge John F. Grady ordered reinstatement and $158,590 in back pay and other expenses, saying the 1964 Federal anti-discrimination law protects transsexuals.
Ms. Ulane eventually received a settlement from Eastern that was ''substantially more'' than the amount ordered by Judge Grady, said her attorney, Dean Dickie.
She was the widow of John Van Voorhis, an associate judge of the New York State Court of Appeals from 1953 until his retirement in 1967.
She had been a civil court judge for six years and had maintained a private law practice.
She is survived by her husband, Stanley, a retired civil court judge, and two children, Elizabeth and Marc, both of Manhattan.
      
She was the widow of John Van Voorhis, an associate judge of the New York State Court of Appeals from 1953 until his retirement in 1967.
Leader in Philadelphia
        Mrs. Alexander practiced law with her husband, Raymond Pace Alexander, a Harvard Law School graduate, until he became a judge in the Court of Common Pleas in Philadelphia.
Another uncle, Irving Lehman, was Chief Judge of the State Court of Appeals.

       Teresa S. Reardon, an administrative law judge in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau, died of cancer Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Teresa S. Reardon, an administrative law judge in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau, died of cancer Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Judge Reardon graduated from the College of Mount St. Vincent and received a master's degree from Columbia University and a law degree from St. John's University.
A judge ruled Eliana could attend school if she stayed inside a special glass booth.
She is survived by her husband, James L., a judge on the United States Court of International Trade; two daughters, Karen Allen and Kris, both of Manhattan; a son from a former marriage, Norman A. Jenkins, also of Manhattan; a sister, Novella Turner of Portland, Me.
