She was a teacher, magazine editor and judge's assistant before she became a lawyer.
Her father, William Green, served as a United States Representative, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and, later, as a Federal judge.

       Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
Judge Polier retired from the bench in 1973 after 38 years in the Family Court, which was known as Domestic Relations Court when Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed her to it in 1935.
As a judge, she fought strenuously for an improved Family Court and for better care for the children, especially from poor families, who came before it.
Judge Polier's counsel was sought by other cities and states in developing court services for children and families and she provided similar help to other countries.
During World War II, Judge Polier served as counsel to Eleanor Roosevelt in the Office of Civil Defense in Washington.
Fired for 'Agitating' Workers
        Judge Polier was born in Portland, Ore., and her desire to correct social ills showed up early in life.
Active in Adoption Issues
        After Yale, she served on a state committee to study workers' compensation laws and was an assistant corporation counsel of New York City before she was named a judge.
Judge Polier headed an unofficial citizens commission that in 1974 looked into the alleged paddling of students, at the Jordan L. Mott Junior High School in the Bronx, by two deans.
Judge Polier was a vice president of the American Jewish Congress and a member of the board, and former president, of the Field Foundation.
The trial judge ordered the diary sealed and impounded.
The diary was never made public, and a judge witnessed its burning in 1952.
