A battle over control of her financial affairs, after a series of strokes incapacitated her in 1980, led Probate Judge James H. Kinsella to resign in 1984 to avoid the possibility that he would be the first judge ever impeached by the Connecticut House of Representatives.
A battle over control of her financial affairs, after a series of strokes incapacitated her in 1980, led Probate Judge James H. Kinsella to resign in 1984 to avoid the possibility that he would be the first judge ever impeached by the Connecticut House of Representatives.
After her strokes, William W. Graulty, a bank officer who managed her finances, was named her conservator by Judge Kinsella, who also appointed a close friend as co-conservator and his former clerk to oversee them.
Mr. Graulty and the other two had a dispute and another probate judge removed both conservators and accepted the overseer's resignation.
In 1983 the state's Probate Council found that Judge Kinsella had acted improperly.
A year later, on the day the Connecticut House of Representatives was to vote on impeaching him, Judge Kinsella resigned.
Her films included ''55 Days at Peking'' (1963), ''Seven Days in May'' (1964), ''Mayerling'' (1969), ''The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean'' (1972), ''The Blue Bird'' (1976) and a handful of disaster epics.
These were the films for which she was most noted:
        The Killers
        The Hucksters
        One Touch of Venus
        Show Boat
        Pandora and the Flying Dutchman
        The Snows of Kilimanjaro
        Mogambo
        Knights of the Round Table
        The Barefoot Contessa
        Bhowani Junction
        The Sun Also Rises
        The Naked Maja
        On the Beach
        The Night of the Iguana
        The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean
        The Cassandra Crossing
        The Kidnapping of the President
      

       Jean Galloway Bissell, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, died of cancer Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington.
Jean Galloway Bissell, a judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, died of cancer Sunday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington.
Judge Bissell, a graduate of the University of South Carolina and its law school, lectured at the university in the 1970's and early 1980's.

       Lillian S. Rinenberg, a former administrative law judge and a lawyer in Queens for 60 years, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach.
Lillian S. Rinenberg, a former administrative law judge and a lawyer in Queens for 60 years, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach.
Judge Rinenberg was a charter member and former president of the Queens County Women's Bar Association.
She was in private practice for many years and was also an administrative law judge for the City of New York.
Judge Rinenberg is survived by her husband, Warren; two daughters, Alice Brickner, of the Bronx, and Curry Sawyer, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      
Her husband, Allen Olmsted, a Pennsylvania judge who was a founder of the American Civil Liberties Union, died in 1976.
Dr. Brown was a judge of gymnastics at the London Olympic Games and a delegate to the 1938 World Gymnastic Championships.
Before that, she served as a judge in the Family Court and in the Criminal Courts of New York City.
Her husband, William J. Gordon, a Chenango County judge and surrogate, died in 1975.

       Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was 47 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
        Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Before that she was law secretary to Judge Sylvia B. Pressler of the Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court.
Mrs. Dawidowicz refused to judge the failure of the Jews themselves to mount a more active resistance to the genocide, and in this she clashed bitterly with a number of other historians.
She served as an acting justice of the State Supreme Court in 1973 and as an acting Family Court judge in 1974.
She was known as a compassionate judge who supported civil rights and women's causes.
In 1986, she was named judge of the year by the National Association of Women Judges, an organization she helped found in 1979.
The central issue in the case was whether Mrs. Gabel, who was the judge handling preliminary motions in Mr. Capasso's divorce case in 1983, had received a bribe from Ms. Myerson, then New York City's Cultural Affairs Commissioner, in the form of a job for Sukhreet Gabel as a special assistant to Ms. Myerson.
Her husband, James Randall Creel, a retired judge of the New York City Criminal Court, died in July.
      
Her marriage to Judge Gilbert Bettman of Cincinnati ended in divorce.
