She died of natural causes, said her lawyer, William H. Roth.
In 1937 she married William A. Shea, a New York lawyer who became a partner in Shea & Gould, founded the Mets baseball team and for whom Shea Stadium is named.

        Rose Nussbaum Justin, a lawyer who held legal positions in New York City government, died on Jan. 17 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
After graduating from St. John's University Law School in 1932, Mrs. Justin was the chief counsel for the Bronx Legal Aid Society, an agent for the city's Investigation Division, a Civil Service examiner, a lawyer for the City Rent Commission and a referee in Small Claims Court.
The cause was heart failure, said Leonard L. Silverstein, her lawyer.
Mrs. Lebenthal was remarried in 1956 to I. Arnold Ross, a lawyer and former State Assemblyman.
In the 1940's she lived in Hamilton, N.Y., where her husband, Edward C. Rowe, was a lawyer at Colgate University.

        Shirley Ann Dungan Kheel, a lawyer and civic worker, died yesterday at her Manhattan home.
Her father-in-law is Theodore Kheel, the labor mediator and lawyer, of Manhattan.
      

        Julie Noel Gilbert, 48, who spent her 20-year professional career as a lawyer in Washington, became a partner in Morgan, Lewis & Bockius in 1985 after its merger with the tax firm of Cohen & Uretz, where she had practiced previously.

        Jolene R. Marion, a New York lawyer who played a prominent role in the animal-rights movement, died on Sunday at the Queens home of a friend, Marilyn Mason.
As a private lawyer, she worked for wealthy clients and corporations, and as a judge she tried both criminal and civil cases.
She married Francis T. Christy, a lawyer, in 1922.
The cause was a heart attack, said her lawyer, Richard J. Fricke.

        Margie Pitts Hames, an Atlanta civil rights lawyer who argued a companion case to the better-known Roe v. Wade, in which the Supreme Court upheld a woman's right to have an abortion, died on Tuesday night while driving her car in Atlanta.
Ms. Hames was the main lawyer in the case when it came before the United States Supreme Court.
She was less successful in another instance as a lawyer for the American Civil Liberties Union.
She was married to Clayborne George, a lawyer in Cleveland and a prominent Republican there.
Her husband, Herbert S. Jr., a lawyer, died in 1982 after 57 years of marriage.
She married Julius Rosenberg, a lawyer, in 1940; he died in 1948.
Her 1957 marriage, to Samuel Gruber, also a lawyer, ended in divorce in 1973.
She worked as a lawyer in Chicago, New York and Milford.
The eldest of eight children of a lawyer, she was born in Ceiba, 33 miles southeast of San Juan.
In 1940, she married Jenaro A. Gautier, a lawyer who was secretary general of the Popular Democratic Party at the time.

        Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a lawyer who helped reshape the American juvenile justice system, died on Wednesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Phoenix.
Correction:  December 8, 1994, Thursday
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Nov. 19 about Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a former lawyer, misstated her role in a 1967 Supreme Court case that established that juveniles have essentially the same Constitutional safeguards in criminal proceedings as adults.
She studied law in England to become a lawyer at the Middle Temple Inn of Court in London.
A lawyer who became the owner and operator of a business school in St. Louis, Miss Hickey was prominent in World War II as chairwoman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the national War Manpower Commission, from 1942 to 1945.

        Lillian Louise Poses, a lawyer who worked on the New Deal and was long active in public life, died on Sunday in her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Shouse, a lawyer and businessman, had been a Congressman from Kansas and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Coolidge.

        Frances T. Freeman Jalet-Cruz, a legal-aid lawyer who fought for more humane conditions in the Texas prison system, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Manor in Trumbull, Conn. She was 84.
A newspaper article about her prompted a Mexican-American inmate and jailhouse lawyer named Fred Arispe Cruz to call her for assistance in appealing his robbery conviction.

        Kathleen P. Mahon, a lawyer who represented Federal law-enforcement officers, died yesterday at her home in Syosset, L.I.
