Ms. Lavin's first marriage was to William Walsh, a lawyer, who died in 1954.
She married Deane F. Johnson, a prominent Los Angeles lawyer, in 1968 and the couple moved to New York in 1980.
Ms. Wenk joined the chapter as staff lawyer in 1992 and became legal director the next year.
degree from the University of Pennsylvania School of Law in 1980, she worked as a staff lawyer with the District of Columbia Public Defender Service and the Massachusetts Committee for Public Counsel Services.
Ms. Gilbert, who was born in Gap, Pa., worked for legal aid agencies well before becoming a lawyer, and was on the advisory board of the Neighborhood Defender Service of Harlem.
Fearing she would not be able to support herself as an actress indefinitely,  she had become a lawyer in 1981 and had begun a practice in immigration law that drew her increasingly into public affairs, partly because of a column on immigration matters she wrote for El Diario La Prensa.
and society's rejection," she said, noting  that she had spent years working as a staff lawyer for Gay Men's Health Crisis not because of her own infection but because of the many friends in the theater  who had died of AIDS.
Ms. Kerouac's lawyer said a trial was tentatively set for September in St. Petersburg, Fla.
        "Her main intent was to put it into a museum or a library and preserve it forever," Mr. Nicosia, the biographer, said.
Growing up in a neighborhood of immigrants and the poor awakened a commitment to social issues that guided her life as a lawyer.
She swiftly established a reputation not only as a skillful lawyer but also as an eloquent friend of the downtrodden, a champion of women's rights and a diligent party worker.
At a time when the average doctor made  less than $5,000 a year and the average lawyer half that, they were each making  $100,000 a year from their enterprise, which included several evening musical programs, like "Waltz Time," and mysteries, including the haunting "Mr.
In 1943, she married Robert E. Treuhaft, a lawyer from Brooklyn, and the couple moved to Oakland, Calif.

        Geraldine Bone Zorbaugh, a lawyer who was a trailblazer for women in the upper ranks of broadcast networks' legal staffs in the 1950's, died on Saturday  at Moore Regional Hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. She was 91 and lived in a retirement home in Pinehurst.
Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a secretary in her hometown, Barnesboro, in central Pennsylvania, and later in New York City, where she met her husband, had two children, graduated from law school and became prominent as a network lawyer, first at ABC.
Mrs. Zorbaugh went on to work as a lawyer with a New York law firm and with the Blue Network before joining ABC in 1944.
''Catherine would just persist and persist until it happened,'' recalled Mary Eastwood, a retired staff lawyer for the Justice Department and a friend of Ms. East.
In the mid-1970's, she formed a partnership with her husband, Jerrold Kushnick, an entertainment lawyer, and established herself as a manager.
For 39 years she was married to Merrill Shepard, a Chicago lawyer who died in 1986.
Her lawyer, Owen Wells, noting that Mrs. Noyce had long suffered from emphysema, said the cause was a heart attack.
Mr. Wells, her lawyer, said, however, that after all her charitable donations, her estate was worth $100 million to $1 billion.
Her most recent project was ''Strong on Music,'' a series that explored the musical world of 19th-century New York through the eyes of the lawyer and diarist George Templeton Strong.
Her last husband, A. Chauncey Newlin, a lawyer and philanthropist, died in 1983.
Her early advocacy of racial equality was inspired by her father, Earl B. Dickerson, a prominent Chicago civil-rights lawyer and 30-year board member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
After an early marriage to Irving Adler, a Chicago lawyer, ended in divorce, she went to California to recover and met Chaplin there.

        Carolyn Eugenia Agger, a prominent tax lawyer and the widow of former Justice Abe Fortas of the Supreme Court, died on Thursday at her home in the Georgetown section of Washington.
'' She soon proved herself adept at both comedy and drama and went on to appear in such plays as ''Life and Death of an American,'' ''Wallflower,'' ''See My Lawyer'' with Milton Berle and ''The Eve of St. Mark'' with William Prince.
Mrs. Pulleyn's husband, Robert, a lawyer, died in 1990.
"
        Some of Ms. Jordan's earliest politicking was as a young lawyer when she directed one of Houston's first voter drives in support of the Kennedy-Johnson ticket in 1960.
In 1936, Josephine married Jay Frederick Reeve, a Chicago lawyer she met while covering the courts.
She and her husband, a corporate lawyer, developed an interest in contemporary art that led to her involvement with the Whitney Museum.

        Irene Arnold, a lawyer and teacher who spent her life in the service of the retarded and other victims of circumstance, like war and persecution, died on Jan. 4 at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan.
It revolved  mostly around the Duchess's powerful lawyer, Suzanne Blum, portrayed in the book as obsessed with her client to the point of erotic fantasy.
After the war she came to the United States with her husband, Alexander Rudzinski, an international lawyer who was a member of the Polish delegation to  the fledgling United Nations.
