Her father was a lawyer whose family owned a large sugar mill in Cali, Colombia, where she spent part of her youth.
As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
Ransom, was the company's general manager and lawyer during the years A'Lelia Walker was president, and named his daughter for her when she was born on Aug. 14, 1918.
Her father, Samuel Koner, a lawyer, had devised a medical plan for the Workmen's Circle, a Jewish socialist and benevolent organization; the result is considered a pioneering group medical plan.
Mrs. Levin, the widow of Philip J. Levin, a lawyer and real estate developer, took over her husband's business after his death in 1971.
In the 1937 film ''True Confession,'' she was a secretary being interrogated by a lawyer, played by Fred MacMurray.
The lawyer asks her to take shorthand, perhaps to see if she can or, more likely, to prove a point.
Among them was Philip L. Graham of Florida, a brilliant lawyer and a clerk at the Supreme Court, first for Justice Stanley Reed and then for Felix Frankfurter.
Mrs. Olson, 45, was also half of a highly influential couple on Washington's social-political scene; her husband, Theodore B. Olson, an appellate lawyer, successfully argued the Florida election case for George W. Bush before the Supreme Court.
''
        Dorothy Hackett McGuire was born on June 14, 1918, in Omaha, Neb., the daughter of Thomas Johnson McGuire, a lawyer, and Isabelle Flaherty McGuire.
She decided to carry on with her plans, despite the advice of her lawyer and her accountant.
She decided to carry on with her plans, despite the advice of her lawyer and her accountant.
At 21, she married Morris Shapiro, a future civil rights lawyer.
''
        According to Kathryn Kleiman, a lawyer who is working on a documentary film on the women in the Eniac program and their contribution to the field, Mrs. Holberton consistently worked on trying to make computers easier to program.
