Mrs. Greene, widow of the late William D. Greene, a communications lawyer, was president of the club when it closed in 1979 after the city withdrew its exemption from property taxes.
Mrs. Schwarz, the widow of Frederick A. O. Schwarz, a lawyer and for many years chairman of the toy store, had also been on the board of the Young Women's Christian Association in Manhattan and of Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn.
She earned a bachelor's degree in music from Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. After graduating, she moved to New York and later married William Golub, a lawyer.

       Lillian S. Rinenberg, a former administrative law judge and a lawyer in Queens for 60 years, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach.
Lillian S. Rinenberg, a former administrative law judge and a lawyer in Queens for 60 years, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach.
After two tours of North America with the Royal Shakespeare Company, Miss Drake married Maxwell Turner, a lawyer, in 1938 and retired for a time.

       Marcia R. Richman, a lawyer who specialized in juvenile justice, died of cancer on Monday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 55 years old.
Marcia R. Richman, a lawyer who specialized in juvenile justice, died of cancer on Monday at her home in Short Hills, N.J. She was 55 years old.

       Minerva Salzman Henkin, a retired New York lawyer who specialized in immigration law, died on May 14 at the Quakertown Community Hospital in Pennsylvania.
She was 90 years old and lived in Haycock Township, Pa.
        Minerva Salzman Henkin, a retired New York lawyer who specialized in immigration law, died on May 14 at the Quakertown Community Hospital in Pennsylvania.
The widow of Lazaar Henkin, also a lawyer, she is survived by a son, Jay M. Stanley of Kintnersville; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      

       Ann K. Soskis, a retired lawyer and social work administrator, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Philadelphia.
Ann K. Soskis, a retired lawyer and social work administrator, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Philadelphia.
In 1950, Mrs. Church won the 13th Congressional seat formerly held by her husband, Ralph E. Church, a lawyer, who died in March of that year.
Her father, Waldron, was a prominent lawyer.
Mrs. Hart was born in London, the daughter of a corporation lawyer.
Her husband, Bruno V. Bitker, a lawyer, died in 1984.
In 1971, she married Richard Young, an international lawyer, and moved to Van Hornesville, near Cooperstown, where she revitalized the nonprofit community corporation.
Victor Rabinowitz, a New York lawyer who received word of Mrs. Stern's death, said that although the cause of her death was not reported, she had recently suffered an intestinal blockage.
She is survived by her husband, Julian L. Peabody, a lawyer; a daughter, Post Eddy Scharnberger of Los Angeles; two sons from a former marriage, Charles F. Willis 3d and R. Reese Willis, both of San Francisco; and two grandchildren.
      
A lawyer and financier, he was president of Montefiore Hospital for many years.

       Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County, died on Monday at the Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse.
She was 75 years old and lived in Norwich, N.Y.
        Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County, died on Monday at the Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse.

       Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was 47 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
        Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.

       Denise Carty-Bennia, a lawyer and visiting professor at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, died on Sept. 11 at her home in Detroit.
Denise Carty-Bennia, a lawyer and visiting professor at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, died on Sept. 11 at her home in Detroit.
''
        Her brother, Thomas Hale Boggs, is a prominent lawyer in Washington, and her sister, Cokie Roberts of Bethesda, Md., is a correspondent for National Public Radio and for ABC News on television and radio.
She contributed money as well as her time, benefiting institutions like Smith College, from which she graduated in 1907 at the age of 19; Northwestern University Law School, from which her father, Levy Mayer, graduated, and Princeton, where she endowed scholarships in memory of her husband, Walter A. Hirsch, a lawyer, who died in 1938, and their son, Lawrence, who died in 1960.
She was born in Weatherford, Tex., on Dec. 1, 1913 (although some reports placed the date one year later), the younger daughter of Preston Martin, a lawyer, and Juanita Presley Martin, a violin teacher.
At 16, she married Benjamin Hagman, a Weatherford accountant and later a lawyer.

        Elizabeth Walker, a tax lawyer, died yesterday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut.

        Carol E. Rinzler, a lawyer and author, died in her sleep on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
