In fact, according to relatives in Israel, Miss Karff, whose maiden name was Ratner, was born in the Russian province of Bessarabia, moved to Palestine when she was a teen-ager and came to the United States in the 1930's, settling first in Boston, where she had a brief marriage to a cousin, Abe Karff, a lawyer who died several years ago.
Her father was Henry A. Ingraham, a lawyer and one of the founders of Long Island College of Medicine.
She declined to settle for the future of a high school teacher, as other  girls with similar interests might have, or a lawyer, as her father wanted, she said.
A native of Earlville, N.Y., Mrs. Burnham attended the Utica School of Commerce and moved to Mattydale, a Salina hamlet, in 1952 when her husband, who was a lawyer, took a job with an insurance company in Syracuse before starting a private practice there.
She received her law degree from New York University, worked for a while as a volunteer Legal Aid lawyer in Riverhead, N.Y., then in the late 1980's became town justice in Head of the Harbor, a post she held until illness forced her to step down in 1996.

        Bella S. Abzug, New Yorker, feminist, antiwar activist, politician and lawyer, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
A founder of Women Strike for Peace and the National Women's Political Caucus, she spent a lifetime prodding for change, with a lawyer's enthusiasm for political channels, through organizations from the P.T.A.
She said she knew from the age of 11 that she wanted to be a lawyer, and not long afterward gave her first public speech, in a subway station, while collecting for a Zionist youth organization.
She once recalled: ''When I was a young lawyer, I would go to people's offices and they would always say: 'Sit here.
We'll wait for the lawyer.
In Susanville, Calif., they met Woody Guthrie and his cousin Jack, who were also making a living singing in the area; two of the Guthries' songs, ''The Philadelphia Lawyer'' and ''If You Ain't Got the Do-Re-Mi,'' became regular parts of the Maddoxes' repertory.
Her father, Lee Eastman, was a prominent show business lawyer in New York and one of his clients, Jack Lawrence, wrote ''Linda'' for her in 1947 when she was 6.
In addition to Mr. McCartney and the daughter from her first marriage, Heather, Ms. McCartney is survived by three children from her marriage with Mr. McCartney: Mary, Stella and James; and by her brother John, who is now Mr. McCartney's lawyer and business manager, and two sisters, Laura and Louise.
''The years caught up with her,'' William T. Muir, a lawyer and friend, told The Associated Press.
Mr. Kormendi an international corporate lawyer, looked after fund-raising for the nonprofit foundation.
Her mother was a beautician, her father a building superintendent who became a lawyer.
After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
''
        Miss Polykoff also unabashedly put husband and family above her career, going so far as to hold her Foote, Cone salary to $25,000 so as not to earn more than her lawyer husband, George P. Halperin.

        Julia Perles, a longtime Manhattan lawyer who played an important part in bringing about a significant change in New York State's divorce legislation, died early Wednesday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84 and had lived in Sarasota for about four years.
She was born and raised in Brooklyn, and she wanted to be a lawyer from the time she was 12 years old.
She was taken from the apartment to Lenox Hill Hospital, but her longtime lawyer Arthur E. Abelman said it was unclear where she died.

        Juanita Kidd Stout, an Oklahoma music teacher turned Philadelphia lawyer who became the first black woman to serve as a judge in Pennsylvania, then spent the better part of 40 years as a judicial scourge of murder, mayhem and bad grammar, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Philadelphia.
Within two years she had been appointed to the District Attorney's office, where she promptly extended her reputation as ''the hardest working lawyer in Philadelphia.
She routinely sentenced first-time offenders to write long essays, and was such a stickler for proper usage that she blithely corrected her fellow judges' grammar, and woe betide the lawyer who sought to ''appraise'' her of something.
Pressure was brought to spare Mrs. Judd's life in view of her claims of self-defense and her lawyer's assertions that she was mentally ill. Thirty state legislators and a group of 34 ministers and priests signed petitions, and Arizona authorities received several thousand letters on her behalf.
The noted defense lawyer Melvin Belli took her case and fought unsuccessfully against extradition to Arizona.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Elysabeth Kleinhans, a lawyer who manages the real estate business with other family members.
But even when he was alive, Mrs. Korein was the ''driving force,'' said Lawrence Friedland, the family's lawyer.
After attending Barnard College for one year, she married Mr. Cahn, a lawyer and later a constitutional law professor at New York University, who died in 1964.
It was a sideline, as an English tutor, that changed her life twice over, leading her both to Martin Elianoff, a lawyer who became her husband, and to Armand Hammer, the American businessman who helped the couple immigrate to the Philippines in 1930.
