In 1916 she married Gilbert Richard (Dick) Mitchison, a lawyer who was a Labor member of Parliament from 1945 to 1964, when he joined the House of Lords.
Her husband was born in Lodz, Poland, and became a lawyer there before coming to the United States in 1939.
Mrs. Durr and her husband, Clifford, a lawyer, were New Deal veterans who were in the thick of the civil rights movement in their native Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's.
Mrs. Hallinan, the widow of Vincent Hallinan, a fiery socialist lawyer who died in 1995, made a multi-million-dollar fortune by buying apartment buildings during the Great Depression.
In 1939, she married Sewell Tappan Tyng, a lawyer, author, head of a mining company and assistant to the New York City District Attorney, Thomas E. Dewey.
''
        Ms. Klaus's desire to become a lawyer also derived from the experience of watching her mother battle  the court system for 10 years over her husband's estate.
After graduation, Ms. Klaus worked as a review lawyer for the National Labor Relations Board in Washington.
In 1948, she took the post of solicitor for the National Labor Relations Board, a position that made her the highest-ranking female lawyer in the Federal Government.
''She is one of the pioneers and champions of bringing law and order into labor relations,'' said Robert S. Rifkind, a lawyer and longtime friend whose father, Simon H. Rifkind, was a law clerk for Ms. Klaus.
In 1967 the Carters and Marian Wright Edelman, a lawyer with the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund Inc., sued the Drew school district, challenging the state freedom-of-choice law.
Nathan Chroman, a longtime friend of Ms. Hansen's and her lawyer, said that Ms. Hansen, when she lived in Denmark, helped Danish Jews in their mass escape to Sweden.
She died of cancer, said Albert Oehrle, the lawyer for her son, Baird Parker.
Robert Dobrish, the lawyer for Parker's estate, said Parker ''thought of her as his wife,'' but they were not legally spouses.
After her divorce, she dated Frank Sinatra, and through him she met Kennedy in 1960 in Las Vegas, Nev., said her lawyer, James Lesar of Washington.
After being educated at a local convent, she was working as a lawyer's secretary when she was invited  to an audition by the film director Sir Carol Reed, who knew her father.
Soon fluent in German and English as well as French and Russian, she  studied law and literature at the Sorbonne and Oxford University before joining a Paris law firm in 1925, the same year that she married a fellow lawyer, Raymond Sarraute.
Her novel ''My Friend Says It's Bulletproof'' (1968) is loosely based on an affair she had with a lawyer on a trip to Canada.

        Carol Berlin Manzoni, a Chicago lawyer whose knack for recruiting clients propelled her rapid rise in the legal profession, died on Oct. 9 at her home in Chicago.
''This was a complete surprise,'' her lawyer, Robert Harrison, told  The San Diego Union-Tribune, adding that there had been no prior sign of depression.
''
        Sufia Kamal was born in 1911 in Barisal, the southern district of what is now Bangladesh, the only daughter of an eminent lawyer.
The daughter of a lawyer and a socialite, Ms. Leslie was a 15-year-old student at the Brearley School on the Upper East Side when she was discovered by the producer George Abbott and cast as the girl next door in the 1944 Broadway production of ''Snafu,'' a comedy.
Her father, Park Benjamin, a wealthy patent lawyer and New York society figure, fiercely opposed the match between his daughter, then 25, to Caruso, who was 45.
Jerry Brown in 1977, Ms. Bird, a pioneering liberal lawyer who had never been a judge, became one of the most controversial figures in California politics.
