"She made a difference in a lot of people's lives," said her lawyer, Ken Arenson.
Her husband was a New York lawyer and civil rights advocate who served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and was president of the New York City Board of Education in the mid-1960's.
After her marriage in 1945 to Arthur Upshur Hooper, a Baltimore lawyer who died in 1970, she became involved with the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Peter L. Knecht, her longtime friend and lawyer, said that Mrs. Adams, a native of Manila, had had heart surgery and that her life support system was disconnected.
In a little-known chapter of her life, her lawyer, J. Dan O'Neill, said yesterday, Miss Keliher helped several Jewish families escape from Germany and Austria in the late 1930's.
Her lawyer said the enterprise was organized by the love of her life, a shadowy American intelligence agent whose death in World War II led Miss Keliher to vow to remain unmarried.
She went from being a small-town lawyer's well-read daughter to being a regular on fashion magazines' lists of well-dressed women, with her trendy designer gowns and hats from Bergdorf Goodman.
The cause of death was stomach cancer, according to her son, Hugh H. Mo, a lawyer in New York.
In the meantime, at age 22, she married Norbert Simmons, a lawyer and businessman.

        Gladys M. Dorman, a lawyer who served 20 years on the New York City Board of Higher Education, died on Thursday at her home in Bal Harbour, Fla. She was 84.

        Mary M. Kaufman, a retired lawyer whose practice included cases involving Communism and Nazism, as well as defending the poor, died on Thursday at the Roosevelt division of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center.
In 1951, she was in a Federal courtroom as a defense lawyer when Dashiell Hammett, the writer, and W. Alphaeus Hunton, secretary of the Council on African Affairs, were convicted of criminal contempt and sentenced to six months in prison.
In 1936, she married Joseph H. Hazen, a lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist at a double ceremony in which Mrs. Hazen's sister, Enid, was married to the investment banker Ira Haupt.
Mrs. Fisher may not have won her immediate point before the Supreme Court, but the arguments raised by her lawyer, Thurgood Marshall, who had denounced the state action as a sham, had a powerful impact on the court as it picked its way  toward the landmark 1954 decision overturning the separate-but-equal doctrine.
' "
        After Mrs. Fisher graduated in 1951, she worked for a while as a lawyer.

        Marilyn J. Morheuser, the lawyer at the center of a 13-year court struggle to make New Jersey's school-financing system more equitable for the state's poorest districts, died on Sunday at her home in Newark.
She is survived by her husband of 64 years, David, a retired corporate lawyer; a daughter, Ellen Liman of Manhattan; two sisters, Annette Bloch of Manhattan and Frances Epstein of Los Angeles, and five grandchildren.
      
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F.  Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.

        Blanche G. Etra, a lawyer and philanthropist who played an important role in the development of Yeshiva University, died on Wednesday in her home in Manhattan.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
In 1964, when she attended the Carolina Walking Horse Celebration in Raleigh, N.C., with a veterinarian, a lawyer and two police officers to look for evidence of mistreatment, she was threatened by spectators and forced to flee.
