
        Linda L. Ellenbogen, who was the first woman lawyer in the law department of the New York State Supreme Court in Westchester County, died on Thursday at Rosary Hill Nursing Home in Hawthorne, N.Y. She was 43 years old and a resident of White Plains.
A lawyer's association determined in 1990 that she was the oldest practicing lawyer in the nation at that time.
A lawyer's association determined in 1990 that she was the oldest practicing lawyer in the nation at that time.
Taught School for a Time
        Mrs. Everett was born in Fayetteville, N.C., where her father was a lawyer.
Her father, Alrick H. Man, a Wall Street lawyer, developed the community of Kew Gardens in Queens, on property that had been bought by her grandfather, Alban P. Man.

        Rose Korn Hirschman, a real-estate lawyer and volunteer at the United Nations and other organizations, died Jan. 24 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Hazelton is survived by two sons, Dr. Standen and J. O. Standen, a lawyer in San Francisco, and three grandchildren.
She was born in Budapest, the daughter of an international copyright lawyer, Sandor Marton, who was a pioneering literary agent with clients including Sinclair Lewis, Dorothy Thompson and Thornton Wilder.
Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Jeremiah, a lawyer in Manhattan; three daughters, Mara Ferris of Brookline, Mass., and Thea Gutman and Rebecca Menon, both of Manhattan; a sister, Naomi Fatouros of Bloomington, Ind., and two grandchildren.
      
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
"
        Surviving are her husband of 43 years, Hiram D. Black, a retired lawyer and financial consultant; a daughter, Suzanne O'Toole of Darien, Conn.; a sister, Suzanne Morris of Delray Beach, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Ms. Sze died of throat cancer, said Jean B. Angell, a close friend who was her lawyer.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
Her father, Loren G. Disney, was a lawyer and a local political figure.
For 25 years she was married to Harry Levin, a lawyer who died in 1945.

        Janice Gilbert Fulton, a bridge expert and game-show personality in the early days of television, was presumed dead after a boating accident last week near her home about 150 miles north of Haiti, her lawyer said yesterday.
The lawyer, Ian Miller, said that Mrs. Fulton's husband, David Fulton, 70 years old, a mining engineer, was also presumed dead, as was Dan Cooper, 45, a Canadian real estate developer who was a passenger when the Fultons' 22-foot fishing boat capsized in choppy waters on Thursday morning.
Miss Grand fell last winter and grew progressively weaker afterward, said her lawyer, Hazel Schizer.

        Judge Frances Williamson Lehrich, a lawyer and former New York City magistrate, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Judge Lehrich's husband, Henry, a lawyer, died in 1966.
She and her husband, a lawyer, lived in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, in the 1980's, where she organized horseback-riding classes.
In the late 1930's she returned to legal work as a volunteer lawyer for various agencies: the New Jersey Board of Mediation, the Army's Legal Department, the Governor's Commission for Refugees after the Soviet invasion of Hungary in 1956 and the Governor's Landlord-Tenant Committee in the 1960's.
In 1968 she became a full-time volunteer lawyer at the Essex-Newark Legal Services in Orange.
