''
        In addition to writing the current book, with Chris Benson, a Chicago lawyer and author, on her son's case, Mrs. Mobley is also featured in a new documentary, ''The Untold Story of Emmett Louis Till,'' by Keith Beauchamp.
In the 1930's she was married to and divorced from James J. Regan, a lawyer, and did public relations work in theater.
After the war, she moved to the San Francisco area, where for 12 years she was a secretary for Charles Garry, a lawyer whose clients included leading political dissidents and radicals.
Mrs. Griffiths pursued passage of the amendment calmly, with the persuasive skills of the trial lawyer she once was.
After her divorce from Mr. Herwig, she married the bandleader Artie Shaw and then Arnold Krakower, the lawyer who handled her divorce from Mr. Shaw.
Her fourth and last husband was Paul A. Porter, a lawyer, who died in 1975.

        Dr. Judianne Densen-Gerber, a lawyer and psychiatrist who founded the drug treatment program Odyssey House and went on to give widely quoted but sometimes disputed testimony on subjects like child abuse and pornography, died on Sunday in Manhattan.
Her father, Gustave Gerber, a chemical engineer, became a lawyer in his 40's and was considering studying medicine in his 60's.
Mrs. Bulah went to Louis L. Redding, a lawyer for the NAACP Legal Defense and Educational Fund and the first black admitted to the Delaware bar.
Mrs. Rosenfield took credit for casting a virtually unknown Robert De Niro as the doomed catcher, and Mr. Rosenfield, a Chicago corporate lawyer, appeared as a team owner.
Her father, George Z. Medalie, was a New York lawyer and judge.
The cause was breast cancer, said Paul B. Bergman, the lawyer for Daniel Pelosi, her husband.
She and her first husband, Donald Frizell Hyde, a New York lawyer, acquired thousands of books and manuscripts relating to these two towering literary figures of the 18th century.
Her father was a lawyer, and her mother was so genteel that she refused to go to the grocer's without gloves and a hat.
Her activism never stopped, said Rose Sanders, a friend and civil rights lawyer.
Her husband, an eminent lawyer and judge, was appointed master of the rolls, one of the highest-ranking posts in Britain's judiciary.
She later married Bill Marcus, a trumpet player and later a lawyer.
''
        Mrs. Hicks, a lawyer and the daughter of a prominent South Boston judge, spent a decade fighting against forced integration in Boston before it was ordered in 1974 by Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. of Federal District Court.
Her mother died when Mrs. Hicks was 14, and she was especially close to her father, a lawyer, judge and businessman, whom she cited as her inspiration to become a lawyer.
Her mother died when Mrs. Hicks was 14, and she was especially close to her father, a lawyer, judge and businessman, whom she cited as her inspiration to become a lawyer.
Dorothy Jeanne-Therese Farnan was born on June 29, 1919, in Winona, Minn., the only child of James Farnan, a lawyer, and the former Nanneta Von Starck.
Ignoring advice to move to neutral Ireland, they stayed as he pursued his career as a lawyer and civil servant and their family grew.
Her husband is Theodore W. Kheel, the labor mediator and lawyer.
