One of those ubiquitous actresses who always seemed to be working, Ms. Heckart was perhaps most widely known for her television appearances as Mary Richards's Aunt Flo on the Mary Tyler Moore show, for example, or more recently for her recurring role of the mother of the lawyer James Wyler in the ABC drama ''Murder One.
''
        Her father was Phelan Beale, a Wall Street lawyer, who raised three children at Grey Gardens on Lily Pond Lane.
Her mother, Jean Schick Grossman, was a parent educator, and her father, Max Grossman, was a lawyer and president of the Ethical Culture Society of New York.
She ignored advice from her lawyer and banker when she bought her first restaurant, and she kept the cumbersome name even as the business grew far beyond New Orleans.
Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the country's major private collections of 17th-century Dutch drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Bruegel.
As a young lawyer, Mr. Abrams had worked for the Dutch government and developed an interest in Dutch and Flemish art.
She dated the athletic Ned and basked in the attentions of her doting, widowed father, the distinguished lawyer Carson Drew.
At the time he was a lawyer living in the Village.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.
The cause was a heart attack, her lawyer, Martin D. Newman, said.
Correction:  July 17, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Dolores Gray on June 29 included an erroneous reference, from her lawyer, to her marriage to Andrew Crevolin, a California real estate developer who died in 1992.

        Barbara Scott Preiskel, a lawyer whose career helped break down racial barriers in entertainment law as well as on the numerous corporate boards on which she served, died Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was a lawyer and executive with the Motion Picture Association of America from 1959 to 1983.
In 1987, she married Mr. Bancroft, a former diplomat and lawyer who, as vice chairman of The Times Company, helped shape the decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971.

        Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57.
Ms. Lipton thought this indicated that school officials regarded disabled students as freaks, Arlene Mayerson, a lawyer for the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, said.
She was believed to be about 93, though she would not tell her age, her lawyer Allen Derr said.
In a widely reported legal battle that contrasted with the rest of her quiet life, Mrs. Reed was assisted by Mr. Derr, her Boise lawyer, and two lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union, Mel Wulf and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is now a Supreme Court Justice.
He was a lawyer at Cravath, Swaine & Moore.
The cause was kidney disease, said her lawyer, Perry F. Goldlust of Wilmington, Del.
Her husband, Rowland Watts, a civil liberties lawyer, died in 1995.
