Mrs. McClinton's first marriage, to Richard Kahle, a San Diego lawyer, ended in divorce in 1935.
She died in her sleep, said Edmund Delaney, her lawyer and a friend.
She was married for 35 years to Bernhard Knollenberg, a lawyer, Revolutionary War historian and librarian of Yale's Sterling Memorial Library.
She also worked as an assistant to Eliot Richardson, later Attorney General in the Nixon Administration, when he was a lawyer in Boston, and was an assistant to Nelson A. Rockefeller in New York City and Washington.

        Tess Cogen, a lawyer, psychotherapist and college professor, died on Thursday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State.
Besides her husband and her daughters, Ms. Cox of Manhattan, whose husband, Edward F. Cox, is a lawyer, and Ms. Eisenhower of Berwyn, Pa., whose husband, David Eisenhower, is a military historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Nixon's survivors include two grandsons, Christopher Nixon Cox and Alex Richard Eisenhower, and two granddaughters, Melanie and Jennie Eisenhower.
Her lawyer, Theodore R. Wagner, said the cause was complications from a stroke last October.
Judge Simon, who was still active as a lawyer at her death, served in state posts under appointments from both Republican and Democratic governors and was the first woman nominated by a major party for citywide office in New York City.
She finally offered to work free for a year "to convince them that a woman could be a lawyer," she later recalled.
It was her marriage to Leopold K. Simon, a lawyer, that ignited her interest in the law.
For 59 years she was married to Hans Klagsbrunn, a lawyer, who died on June 23.
The immediate cause was congestive heart failure, said Jean B. Angell, a close friend who was also her lawyer.

        Miriam Irene Eolis, a lawyer, accountant and theatrical producer, died Wednesday at St. Barnabas Hospital in the Bronx.
She was married for nearly 40 years to Edward H. Fleischman, a lawyer in Manhattan and former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
She was married for nearly 40 years to Edward H. Fleischman, a lawyer in Manhattan and former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Later that year, she married William Dwight Whitney, a New York lawyer.

        Ellen Joyce Alter, a Detroit civic leader and bankruptcy lawyer, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Pontiac, Mich. She was 44.

        Lenore Blanchard Stoughton, a New York City lawyer who specialized in trademark and copyright law for 65 years, died on Aug. 30 at a nursing home in Kingston, N.Y. She was 88.
When she came to New York City, she was unable to find work as a lawyer.

        Mary E. Clark, a lawyer who successfully campaigned for a change in Florida law so that people with major illnesses would not lose a large part of their medical insurance coverage, died here on Saturday.
After graduating first in her class at the Georgetown Law Center in 1960, she began her career as a lawyer in the Office of Legal Counsel.
The cause was cardiac arrest, said her lawyer, Hiram G. Shields.

        Elizabeth L. R. Coates, a Connecticut lawyer active in community affairs, died on Thursday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
She worked for the General Electric Company as a lawyer for seven years before going into private practice in Greenwich, most recently with the firm of Hopper & Krause.
Besides her husband, also a lawyer in Greenwich, Mrs. Coates's survivors are her three daughters, Susanna, Margaret and Catherine; her parents, Donald T. and Betty Richardson of Fairfield, Conn.; and her three sisters, Susan R. Duncan of Simsbury, Conn., Leslie B. Richardson of Yardley, Pa., and Lisa Richardson-Bach of Marblehead, Mass.
      
Her lawyer, James McGarry, said the cause was the flu.
Her father, William J. Tully, was a lawyer and a two-term New York State senator.
