She ventured to China at the age of 24 in 1931 with the promise of a mining company secretarial job secured through her father, a Utah lawyer with connections to the state's mining industry.
Dime store fiction could undoubtedly have accommodated her cliche origins as the daughter of a patrician, Harvard-trained lawyer and a distinctly declasse Irish girl, who died in childbirth, setting up her father's marriage to a disapproving, if not quite wicked, stepmother.
Dr. Fosdick's career was also influenced by her beloved Uncle Raymond, her father's brother, Raymond B. Fosdick, an international lawyer whose appointment as Under Secretary of the League of Nations came to naught after the Senate failed to ratify the founding treaty.
But while shadows remained attached to her name, Surrogate Lambert, a gregarious, street-smart personal injury lawyer who was also the first woman president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, eluded her accusers.
''She started her career and ended it on behalf of widows and orphans,'' said Aaron J. Broder, a personal injury lawyer.
But while shadows remained attached to her name, Surrogate Lambert, a gregarious, street-smart personal injury lawyer who was also the first woman president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, eluded her accusers.
''She started her career and ended it on behalf of widows and orphans,'' said Aaron J. Broder, a personal injury lawyer.

        Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan.
But whether she was ''almost 17,'' in January 1918, as she put it in her her book ''Lady Lawyer,'' or 20, as a contemporaneous newspaper article reported, Miss Frooks, who received a gold medal from President Woodrow Wilson that month, was surely one of the last living Americans to have had a formal audience with Wilson in his White House office (and seen the evangelist Billy Sunday clap him on the back with such gusto that the President's top hat went flying.
Miss Frooks, who received a degree from the old Hamilton Law School in Chicago and then a master's from New York University, was a lawyer at 21, by her account.
By the early 1920's, at least, she was well known in New York as the first full-time lawyer for the Salvation Army.
Mrs. DeWind is survived by her husband, Adrian W. DeWind, a New York City lawyer, and by her four children and seven grandchildren.
      
In 1921, she married Herman Shulman, who became a prominent corporate lawyer and, like her, a strong supporter of Zionist causes.
''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show.

        Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious, a Chicago lawyer who held high posts in the Nixon and Bush Administrations, was active in the civil rights movement and was on the boards of major corporations, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
Jewel Stradford was born in Chicago, the daughter of C. Francis Stradford -- a lawyer -- and Aida Arabella Cartera, and grew up there.
Ralph Smith, her longtime lawyer, said the probable cause of death was heart failure.
She ended her career in 1939 and married a Brooklyn lawyer, Juvenal P. Marchisio.
She also outlived Andre-Francois Raffray, a lawyer who 32 years ago, when she was merely 90, bought the apartment she used to live in on a contingency contract.
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
At a news conference in Southfield, Mich., Dr. Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger, asked the authorities not to pry into the circumstances of Mrs. Good's death.
Following her marriage to Charles D. Peet, a New York lawyer, in 1936, Miss Sherman started her career in advertising as a copywriter for McCann-Erickson, Inc.
        She worked for the Madison Avenue agency for the next 37 years and held a variety of different positions.

        Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss.
As a child, she said, her mother took her to suffragist meetings and nurtured her daughter's independent spirit and her wish to become a lawyer, an aspiration hardly befitting a fine Southern lady then.
Her other beneficiaries included Girls Town in Jerusalem, Miami University and various other institutions..
        She helped establish the National Parkinson Foundation in 1957 with her husband, Nathan Slewett, a lawyer who became its chairman in 1981.
After entering private practice, she later  worked 11 years as a private lawyer with the Army.
''
        She worked as a private lawyer until she was 90, her grandniece said.
Following her graduation from Hunter College in 1928, she married Edward L. Kelly, a lawyer active in Democratic politics who was a justice in the city court system.
Sid Davidoff, a lawyer and former administrative assistant to Mayor John V. Lindsay, agreed to take her case even though, he later recalled, she ''didn't have a dime, she was living by her wits.
Floyd Abrams, the noted First Amendment lawyer, said of her New York magazine opinion: ''The idea that this is some sort of torturous reach by her is simply inaccurate.
She had never even met a ''real live lawyer,'' she said, until she entered law school in 1972.
She can seem brusque, and will cut off a lawyer who is rambling.
''
        ''Yes, Your Honor,'' the lawyer replied.
Ronald L. Kuby, the criminal defense lawyer known for his passionate advocacy and, at times, his loquaciousness in the courtroom, said he had been chastised by Judge Scheindlin, but rightly so.
'' He said she pays attention to what a lawyer says and ''she gets very upset when you repeat it.
