''They thought I'd marry a lawyer.

        Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
In the 1980's and early 90's, she made her living buying and selling medical practices, and in the mid-90's, when she was in her late 50's, she became a lawyer.
Mrs. Jordan was briefly married to Robert Jordan, a lawyer, before they divorced in the early 1950's.
She was born on Jan. 1, 1923, to Adam Longino Mars, a lawyer, and Emily Geneva Johnson Mars, known as Neva.

        Belle Mayer Zeck, a lawyer who began her career as one of the few women to serve as prosecutors at the Nuremberg trials, died on March 18 at her home in Suffern, N.Y. She was 87.
Her father, a lawyer, was obese, her mother slender.

        Carlene R. Lewis, a Houston lawyer whose early suspicions about the safety of the pain reliever Vioxx put her in the forefront of what is now a wave of litigation against its maker, Merck, died Monday in Houston.
Christopher Seeger, a New York lawyer who joined forces with Ms. Lewis against Vioxx in 2001, said: ''She was the first lawyer I know to begin investing money and really investigating whether Vioxx was a safe drug or whether it was causing heart attacks.
Christopher Seeger, a New York lawyer who joined forces with Ms. Lewis against Vioxx in 2001, said: ''She was the first lawyer I know to begin investing money and really investigating whether Vioxx was a safe drug or whether it was causing heart attacks.
Although he was just as conservative as Ms. Dubrow was liberal, Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential candidate in 1964, was friendly with Ms. Dubrow, once telling Mr. Dubinsky, ''That's a smart little girl lawyer you've got down here.
'' She was not a lawyer, however.
''He finally got tired, and then he got a lawyer and sued for divorce.
She met Thomas Church, a prominent immigration lawyer, shortly after arriving in New York, and they were married in 1963.

        Cora T. Walker, a prominent New York lawyer who nearly 60 years ago became one of the first black women to practice law in the state, died last Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said her son Lawrence R. Bailey Jr., a lawyer, who practiced with his mother for many years.
Ms. Walker's marriage, to Lawrence R. Bailey Sr., a lawyer, ended in divorce.

        Joan Guggenheimer, a soft-spoken lawyer who had the ear of the chief executives at two of the world's biggest banks, died Sunday at her home near Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 54.
He recruited her in 2003 to be the top lawyer for Bank One, and later for J. P. Morgan when he became the chief executive.
So cemented was her celebrity on the national stage, however, that she appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips, and was a lawyer and lobbyist for Public strategies and Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.
She was an adviser to both, not a lobbyist and lawyer.
The daughter of a trial lawyer, Ms. Tucker was born Marcia Silverman and grew up in Bensonhurst, Brooklyn, and then New Jersey in a household that took politics and culture seriously.
The cause was heart failure, said her lawyer, Mark Sendroff.
The cause was complications following a heart attack and a stroke she suffered after surgery, and Ms. Brown had been on life support since Oct. 29, said her friend, lawyer and executor, Howell Begle.

        Michele Maxian, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who successfully battled to require New York State courts to arraign a suspect within 24 hours of being arrested, helping to spur reform in the New York City justice system, died last Tuesday in Union City, N.J. She was 55.
She began as a trial lawyer in Legal Aid's Manhattan office from 1976 to 1982 and was twice director of the special litigation unit, from 1988 to 1998 and from 2002 until her death.
The cause was heart failure, said Ronald Konecky, her lawyer and the executor of her estate.
Her father, Leo, was a lawyer, her mother, Rebecca, a teacher.
