Miss Lamarr's other marriages -- to Teddy Stauffer, a former band leader who ran a nightclub in Acapulco, Mexico; Howard Lee, a Texas oilman; and Lewis W. Boles, a West Coast lawyer -- all ended in divorce.
She once joked that a lawyer she worked for at the time spent so much effort on her case that it was not clear who was working for whom.
Her brother, Warren H. Badger, a lawyer, gave the couple money that they quickly spent on acquiring an architectural print by Piranesi.
Talk often revolved around corruption cases that her father, John Kirkland Clark, investigated as a lawyer in the Manhattan district attorney's office.
She was tall and slender, and had ''a sweet manner of speaking,'' said Edith Spivack, 89, a lawyer who worked in the La Guardia administration.
She became engaged to Feldman, a lawyer and film agent, who is credited with being the first to sell director, actors and other talent as a single package.
After receiving her law degree in 1963, she became a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's juvenile rights division and then attorney-in-charge of Legal Aid's Manhattan office.
I decided that I wanted to become a lawyer and represent children.
She was married for six decades to Robert J. McDonald, who was a tax lawyer with the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.
Besides her daughter, K. Ann McDonald of Manhattan, a litigation lawyer with the Manhattan law firm of Robinson Murphy & McDonald, Judge McDonald is survived by a brother, Malcolm Patrick Austin of Chicago.
      

        Phyllis Propp Fowle, a New York lawyer who was the first woman to be an officer of the Army judge advocate general's corps, died Thursday in Manhattan.

        Jane Prizant Gilman, a lawyer who was long active in civic, civil  rights and political organizations, died June 7 in Middletown, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in Hudson, N.Y., and Middletown.
In the mid-1950's, she was a lawyer for the Temporary Commission on the Courts of the State of New York, a panel on court reform known as the Tweed Commission.
An abandoned New York City child she took under her wing when he was 4 is now a lawyer who will help direct a foundation to be set up in her honor.
Born Dorothea Schlesinger in Munich in 1902, she studied piano and was tutored by her father, a lawyer, author and violinist who had married the daughter of a wealthy banker.

        Ethel Brown Fitzgerald, a former New York City teacher and school administrator, lawyer and musician, died July 19 at a hospital in upstate Amsterdam.
Bankhead was matron of honor at Miss Rawls's 1941 wedding to Donald Seawell, a lawyer and the founder and chairman of the Denver Center for the Performing Arts, and she later became godmother to the couple's two children.
In her brief but busy career in Hollywood, she made nine films, including ''The Story of Vernon and Irene Castle'' with Rogers and Fred Astaire; ''The Mad Miss Manton'' with Barbara Stanwyck; ''Beauty for the Asking'' with Lucille Ball; and ''Society Lawyer'' with Walter Pidgeon.
The free spirit of Mrs. Belcher, who by then was married to Arthur Fuller Belcher, a lawyer, is suggested by a family story of borrowing a minister's house for a Maine vacation.
In 1927 she married William Gresser, a New York City lawyer and musicologist.

        Florynce Kennedy, a lawyer and political activist whose flamboyant attire and sometimes outrageous comments drew attention to her fierce struggle for civil rights and feminism, died on Thursday in her Manhattan apartment.
After an effort involving a lawyer and several friends, including Hector Artola, her new romantic partner and future husband, Ms. Lamarque succeeded in gaining custody of her daughter.
Philip November, a lawyer who now does the organization's legal work, as his father also did, said some who attend Ms. Kauffman's memorial service on Monday at 6 p.m. at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan ''are going to be astonished Pat was blind.
