
        Jean Camper Cahn, a lawyer who helped establish Federal financing of legal services to the poor and was a co-founder of the now-defunct Antioch School of Law in Washington, died on Wednesday at her home in Miami Beach.
Mrs. Cahn attracted national notice in 1967 and 1968 as a lawyer for Adam Clayton Powell, a popular Harlem Congressman who was battling in court to reverse his 1967 expulsion from the House of Representatives for misuse of public funds and other transgressions.
Mrs. Prager was the widow of Frank Prager, a patent lawyer.
Mrs. Adams died of cancer, said her husband, Wiliam Howard Adams, a lawyer and historian.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Sarah W. Adams, a historic preservation specialist of Ithaca, N.Y., and Mary Chatham, an artist of Manhattan, and a son, William S., a lawyer, also of Manhattan.
      

        Henrietta Isaacson Bicks, a retired lawyer, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.

        Mary Goldburt Siegel, a lawyer who in the 1920's helped break down barriers against women in the legal profession, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.

        Edythe W. Donovan, a senior lawyer with the firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed in Manhattan, died on Thursday at New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center.
She had had several strokes in recent weeks, said her lawyer, William B. O'Connor.
Ms. Sullivan, an associate professor of journalism at the University of Florida, was also an author and a lawyer.
Mrs. Brown, a lawyer, served as an I.C.C.
Her marriage to James V. Brown, a Charleston lawyer, ended in divorce.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Nathan Royce Silverstein, a lawyer who lives in Manhattan.

        Susan Karelitz Ginsberg, a lawyer who devoted her career to working with social agencies dealing with the problems of women and children, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She raised money for several organizations, including the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which gave scholarships to Sephardic youths in Israel, and Fountain House, a Manhattan rehabilitation center for the mentally ill.
        She is survived by her husband, Salvador J. Assael, president of Assael International, which produces cultured pearls; a daughter, Arlette, of Sausalito, Calif.; and two brothers, Daniel Vock, a lawyer, of Greenwich, Conn., and David Vock, a businessman, of Nice, France.
      
In 1967 she married Henry Gale, a New York lawyer He died in 1969.
Miss Page married Thomas Hart Fisher, a well-to-do Chicago lawyer, in 1925, and on her honeymoon in Europe danced with Diaghilev's company.
She died of heart failure, said her lawyer, Bernard Gartlir.
Her husband, Henry, a Manhattan lawyer, died in 1975.

        Harriet Fleischl Pilpel, a lawyer and civil libertarian who was a prominent advocate of women's rights, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Barbara Miller Baxter, a lawyer who specialized in estates and trusts, died on Tuesday at New York University Hospital.
She is survived by two children, Nicholas, a director, and Eliza, by her third husband, Jeremy Hutchinson, a lawyer.

        Jacqueline Murray, a lawyer who was active in community affairs in Rye, N.Y., died on Thursday at her home in Rye.
Strong, a lawyer who was admitted to the bar in the late 1920's, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
On television, she played an urbane lawyer in "The Jean Arthur Show" in 1966, but the scripts were more far-fetched than funny.
After her marriage to Clarence Milton Fisher, a patent lawyer, in 1955, Mrs. Fisher became a philanthropist.
She moved to New York to attend the American Academy of Dramatic Arts and in 1922 was introduced to Mr. Langner, a patent lawyer.
Her husband, David Scribner, a lawyer, died in April.
In 1939, she married Desmond FitzGerald, a lawyer and conservative Republican.

        Carol H. Lefcourt, a prominent New York City lawyer and women's rights advocate who drafted much of New York's landmark child-support legislation, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
She died of breast cancer, said Harriet N. Cohen, a lawyer and the co-chairwoman of the Coalition on Women's Legal Issues, which Ms. Lefcourt co-founded in 1986.
She died of a heart attack, her lawyer, Martin Bressler, said.

        Ruth G. Schapiro, a nationally known tax lawyer and a partner in the New York firm of Proskauer Rose Goetz & Mendelsohn, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.

        Susan Price Carr, a lawyer with Time Warner Inc., died on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan.
She died of cancer of the pancreas, said her lawyer, Herbert Jacoby of New York City.
After a divorce, she married Robert L. Anderson, a lawyer, from who she was also divorced.
Mrs. Delmas, who was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan, died of heart failure, her lawyer said.
Miss Kempton's husband, A. M. McNamara, a lawyer and business executive, died several years ago.
      
