Her husband, Howard Ellis Cox, a New York lawyer, died in 1989.
In addition to her son, Mark, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, Victor, a lawyer and activist; a daughter, Abby, of Hamburg, N.J.; a stepson, Peter, of Clinton, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Joni, of Pittsburgh; a half-sister, Mary Jane Hubbard of Norwich, N.Y.; a half-brother, James Hubbard of Orlando, Fla.; and two step-grandchildren.
      
Eleanor Gould was born Oct. 3, 1917, in Newark, N.Y., to Wilson Mosher Gould, a lawyer, and Eleanor Loveland Gould.
With the feminist lawyer Catharine A. MacKinnon, she wrote a municipal ordinance, briefly adopted by several cities in the 1980's, that defined pornography as a form of sex discrimination.
In 1947 she married Mr. Jaffe, a corporate lawyer; he died in 1972.

        Margaret Popkin, an American lawyer who worked to overhaul the judicial system in strife-torn El Salvador, died on May 18 at a hospital in Washington.
After working in California as an immigration lawyer for Central American refugees, Ms. Popkin moved to El Salvador in 1985.
''
        It was a two-character play, with Henry Fonda starring as a depressed Midwestern lawyer with marital troubles who comes to New York and meets Gittel Mosca, an attractive, thoroughly quirky young bohemian girl from the Bronx.
Her death was announced by her lawyer, Evans Crary Jr., The Associated Press reported.

        Edith I. Spivack, a tireless lawyer who worked for the New York City Law Department from 1934, when few other women were government lawyers, until last year, when she reluctantly stopped showing up four days a week, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 95.
My mom was a professional woman, a professional lawyer.
Ernesta Drinker was born into a distinguished Philadelphia family, a daughter of a prominent lawyer, Harry Drinker, and Sophie Hutcheson Drinker, a feminist and author.
Mrs. Ballard's husband, Frederic, a prominent lawyer and former president of the American Bonsai Association, died in 2001.

        Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
She decided that she wanted to be a lawyer, but her family lacked money to send their many children to college.
Constance Cummings was born Constance Halverstadt -- she took her mother's maiden name professionally -- in Seattle on May 15, 1910, the daughter of a lawyer and a concert soprano.
She died of cancer, said Alan C. Rothfeld, her lawyer and longtime friend.
The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said Leslie Steinau, her lawyer and a longtime friend.
