)
        Her husband's death had left her nearly penniless, with a teenage son to raise.
In 1981, her own political views moved to the left: rather than backing either Mr. Giscard d'Estaing or Mr. Chirac, she endorsed the Socialist candidate, François Mitterrand, in his successful effort to win the presidency.
''
        In her later years, with just a handful of clients left, she sometimes embraced conspiracy theories without proof.
Against all advice, she left the Met to act in Shakespearean productions on Broadway for the actor and producer David Belasco.
)
        Miss Ellis left the show after a year to appear in ''The Dybbuk,'' a dramatic production at the Neighborhood Playhouse on the Lower East Side, where she happily traded a weekly paycheck of $500 for one of $10.
A week later, following the nutritional regimen left by Mrs. Nidetch, Mrs. Lippert had lost four pounds and Mr. Lippert had lost seven.
She also talks about a surprise ''lung retirement party'' given by her friends before she left Brown for her transplant surgery.
Her mother died when Miss Conklin was 12, he said, and she was left in the care of two aunts.
After graduating from high school, she left for New York to pursue an acting career.
In 1996 after Orchard's editorial and marketing staff left to start another company, Mrs. Wilson re-established the Orchard Books imprint, diversified it and led it through its acquisition by Scholastic Inc. She retired in 2001.
Dr. Borg left Digital in 1997 and joined the Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto Research Center.
Ms. Hipp (whose first name was pronounced YOU-ta) left Europe for the United States in 1955.
She eventually ran out of money, left Juilliard and moved back in with her family, at that time living in Philadelphia.
''
        In the 1970's her music fell out of fashion in the United States; she divorced her husband and manager, Andy Stroud, and beset by financial problems she left the country in 1973, living in Liberia and Barbados before settling in France.
In a 1998 interview, she said she had left the United States because of a racial situation she called ''worse than ever.
She left her first advertising agency, Trahey/Cadwell, in the early 1960's to form Cadwell Davis, a boutique subsidiary of Compton Advertising, with Ms. Cadwell as president and Hal Davis as creative director.
''
        It was not until two decades after she left the Met, however, that she was to receive major attention again in New York when, in 1974, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater paid homage to her and Pearl Primus as pioneering black women in dance.
''I said, 'You keep talking,' and I left.
The Hepburns said they never knew whether he had committed suicide and left open the possibility that he had been practicing a magic trick.
They left their only daughter, Niccie, in England.
This year, she coached all except one of Loyola's games, even though her left side was partially paralyzed, and she had been in a wheelchair since February.
A brief marriage, when she was 18, ended in divorce, and she left no immediate survivors.
'' In anger, he left the family forever.
Porter, in a fury, left for Paris three days after the opening.
She and her husband, Milton Rogovin, suffered professionally in the 1950's as activists of the political left who protested the trial and sentencing of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.
While many of her contemporaries drifted to the political left, she explored the mystique of Celtic history, magic and astronomy.
Ms. Chase left Cold Spring Harbor in 1953 to work at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and later at the University of Rochester.
'' She left the Graham company in 1946 to teach and choreograph on her own.
She left Hollywood High School in 1935 to pursue acting and modeling.
In 1932, she left her husband for Oswald Mosley, the strikingly attractive leader of the fledgling British Union of Fascists, a bold step, not least because he was still married (his wife conveniently died, of peritonitis, the following year).
Mrs. Reeves graduated from Texas Women's University in Denton as a speech major and then attended the University of Texas School of Law, but left to take a job because her family was short of money in the Depression.
They had no children, and she left no immediate survivors.
She appeared on the show from 1953 to 1957, then left to star in her own variety series, ''The Gisele MacKenzie Show,'' which lasted only six months.
When Germany invaded Poland in September 1939, Ms. Riefenstahl went to the front as a war correspondent, but she claimed that she soon left in disgust at Wehrmacht brutalities.
Miss Warwick left high school to spend a year teaching English in Paris.
Madame Chiang lived out her final years in New York, with a pack of black-suited bodyguards who cleared the lobby of her Gracie Square apartment building every time she entered or left.
Madame Chiang lived out her final years in New York, with a pack of black-suited bodyguards who cleared the lobby of her Gracie Square apartment building every time she entered or left.
''I will continue to defend the neighborhood school as long as I have a breath left in my body.
Plagued by poor health, she then left local politics.
Except for a six-year absence in the early 1960's, when her two daughters were in the sandbox stage, she never left.
She left American Can and Butterick in 1977, saying they had become incompatible with her long-term career in women's apparel.
''
        Often she lets people speak for themselves, as she did with a woman left home while her husband traveled to Milan or Germany to find work.
'' When she left Paris for Italy, the scene she described could be about ''a nervous girl going to boarding school,'' Mr. Eder wrote.
She left the S.E.C.
After he left her, she said: ''There never was anyone else.
They left the program in 1988, and were not linked to scandals involving the Bakkers.
Several members of the People's Temple, with Dr. Singer's help, left that group before 900 people committed mass suicide in Guyana in 1978.
Dr. Singer would often help win lawsuits against groups that former members claimed had lured them into dark, insular worlds that left them psychologically traumatized.
Ms. Roth joined the staff of the music publisher Boosey & Hawkes in 1939 and directed its publicity office until 1941, when she left to form her own publicity agency.
