After his first wife, Tamara Geva, left him, he lived with the ballerina Alexandra Danilova and subsequently married Vera Zorina and Ms. Tallchief.
She left Bryn Mawr to became headmistress at the Brearley School, the private girls school in Manhattan, from 1930 to 1947, and converted it from a half-day format to a full day.
She left detailed instructions for her household: menus, shopping lists, activities for the children.
It was a life that left few free minutes, but Mrs. McIntosh grabbed every one.
Ms. Ball left Barneys before it  reorganized and closed many of the stores she helped conceive.
Umberto and Maria José moved to Portugal even before the results of the referendum were made known, and she left her husband after a year and set up home in an 18th-century villa near Geneva, where members of the ousted dynasty spent their exile.
Born Barbara Weber, she became head of publicity for United Artists Records in the late 1960's, but left after four years to open her own publicity agency, with clients that included Frank Zappa, Ike and Tina Turner and Iggy Pop.
In the mid-1980's, Ms. DeWitt left the music business and worked with Mr. Weber to cast and produce print advertising campaigns for fashion companies like Ralph Lauren, Gianni Versace and Calvin Klein.
Besides killing more than 490 people, the blaze left others with permanent brain damage.
Left at 35 with two children to support and little money, Ms. Kushida worked as an insurance saleswomen and magazine reporter.
When her teachers recommended further study in Paris, she left Bulgaria at age 11 with her mother.
Her involvement in the fire never left her consciousness, and she appeared at labor rallies for the rest of her life.
Some of her work was uncredited, and not a few of her parts were small, but she left behind moments that are treasured by film enthusiasts.
She left show business in the 1950's and in 1953 married her fifth husband, Septimus Rutherford, chief steward for the Moore-McCormack Lines.
She left no survivors.
When Ms. Sothern quarreled with the show's other producer over her right to take on movie roles, she left the series and sold her 104 episodes for well over $1 million.
She left the production before it moved from Philadelphia to Broadway, but appeared in an Off Broadway revival of the play in 1968.
''
        Ms. Karnilova was a soloist when she left Ballet Theater in 1946 to appear in ''Call Me Mister,'' a Broadway revue, and a series of musicals, many directed or choreographed by Jerome Robbins, a close friend from her corps days at Ballet Theater.
In time, that reporter left the paper and Ms. Hunter -- Maggie to everyone from copy boys to presidents -- was hired in 1961 as her replacement.
She left New Zealand for England in 1958.
Catherine Rubacky Willis was born in Passaic, N.J. She attended Chestnut Hill College in Philadelphia but left before graduation in 1950 to marry and start a family.
In the late 40's she returned home to Chicago and opened a dance school, then left to open others in Rome and Tokyo and to teach throughout Europe.
She had left a suicide note, but the police would not reveal its contents.
In her apartment, the singer had left a will, along with detailed instructions about disposition of her estate.
She had left a suicide note, but the police would not reveal its contents.
In her apartment, the singer had left a will, along with detailed instructions about disposition of her estate.
And Dr. Metlitzki herself left Eastern Europe just as the Nazis were coming to power and lost members of her family to the Holocaust.
They were married a year later, and shortly after Mr. Lee left to start Tom Lee Ltd., a design company.
She left New York six years ago and went to live in a retirement home in San Francisco to be closer to her son.
Vincent McGee, who in 1972 had just left federal prison after serving time for resisting the draft, asked for money to go to Hanoi to bring back some prisoners of war.
She left New York six years ago and went to live in a retirement home in San Francisco to be closer to her son.
They met the Queen of England, christened warships and graced the cover of Life magazine, but when Yvonne first left home at 19, Mr. Tarini recalled her saying, she could not tell the difference between a nickel and a dime.
For generations, the Lobedu were left unmolested by more powerful neighbors, the Zulu and Swazi, for fear of their queens' power over the rains.
Finally, he got it right: her left eye shut in a grotesque wink, the right following him around the room like a searchlight.
''
        She studied mathematics and economics at University College in London, but left before earning her degree to marry Mr. Verey in 1939, and proceeded to raise four children, like a proper English gentlewoman of her day.
He left her for another woman after more than two decades of marriage.
When The Post obtained its own copy, it was left to Mrs. Graham, as publisher, to decide whether to risk publication.
When war broke out, she left for New York, where she worked for Harpers Bazaar and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Ms. Roy left India, where she was born, in 1955.
She left in 1986 to open her own agency, Creative Resources Management, and later operated shops under the names Caroline Jones Advertising and Caroline Jones Inc., where she was president at the time of her death.
It was no secret by then that she and Portman were not on speaking terms, and it was no great surprise when Ms. Stanley abruptly left the play, blaming Portman for slapping her in one scene with what she said was excessive enthusiasm.
''
        She speaks with an accent still strong from her native Germany, which she left at 23.
''
        When she left school, her father  told her, ''Well, write if you get work.
She left The Times in 1975 and for the next seven years worked as a freelancer, writing for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation, The Progressive and Esquire, among other publications, and winning a Guggenheim fellowship, 1975-76, and a National Endowment for the Arts grant, 1978.
The feistiest of the sisters, Mrs. Schwartz was often at odds with her father as to how the business should be run, and finally left to open her own successful store, popularly known as Ida's, in Massapequa, N.Y.
''
        Overpraising or overdamning was Ms. Kael's way, and she left no doubt about her favorites: actors like Marlon Brando, Nicolas Cage, Sean Connery, Robert Duvall, Morgan Freeman, Tom Hanks, Tommy Lee Jones, Paul Newman, Nick Nolte, Al Pacino, John Travolta, Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis, and actresses like Joan Cusack, Diane Keaton, Anjelica Huston, Jessica Lange, Michelle Pfeiffer, Sigourney Weaver and Debra Winger.
At 59, Ms. Kael left The New Yorker for Hollywood.
She left no immediate survivors.
      
''Nobody got left out.
Ms. Shanahan left The Times in anger in 1977 after she found that, although she was regarded as one of the leading reporters in the Washington bureau, her salary ranked halfway down the list, according to an account by a Times colleague, Nan Robertson.
Ms. Shanahan was one of the original plaintiffs, but she had left the paper by the time it was settled in 1978.
She never married and left no immediate survivors.
Dr. Myers had been on medical leave from the university after the fire on Aug. 13, 2000, which left her with second- and third-degree burns and respiratory problems.
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years
        She was married at 17.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
On his return, he asked for a divorce and although Mrs. Ash acknowledged that the marriage had been unhappy, the request left her, as she put it, at ''the lowest point of my life.
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years.
The couple had three children before he left to serve in World War II.
On his return, he asked for a divorce and although Mrs. Ash acknowledged that the marriage had been unhappy, the request left her, as she put it, at ''the lowest point of my life.
After two seasons with the show, however, Ms. Gurney left the program in a dramatic finale, as Lady Marjorie sailed to America -- almost -- on the maiden voyage of the Titanic.
It was only after she left ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' that Ms. Gurney was seen on the stage in New York, making her American stage debut in 1977 in a production of George Bernard Shaw's ''You Never Can Tell.
She left the board in the spring to serve as Gov.
She and her sister, Joan Donovan, saw nothing of their father, who left the family early, and the girls did not live regularly with their mother until 1942, when the independent-minded Margaret was working for a war production factory in Brooklyn.
All her career, Ms. Donovan, who  is survived by her sister, of Cambridge, Mass., left the impression that she and Margaret were opposites.
André Previn, then conductor of the London Symphony Orchestra, said that if the newfound compositions were genuine, they would best have been left on the shelf.
In 1943, she contracted polio, which left her left side weak.
In 1943, she contracted polio, which left her left side weak.
''
        When Ms. Soltysik left the consulting business, she and Ms. Van Acker bought the old train station in Water Mill, on Long Island, and eventually turned it into a restaurant, the Station Bistro.
She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.

        LAST week, as the fiercely partisan legislators of the virtually bankrupt Nassau County turned blue in the face during an all-night fight over their 2002 budget, the inner schoolmarm, dormant since she left teaching for politics, emerged in the presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs.
''In 1996 there were six Democrats out of 19 legislators; if we'd all left for California for five years, nobody would have cared,'' she says.
'' Staunchly pro-union, he had left Disney during a bitter strike in 1941 and then was a founder of United Productions of America, where he helped move animation away from Disney with the creation of ''Mr.
