She left the Government in 1972.
He left his daughter to be reared by a paternal grandmother with such a haughty and virulent disdain for the Irish that it was years before Miss Bancroft learned that the woman had herself been an Irish working girl before marrying into the august Bancroft family.
Its endowment had shriveled to $6,000 from nearly $3 million, and cost overruns on an adventurous production of Krzysztof Penderecki's ''Paradise Lost'' in 1978 and on the  elaborate 25th-anniversary celebration in 1979, left the Lyric Opera with a $1.2 million deficit.
Karen Kamuda, the vice president of the Titanic Historical Society, said  in a telephone interview today from Indian Orchard, Mass., that Mrs. Haisman's death left 7 of the 705 survivors still living, 3 in the United States and 2 each in Britain and France.
''
        She and her mother were picked up by the Cunard liner Carpathia and taken to New York, where they left on a train trip to Seattle to spend time with an aunt of Mrs. Haisman's, who lived there and had inspired the move to the West Coast.
When her husband, Paul Ziporkis, died in 1953, Ms. Roberts was left with a daughter to bring up alone.
She made her formal debut in Moscow in 1923 and left the Soviet Union two years later.
She was part of a group of 10 lawyers who in 1992 left the New York firm of Hill, Betts & Nash to join Seward & Kissel.
After the war, the family left Romania, going to Belgium, France and Canada before reaching the United States.
In the introduction to his last book, Mr. Niebuhr said he could no longer tell where his ideas left off and hers began.
She found the lemon-flavored cake inedible -- ''mush on the outside and soup on the inside'' -- and wrote that it left the oven in a mess.
It held that in nuclear reactions, nature in effect does not differentiate between left and right.
But Dr. Wu found that far more particles flew off in the direction opposite the spin of the nuclei, proving that nature differentiates between left and right.
His daughter Brooke Hayward even suggested in her book, ''Haywire,'' that her last stepmother absconded with a string of pearls her mother had left to her.
Harriman left his widow most of his fortune, more than $100 million, and designated her an executor and trustee of his estate and their charitable trusts.
That year, she left the museum to work as a critic and independent curator while earning her master's degree at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
'' After the United States entered the war, she left Germany on one of the last trains out of Berlin.
Mrs. Wertenbaker left Time in the early 1950's, but the couple remained in France.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
A journalist had left 10 percent of his $300,000 estate to the P.L.O.
She tried Wall Street law firms, but left because she was told to specialize in trust and estates law, which she considered ''women's work.
For four months in 1986, Surrogate Lambert presided over the trial pitting Barbara Piasecka Johnson, his one-time maid and third wife, to whom he had left his estate, and his six children by two former wives.
A journalist had left 10 percent of his $300,000 estate to the P.L.O.
She tried Wall Street law firms, but left because she was told to specialize in trust and estates law, which she considered ''women's work.
She was executive editor when she left in 1968 to become managing editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.
The blast, later determined to have been caused by a nail bomb under the driver's seat, shattered Ms. Bari's pelvis and lower back and left her permanently disabled.
In the late 1960's, as a student at the University of Maryland, she became involved in protests against the Vietnam War and left school.

        Ruth Clark, a pollster who left her mark on the newspaper industry with a landmark newspaper study that encouraged editors to offer more information that readers could use in their daily lives and who helped define changing American attitudes on issues from the political to the personal, died on Feb. 20 in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
She was a vice president at Louis Harris & Associates in the 1960's, and she was a senior vice president at Yankelovich, Skelly & White until 1983, when she left to start her own firm, Clark, Martire & Bartolomeo.
Mr. Clark publicly renounced the Soviet system and left The Daily Worker in 1957.
Early on, she sold 14 hotels left by her husband, keeping only the Stanhope, because, she said, ''We built it together, and we raised it like a pet.
''
        Ms. Carpenter, who left no immediate family survivors, was an only child and never married.
Pearl Bailey got the role, but when her original standby left, Ms. Carpenter took over the role.
She remained with it until 1944, danced on Broadway in the musical comedies ''Sadie Thompson'' (1944) and ''Marinka'' (1945) and then left the dance world to care for her daughter.
Howard Dodson, the head of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, said in 1995 that her career constituted ''a link between the best elements of the nationalist and radical left political traditions in Harlem over the past five, six decades.
Her father, Thomas Coffin, a tea taster, left home when she was 3 and never returned, forcing her mother first to open a boardinghouse in Edgartown and later to leave her daughter with her parents to pursue teaching jobs in Pennsylvania and Brooklyn.
Left with two young children after her husband was killed in a car accident, Mrs. Monroe, like millions of other women nationwide, joined the work force both to fulfill a call to arms, so to speak, and to support her family.
While the passengers were not seriously hurt, Mrs. Monroe lost a kidney and the vision in her left eye, which ended her career as a solo pilot.
''
        For all her official accomplishments, Dr. Keyserling may have made her most powerful impact on social policy after she left the Government.
She left Hearst in 1937 and became assistant news director of WOR, making her one of the first women in radio to assign reporters and shape the news broadcast.
Mrs. Talley left Dreyfus to develop programs for the American Women's Economic Development Corporation, a joint venture of the Small Business Administration and the Commerce Department that aids women entrepreneurs.
''
        Mrs. Talley kept her Albany job until June 1982, when she left to join Rothschild Inc. as president of its asset management unit.
Along with several other dancers, she and Balanchine left the Soviet Union in 1924 on what was intended to be a tour of Western Europe.
Balanchine was still officially married to another dancer, Tamara Geva, and he told Miss Danilova that because his marriage papers had been left behind in Russia, he feared it might be difficult to arrange a legal separation.
Mrs. Calment left no heirs.
Soon, she said, a man in a black coat strode up, took one look at the bloody remains, said, ''He's dead,'' then whirled on his heel and left.
A product of a fairy-tale union between a wealthy German-Jewish merchant and an Irish-Catholic working girl, Miss Halle, whose father was a founder of the old Halle Brothers department store in Cleveland, grew up in an ecumenical, intellectually charged atmosphere that left her without prejudice or pretension and with an eclectic range of interests, especially in people.
Dropping out of college to follow her family to California, she took courses at the University of California at Los Angeles, but she soon left college, first to organize agriculture and cannery workers and later to help establish the Socialist Workers Party in Los Angeles, where she and another party organizer, Murry Weiss, began a romance that led to marriage.
She left her school and learned nursing skills from other nuns.
She left Macmillan in 1976 to start her own agency, Connie Clausen & Associates, which was a pioneer in the so-called beauty book, beginning with a series of best sellers by the photographer Francesco Scavullo.
Miss Goslar, who was not Jewish, despised Hitler and left Germany when the Nazis seized power.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
) Left unfinished at the time of her death was a sequel to this book.
In 1963, she left CBS and joined NBC News in Washington, where she remained until 1970, covering general national news and politics.
Many of her ideas left their mark on fast computer technology.
Her tattooed concentration camp number visible on her left forearm, she stood and identified 15 of the 45 defendants, who were charged with mass murder.
She left the Hedgerow in 1956 and went on to act at the Alley Theater in Houston, Arena Stage in Washington and on Broadway, where she appeared in ''Waltz of the Toreadors'' and ''Filumena.
As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
But it was in the early 1960's, with her own songs, that she joined Edith Piaf and Juliette Greco as a Left Bank favorite.
Barbara never married and left no survivors.
      
Because of a two-term limit, the Meyners left Morven in 1962 and bought a home in Princeton.
When she left office, a departure brought about by shifting demographics in the borough, she was the third-ranking member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
After her husband left her, she brought up their son, Leonard, on her own, supporting the two of them by working as a waitress and maid.
Ms. Steel left the job in 1991, following Sony's purchase of the studio.
Ms. Acker, who left New York for London in 1984 before moving to California in recent years, had battled breast cancer for 18 months and had been at the Tijuana center for three weeks, friends said.
Miss Geva and Balanchine left the Soviet Union in 1924 with a troupe called the Soviet State Dancers.
