A spokeswoman from the Margaret Chase Smith Library in Skowhegan said she had died of complications from a stroke eight days earlier that had left her in a coma.
In 1970, 20 years after she had denounced McCarthy's scare tactics, she said that those on the radical left who advocated violence were easily the equal to the menace she had perceived from the radical right two decades earlier.
She attended Teachers College of Columbia University but left school to marry in 1925.
Miss Sartorio left Italy in 1939, immigrating to the United States.
After being imprisoned from 1986 to 1991, she went on to join the Cabinet, but left it before a presidential election in 1993, in which she was an unsuccessful candidate.
Though not Jewish, the Scharrers left Germany in 1937 because of Hitler's policies.
After establishing herself as a designer in Berlin, she left for London with her husband in the 1930's.
The victim of an eye condition that left her nearly blind in midlife, she recovered her sight in one of the first cornea transplants and became a founder of Recordings for the Blind and a sponsor of blind university graduates.
The sale left H&C with only one broadcast outlet, the Hobby's original station, KPRC-AM in Houston.
Her coming of age as a designer mirrored the development of American sportswear, which was defining itself and growing in importance as the mass-market technology that followed World War II left its mark on fashion.
As collaborators, the women justified their fused pen name by writing in such a seamless voice that it was impossible to tell where Ms. Hadley left off and Mrs. Irwin began.
And Mrs. Wood (who could herself read 2,700 words a minute), discovered that they shared several traits:
        *They read down the page rather than left to right.
Mrs. Landes's career lasted only three years, but by the time she left a Broadway-bound show in Philadelphia in 1948 to marry Jack Landes, a wealthy silver importer, she had something to tell her grandchildren.
" She did a comic version of Agnes de Mille's famous second-act ballet that left Miss de Mille in stitches and persuaded Rodgers and Hammerstein to cast her as Beulah, the campus vamp, in the musical "Allegro" in 1947.
That led to a part in the revue "Make Mine Manhattan," with Sid Caesar, but Mrs. Landes, who had doubts about the part and her future in the theater, left the show in Philadelphia to accept what she decided was a better offer: to marry Mr. Landes and live happily ever after.
In her dedication to Pasternak, she wrote: "The greater part of my conscious life has been devoted to you -- and what is left of it will also be devoted to you.
Nearing, a professor of economics, left the academic world and moved far away from New York City and the Depression to the wilderness of Vermont, where they built their first farm.
'It was on that bench that I left my childhood,' she afterwards said.
Her father, an alcoholic, abusive man, left the family when her mother was pregnant with their third child.
Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia.
"
        The sudden attention has left Ms. Graves excited but unaffected.

        Maxene Andrews, "the one on the left" in the trio of sisters whose string of hit songs in the 1940's made them the dominant radio voice of the home front and an inspiration to American servicemen, died on Saturday at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass.
In 1993, she left her job to devote herself to speaking about AIDS.
I was delighted to be left alone.
She left Germany shortly after the Hitler regime came to power and completed her medical education in Switzerland.

        Grace Miceli, whose work as a costumer left an enduring legacy in the performing arts, died on Tuesday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan.
When he died in 1951 he left her a legacy in his will.
When things went bad in Arkansas, for example, she packed up her children, left her first husband behind and struck out for California in search of a better life.
Widowed for 25 years, she left no immediate survivors.
      
Having no children or other immediate survivors, Mrs. Kahn left the bulk of her estate, valued at more than $25 million, to the causes close to her heart.
But when her sister Sadie opened a rival studio, she left for New York, recruiting students initially by offering tap and ballet lessons to dancers at the Savoy and other Harlem ballrooms.
A white mob, looking for a black man accused of assaulting a white woman, was responsible for a week of burning and shooting that left at least six Rosewood residents dead and the hamlet in ruins.
That day, after she left, I wrote virtually all the ideas in 'Happiness Is a Warm Puppy' and it was the best-selling book the next year.
Having no children or other immediate survivors, Mrs. Kahn left the bulk of her estate, valued at more than $25 million, to the causes close to her heart.
Later that year, Mrs. Kennedy's husband, who had suffered a stroke in 1961 that left him an invalid, also died.
Later that year, Mrs. Kennedy's husband, who had suffered a stroke in 1961 that left him an invalid, also died.
She left dance to develop a therapeutic technique to be used by performers.
She left Lawrence of London in the late 1970's after being divorced from Mr. Lawrence.
In 1941 they left Hungary for Sweden, and Miss Fischer suspended her performing career during World War II.
