''I like being left alone.
(Mr. Bishop left Playwrights Horizons to move to Lincoln Center Theater, which has produced all her subsequent plays.
After receiving a master's degree in fine arts in 1976, Ms. Wasserstein returned to Manhattan, and essentially never left.
In addition to dealing with her husband's death, which left her with four young children, Mrs. King faced other trials and controversies.
'' Miss Lewis left Café Nicolson in 1954, and the couple tried a number of ventures, including running a pheasant farm.
Born in Trinidad and of Chinese descent, Ms. Dai spoke no Chinese when she left London, where she had been studying, for China at the end of 1939.
Her book ''The Trial of Dr. Adams'' (Simon & Schuster, 1958), sometimes titled ''The Best We Can Do: The Trial of Dr. Adams,'' retold one of England's most famous court cases: Dr. John Bodkin Adams, whose patients included rich, older women who often left him in their wills, was accused of murdering an elderly patient and was ultimately acquitted.
But in interviews and in her work itself she left no doubt that her background equipped her spectacularly well to portray life in hostile dystopias where the odds of survival can be almost insurmountable.
In 1999, Ms. Caldwell accepted a post as distinguished professor of music at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, but left within several years because of poor health.
She left no immediate survivors.
When she was old enough to work, her goal was to save $100 to move to New York City and become an actress; in 1943, she left Troy for Manhattan, where she and a friend shared a $45-a-month apartment.
In 1954, she left him and her baby to go back to the rink.
Ms. Gaines left the department in 1975 to become the superintendent of schools in Hartford.
Ms. Gaines, who left the superintendent's post in Hartford in 1978, was named a commissioner of the Connecticut Public Utilities Control Authority the next year.
Mrs. Jordan left no immediate survivors, said Mary Jo Kaplan, a friend and former student, but her family was huge: a legion of devoted former pupils who tended to her needs.
''Like a lot of people in the Depression,'' Mr. Dewey said, ''she was left with all the trappings, but not much money.
But the production was troubled; Ms. Diener left a London production in 1955 under disputed circumstances.
In the last weeks of a 1992 Broadway production, she succeeded Sheena Easton, the pop singer, who had left the show.
''The Left Coast of Paradise: California and the American Heart,'' a collection of essays published in 1987, included pieces on the political philosopher Herbert Marcuse, on a neurotic elephant and on a philosophically minded pimp.
Aided by a small private income, she left in 1967 to pursue the life of an independent scholar.
She left college for a job on the paper, eventually becoming the fashion editor.
''
        Evelyn Dubrow -- known universally as Evy -- was born in Passaic, N.J., on March 6, 1911, relatives said; she left no immediate survivors.
''
        After her White House service, which ended when Truman left office in 1953, Miss Odum worked as a secretary for Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri, for a coal industry lobbying group and then for the Truman Scholarship Foundation.
''
        She was the steadfast wife of James Stewart's one-legged baseball player in ''The Stratton Story'' (1949); the widow left behind by Mr. Stewart's bandleader in ''The Glenn Miller Story'' (1953); the worried wife of Mr. Stewart's baseball player recalled to active duty in ''Strategic Air Command'' (1955); and the understanding wife who loses Alan Ladd's jet pilot to honor and duty in ''The McConnell Story ( 1955).
When I left the studio I was already married and had two children, but I felt as sad as a child leaving home for the first time.
She also suggested that she left police work because of sex discrimination.
When Mr. Franklin left in 1961 to form a new company, the National Ballet, in Washington, Ms. Day shifted her attention to her school, adding an academic wing.
In Mexico City in 1968, days before the Summer Olympics were to begin there, she was shot three times, dragged down steps by the hair by soldiers and left for dead in clashes in which several hundred protesters were killed.
''We weren't allowed to change from left to right a pinky!
Dr. Jonasson left no immediate survivors.
      
''I left a pile of unanswered letters on the desk,'' she wrote.
She left no immediate survivors.
She left no immediate survivors.
      
Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage left office fulfilling a promise, in the spirit of the Contract With America's call for term limits, not to serve more than three terms.
      
After Belgium granted independence to the Congo in 1960, most Europeans (with whom Americans were lumped) left.
She left no immediate survivors.
She later joined him in exile in Germany when Mr. Straub left France rather than serve in the Algerian war.
) She also took some members of the American left to task for what she saw as anti-Semitism thinly veiled as political animus toward Israel.
She left school before starting high school, and in 1958 settled in California.
''
        By then Ms. Kirkpatrick had left the government.
There, Frieda discovered a talent for singing; by the time she was a teenager, she had left the orphanage and was supporting her family by working in Boston ballrooms.
Mr. Goodman left the room during her second song, so she left too, disappointed that he was not impressed.
Mr. Goodman left the room during her second song, so she left too, disappointed that he was not impressed.
