They left the program in 1988, and were not linked to scandals involving the Bakkers.
Ms. Ripley had written five novels before the estate of Margaret Mitchell selected her in the early 1990's to pick up the stories of Scarlett O'Hara and Rhett Butler where Mitchell left them in 1936, the year her saga of the Civil War was published.
''
        Gertie Florentine Marx was born in Frankfurt and left Germany in the 1930's, after the Nazi government began to deny Jews entrance to universities.
She studied briefly at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, and at the University of Wisconsin, and left college -- and left home -- to pursue an acting career.
She studied briefly at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art in London, and at the University of Wisconsin, and left college -- and left home -- to pursue an acting career.
Two days after the Olympians' ship left for the Berlin Games, Holm was invited to an all-night party for sportswriters on the first-class deck.
Miner once said, because it left her free to pick and choose her theater roles.
      
Twenty years ago, she left a seat on the Des Moines City Council, where she got encouragement to run for governor, to lead the Ms. Foundation, which finances hundreds of programs to advance the rights of women and girls.
She took a job at a Philadelphia television station writing news late in the day, which left her time for volunteer work helping refugees to settle in the city.
In 1969, after disagreement about the label's direction, she quietly left the company in 1969, bought out by her brother and the label's president, Al Bell.
Backstage, when Ms. Golovkina started lecturing him on ballet, he turned on his heel and left.
Ms. Infantino left no immediate survivors.
      
When she left the Barnard presidency in 1967 after five years, she became the first woman to be a vice chancellor at the University of California.
But she left after five years, pulled by her marriage in 1965 to Milton Vasil Anastos, a professor of Byzantine Greek at the University of California, Los Angeles.
Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family.
Ms. Yuro had a string of hits with Liberty until she left the label in 1964, when she began recording with Mercury and other companies.
Mrs. Lester studied biology at Marylhurst University near Portland, but left college at 20 to pursue photography in Manhattan.
In 1941 she left Pix and joined a few friends to form Graphic House, a photo agency.
She left the movies around 1940, at the height of her career, to marry and start a family.
She had left clear instructions.
A year later, she left to work in programming at WQXR, the radio station of The New York Times.
To play in both shows, Ms. Hoffman took a car across town immediately after she left the stage in ''Rhinoceros.
She said they were left by the ''idea fairy.
Ms. Lewitzky left Horton in 1950 to pursue an independent career.
(''In a country with concentration camps, you cannot live,'' Mrs. Auerbach remembered, and they quickly left Germany.
Ms. Stern left for London and later Argentina.
Soon after, Miss Berksoy qualified for a scholarship to the Berlin Music Academy and left for Germany.
''
        Whatever scientists think about her views of life after death, they continue to be influenced by her methods of caring for the terminally ill. Before ''On Death and Dying,'' terminally ill patients were routinely left to face death in a miasma of loneliness and fear, because doctors, nurses and families were generally ill equipped to deal with death.
Moreover, her channeling sessions, combined with a heavy travel schedule, contributed to the breakup of her marriage, and her husband left her in 1979.
She was 75 and left no immediate survivors.
Her physician, Karen Brudney, said Ms. Emerson had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, which she feared would leave her unable to write, and she left many notes at the apartment indicating that she had taken her own life.
She was working in the London bureau of The Times in 1969 when, as she wrote in an obituary she left with a covering note that was dated Tuesday, ''Ms.
''The book provoked hostility among friends, and others felt it was anti-Israel, but Ms. Emerson insisted this was not the reason for writing it,'' she explained later, in the obituary she left behind.
''
        She left the paper in 1960 to live in Brussels with Charles A. Brofferio, whom she described as ''an ill-suited husband'' she divorced a year later.
''
        Ms. Schneider, the last of the Doll family, left no immediate survivors.
Mary Virginia Hamilton was born in the Bronx on Feb. 28, 1913, and was raised in Montclair, N.J. She disliked the name Mary and dropped it as soon as she left home.
Shortly afterward, her parents left her with the parish priest and never returned.
Examining the fragments left there by the Austrian team more than 70 years before, she found the rest of Winged Victory's ring finger and a thumb.
She left Europe in 1940 and settled in New York, where she continued her piano studies with Isabelle Vengerova and Herman de Grab.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
She had left a suicide note at home that she had painstakingly written, edited and rewritten, her husband, Brett Douglas said in a telephone interview yesterday.
The dance idiom developed by Doris Humphrey and Weidman in 1928 after they left Denishawn, the company that spawned other pioneers like Martha Graham, remained at the heart of Ms. Mezzacappa's performances.
By the time she left, in 1979, she had established herself as a model for many others looking for a career in children's book publishing.
She never married, and left no immediate survivors.
Miss Tebaldi had a long and productive relationship with the Decca recording company (also called London Records) and left classic accounts of major roles in complete recordings of ''Otello,'' ''La Forza del Destino,'' ''Andrea Chenier,'' ''La Bohème,'' ''Tosca,'' ''Madama Butterfly'' and ''Il Trovatore,'' among many other works.
In 1974, after retrospective exhibitions of her work at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington left her feeling emotionally drained, Ms. Truitt began to keep a journal focusing on her life as an artist.
Although Ms. Sontag was strongly identified with the American left during the Vietnam era, in later years her politics were harder to classify.
In 1967, when her New York career was taking off, she abruptly left the city, wandered the country for months in a pickup and camper, and stopped making art for seven years.
Then she left New York.
