He and his wife had tried to talk to her about the interpretation of the role, but then left her to work on her own and with her director, Garson Kanin.
As she wrote in her book, ''A dependable leading lady must be able to run, duck, fall, get up, fall again, crawl over a bed and under a dresser, scream, swing by a rope, deliver an uppercut, struggle and kick and still have enough breath left to say, 'If this is aristocracy, thank God I'm a country girl.
Disillusioned, Ms. Verrill left Hollywood in 1935 for the ''Socony Sketchbook'' on CBS radio and recorded with the Isham Jones Orchestra.
''
        Ms. Potter left no survivors.
      
Miss Darre left no immediate family.
      
Mrs. Cohen, an independent woman, lived on her own until she was 93 in the Boyle Heights neighborhood, staying on after most of the Jewish residents had left.
You can't have faith without doubt, and what are you left with when you can't have love without hate?

        Lili St. Cyr, the tall, blond beauty who left almost nothing to the imagination when she stepped dripping wet out of her signature onstage bubble bath, died on Jan. 29 at her apartment in Hollywood.
''
        Slipping Into A Baffling Darkness
        In 1995 Miss Murdoch told an interviewer that she was experiencing severe writer's block, noting that the struggle to write had left her in ''a  hard, dark place.
She then left Dell and edited Epicure for two years under her own name, and later edited another CBS magazine, Everywoman's, which competed with Family Circle.
'' The singer never again left the Western Hemisphere.
She left with ''A Boy's Life,'' by Tobias Wolfe and ''The Story of Little Babaji,'' a version of ''Little Black Sambo'' that restores much of the original 1899 text.
It was translated into several languages and left an impact in much of the world.
From 1964 and 1967, when she left Philips, 11 of her singles hit the American pop charts.
She was married four times but left no immediate survivors.
Mrs. Chu returned to China after World War II but left in 1950 and took up permanent residence in the United States, becoming a citizen in 1955.
Ms. Liston stopped playing in 1985 after a stroke left her partially paralyzed, but she continued to arrange music with Mr. Weston.
After the war, during which Miss Sapir worked for the French underground, she visited a number of banks in England and France where her father had told her he had left part of his money.
She left in 1975 to become a private arbitrator.
In 1994, she left Chez Panisse to help create the Culinary Institute of America at Greystone in St. Helena, Calif., the California outpost of the Culinary Institute of America in Hyde Park, N.Y.
The customer bought a copy and left the shop, returning a little later to hand it back.
As a teen-ager, she left Washington Irving High School to study acting at the Theater Guild school in Manhattan and was soon expelled for staying out late.
In Hollywood she left her imprint on ''The Graduate'' (1967).
John Cranko, who left the Royal Ballet in Britain to head the company in what was then West Germany, made her his assistant from the start.
After Mrs. Cullman left the magazine, the couple began their investing, which continued into the 1970's and brought them renown for their shrewdness and energy.
Ms. Fleming never married, and left no immediate family.
Ms. Fleming continued to perform until 1993, when a stroke left her unable to play.
As a child, Anita (born Ina Anita Carter in Maces Springs, Va.) hated to be separated from her mother when the Carter Family left to perform at radio stations, so she was brought along.
Ms. Harris helped start Ms. magazine in late 1971, but she left after the first issue, citing disagreement on a wide range of issues.
Two years later, she left to start her own public relations company in Dallas, where she remained through the late 1950's, until she became a special consultant for Arthur Godfrey Productions in New York.
She left France after the start of World War II and came to New York, where she lived and worked in Greenwich Village for many years.
Redding was so taken by the heavy and exact timekeeping of her left hand that he hired her immediately; for the next three years she was both his opening act and the pianist in his band.
But after two years and 78 episodes, Ms. O'Farrell feared that she was becoming typecast, and in 1957 she left the series despite receiving thousands of letters begging her to stay.
She left no close relatives, but made the Center for Pagan Studies in Surrey, England, principal beneficiary.

        Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said.

        Lee Lozano, an eccentric artist who pursued Conceptual Art and painting in the 1960's and then left the New York art world for self-imposed exile that included an embargo on contact with other women, died on Oct. 2 in the Dallas Health and Rehabilitation Center in Texas.
She married J. Daniel Weitzman, an investor and art collector, who made headlines in the 1970's when more than $400,000 of his artworks were stolen from his home by three gunmen who left him bound and gagged.
He left the thoroughbred racing to his wife, and when at the racetrack he often said: ''I'm just here to watch.
''She gave so much to the birding world and had so much more left to give,'' said G. Stuart Keith, the birding association's first president.
When he died in 1925, he left her $1 from his substantial estate.
In 1943, Gloria Caruso married Ensign Michael Hunt Murray, who had left Harvard to become a naval aviator in World War II.
Matters were complicated because Caruso had left no will.
Mr. Farkas wrote that Enrico Caruso had four children from a relationship with Ada Giacchetti, a soprano who had left her husband to live with the tenor before his marriage to Miss Benjamin.
For the last decades of her life, Ms. Craigie was said to be at work on a  history of the movement, left unfinished at her death.
She was one of the first party officials to endorse the proposal to rid the party of its hammer and sickle and rename themselves ''Democrats of the Left.
Even after a 1992 stroke left her unable to speak, she would instruct students by pantomiming her commands or writing them on an erasable box designed for that purpose.
