She left to teach at the Graham school, corralling students at other studios for Miss Graham's first classes for adults.
Miss Shurr left the Graham troupe to perform with May O'Donnell, another company member, with whom she opened a dance studio in New York City; students there included Robert Joffrey and Gerald Arpino, who later founded the Joffrey Ballet.
Ms. Samuel, who graduated from Rider College and attended Montclair State College, left her post last year to seek a Ph.D. at Harvard University in the urban superintendents program.
She left Williamsburg in 1964 to become the director of the Museum of American Folk Art.
She lived in Point Lookout, L.I., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        Miss Sherman, who used her maiden name professionally, had kept her age a secret and left "explicit instructions" that it remain so, her son said.
Miss Woodruff left no immediate survivors.
      
Miss Johnson left her eclectic art collection, ranging from Cezanne to the American contemporary artist Judy Pfaff, to the Allen Art Museum, where it is currently on view.
She left that production to join the Group Theater, taking major roles in "The House of Connelly," "Men in White" and Clifford Odets's "Till the Day I Die.
On the day Hitler's forces entered Austria in 1938, Mrs. Markus left by train with her daughter and reached England, where she lived for the rest of her life.
According to her grandson, Pierre Riva, she had not left her room for five years.
When she left the publication in 1969, the staff, under her guidance, had grown from 4 to 15 people.
"
        "Men have enjoyed eating oysters since they were not much more than monkeys, according to the kitchen middens they have left behind them.
Miss Nirenska left for the United States in 1949.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
She suffered from severe asthma and weakness from childhood polio, an illness that required three major operations and left her a paraplegic at the age of 5.
Mrs. Ames was a Wall Street lawyer for 10 years but left that career to rear her children and concentrate on volunteer activities.
When he died in 1984 after retiring from The Times in 1965, he left her $2,500, which she donated to the Brooks Atkinson Memorial Playwright Exchange of New Dramatists to assist talented young playwrights.
"
        When she left the State Assembly, one man kissed her, saying: "We male chauvinist pigs all will miss you, Millicent, because you're a wonderful woman.
Scandalized Her Family
        Mrs. Fenwick attended the Foxcroft School in Virginia but left to accompany her father to Spain when he served as the American ambassador under President Calvin Coolidge.
Mrs. Fenwick was left with two children and her husband's debts.
Throughout her life, she insisted that the tumultuous and airborne expression of feeling in her paintings was not a matter of instinct left free to run wild.
"
        Mr. Rockefeller left his Asian collection to the Asia Society, which he founded in 1956 to promote better relations between the Asian and American continents.
Left to Rear 3 Children
        Her husband died of cancer when she was 27, leaving her to rear three children, Nathan, Lorraine and Kenneth.
After practicing general law for four years, she left her career to have her children and rear them.
