In 1941 the de Menils left Nazi-occupied France and made their way to the United States, where Mr. de Menil was to represent the family firm of Schlumberger both in North and South America.
In 1993, Mrs. Meyer left the position Citicorp created for her to become a senior partner at the Clark & Weinstock management consulting firm, a position she held until her death.
In the late 1930's, she left her job with the Y.W.C.A.
As a professor of education and an author who specialized in curriculum development, Dr. Miel (pronounced mile) taught and left her imprint on the subject throughout the country and around the world.
In 1945, Ms. Gellhorn left Hemingway, walking out after an argument at London's Dorchester Hotel.
She left, she said, because he was jealous and bullying.
''
        She wrote on an old, battered typewriter and had to quit in 1992 when a cataract operation left her with diminished eyesight.
In 1979, observing that foreign aid generally alleviated major needs but left smaller ones untouched, the couple set up their own charitable trust fund, called NEEDS (Neighbors Everywhere for Education and Development).
'' Bored with the business of fashion and chafing under her dictatorial boss, Diana Vreeland, Mrs. Rayner left Vogue and went in search of what William Rayner  called ''less ephemeral, more creative'' work.
Mrs. Hutson left no survivors.
Although she had barely mentioned her husband in ''Life Without George,'' she tried her hand at serious, cathartic fiction with ''We That Are Left,'' a thinly disguised 1961 account of her marriage.
She was known professionally as Hansel Mieth, and she left a lasting impression in 1939 with a picture of a rhesus monkey rising from the waters of the Caribbean.
In his 1968 best-selling book ''The Double Helix,'' Dr. Watson acknowledged that he had seen a diffraction X-ray photograph of the DNA molecule taken by Dr. Franklin, but he left it unclear just what role the photograph had played in the discovery a few weeks later of the DNA structure.
With the country at war, her articles typically dealt with women in Congress, on the assembly line and in the armed forces, military nurses and the wives left behind when their husbands were sent to war.
Lady Enniskillen left no immediate survivors.
      
In November 1938, James Roosevelt left the Government and went to Hollywood to work in the movie business as an aide to Samuel Goldwyn.
''
        In the 1950's, Ms. Abzug's law practice turned to other cases identified with the left.
'' But he was, she said, her best friend and supporter, and ''one of the few unneurotic people left in society.
But she resigned after a year in protest over spending cuts that threatened the jobs of thousands of teachers and forced the postponement of her goal to change the age when students left state-financed secondary schools to 16, from 15.
Leaving Dallas at the end of the 1950's to be near her sons, who had settled in Austin after graduation from the University of Texas, she took a job as a nurse at a private school, a position that gave her a year-round home in the school infirmary and left her with free time in the summer.
Although she took some stunning pictures of the Beatles at work, she left most of them unpublished until she assembled her ''Sixties'' book.
When she left the Met in 1950, she toured as a recitalist for two years, then devoted herself to teaching, first at Indiana University, then Florida State University and, starting in 1959, the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, where she remained until 1974, when she retired.
In 1961 she and Mr. White left to join Mr. Yankelovich.
In 1986, two years after the firm was bought by the  Saatchi & Saatchi Company, the advertising concern, Mr. Yankelovich, Ms. Skelly and Mr. White left to start another firm, citing policy disagreements.
After kicking over a dining room table, Mr. Jones declared his love for her, and Ms. Wynette and her three daughters left Mr. Chapel that night.
She was hospitalized in 1994 with an infection that left her in critical condition for a week.
She left high school soon after and hitchhiked to Colorado and later Florida, making money selling crafts and working as a lifeguard.
In 1923 she left The Herald to try free-lancing and sold her first story to The Saturday Evening Post.

        Nicole Maxwell, a free-spirited San Francisco debutante who plunged into the remote Amazon jungles of Ecuador and Peru and came out with a trove of medicinal plants that she said Indians used to cure virtually every known ailment, died on May 5 in a nursing home in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 92, and left no immediate survivors.
Attracted to the political left since college, she raised money for the Spanish loyalist cause from fellow passengers on the voyage over, and after a heady tour of the continent returned to the United States eager to attend graduate school.
She left Art in America in 1970 and in 1971 became editor of publications at the Whitney, where she also was a co-curator of several major exhibitions.
But when the presidency eluded him, he left and formed his own oil company.
After studying as a child at the Cornish School in her hometown of Seattle, Ms. Hutchinson left for several years of stock work in New York and Washington before joining Eva Le Gallienne's Civic Repertory Theater while in her early 20's.
''
        In 1934 she left New York for Hollywood to become a contract player at Warner Brothers, making her screen debut in Mervyn LeRoy's ''Happiness Ahead'' in 1934.
'' When Willam Christensen left California in 1951 to found Ballet West in Salt Lake City, of which he is now director emeritus, his brother  succeeded him in San Francisco.
Her archives and books are expected to be left to the Metropolitan.
      
By 1981, the couple had left Ideal because they did not want to follow the company when it relocated to New Jersey.
In the summer of 1947, she left New York for good, moving to Martha's Vineyard and the two-bedroom cedar-shingled cottage in Oak Bluffs that her father had bought.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
And when she got up from her seat at a formal dinner to ''work the room,'' Sister Irene would be easy to track: She inevitably left a trail of laughter in her wake.
She also left her mark on Brearley students.
While Brearley students were as rebellious as any teen-agers in the 1960's, Miss Mitchell tended to be so understanding and accommodating that she left the rabble-rousers with little to complain about.
But the changes she authorized, like allowing students to substitute Spanish for German and complete their Latin requirements before high school, did not reach the level of some 1960's academic silliness and left the tough core curriculum unscathed.
Before the year was over, she learned that a lump in her left breast was cancerous.
Then again, for all the appeal of the wily and intrepid heroines -- the blond, blue-eyed Bronislava, as Mrs. Rosenberg was known, and her brunet sidekick, Maria -- Mrs. Rosenberg's 1993 memoir, which described in rollicking and harrowing detail how the two young women survived the Holocaust while posing as Catholic peasants, left the story unfinished.
When he was dying of cancer, Salvatore Ferragamo left her in charge while he sought treatment in the United States.
Mrs. Judd said she did not have the key and left in an automobile driven by her brother, Burton McKinnell.
A few days later, a valise left behind by Mrs. Judd was found to contain a fourth body section.
She left briefly to be metropolitan editor at The Daily News in 1997, then returned to The Star-Ledger.
The Japanese Government was under pressure at the time from groups on the left that wanted to end the security arrangement with the United States.
She knew only that some of her cousins had left Germany for York, Pa., and so she wrote to the Mayor of that town, who somehow found Lenore.
''
        But she spoke firmly and often about about her desire to fight black stereotypes on television and even left the cast of ''Good Times'' for a while, saying at the time that she resented the image presented by the buffoonish character of her son in the show.
'' She also found work in the theater and was invited to join the Comedie Francaise, but she left after two years, complaining that she was being overlooked for major roles.
''
        These years left an indelible, earthy impression of India, quite unlike Kipling's land of the Raj.
In settling her lawsuit, she left the company in 1954, when its sales exceeded $10 million a year.
After she left the business, she still mixed up lipstick for herself, a red shade with a blue cast, and once offered the following beauty advice: ''Women should use makeup to accentuate their most attractive feature.
