"
        In 1959, a year after Rich's departure, Mrs. Kuh left the Art Institute; soon she moved to New York.
She left the company at the outbreak of World War II.
She left school barely literate, according to her 1985 autobiography, "All Those Tomorrows.
She left college without a degree, and in 1938 married Kenneth Millar, whom she had known since high school.
The couple left Germany in the 1930's and lived in Italy and France before immigrating to the United States in 1941 to escape the Nazis.
Miss Leet left Paris in 1938 to become national secretary to the Foreign Policy Association in New York, returning to Reid Hall in 1946.
The only acting she had done was in school theatricals, but just a year after she left the Bennett School, RKO was touting her as a bright new talent.
She left the screen in 1937 and moved to the stage.
Left Rockefeller Job
        In 1962, she was the hostess of a five-minute radio show called "A Woman's World," in which she talked about food, clothes, child rearing, family relationships, teen-agers and the aged.
The family's original immigrant, Michel Bouvier, left a troubled France in 1815 after serving in Napoleon's defeated army and settled in Philadelphia.
She imitated people, heads of state, after everyone had left a White House dinner.
"
        Before she left the White House, she placed a plaque in the Lincoln bedroom that said, "In this room lived John Fitzgerald Kennedy with his wife, Jacqueline, during the 2 years, 10 months and 2 days he was President of the United States -- Jan. 10, 1961 - Nov. 22, 1963.
Mrs. Onassis never created an oral history, associates said, and her refusal to give interviews has left little for the record that she would have approved.
In 1949, Mr. Scott left his group to become director of the orchestra for the radio show "Your Hit Parade," and Miss Collins stayed on the road and ran the quintet.
The family left Russia in 1919, after the October Revolution, and she was educated in France and England.
She left Spain largely because her husband, Timoteo Perez Rubio, had been active on the Republican side, and her sympathies were also with the Republic.
She gave piano lessons, and discovered her son's ability when at the age of 3 he went to the piano after one of her students left and played by ear the piece that had just been taught.
After she left the Government in 1985, she became a mediator for the District of Columbia's Superior Court and sat on the District's Civilian Complaint Review Board.
With the rise of Hitler, she left her native country and her growing career and went to London, playing the Lillian Gish role in the sound movie version of D. W. Griffith's "Broken Blossoms.
Soon she left for New York and a life on the stage.
She left her job when she married Mr. Roebling, becoming a housewife again until his death.
She left the agency to join SKIP, Sick Kids Need Involved People, of New York, which she helped to found.
The illnesses left her left leg paralyzed, and once a week, on her mother's day off, the mother made a 90-mile round trip with her to Nashville for heat and water treatment on the leg.
The illnesses left her left leg paralyzed, and once a week, on her mother's day off, the mother made a 90-mile round trip with her to Nashville for heat and water treatment on the leg.
In 1965, she left her position as a radio and television services manager to rear her son.
Although she left New York for Southern California in the late 1960's, she appeared in New York regularly, usually at the Blue Note, where she did two engagements a year through most of the 1980's.
In 1962 she left New York and returned to the Midwest.
