When he died, he left her a substantial fortune, and she used it to travel extensively, visiting friends in Manila, cruising in Europe and taking her half-sister on a South American cruise and her half-brother on a three-month round-the-world cruise.
Ms. Batcheller danced with Graham until 1930, when she left to perform on her own in New York, Cleveland, Pittsburgh and Rochester.
She was president of Screen Smart Set, a support group for the Motion Picture and Television Home in Woodland Hills, Calif.
        She suffered an aneurysm and a stroke that left her partially paralyzed shortly after she married Mr. Ferraro, but continued to attend charity events in elegant, sometimes flamboyant fashions.
Then the Nazis seized his factory (he didn't pay his taxes, they claimed), and  Miss Kiesler left him (she thought he was dull) and made her way to London.
This went on for quite a while until the sheriff and his men, who were not very enthusiastic in the first place, left in despair and frustration.
But years after she left the party, the government tried to expel her, starting a personal and legal struggle that shaped her life.
''
        In that lecture, as on many other occasions, Ms. Wolf recounted being thrown in jail briefly in 1958, charged with sedition though she had left the Communist Party 13 years before.
At the time, her surgeons said the operation had succeeded, but they left open the long-term prognosis.
When her husband, an Illinois Democrat, left the Senate in 1997, Mrs. Simon joined him on the faculty of Southern Illinois University at Carbondale as an adjunct professor of library affairs.
Her parents had left Yemen in 1949 to escape religious persecution.
''She has left a mark on us all.
In the fall of 1952, she left for Tennessee State, a historically black school in Nashville.
Shortly after the shop moved to its present quarters at 1012 Lexington Avenue in 1979, Ms. Weinberg left to open a restaurant and her own takeout food shop, Good and Plenty to Go, in the Theater District.
After everyone had left and she was cleaning up, she heard someone scratching at the window screen, according to a 1993 article in Town & Country.
Mrs. Venturelli was left with two sons, Robert, 9, and Alfred, 7, and a pension of $125 a month, with no increases for inflation.
Her sister Edna Mae, who left home to star in films, including ''The Green Pastures'' in 1936 and ''The Notorious Elinor Lee'' in 1940, always lamented that her sister did not aim higher.
Ms. Monnier, whom Ms. Freund met while browsing in her Left Bank bookshop,  became her lifelong mentor and companion, introducing her to the Parisian intellectual set and encouraging her to pursue photography.
She left school at 16 and became a dancer for a time.
He said that when her family fled Russia, they left their papers behind.
After Mr. Wolf left in the early 1970's to open his own production company,  Ms. Trahey then took as a partner Peter Rogers, who had been working for her as an account executive and de facto office manager.
She left no immediate survivors.
The daughter of teachers, Ms. Abramowicz was born in 1909, when Vilna was part of the czar's empire; it was to live under Polish, Lithuanian, German and Soviet Russian governments before she left.
''
        Other than two nephews and a niece, Ms. Abramowicz left no survivors.
The losses of her son and husband in the span of a year left her devastated, and she moved to New York, settling into a Fifth Avenue apartment and embarking on a busy social schedule.
A stroke in 1992 left her in a wheelchair.
But in 1960 she left Alabama to become coordinator of adult services for the Washington, D.C., library system.
Hildegarde was then Hildegarde Sell, the daughter of German immigrants who had left her native Milwaukee and was working as an accompanist to singers of varying luster.
She traveled a great deal, but settled in a cottage left her by an aunt at Winchelsea, from which, on a clear day, you can see France.
At the end of the show's first season, Tony was about to smother his mother with a pillow, but a stroke got there first and she was left gasping for breath in a hospital bed.
She left the country in 1966, returning only once in the next 24 years -- for a month in 1968, to be at her father's deathbed -- but continued to write about South Africa through the late 1990's.
Two years later, when Mr. Sorge left Shanghai for Moscow, he recommended her to the G.R.U.
asked her to go to Moscow for training, she left the boy with in-laws in Czechoslovakia.
In late 1938 she was sent to Switzerland to set up a new spy ring, again with her husband, but he soon left her and went to the Far East.
''
        In the early 1950's she and her family -- another son, Peter, had been born in 1943 -- left England for East Berlin.
At the archive's formal opening in 1982, when it already contained 250 taped interviews, she observed that, with 40 years having passed since the Holocaust, the time left for collecting first-hand accounts was ''indeed running out.
But during the Depression, the Holts left their farm for taxes owed and moved to the Willamette Valley in Oregon.
Perhaps the biggest controversy in her long career arose years after she left the screen.
In 1963, at age 50, with movie offers still coming her way, Miss Young left show business.
' ''
        The 10-minute talk brought three standing ovations and left many in the crowd in tears.
A few months later she left for New York and a few months after that, in November of 1983, she opened her first gallery.
She left Germany for New York with her family in 1938.
''
        She was also in demand as one of George Balanchine's ballerinas when he worked in Hamburg, but when he left Europe and became a founder of the New York City Ballet, she joined Bejart's Ballet of the 20th Century in Brussels.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Ms. Halsell left the White House for the journey she described as ''embracing the Other.
In that period Mr. Hall also befriended the painter Isabel Whitney, who left him $2 million at her death in 1962, he said.
She left that position in 1992 to start her own short-lived imprint for the company, Linda Grey Books, which published just one book, ''It Doesn't Take a Hero: The Autobiography of General Norman H.
In 1964, Ms. Gordon left the magazine world, angry with the growing intimacy between editorial content and advertising demands.
Reared in north Wales, Ms. Yates left school at 16 and moved to London, where she joined the emerging punk scene and embarked on an extravagant -- and extravagantly public -- life.
She left Mr. Geldof, setting off a bitter, tabloid-fueled divorce and an equally bitter fight for custody of their three daughters.
After she left The Monitor, Ms. Fanning spent a year at the Institute of Politics at Harvard.
She never really left the state that she loved -- she and her husband kept a home in Anchorage where they lived for four months each year.
After she left The Monitor, Ms. Fanning spent a year at the Institute of Politics at Harvard.
She nationalized many foreign and local enterprises and left Sri Lanka's economy into one that was heavily state dominated.
Her father soon left for New York, where he set up a shop on Ludlow Street in the Lower East Side; Biala, her mother and her older brother Jacob, who would become the Abstract Expressionist painter Jack Tworkov, followed in 1913.
Nevertheless, she left the show before it ended its run and returned to working with the Hollywood choreographer Jack Cole, whose assistant she had been in the early 1950's.
The couple had a son, Jimmy, and after the divorce Ms. Verdon left him in the care of her parents and resumed her career.
She is survived by a daughter from her marriage to Mr. Webb, Lisa Breen of Manhattan Beach, Calif. She also left three children from her 39-year marriage to Mr. Troupe: a daughter, Kelly Ronick, and twin sons, Jody and Reese, all of Los Angeles.
As the Depression ground on in the mid-1930's, the family fell on hard times and left the family home and moved to what had been a summer cottage in Thurlow, Suffolk.
It also left her with an abiding admiration for Poland.
We
        Left school.
After the publication of ''In the Mecca'' Ms. Brooks left her longtime mainstream publisher, Harper & Row.
The egg, spooned gently to the avid pan,
        And left the strict three minutes, or the four,
        Is your Enough and art for any man.
''One of the reasons film noir is so popular today is that it left so much to the imagination, in contrast to today when everything is so explicit,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times last year.
Among them was a chilling account of the Salzburg Festival in 1938: ''Swastikas and pictures of Hitler smothered the renowned Baroque buildings, and native restaurateurs, whose cheerful 'Gruss Gott' used to lessen the blow of a large bill, now shouted morosely, 'Heil Hitler,' as their patrons left without leaving a tip,'' she wrote.
Mrs. Leighton-Porter continued modeling for ''Jane'' after the war, and when Mr. Pett left The Daily Mirror in 1948, the drawings were taken over by his assistant, Michael Hubbard.
Born in Zurich on Jan. 24, 1915, to Giovanni Ravelli, an Italian construction worker, and his German wife, Rosemarie Ravelli was in her early 20's when she left Switzerland with Peter Kreuder, a German theater and film composer.
We
        Left school.
After the publication of ''In the Mecca,'' Ms. Brooks left her longtime mainstream publisher, Harper & Row.
The egg, spooned gently to the avid pan,
        And left the strict three minutes, or the four,
        Is your Enough and art for any man.
''
        After The Compass closed on Nov. 3, 1952, Ms. Cooke left journalism and worked for left-leaning organizations like the Committee for the Arts, Sciences and Professions and, later, the Angela Davis Defense Fund.
