In Spanish Morocco
        She married Francisco Franco, then an up-and-coming army lieutenant colonel, on Oct. 22, 1923, and the couple left soon after for Spanish Morocco, where Franco was responsible for much of the conduct of the Riff Wars and where he built the military power base that served his successful uprising against the Republican Government.
She left the museum staff in 1932 but continued to work on a book, ''Greek Temples,'' a study of the 25 most important temples, which was published by the museum in 1943 and reissued in 1975.
Unable to find work in the United States during the period of the suit, Mr. Adler and Mr. Draper left the country for several years.
Beginning in 1981, Miss Somogi became first Kapellmeister under Michael Gielen at the Frankfurt Opera and left there only last year with the departure of Mr. Gielen and the dismantling of his organization.
''
        Miss Pincus left no immediate survivors.
She lived in one place after another, treating her studio as an ark to be filled, and no sooner filled than left.
She lived in one place after another, treating her studio as an ark to be filled, and no sooner filled than left.
She lived in one place after another, treating her studio as an ark to be filled, and no sooner filled than left.
She left no immediate survivors.
      
She said she attended Ohio Wesleyan University but left before graduating and traveled to Germany, where she took a radio job in 1940.
Miss Groman left a few years later to join the First Chamber Dance Quartet, a small troupe that been formed in 1961 by two dancers she had known in the City Ballet, Lois Bewley and William Carter.
Mr. Onassis died in 1975 in France and his daughter and only surviving child was left in charge of the Onassis Group, with assets then variously estimated at $500 million to $1 billion, most of it in shipping.
After his death, she gradually strengthened her hold over the Onassis Group, although some questions remained in the late 1970's as to just how much control she exerted and how much she left to day-to-day managers.
After she left Mount St. Vincent, she was appointed superior of St. Joseph-by-the-Sea, a high school on Staten Island.
After her husband's death, their home at Waddesdon Manor, a 6,000-acre estate in Buckinghamshire, was left to the National Trust for Historic Preservation, along with a considerable art collection.
