''I've always met more discrimination being a woman than being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
A year later, she confirmed her reputation for independence when she endorsed John V. Lindsay, who was running for re-election as mayor of New York
        as the Liberal Party candidate.By 1982, the political climate had changed, and Mrs. Chisholm left Washington after seven terms in the House, saying that ''moderate and liberal'' lawmakers were ''running for cover from the new right.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
By 1982, the political climate had changed, and Mrs. Chisholm left Washington after seven terms in the House, saying that ''moderate and liberal'' lawmakers were ''running for cover from the new right.
When she left Washington, she said she did not want to go down in history as ''the nation's first black congresswoman'' or, as she put it, ''the first black woman congressman.
''She was in many ways the emotional center of the magazine,'' said Ms. Miller, who left the magazine in February 2004.
She was a member of the university's psychology department until she left for Indiana in 1985.
She was asked by the South Korean government to compose children's songs after Japanese occupation ended and her nation was left with no Korean-language school materials.
Miss Krassovska left the Ballet Russe in 1950 to become a ballerina of London Festival Ballet, where she stayed through 1955.
Ms. Fowler was vice chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and No.5 in the House leadership when she left Congress.
Petty was afflicted with an ''institutional syndrome'' that left her withdrawn and unable to express emotion.
By the time she left, in 1958, to become a full-time writer, she had published 23 novels and several short stories.
Mr. Fittko died in 1960, and Ms. Fittko left no immediate survivors.
In 1978, Dr. Jones and her husband left Johns Hopkins for Eastern Virginia Medical School shortly after the birth of the world's first in vitro baby was announced in England.
She left no immediate survivors.
from Mills College in 1968, she worked at The New Yorker briefly, attended Brown University to work toward a master's, then left to become an editor at New York magazine, where she stayed for 10 years before going to Parents.
In 1993, Ms. Crow left Gruner & Jahr to become editor in chief of Mademoiselle.
She left in 1963, when her husband, an assistant dean at Columbia University and a church deacon, accepted a post at Robert College in Istanbul.
''It's pretty clear that the church elite in the mainline denominations are to the left of the people in the pews,'' she told The New York Times last year.
''They removed it from the frame and left the frame and mat on the lobby floor.
She left Ladies' Home Journal in 1962, after its new owners stopped publishing poetry.
'' Even so, by the time she left high school she had decided to become a laboratory technician.
After undergoing several operations, aggressive treatment and years of physical therapy, she left her practice to become a medical exercise specialist and advocate for breast cancer awareness.
In the fall of 1978 the American Women's Himalayan Expedition left the United States for Annapurna in Nepal, the 10th highest mountain in the world.
When her children left the nest, she turned their rooms into walk-in closets.
''
        After graduating from the Hamlin School in San Francisco, Mrs. Kempner entered Connecticut College for Women, but left before graduation.

        Frances Langford, a mellow contralto who ventured into combat zones with Bob Hope's troupe during World War II and the Korean and Vietnam Wars to serenade tens of thousands of servicemen with ballads that reminded them of the girls they left behind, died yesterday at her home in Jensen Beach, Fla. She was 92.
After many telephone calls, she left a message: ''If a check is not delivered this afternoon to the corporation counsel's office, I'm coming up personally to shut off the water.
Gunter, who never married, left no immediate survivors.
She left instructions that she not be kept alive artificially if there was no hope of improvement, her family said, and doctors removed her artificial feeding tube earlier this week.
When she finally left politics, she said it had become ''harder and harder to defend what the Labor government is doing.
''It was as if she would lull them into an affirmation of their own arrogance, causing them to relax as she appeared to wander aimlessly off into and around left field, until she suddenly threw a curveball with so much skill and power it would knock them off their chair.
A few years ago, her sister-in-law said, she left the Republican Party.
      
She worked with members of the Bush administration and members of Congress to write the education law known as No Child Left Behind, which imposed stricter performance standards on all schools receiving federal aid.
Wise left a box of pre-Columbian textile fragments on her doorstep with a request to preserve them.
Mr. Wallace read a second statement challenging the constitutionality of the court order, then briskly left.
Hood left the university after two months, saying he wanted to avoid ''a complete mental and physical breakdown.
Early the next year, the Parkses left Montgomery for Hampton, Va., largely because Mrs.
Dorothy's father died when she was 14, and she left high school to support her mother and younger brother by sketching clothes for a coat and suit manufacturer.
Bond also started work on a Ph.D., but left after the birth of her first child.
Early in Ms. Keene's career, her playing was praised by Artur Rubinstein, who said that her recording of the Rachmaninoff Preludes left him ''completely flabbergasted by the fantastic sweep, color, tone and last but not least, by the incredible technique.
''
        Her paintings also tackled subjects that in an isolated, provincial country in the 1940's and 50's were best left alone.
She left in 1981 and moved to Ballantine Books, which had acquired the Fawcett list.
