A subsequent promotion made her a lieutenant colonel briefly before she left military service in 1946.
''When we left the mess hall we were marched two-by-two's to the reception center.
In 1943, Miss Lee left Goodman to marry Dave Barbour, the band's guitarist, with whom she collaborated on a number of hits, including ''I Don't Know Enough About You,'' ''It's a Good Day,'' and ''Mañana,'' a 1948 blockbuster that sold more than two million records and began her long association with Latin-flavored music.
She had more heart problems in the early 1990's, her daughter said, and suffered a stroke in 1998 that left her bedridden.
Her two brothers are dead, and she left no immediate survivors.
She left no immediate survivors.
      
But her few meetings with younger executives left her despondent.
In 1986 she left Texas to lead the dance department at the University of Minnesota in Minneapolis-St. Paul.
At 17 she left school to become an apprentice animator with U.F.A.
In a photograph in profile by Erwin Blumenfeld for the famous Jan. 1, 1950, cover of Vogue, Ms. Patchett's immaculate red mouth, penciled left eye and natural beauty mark became shorthand for an entire decade.
Within a month, however, she had left for the new Ford modeling agency.
She suffered a stroke on Friday afternoon, the latest in a series that had left her partly paralyzed in recent months, and developed heart problems overnight, Buckingham Palace said.
At parties she often objected if other guests ignored royal protocol and left before her.
The Radleys left Paris in 1937 and were bound for Chile with what was to be a brief stopover in New York.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
''
        Shortly after her 90th birthday, she told friends that she had left instructions that she wanted to be cremated wearing her trademark bright red lipstick.
The Radleys left Paris in 1937 and were bound for Chile with what was to be a brief stopover in New York.
Although the original business ended when Mr. Radley left, the following year, Miss Trigère and her brother were back with a collection of 11 styles.
''
        Shortly after her 90th birthday, she told friends that she had left instructions that she wanted to be cremated wearing her trademark bright red lipstick.
The Mann family had left Germany after Hitler came to power, moving first to Switzerland and, in 1938, to the United States.
When she broke her right hand, she painted with her left.
She left no survivors.
She eventually left, promising her mother that she would ''do more good from outside the cloistered walls.
Not even the exhortations of his most trusted advisers, or the frightened tears of his younger brother, would make Edward give up Mrs. Simpson, and on Dec. 10, 1936, he abdicated and left for France.
The terrified Bertie was left behind to comfort a shocked nation and to try to rise to the occasion.
She eventually left, promising her mother that she would ''do more good from outside the cloistered walls.
''
        Ms. Hewett left New York for Southern California in the early 90's, said Bonnie Goebert, her companion, and she performed there in a few shows with minor companies.
She left for Switzerland to earn her doctorate in Basel in 1935 and traveled abroad until called home in 1937 to help administer the family estates.
The countess, who never married, left no immediate survivors.
After three years there, she renounced the faith and left.
''
        She was found to have breast cancer in 1970 and had her left breast removed.
''Until now,'' she said in 1977, ''every breast that was sold was used interchangeably for the right or the left side.
There has never been a shoemaker who made one shoe and forced you to put both your right and your left foot in it.
She left Denver for Hollywood at 19 and stayed, marrying her high school boyfriend, Mr. Handler, who became a specialist in designing plastic products.
Long After Mrs. Handler left Mattel and turned away from toys, Barbie remained wildly popular, not only as a toy, but as a touchstone of American culture.
Mr. Negrete's health was failing, and Ms. Félix, called again to film in Europe, left him behind.
The 110 drawings they gave to the Fogg were estimated at $20 million, and they still had hundreds of drawings and paintings left.
Mrs. Spaisman, who lived in Manhattan, supported herself by working as a recreation director at the Jewish Institute for Geriatric Care, first in Manhattan and then in New Hyde Park, N.Y. On a typical day, she left for work at 7 and returned at 5 to cook dinner for her husband and son.
She left Madeira to work during the Depression, her daughter said.
Her next job, which lasted 16 years, was with Good Housekeeping magazine, where she started as an assistant in the fashion department and left as fashion editor.
'' She left a writing sample and returned to the University of Iowa for graduate work.
Her father, Edward J. Regensburg Jr., a debonair cigar manufacturer, left the family, ''whistling,'' she would write, when Lois was 3.
Three years later, despite a lifetime's opposition to British membership of the European Common Market, as it was then called, Ms. Castle left the House of Commons and embarked on a second political career as a member of the European Parliament, where she spent the next 10 years fighting European federalism but supporting efforts to establish Europe-wide social standards.
But in her autobiography she acknowledged that the split between the party's extreme left wing (led by the Welsh firebrand Aneurin Bevan) and Labor's leadership ''helped keep the party out of office for 13 years.
Ms. Hogan left Chicago on Feb. 14 to attend a conference and was stopping over in Arizona on her way back when she fell ill, the university reported.
The Illinois Library Association gave her its Intellectual Freedom Award for opposing Internet filters and state legislation that would have left obscenity standards to individual counties.
''This has always been a problem of mine, this tendency to spread myself too thin,'' Miss Lewis self-deprecatingly told Esquire magazine in 1980, after she had left reporting to be a columnist again.
''
        She left in 1939, after three and a half years, to marry Jules W. Lederer, a hat salesman who later formed the Budget Rent-a-Car Corporation.
There, Mrs. Lederer, who left The Sun-Times for the rival Chicago Tribune in 1987, read the several hundred letters winnowed for her each day by her staff, often working until 2 a.m.
        She was partial to working in the bath, propping the mail on a marble shelf in the tub, tapping out the replies afterward on her I.B.M.
In 1975, Mrs. Lederer underwent what she would call her ''only troubled time'' when her husband left her for another woman.
''
        She left in 1939, after three and a half years, to marry Jules W. Lederer, a hat salesman who later formed the Budget Rent-a-Car Corporation.
There, Mrs. Lederer, who left The Sun-Times for the rival Chicago Tribune in 1987, read the several hundred letters winnowed for her each day by her staff, often working until 2 a.m. She was partial to working in the bath, propping the mail on a marble shelf in the tub, tapping out the replies afterward on her I.B.M.
In 1975, Mrs. Lederer underwent what she would call her ''only troubled time'' when her husband left her for another woman.
''This has always been a problem of mine, this tendency to spread myself too thin,'' Miss Lewis self-deprecatingly told Esquire magazine in 1980, after she had left reporting to be a columnist again.
In 1948, Betty Clooney quit the Pastor band, but Rosemary stayed with him another year before she left as well, hopeful of success because she had signed a contract with Columbia Records.
She left baseball in 1950 because of a back injury, caused by a collision with a shortstop, Davis said.
Rosemary stayed another year before she left, hopeful of success because she had signed a contract with Columbia Records.
At his death, Mr. Barron left the company to his stepdaughter.
In a memoir published on her Web site, www.slobodkina.com, Ms. Slobodkina wrote, ''When Margaret died, I was left without a writer, and since she always insisted that she liked the way I told my stories, I took a deep breath and began to send them to my agent.
Dr. Stewart left Oxford in 1974, and became a research fellow at the University of Birmingham in England, where she worked until about two years ago.
In 1953, she left Judson and the Philharmonic to join her husband in starting Angel Records.
With an excitement that is contagious, she is talking about how artists will set up telescopes, using lenses embedded with sophisticated computer equipment, so that visitors directing the telescopes toward the building, or even at the Brooklyn Bridge, can retrieve personalized messages left by voice or e-mail.
She left the Joffrey School in 1984 to care for her father in Los Angeles.
In 1949, she left The New York World-Telegram after an argument with its owner, Roy W. Howard, who thought she was paying too much attention to artists he considered ''Communists and left-wingers,'' like Pablo Picasso.
In 1949, she left The New York World-Telegram after an argument with its owner, Roy W. Howard, who thought she was paying too much attention to artists he considered ''Communists and left-wingers,'' like Pablo Picasso.
She did not seem to care what people thought when, after years of playing well-to-do places for well-to-do crowds, she also took the stage at clubs like CBGB, on the Bowery, accompanied by the kitchen-drawer percussion of a man called Mr. Spoons, otherwise known as Joseph Jones Jr., whom Ms. Hellman put up in her town house after his third wife left him.
)
        Mr. Hellman left her for another woman, and in 1961, she married Hsio-Wen Shih, a Chinese-American architect and writer, who left their home one day in 1965 and disappeared, breaking her heart, friends said.
)
        Mr. Hellman left her for another woman, and in 1961, she married Hsio-Wen Shih, a Chinese-American architect and writer, who left their home one day in 1965 and disappeared, breaking her heart, friends said.
She made several, but left the room when sex scenes were being shot.
After his death in 1975 she left London for France, where she lived as a recluse.
She left no immediate survivors.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
She left school after ninth grade, in accordance with Amish custom.
Ms. Simpson and Berryman stayed together for 11 years until, worn out by his infidelities, she left him; they later divorced, in 1956.
Eventually she grew weary of what she called ''the sight of poets disporting themselves,'' and left him.
Ms. Pienkowska was enraged, realizing that as a result of the agreement tens of thousands of strikers at plants throughout the region were being left in the lurch.
Dr. Kilbourn's discovery also made it increasingly important to protect the major concentration of gorillas, believed to be the largest left in the world, living in the nearby Odzala National Park, about 100 kilometers away over the border in Congo, by controlling access to them by humans and animals that might be carrying the virus.
She left college, she said, because ''world-class training and competing for a college don't go hand in hand.
When she left college, he looked for an experienced coach for her and chose Chuck DeBus in California.

        Antonia Stone, a prep-school mathematics teacher who left the classroom after 20 years of teaching and devoted herself to instructing the poor and the imprisoned about the importance of personal computers, died on Thursday at her home in Watertown, Mass.
'' By the summer of 1928, she left Smith and transferred to Stanford.
They married in 1930, and she left college.
Ms. Bistany spent 17 years at ABC News, most recently as senior vice president from August 1998 until she left in June 2000 to become an independent program developer.
''Maria's thorough and careful work left us in very good shape,'' said Joseph Clark, a technical director at the Met.
He left the library earlier this year.
