In 1954, Dr. Edwards left Jersey City to teach gynecology and obstetrics at Howard University Medical School.
She left to earn her doctorate at Yale, reclaiming the deanship in 1925.
'' Another Soviet cancer patient, Rimma Bravve, left Moscow on Dec. 18 in Senator Hart's company to receive treatment in New York.
Left With Mixed Feelings
        At the time of her own departure, Mrs. Meiman said she was leaving with ''mixed feelings'' since her husband had to stay behind.
She performed with the company through 1951, when she left to dance with the New York City Ballet.
Left Post Several Weeks Ago
        Ms. Mann, who was known as Bettie, remained at her post until several weeks ago, her associates say.
And ultimately, the once-idolized star's health was ravaged by Alzheimer's disease - senile dementia, a devastating mental illness that affects the brain, brings on loss of memory, and ravages bodily functions - which left her ''utterly helpless,'' according to Princess Yasmin.
''
        The Fox company's merger with 20th-Century Pictures left the young dancer without a contract, but in 1937 she met and married the man who was to become her Svengali and dramatically change her career fortunes.
A close friend of Ms. Frankfort said that she had been depressed for some time and had left a suicide note.
After she left school at 18, she wrote advertising copy for a mail-order concern.
''
        She left motion pictures in 1926 but continued to act on stage for the next 25 years.
She left Russia in 1917 and toured Europe with a dance company organized by her and her husband, Vecheslav Swoboda, formerly a soloist with the Bolshoi Ballet and now dead.
Her off-screen life was more tempestuous than any role she ever played and, although she often insisted that she wished only to be left alone, she could shrewdly maneuver her love affairs and feuds into avalanches of personal publicity.
Mrs. Rose often left school to help serve the lunchtime crowd at the restaurant.
At the age of 23, Dorothy Blanchard left Melbourne for London, seeking a movie career.
In March, she left Henri Bendel to work with Mr. Bailey in opening a new housewares shop at Saks Fifth Avenue.
She left in 1934.
In 1935, she left public schools to preside over the magazine full time as editor in chief, a job she held until 1961.
