''
        As Miss Lillie left her booth, she loudly told the salon proprietor, in her most proper and meticulously enunciated English: ''You may tell the butcher's daughter that Lady Peel is finished.
Miss Lillie left no immediate survivors.
      
Their marriage began to deteriorate within a few years after their move, and in 1941, Mr. Prokofiev left his wife for Myra Mendelson, a young Soviet writer.
Mrs. Prokofiev left the Soviet Union for Paris in 1974 and never returned.
After teaching school in Columbus, Ohio, and working for the Young Women's Christian Association and the Urban League in New York, she was accepted at Cornell University Medical School but left, she said later, because of racial prejudice.
She left the company in 1954.
      
She left no survivors.
      
''
        When Gilda was 12, her father became terminally ill. Two years later, he died and left her a large estate.
After she left Life magazine, Mrs. Kirkland wrote a book about Claire McCardell, her favorite designer, and contributed articles to the RAM Report, a monthly trade journal.
Miss Milanov left the Met from 1947 to 1951, returning to Yugoslavia with her husband.
'' From the time in 1948 when she made her debut, at age 11, her songs cheered people left hopeless by Japan's defeat in World War II.
''
        When the program went off the air, it left a group of sad adults and children.
After the success of the novel, Soho Press issued ''Come to Africa and Save Your Marriage,'' Mrs. Worrick's collection of short stories in which she told of the difficulties of various people -Peace Corps volunteers, foreign academics, Indians, American blacks and white hunters left behind by colonial empires - in finding their way in black Africa.
Miss Blake left the series in 1974.

       Claire Luce, a 1920's Ziegfeld star who left the musical stage for the classical theater, died Thursday at her Gramercy Park home in Manhattan after a lengthy illness.
Claire Luce, a 1920's Ziegfeld star who left the musical stage for the classical theater, died Thursday at her Gramercy Park home in Manhattan after a lengthy illness.

       Claire Luce, a 1920's Ziegfeld star who left the musical stage for the classical theater, died Thursday at her Gramercy Park home in Manhattan after a lengthy illness.
Claire Luce, a 1920's Ziegfeld star who left the musical stage for the classical theater, died Thursday at her Gramercy Park home in Manhattan after a lengthy illness.
With her huge and expressive eyes, her flamboyant mannerisms and her distinctive speaking style, she left an indelible mark on her audiences in a wide variety of roles.
In later years Miss Davis said many times that she saw the divorce as her father's abandonment of his family, and that it left her barren of love for him and preternaturally devoted to her doting mother.
Years later she was to ruefully confess that before she left, Jack L. Warner, the studio head, offered her a chance ''to play one of the great screen roles of all time, but I didn't know it.
'' That same year she was praised for her performance on Broadway in Tennessee Wiliams's ''The Night of the Iguana,'' which she left in April 1962 to film ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?
In fact, before she left for college in 1929, Miss McCarthy took some acting classes at the Cornish Drama School in Seattle, where she met the actor Harold Cooper Johnsrud, whom she married a week after her graduation from Vassar.
By the time Miss McCarthy left Vassar in 1933, she said, she had become ''a wayward modern girl,'' determined, in the words of her colleague William Barrett, ''to hold her own with men - both intellectually and sexually.
The Communist Party is the mainstay of a coalition called the United Left, which after years of decline rebounded in national elections last month to win 9 percent of the vote and 18 seats in Parliament.
La Pasionaria left Spain early in March 1938, shortly before the fall of Madrid.
She left no survivors.
      
In 1952 she left to become assistant medical director of the Department of Social Services, and in 1961 she was named public welfare medical director.
Worked in Settlement House
        After two years at Connecticut College, she left and enrolled at the New York School of Social Work.
She left after a year because of the impending birth of a child.
