Miss Douglas attended the Brearley School and left Vassar to accompany her parents to England.
She left Germany in 1938 on an overnight train to Paris, carrying one small bag and a box of tiny sandwiches.
She eventually acquired a country home in Normandy, but her book-lined Left Bank apartment on the Rue St.-Benoit remained her Paris home from 1942 until her death.
" Because the producers worried that some listeners might find her hayseed character offensive, her first performance, for which she was paid $10, took place after 11 P.M.  Miss Pearl quickly became one of the show's most popular performers, and in 1940 she was made a permanent member of the Opry, remaining until 1991 when the stroke she suffered at the time left her partially paralyzed.
" Because the producers worried that some listeners might find her hayseed character offensive, her first performance, for which she was paid $10, took place after 11 P.M. Miss Pearl quickly became one of the show's most popular performers, and in 1940 she was made a permanent member of the Opry, remaining until 1991 when the stroke she suffered at the time left her partially paralyzed.
In 1924 Miss Travers left Australia for England, arriving with five pounds in her pocket.
By 1992, she had become so prominent in Hispanic political and civic circles  that Mayor David N. Dinkins named her to the city's Commission on Human Rights,  a position she relinquished when Mr. Dinkins left office.
"
        Ms. Nichols left WNYC because of a disagreement with Mayor Koch when he insisted that the radio station run "The John Hour," in which the names of nine  men convicted of patronizing prostitutes were read over WNYC-AM.
"
        Before she left the paper for good in the mid-1970's, she took two years off  to serve as a public relations aide in the city's Parks Department.
List and her husband were the supervising producers of "Cagney and Lacey, " a role they assumed when the original producer of the series, Terry Louise Fischer, left to develop "L.A.
She left the following year and was given starring  roles by Balanchine in his short-lived troupe Les Ballets 1933.
Mrs. van Ameringen was also a supporter of Lincoln Center, the Philharmonic's home since it left Carnegie Hall.
The equipment arrived late, there was no time to rehearse and "Ms. Anderson usually  left the spot just before the light got to it.
She left to become executive director of a  public policy institute, the Richard A. Snelling Center for Government in Vermont, before taking her post at the Fish and Wildlife Service.
Ms. Kerouac argued that the will of Mr. Kerouac's mother, Gabrielle Kerouac,  which left her son's effects to Stella Sampas, was a forgery.
The couple left Germany for Italy in 1942, but although they returned after the war, Ms.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Patton left no immediate family.
In 1937 she left Hollywood and, after appearing in London in J.
Some artists left the city vowing never to return.
"I  only left Broadway when the crash came.
Mrs. Mason said that part of her later success was that she left school at age 9; education, she said, only confuses the mind.
But when one of the Clark Sisters left that popular singing group in the 1940's, she auditioned, got the job and changed her name.
After eight years  she left him because, she said, ''he was always angry and frightened.
As a teen-ager, she left England to join her mother in Hollywood and did seven plays at the Vine Street Theater.
Her life changed even more in 1975 when Mr. Noyce left her to marry an Intel executive.
''
        Masako's mother-in-law, the Empress Michiko, the first commoner to be brought into the imperial fold, suddenly collapsed nearly three years ago in an incident that left her unable to speak for several months.
Mrs. Lawrence left a third volume nearly completed.
She left Mr. Kay's group and moved to Manhattan, where Rudy Vallee, then a popular singer, helped her get a singing job at a popular night club, El Morocco.
She left Mr. Kay's group and moved to Manhattan, where Rudy Vallee, then a popular singer, helped her get a singing job at a popular night club, El Morocco.
When war broke out in 1939, the Zlatins left their farm and she became a nurse at a military hospital in Montpellier.
Miss Welitsch left no immediate survivors.
      
She became an associate professor at North Carolina that year, left in 1971 for a seven-year stint at the University of Southern California and then returned to North Carolina as chairwoman of the department of biochemistry and nutrition at the medical school.
'' Her mother ''turned and left the room, went into her bedroom, closed the door and protected her economic hide.
'' On her mother's death, her stepfather was left 90 percent of the $100,000 remaining from Mr. Loeb's insurance, Ms. Lear said.
''They left me off the dog food and the bathroom tissue,'' she observed one day as she made one of her regular surprise inspections as self-appointed watchdog of the chain.
''People used to stand three abreast to get into that store,'' she said with a faraway look in her eyes as she reminisced in 1967, 20 years after she was widowed and left with three children.
(It's a safe bet that there aren't many such warehouse troves left.
(According to the American Carousel Society, which estimates there were once 3,000 to 6,000 carousels in the country, from the famous Flying Horses on Martha's Vineyard, where children still ride on the oldest American carousel, assembled in 1884, to the last carousels produced in the 1920's, there are now only 133 left.
Her expertise, on the other hand, was intuitive; her Radcliffe degree in fine arts, she said, left her ill-prepared for anything except a walk through a gallery or a museum.
Then, suffering from macular degeneration that left her with eyesight so poor she could no longer type, she dictated her memoir, ''The Beginning of the Journey.
The Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel was a beneficiary from its beginning, and she left her stamp on its Ullmann Institute of Life Sciences, the Ullmann Gallery at Weizmann, to which she contributed art from her private collection, and an Ullmann Professorial Chair.
By 1960, after intensive physical therapy, she had taught herself to paint with oils with her left hand, which was stronger, and was able to draw and make watercolors with her right.
Her mother and stepfather, Marion Wharton and Alfred Le Sueur, were ardent socialists who imbued her with an idealism that never left her.
These guys are grateful for what they've got left.
She left the State Department in 1962, after her brother Allen had been dismissed from the C.I.A.
Although she played mostly in exhibition games and rarely more than a few innings a game in league play, Stone maintained a .243 batting average and was so tough in the field that to the end of her days she would show off the scars on her left wrist and recall the time she had been spiked by a runner trying to bull past a woman who would not budge.
Mrs. Rey left no known survivors, except, of course, for Curious George.
      
''
        She was at last sure that a hominid had left this print and a trail of prints extending more than 75 feet across the plain.
In a Footprint a Clue To Human Behavior
        Somewhere along the way, as Mrs. Leakey noted, the female appeared to pause and turn to her left.
She left newspapers for a year in 1956-57, when she was Deputy Commissioner of the State Commerce Department, writing reports for women working outside the  home.
After a few years, she left briefly to work as a theater producer, but she returned in the late 60's and remained.
"I felt somehow for many years that George Washington and Alexander Hamilton  just left me out by mistake," she declared, catching the nation's attention with measured, sepulchral oratory from her seat on the House Judiciary Committee.
David's mental retardation left him with only limited use of his arms and legs, but Dr. Boggs and her husband tried to care for him at home.
" Detractors voiced the fear that by raising  the higher cost issue, women would not be hired and promoted and that all women  would be left with the primary responsibility for child care.
Among her works was "The Stepdaughter," a short epistolary novel about an abusive woman abandoned by her husband and left with his hideous daughter.
Their marriage was in  tatters when, the story goes, Lowell left her in Ireland and flew to New York City.
A doorman summoned Elizabeth Hardwick, the writer and editor, whom Lowell had left to marry Lady Caroline; she happened to live in the same apartment house.
During the next years she endured a series of Job-like catastrophes: the death of Citkowitz; Lowell's crippling manic depression and early death; the death from AIDS of her brother, Sheridan, to whom she was very close; the death of her eldest daughter, Natalya, after a drug overdose, and her own bout with cervical cancer, for which she had an operation that left her in constant pain.
Although she wrote on a variety of subjects, Miss Barry, who left The New Yorker in 1994, particularly enjoyed writing about the Dordogne region of southwestern France, where, not coincidentally, she owned a vacation home.
She later became a conspicuous part of the city's  intellectual left, writing for The Partisan Review, The New Republic and The Nation.
She left the party with one of his friends, the poet Denis Devlin, and, as Mr. Warren later railed  in recounting the meeting to his children, "a bunch of other drunken Irishmen.
