"
        After "Wait Until Dark," she left full-time acting and lived mostly in Switzerland.
"
        That memory never left, "and that's why I was always different from everybody else.
She left ABC in 1985 and moved to London, but continued working part-time for the network and also produced programs for other organizations.

        Judith Rothschild, an abstract painter whose works were shown internationally and who left a multi-million-dollar estate to support contemporary American artists, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Legacy to Museums and Artists
        Ms. Rothschild left a collection that included her paintings and major works by Mondrian, Matisse, Brancusi, Gris and Picasso.
"He left me for a Georgian woman from Russia.
He left me our house in California, half of his money, and they went off to Italy.
After 13 years with Levine Huntley, she left the organization, because of her health, in 1991, shortly before the agency closed.
Ms. Tolstoy fled her native Russia after the Bolshevik revolution, resettled in Czechoslovakia, then left there in 1939 to escape the Nazis and World War II.
Ms. Tolstoy left the Soviet Union in 1925 at the age of 17.
Ms. Gilliatt left The New Yorker in 1979 on an extended leave of absence after writing a profile on the novelist Graham Greene whose accuracy was challenged by Greene.
In the summer of 1976, Mrs. Nixon suffered a stroke that partly paralyzed her left arm and leg and the left side of her face for about a year.
In the summer of 1976, Mrs. Nixon suffered a stroke that partly paralyzed her left arm and leg and the left side of her face for about a year.
When she left the company she began singing more frequently at other European houses, including La Scala.
She left Pfizer in 1959 to become chief of research at the Veterans Administration Hospital in East Orange, N.J., where she specialized in chronic infectious diseases.
Mrs. Rodzinski was active in several Polish charitable and cultural organizations, including Polish Mutual Assistance, founded in 1956 to help Poles in the United States who had been left destitute by World War II.
She attended Miss Spence's School but left before her graduation in 1918 to be trained as a radio operator 1st class, and served in that capacity until the end of World War I. Eisenhowers Were Clients
        Soon after the war, she married Seth Low, a banker.
She served for 10 years as director of the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, a post she left 10 years ago.
While working at Random House as a secretary she enrolled at the Juilliard School, but left when the dean refused to let her study with the teacher of her choice, Hans Heinz.
Early in her life she appeared in National Stage Productions on Broadway, and left the stage to marry Abbot J. Copeland.
In 1945, she left the Soviet Union for Germany, where she narrated "The Mills of Death," the first United States Information Agency documentary on the liberation of the concentration camps.
She attended Rostov University and was involved in the literary and artistic ferment in that city until she left in 1922, accompanying the poet Vladislav Khodasevich.
After heading Sydenham Hospital and Martland Hospital, she left the Northeast to serve from 1976 to 1980 as director of hospital and health services at Meharry Medical College in Nashville, a historically black school that has produced many of the nation's black doctors.
She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970.
Christine and Terri left the tour last year to join Korff Enterprises.
Christine and Terri left the tour last year to join Korff Enterprises.
Ms. Sibley went on to work as associate designer for Ellen Tracy until 1980, when she left to work as a display designer and sales representative for Yale Burg, an antiques importing company in Manhattan.
By some accounts she was an astute manager of her assets, and a person familiar with her affairs said that she had left nearly all her estate of more than $1 billion to charity.
She left the staff in 1951 but shared a George Polk Award for foreign reporting with Mr. Bracker the next year for chronicling the repressive regime of Juan Domingo Peron in Argentina.
With the aid of rehabilitative therapy and her own enormous willpower, she recovered sufficiently to continue her career, learning to write with her left hand in the process.
At 18, she left for New York City to join the Radio City Ballet as a soloist.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
"
        At the start of World War II, Miss Loy left Hollywood and did full-time volunteer work, serving for four years as an assistant head of Red Cross welfare activities in New York.
