The first series, ''I Love Lucy,'' was for six years the most successful comedy series on television, never ranking lower than third.
'' Her other films included ''Having Wonderful Time'' (1938), ''Room Service'' (1938), ''The Big Street'' (1942), ''Best Foot Forward'' (1943), the title role in ''Du Barry Was a Lady'' (1943), ''Without Love'' (1945), ''Sorrowful Jones'' (1949) and ''Fancy Pants'' (1950).
''
        In 1950, she and Mr. Arnaz tried to sell the ''I Love Lucy'' television show to CBS.
Premiere in 1951
        ''I Love Lucy'' had its premiere on Oct. 15, 1951, and within a few months millions of Americans tuned in every Monday evening to watch the antics of the Ricardos and their best friends, Fred and Ethel Mertz (William Frawley and Vivian Vance).
''I Love Lucy'' was one of the first shows to be filmed rather than performed live, making it possible to have a high-quality print of each episode for rebroadcast, compared with the poor quality of live-show kinescopes.
Jack Gould of The Times offered this analysis: ''The extraordinary discipline and intuitive understanding of farce gives 'I Love Lucy' its engaging lilt and lift.
It is in the smooth transition from sense to nonsense that 'I Love Lucy' imparts both a warmth and a reality to the slapstick romp that comes as the climax.
''
        Despite the continuing popularity of ''I Love Lucy,'' the couple sought a less demanding schedule and ended the series in 1957 after making 179 episodes.
She performed in more than 4,000 radio dramas, including such long-running shows as ''Easy Aces'' and ''We Love and Learn.
Some of his spunk must have come out in me, because he used to love to perform, too.
''I love applause,'' she once said to an interviewer.
Weston writes seriously, carefully compassionately; she is not interested in the glamorous East or in the boosting of this or that political creed; she writes for those who are emotionally involved in the country and who love it.
''Has anyone ever written a great love letter on a typewriter?
In later years Miss Davis said many times that she saw the divorce as her father's abandonment of his family, and that it left her barren of love for him and preternaturally devoted to her doting mother.
In 1942 she scored again in ''Now, Voyager,'' as Charlotte Vale, a frumpish spinster who blossoms into a confident beauty and finds true love with Paul Henreid.
''
        ''For three years I was solely a wife and mother and Gary fell out of love with me,'' Miss Davis was to say years later.
But I always fell in love.
'' Her finely observed collection of interconnected stories, ''The Company She Keeps,'' would chronicle - in slightly disguised fashion - many of her adventures in these early post-college years, including the breakup of her first marriage, her desultory love affairs and her dabbling in Trotskyite politics.
While she was rehearsing for ''Show Boat,'' Kern and Hammerstein wrote a song for her, ''Why Do I Love You?
She was known for her highly personalized rendition of ''I Can't Give You Anything but Love.
'' (1933), ''The Women'' (1936), ''I Married an Angel'' (1938), ''Banjo Eyes'' (1941), ''Without Love'' (1942), ''The Voice of the Turtle'' (1943) and ''Light Up the Sky'' (1948).
