Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
"We live, we breathe, we experience, we die, we love, we hate, we experience beauty and tragedy, and we find it in the parts we play," she said in a 1984 interview, adding, "Whatever I do, I'm passionate about.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
They include "Yes, Yes, No, No," "Love Gotta Come by Saturday Night" and "The Killing Time.
Miss MacGrath's many other New York successes included roles in "The Enchanted" (1950), "The Potting Shed" (1957), "The Love of Four Colonels" (1959), "Farewell, Farewell Eugene" (1960), "Ghosts" (1961) and "A Tribute to Lili Lamont" (1976).
"No one understood better than Marlene Dietrich how to combine the cool charm of a 'femme fatale' with a passionate woman's love for life," Chancellor Helmut Kohl said in a statement.
Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany.
The Dietrich-von Sternberg collaboration produced "Morocco" (1930), in which Miss Dietrich, again a cabaret singer, spurns and then pursues a French legionnaire (Gary Cooper) in the Sahara; "Dishonored" (1931), about a spy who betrays her country for love of a worthless man (Victor McLaglen), and "Shanghai Express" (1932), a melodrama in which she is a China Coast prostitute who offers herself to a warlord (Warner Oland) to save the life of a former lover (Clive Brook).
Her only substantial role was in the film "Tragedy of Love" (1923).
She also had widely reported love affairs with the writer Erich Maria Remarque and the actors Jean Gabin, Michael Wilding and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. "I've always been attracted to intelligent men," she once said.
"When you perform it's a one-to-one love affair with the people out there," she once said.
Five years later, she made her first recording, "I'm in the Mood for Love," with the Freddie Greene Band.
Her sculpture was influenced by the classical, Renaissance and Baroque works she sketched on trips to Europe, but it was also inspired by her love of dance, particularly the techniques and choreography of Martha Graham.
Why don't you write about the struggle for power and security, and about love, the way others do.
It seems to me that our three basic needs, for food and security and love are so mixed and mingled and entwined that we cannot straightly think of one without the others.
So it happens that when I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and the hunger for it.
So it happens that when I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and the hunger for it.
Why don't you write about the struggle for power and security, and about love, the way others do.
It seems to me that our three basic needs, for food and security and love are so mixed and mingled and entwined that we cannot straightly think of one without the others.
So it happens that when I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and the hunger for it.
So it happens that when I write of hunger, I am really writing about love and the hunger for it, and warmth and the love of it and the hunger for it.
" She said she fell in love with flamenco after seeing a performance by Carmen Amaya, and studied with Mariquita Flores before traveling to Spain for lessons with Regla Ortega and La Kika.
In 1936, she appeared as a narrator called the "Honorable Reader" in the Broadway hit "Lady Precious Stream," a love story set in ancient China.
Her credits included the live television drama "This Thing Called Love" with Ralph Bellamy in 1948; the 1950 Broadway play "Now I Lay Me Down to Sleep" with Fredric March, and the 1954 live television drama "The Wages of Fear," with Louis Jourdan.
She also appeared for eight years in the radio serial "Those We Love," and she wrote and starred in "The Wrens' Nest," one of television's first family comedies, which was broadcast by ABC in 1949.
Friends of the Gertz family founded Concerned Parents for AIDS Research and have raised more than $1 million, and Ms. Gertz's friends hope to carry out her idea for an AIDS care program named Love Heals.
Mrs. Granowitz's unpaid party work was a labor of love.
As a young woman, she scandalized her family by falling in love with a married businessman, Hugh Fenwick.
The daughter of a doctor, she grew up in Brooklyn and learned to love science while attending Erasmus Hall High School there.
"Love and Admiration," a collection of her short stories, was published in 1944.
In comedies and musicals as well as dramas, reviews of her performances resembled love letters.
I love a good critic.
Her stories were noted for refreshingly happy endings in tales of love, both in and outside of marriage.
Her stories were noted for refreshingly happy endings in tales of love, both in and outside of marriage.
"
        "I love this kind of work," she said between meetings with people who held the purse strings to grants for worthy causes.
"It just happened," Miss Holm said of her career in accepting the Scripps Award, "and whatever has happened was with love, dedication, good will, gladly and well.
Mrs. Assante worked for Duke Ellington, and among her better-known compositions were "Goodbye, My Love," "Lonely River" and "Everywhere I Go.
They love you to tell them how great they are, how good they are.
She dares her students to
        act
        , to lift their bodies and their voices, to be larger than themselves, to love language and ideas.
"
        She also appeared in three films: "Love on Toast" (1938), "Shadow of the Thin Man" (1941) and "My Girl Tisa" (1948).
