'' During the 1970's and 80's she made frequent guest appearances as a genial, grandmotherly character on shows like ''The Love Boat,'' ''Three's Company,'' ''St.
Her own favorite album, ''The Man I Love,'' was recorded in 1957 with arrangements by Nelson Riddle and an orchestra conducted by Frank Sinatra.
Miss Lee was married five times, but her great love, she acknowledged, was her first husband and collaborator, Mr. Barbour.
Though he was 22 years her senior, it was love at first sight, according to family lore.
In  ''Haru No Umi,'' a duet choreographed by Mr. Naharin in 1982, Ms. Kajiwara embodied love lost, poignantly eluding her husband onstage.
In the last days of the war, Ewald von Demandowsky, a Nazi film director with whom she was in love, led her out of Berlin.
After a few years in Hollywood, she returned to Germany in 1950 to film ''Sinner,'' the story of a prostitute who falls in love with a painter who is going blind.
Peter Townsend of the Royal Air Force, a Battle of Britain hero with whom she fell in love when he served as an equerry to her father, King George VI.
He later wrote that their love ''took no heed of wealth and rank and all the other worldly, conventional barriers which separated us.
Garland Was Not Amused
        But Princess Margaret's love of fun and informality coexisted with a  sterner side.
This, coupled with an often ill-concealed irritability at official functions and a love of reveling, brought growing public ridicule.
'' Their music together was often intense, but Ms. Scott also recorded plenty of easygoing tracks, often including show tunes and pop covers like the Beatles' ''Can't Buy Me Love.
She thought that the discussion of love was central to sex education, and that spanking could only make the child feel as bad as the angry parent.
'' (Random House, 1986) and ''Grandparents: A Special Kind of Love'' (Macmillan, 1984).
''I used to be a child psychologist and I love children and I kind of miss that part of my life,'' she said in an interview on ''CBS This Morning'' in 1990.
(Amas is a form of the verb ''to love'' in Latin.
Among her most successful books were ''Daniela'' (1953), ''The Scapegoat'' (1954), ''The Middle of Life'' (1950), published as ''Nina'' by Regnery in 1956, ''Mirjam'' (1983) and ''Abelard's Love'' (1991), which was reissued by the University of Nebraska Press in 1996 and remains in print.
In 1953, her love of music led her into a second marriage, to the composer Carl Orff.
All her life she prized a tape recording she had of herself and Frank Sinatra, in a guest appearance on her show, singing ''People Will Say We're in Love.
But in the eyes of a country that never lost its abiding affection for its good-natured ''Queen Mum,'' it was a role she fulfilled with grace, carrying out a grueling schedule of public engagements well into her 90's and never losing her common touch, which included a healthy appetite for a glass or two of gin and a love of horse racing and trout fishing.
Elizabeth and Bertie
        Although history is hazy on facts, several biographers say there was one suitor whom Elizabeth was genuinely in love with: Maj. James Stuart, the equerry to Prince Albert Frederick Arthur George, the Duke of York and King George V's second son.
''It brought him much for which he had long craved in deprivation -- love, understanding, sympathy, support,'' he said.
''
        Edward and Mrs. Simpson
        The coziness of their early years was abruptly shattered in 1936, when King Edward VIII, as Bertie's older brother styled himself on ascending the throne, announced that he had fallen inconveniently in love with the very married Wallis Simpson, an American whose earlier divorce from her first husband had already ruled her out as a possible royal bride.
''
        Another Divorce Crisis
        Soon afterward, another crisis befell the monarchy when Princess Margaret, the queen mother's younger daughter, fell in love with a divorced man, Peter Townsend, a hero of the Battle of Britain.
Last year she and Mr. Scofield appeared in London in Carol Rocamora's play ''I Take Your Hand in Mine,'' based on the love letters of Chekhov and his wife, Olga Knipper.
Her career, which spanned almost 60 years, was filled with honors (Tonys, Obies, Evening Standard awards as well as an honorary commander of the British Empire) and love letters from admiring critics and fellow actors.
The occupying general, who falls in love with her, was played by Pedro Armendáriz, a dashing Mexican star.
Mr. Lara was only one of dozens of eminent men who fell in love with Ms. Félix, some ridiculously.
Starting in 1948 Ms. Félix began a love affair with Europe, filming six straight films in Spain, France and Italy, and a seventh in Argentina.

        Dorothy Love Coates, a gospel singer whose gruff delivery and blazing theatrics made her one of the giants of the genre, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived most of her life.
''
        The Harmonettes broke up in 1970, though Ms. Coates continued to perform with the Dorothy Love Coates Singers, featuring her sister Lillian and other singers from Birmingham.
Her first marriage, to Willie Love of the Fairfield Four, ended in divorce.
''I love you and I will watch over all of you with love,'' it read in part, and she signed each one individually.
''I love you and I will watch over all of you with love,'' it read in part, and she signed each one individually.

        Zypora Spaisman, who did everything to keep Yiddish theater alive, from producing plays to selling tickets to sweeping floors to her great love, acting (including not a few Jewish-mother roles), died on May 18 in Manhattan.
''
        In 1989, Mrs. Spaisman appeared in the movie ''Enemies: A Love Story,'' directed by Paul Mazursky and starring Anjelica Huston and Ron Silver.
Most recently, Ms. Gould published a critically praised memoir, ''Mommy Dressing: A Love Story, After a Fashion'' (Anchor/Doubleday, 1998), a cleareyed recollection of life with her glamorous, remote mother, the fashion designer Jo Copeland.
''I love reading and I love reviewing,'' Mrs. Sutherland once said in an interview.
''I love reading and I love reviewing,'' Mrs. Sutherland once said in an interview.
Of all the stories about jazz musicians who cannot quite handle worldly matters and the companions who manage their lives, the long love affair of Thelonious and Nellie Monk may be the most famous.
On May 28, 1959, during a matinee of ''Destry Rides Again,'' opposite Andy Griffith at the Imperial Theater, the stage curtain caught fire as Ms. Gray sang a love song, ''Anyone Would Love You.
On May 28, 1959, during a matinee of ''Destry Rides Again,'' opposite Andy Griffith at the Imperial Theater, the stage curtain caught fire as Ms. Gray sang a love song, ''Anyone Would Love You.

        Caroline Knapp, a writer and columnist whose memoir ''Drinking: A Love Story'' vividly chronicled her struggle to overcome alcoholism, died yesterday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass.
In ''Drinking'' Ms. Knapp characterized her addiction as a bad love affair.
''I am in love with my dog,'' she wrote near the beginning of ''Pack of Two: The Intricate Bond Between People and Dogs'' (Dial Press, 1998).
But we all learn about love in different ways, and this way happens to be mine.
Her ''Out There'' column, in which she often wrote about the travails in life and love of a semifictional 30-something single woman named Alice K. -- ''not her real initial'' -- was one of the paper's most popular features and won her an Alternative Newsweekly Award in 1996.
She fell in love with Dante DiPaolo, a dancer at Paramount studios, but jilted him to marry Mr. Ferrer in 1953 and to make more movies, including ''White Christmas'' in 1954 with Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye and Vera-Ellen.
''
        Ms. Lutyens had a costume shop in New York, where she helped create costumes for several Ballet Theater productions, among them Antony Tudor's ''Dim Luster'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Fancy Free,'' working with Motley, the British design team, and designers who included Kermit Love and Miles White.
''I could do it for 60 years because I'd rather look at art than anything else,'' Ms. Genauer said of art criticism in 1992, ''because I love the art world and because every day was different than every other.
''I could do it for 60 years because I'd rather look at art than anything else,'' Ms. Genauer said of art criticism in 1992, ''because I love the art world and because every day was different than every other.
In Ms. Cleary's memoir, ''My Own Two Feet,'' she wrote how in 1941 Ms. Hawkins hired her to work during the Christmas rush at Sather Gate Book Shop in Berkeley, Calif. She described Ms. Hawkins, then the manager of children's books at the store, as ''a rapid, omnivorous reader with a retentive memory, a love of books and a passion for persuading others to read them.
Keith Robinson said he had always heard it was love at first sight, though the two were not married until 1937.
''Audiences are not used to seeing characters like Hannah or Sophie, who are not trying to get us to fall in love with them.
But why do we always have to fall in love with our leading ladies?
'' She said: ''I actually love getting older.
School trips to the Old Vic, and in particular to John Gielgud's performance as Hamlet, bred in her a love of the theater and she won a coveted scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.
''The Age of Love,'' about the frustrated loves of a famous singer and a millionaire, directed by Julio Saraceni in 1954, was perhaps her biggest movie hit abroad.
Her last book, in 1994, was ''Late Love: A Celebration of Marriage After 50,'' (Peter Davison/Houghton Mifflin).
Running is not something I love, but I like excelling at things that I am good at.
She did not like the cold of Massachusetts and felt homesick and ''half in love.
