A few days before the performance the three dancers gave Graham a costly carnelian necklace inscribed ''To Miss Martha with Love.
''It was great to be with someone who just poured out love to me.
The first, ''American Girl'' (Random House, 1992), was a love letter to Bristol.
''
        Ms. Kenner-Jackson usually sang harmonies during the Shirelles' heyday, but she did take the lead on the group's passionate version of the Five Royales' song, ''Dedicated to the One I Love.
Discovering a shared love of food, the two self-taught cooks baked  cakes for doctors, some of whom became their backers.
Though piano was her first love and she played solo recitals in the United States and abroad, Ms. Harris gained the most prominence as a conductor.
Other Sokolow choreography was preserved by the director Shirley Clarke (Martha Clarke's aunt) in two 1957 films, ''Bullfight'' and ''A Moment in Love.
Nevertheless, ''Poem'' aroused controversy when it was presented in Mexico City in 1956 because an all-male episode  that could be interpreted as a depiction of homosexual love was denounced as pornographic by some theatergoers.
But I love dance more than I love you.
But I love dance more than I love you.
''When I was 12, I fell in love with the theater and knew then what I wanted to do.
Irons was romantically involved at the time with Olive Rinder, who soon also fell in love with Sackville-West.
Irons met and fell in love with another woman, Joy McSweeney.
The love poems dated 1931 in Vita Sackville-West's ''Collected Poems'' are addressed to Ms.
In 1995, with difficult custody decisions being complicated by AIDS, and by relatives who had taken in the children, grown to love them and become unwilling to give them up without a fight, Judge McDonald said: ''A lot of the custody cases in the last few years have been families fighting each other.
He added that his tale of rabbits ''was not written for adults, who will not understand it because it is only about a soft, furry love and has no hidden messages of hate.
Ms. Fitzgerald was the author of the 1995 novel ''The Blue Flower'' about the German poet Novalis and his hapless love for a 12-year-old girl.
''If you do what you love, you'll succeed.
The love of her life were the students she helped to understand science.
''
        One of the 150 charter members of the American Federation of Radio Artists, Ms. Trent also took the lead on ''We Love and Learn,'' ''Stella Dallas,'' ''Aunt Jenny'' and ''David Harum,'' and performed on shows like ''The Martha Raye Show,'' ''The Ed Sullivan Show''and Joe Franklin's ''Memory Lane.
''
        It turned out that love was the healthiest food of all.
      

        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
One agent, George Millar, recalled in his autobiography, ''Road to Resistance,''( Little, Brown, 1980), how she had reacted to his falling in love -- again.
Starting in the 1930's, she amassed a collection of about 2,000 songs -- love ballads, lullabies, songs of the factories and streets -- still considered unparalleled in its scope.
But I love people.
Michael Scott, an Anglican priest who championed Namibian independence and with whom she fell in love.
Her espionage work was entwined with her romantic life, which included an affair with one of her spy chiefs; later she married a British Communist to become a British citizen and only later came to love him.
authorized a marriage of convenience by which Ms. Werner became British, but the love came to be mutual -- the marriage lasted until his death three years ago.
Mousies what I love to eat.
''She championed the idea that love and a safe, permanent home could transcend differences of nationality, race and ethnic background,'' Hillary Rodham Clinton said in a statement after Mrs. Holt's death.
They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service.
Ms. Colquhoun, who was born in London, also handled casting for the movies ''Glory,'' ''Sea of Love'' and ''A Shock to the System.
One guest was Michael Hutchence, the lead singer of the band INXS, and the two fell madly in love.
Her film credits also included  ''Penny Serenade,'' with Cary Grant and Irene Dunne; ''Here Come the Waves,'' with Bing Crosby and Betty Hutton; ''The Strange Love of Martha Ivers,'' with Barbara Stanwyck and Van Heflin; ''My Favorite Brunette,'' with Bob Hope and Dorothy Lamour; and ''No Sad Songs for Me,'' with Margaret Sullavan.
When she met and fell in love with the vibraphonist and composer Gunter Hampel in 1967, she began 20 years of collaborations with him in different jazz-related forms.
Despite her love of Paris, Biala never gave up her United States citizenship.
''
        Ms. Verdon's fourth Broadway show was ''New Girl in Town,'' based on O'Neill's bleak tale about a waterfront prostitute's redemption through love.
Born in Bakersfield, Calif., and orphaned as a teenager, Ms. Hunter (who took the name Wolf after marrying Herman Wolf in 1955) discovered her love of the theater while a student at the Hollywood School for Girls.
''Grass-roots organizing is like climbing into bed with a malaria patient in order to show how much you love him or her, then catching malaria yourself,'' she wrote.
