Her films included ''Doctor in Love,'' ''The French Mistress'' and ''The Belles of St.
''
        She became well-known in Britain for appearances in television shows including ''Hancock's Half Hour,'' ''You Must Be Joking,'' ''For the Love of Ada'' and, most recently, ''Never Say Die.
''I love people, to a certain extent,'' she told Newsweek in 1969.
I have the blooms, and when the blooms are gone, I love to watch the green.
The soprano, who is black, said she came to South Africa to bring ''a message of love and to spread goodwill.
''Everybody is so much more sophisticated, and so-called opinion makers are embarrassed by an old-fashioned love story, while young novelists want to write about their identity problems in an impersonal world,'' she said in an interview in The New York Times.
''Times and values have changed, but I still think many women would be happy with an old-fashioned love story.
A 'Love Goddess' Emerges
        Beginning in 1941, Miss Hayworth rapidly developed into one of Hollywood's most glamorous stars, inspiring Winthrop Sargent, a Life magazine writer, to dub her ''The Great American Love Goddess,'' a sobriquet that she welcomed and that caught the public's fancy.
Miss Hayworth had met and fallen in love with Prince Aly Khan and, since neither was divorced at the time, their travels together through Europe provoked some public indignation.
In 1971, she published her memoirs, ''Many Lives, One Love,'' which chronicled her love of books.
In 1971, she published her memoirs, ''Many Lives, One Love,'' which chronicled her love of books.
''
        Among her other movie roles were ''I Give My Love,'' ''The Captain Hates the Sea,'' ''Her Bodyguard'' and ''The Crime of the Century.
Born in Kirksville, Mo., on Nov. 22, 1924, Miss Page grew up in Chicago and later traced her love of acting to plays that she had done with a church youth group.
Her off-screen life was more tempestuous than any role she ever played and, although she often insisted that she wished only to be left alone, she could shrewdly maneuver her love affairs and feuds into avalanches of personal publicity.
Her Greatest Love
        According to Miss Negri, the greatest love of her life was Rudolph Valentino.
Her Greatest Love
        According to Miss Negri, the greatest love of her life was Rudolph Valentino.
For example, he often wept because he was losing his hair, and sometimes the sex symbol of American women preferred making spaghetti for Miss Negri to making love to her.
''
        Hitler, who was said to be so fond of her German-made movie about mother love, ''Mazurka,'' that he had it run weekly so he could have a good cry, personally overruled Goebbels.
Her best-known novel, ''Greenwillow'' (1956), was described by a critic as ''a deeply moving, gently humorous and serenely wise'' story of young love and self-discovery.
He ordered her to accompany him to the Waldorf's lobby, where he said, ''You are the great love of my life, and some day I'm going to marry you.
Miss Suesse, who also wrote ''Whistling in the Dark,'' ''My Silent Love'' and ''Blue Moonlight,'' achieved widespread fame in 1932 when the orchestra leader Paul Whiteman commissioned her to write a jazz concerto for piano and orchestra.
