She soon had an opportunity to indulge her love of travel: Huxley, a grandson of the humanist Thomas Henry Huxley and a cousin of Aldous, the author, was appointed head of the Ceylon Tea Propaganda Board, a job that required him to travel around the world, encouraging people to drink tea.
That's the only hope for American music -- that audiences will love it.
''Oh, no,'' the friend said, ''you'll love him,'' and she did.
There she met the Italian industrialist Gianni Agnelli and fell in love, and during their five-year romance provided him with connections in England and America.
A native of Liverpool, England, whose father came to the United States when she was 2, Mrs. Gibson, grew up in New Dorp, S. I., in a house whose spacious, English-style garden appealed to her mother and gave Mrs. Gibson a lifelong love of flowers.
'' In it, she reported that her last words to her husband, as she pumped painkillers into his arm while he slashed his wrists, were, ''I love you: Please die.
Ms. Baker was a mainstay of the Atlantic Records roster of the mid-1950's, applying the fervor of gospel and the bluesy power of Bessie Smith to songs about love and lust like ''Tweedlee Dee.
Ms. Botwin's book ''The Love Crisis: Hit and Run Lovers, Jugglers, Sexual Stingies, Kinkies and Other Typical Men Today'' has been described as a field guide for dealing with the contemporary male and was the precursor to such 1990's best sellers as ''Men Are From Mars, Women Are From Venus.
On radio and television, Ms. Carpenter appeared with Eddie Cantor and Ed Sullivan, was a co-star of the ABC television series ''Barefoot in the Park'' and made guest appearances in everything from ''The Love boat'' to ''The Cosby Show.
''
        But Mrs. Monroe's love of flying resulted in an accident in 1978 that contributed to her death 19 years later.
After moving to New York City, she pursued her love of the arts.
Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations.
She broadened her scope considerably after Randolph Churchill gave a speech in Cleveland in 1931 and fell in love with her.
In 1968, Pope Paul VI praised her as an ''intrepid messenger of the love of Christ.
Her centers in the United States included the Gift of Love Hospice for 15 men with AIDS, at 657 Washington Street, in Greenwich Village.
They ''don't need pity, they need love and compassion,'' she once said, adding, ''If you don't know them, you don't love them and don't serve them.
They ''don't need pity, they need love and compassion,'' she once said, adding, ''If you don't know them, you don't love them and don't serve them.
''
        ''I didn't want to hurt him,'' she said, ''but I didn't know how to explain to him that our services are purely for the love of God and that we cannot accept maintenance.
Give them, through our hands
        This day their daily bread,
        And by our understanding love,
        Give peace and joy.
Her love for the writings of Chekhov led her to study Russian, after which she translated not only Chekhov but works by Tolstoy and Dostoyevsky.
Ms. Clausen's career began in the 1940's when she rode atop elephants for the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, providing the material for her memoir, ''I Love You Honey, but the Season's Over.
Barbara, whose real name was Monique Serf, began her career in the 1950's performing songs by Brel and Brassens, but she made her name in the 1960's with her own songs, songs that remain popular to this day, among them ''L'Aigle Noir'' (''Black Eagle''), ''Ma plus belle histoire d'amour, c'est vous'' (''You are my most beautiful love story''), ''Il Pleut sur Nantes'' (''It's Raining in Nantes'') and ''Gottingen.
In fact, Ms. Henry was city-bred and came to her love of animals and nature as an adult.
Ms. Goode and Gertrude Mackenzie produced ''My Love Affair With the State of Maine'' (1955), an account of a New Yorker's -- Ms. Mackenzie's -- magical affair with Goose Rocks Bay in Maine.
Her son Gilbert said that the two met at business meetings and that the friendship evolved into a love match.
All it takes is $6.98 and a lot of love.
The author of more than 30 books of poetry, essays and translations, she wrote with great particularity and sensitivity about aspects of love, spiritual as well as erotic.
He did say, however, that ''Almost Like Being in Love'' was ''sung rapturously'' by David Brooks and Ms. Bell.
When she opened in ''The Love Call'' later that year, a Times reviewer who then styled himself J. Brooks Atkinson called her ''the miniature Charlotte Greenwood,'' and said she ''managed to be amusing in pantomime.
She appeared in such movies as ''Their Big Moment'' (1934), ''Manhattan Merry-Go-Round'' (1937) and ''Orchestra Wives'' (1942), and she choreographed the dances in ''Specter of the Rose'' (1946), Ben Hecht's film about a ballerina who falls in love with an insane dancer.
