I made everything with love, affection and excitement.
Her outstanding roles included a card-sharp and pseudo-British socialite who dupes a naive scientist (Henry Fonda) in ''The Lady Eve'' (1941), a manipulative reporter redeemed by an idealist (Gary Cooper) in ''Meet John Doe'' (1941), a millionaire haunted by a childhood murder in ''The Strange Love of Martha Ivers'' (1946) and a shrewd stockholder in ''Executive Suite'' (1954).
Her first important movie role was classic Stanwyck - a shallow adventuress redeemed by love in a 1930 melodrama, ''Ladies of Leisure,'' directed by a youthful Frank Capra.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
Her outstanding roles included a card-sharp and pseudo-British socialite who dupes a naive scientist (Henry Fonda) in ''The Lady Eve'' (1941), a manipulative reporter redeemed by an idealist (Gary Cooper) in ''Meet John Doe'' (1941), a millionaire haunted by a childhood murder in ''The Strange Love of Martha Ivers'' (1946) and a shrewd stockholder in ''Executive Suite'' (1954).
Her first important movie role was classic Stanwyck - a shallow adventuress redeemed by love in a 1930 melodrama, ''Ladies of Leisure,'' directed by a youthful Frank Capra.
In 1981 she said of her second divorce:
        ''Losing somebody you love by death or divorce is hard.
The 69-year-old Mr. Rooney, upon learning of her death, said yesterday, ''My heart is broken with the loss of my first love.
In a 1986 book, ''His Way: The Unauthorized Biography of Frank Sinatra,'' Kitty Kelley attributed the following quotation to the actress:
        ''You start with love, or what you think is love, and then comes the work.
In a 1986 book, ''His Way: The Unauthorized Biography of Frank Sinatra,'' Kitty Kelley attributed the following quotation to the actress:
        ''You start with love, or what you think is love, and then comes the work.
''
        In the 1950's, the actress was deeply in love with Spain, bullfighting and, reportedly, a succession of bullfighters.
Miss Gambarelli then went to Hollywood to perform in ballets and in three films: ''Here's to Romance,'' ''Hooray for Love'' and ''Santa Barbara Fiesta.
''During my time, even if I danced in movie theaters, I made people, the everyday American public, love the dance,'' Miss Gambarelli said in 1988.
Among Miss Wallace's films, most of which were made in the 1940's and 1950's, were ''You Can't Ration Love,'' ''Song of India,'' ''Maracaibo'' and ''Lancelot and Guinevere.
She also wrote ''The Dance of Love,'' published in 1980, and the recent ''Still Dancing with Love,'' a journal of her work with Meher Baba.
      
She also wrote ''The Dance of Love,'' published in 1980, and the recent ''Still Dancing with Love,'' a journal of her work with Meher Baba.
      
When The Times endorsed Eisenhower in 1952, Mrs. Sulzberger told her husband she would vote for the general ''out of love for you and loyalty to The Times.
None knew thee but to love thee,
        Nor named thee but to praise.
The couple fell in love during Mr. Sulzberger's visits to the Ochs home on Lake George, but Mr. Sulzberger was obliged to propose twice before he was accepted - the successful occasion taking place, as she recalled with a twinkle, ''on the grounds of the local lunatic asylum'' in Spartanburg, S.C.

       Rosamond Lehmann, whose novels of love, betrayal and family rivalries were critically acclaimed, died in her home here on Monday, her family announced today.
Rosamond Lehmann, whose novels of love, betrayal and family rivalries were critically acclaimed, died in her home here on Monday, her family announced today.
The book was written after the bitter breakup of Miss Lehmann's love affair with the poet Cecil Day Lewis, and critics said it carried clear traces of that time in her life.
''She was proud of her heritage and totally dedicated to the vision of Jesus Christ for love and growth of all people.
She wrote 21 novels, including ''Thou Shalt Not Love,'' ''The Flat Tire'' and ''Dimpled Racketeer.
She invariably played a disillusioned woman of the world who falls hopelessly and giddily in love.
Speculations About Her Escorts
        Her presumed love affairs - she was never known to have married - were the subject of voluminous gossip and speculation.
Their love scenes, peppered with suggestive gestures and language, were electrifying.
Off screen, there were continuing rumors of a Garbo-Gilbert love affair, with photographers invariably dogging them.
''
        The Legend of Gosta Berling
        1924
        The Street of Sorrow
        1925
        Flesh and the Devil
        1927
        Love
        1927
        A Woman of Affairs
        1929
        Anna Christie
        1930
        Susan Lenox, Her Fall and Rise
        1931
        Mata Hari
        1931
        Grand Hotel
        1932
        As You Desire Me
        1932
        Queen Christina
        1933
        The Painted Veil
        1934
        Anna Karenina
        1935
        Camille
        1936
        Conquest
        1937
        Ninotchka
        1939
        Two Faced Woman
        1942
      
''Sam really fell in love with my writing,'' Mrs. Spewack said at the time of her husband's death.
They included ''Stout-Hearted Seven,'' ''The Magic Ring,'' ''Secret Friend,'' ''My Love Is a Gypsy'' and ''Little Rhody.
Her mother disapproved of her first love, Rupert Leon, a London commodities clerk, and they married in secret.
As seen through the eyes of a teen-age boy, the May-December relationship develops from a marriage of convenience to one of deep love and trust.
From the 1940's through the 1960's Miss Seegar appeared in American plays including ''At War With the Army'' with Gary Merrill, directed by Mr. Stone on Broadway in 1949, and Sheridan's ''School for Scandal'' with Patricia Neal in 1953 and ''Ernest in Love,'' a musical based on Oscar Wilde's ''The Importance of Being Earnest'' in 1960, both off Broadway.
Once President Nixon invited her to the White House and asked her to become his ''ambassador of love.
''I love people; they can have everything I've got,'' she said.
Once President Richard M. Nixon invited her to the White House and asked her to become his ''ambassador of love.
''I love people; they can have everything I've got,'' she said.
''Pearl was love, pure and simple love,'' Cab Calloway said.
''Pearl was love, pure and simple love,'' Cab Calloway said.
She was a person of love.
She believed 'show business' was 'show love.
MAGNOLIA, MAMA AND MRS. ANNA
        These are among the more than 40 films made by Irene Dunne during her 22-year film career:
        Cimarron (1931)
        Ann Vickers (1933)
        Roberta (1935)
        Magnificent Obsession (1935)
        Show Boat (1936)
        Theodora Goes Wild (1936)
        The Awful Truth (1937)
        Love Affair (1939)
        My Favorite Wife (1940)
        A Guy Named Joe (1943)
        The White Cliffs of Dover (1944)
        Anna and the King of Siam (1946)
        Life With Father (1947)
        I Remember Mama (1948)
        The Mudlark (1950)
      
She also acted in ''The Day of the Jackal'' (1973), ''A Doll's House'' (1973), ''The Black Windmill'' (1974) and ''I Sent a Letter to My Love'' (1981).
She also worked with Ms. Ford and her sister Anne on "How to Love the Car in Your Life" (Ford Motor Company, 1972).
It was in 1929, when she appeared under her original name, Eunice Quedens, in "The Song of Love"; it was not in 1937.
      
"
        In 1964 she returned to Broadway, stepping into Meredith Willson's musical "Here's Love.
As Elia Kazan, who directed her in her first Broadway starring role in "One Touch of Venus," said in his autobiography, she was "full of the love of being loved.
She shouted the first line, "I'd like to renew my subscription" (meaning she would like to continue having a love affair).
Under contract to Paramount, she appeared in a series of forgettable roles in forgettable films, including "The Great Victor Herbert," "Rhythm on the River," "Love Thy Neighbor," "New York Town," "Birth of the Blues," "Kiss the Boys Goodbye," "Happy Go Lucky" and "True to Life.
Nellie Forbush, singing "Cockeyed Optimist," "Honey Bun," "I'm Gonna Wash That Man Right Out-a My Hair" and, especially, "I'm in Love With a Wonderful Guy," became one of her greatest successes.
The colorful types had a passionate love for the business, not just for the money.
" She recently completed filming "Love in Venice" and "The Linguine Incident.
But their love for music -- he played violin, viola and cello, she played the piano -- and a desire to foster creativity eventually led them to use the farm for a youth summer camp that combines arts and farming, from jazz and drama to sheep shearing.
