She charmed the public in Sir Frederick's "Ondine" (1958), which concerned a water spirit in love with a mortal, and she singled out the work as "my happiest ballet.
In 1962, she was cast as the plain, erudite secretary hopelessly in love with Jethro in "The Beverly Hillbillies.
"
        She appeared with Spencer Tracy, Myrna Loy and Clark Gable in "Test Pilot" in 1938, with Rosalind Russell and Melvyn Douglas in "This Thing Called Love" in 1941 and with Tyrone Power in "The Eddie Duchin Story" in 1956.
Their most enduring achievement is "Frankie and Johnny," which was inspired by a bawdy old ballad about love and betrayal.
Miss Schafer also appeared on television in such shows as "I Love Lucy," "Topper," "Route 66," "77 Sunset Strip" and "The Beverly Hillbillies.
And besides, there's a feeling of love for us because we've made it.
And besides, there's a feeling of love for us because we've made it.
Proceeds will be given to the relief organizations God's Love We Deliver, City Harvest, Manos Unidas and Save the Children.
"
        A 1989 biography of Paul Robeson by Martin Bauml Duberman revealed that Dame Peggy and the actor had had an affair during the run of "Othello," and quoted her as saying, "How could one not fall in love in such a situation with such a man?
"Then it was, 'I love theater.
"Then it was, 'I love theater.

        Miss Southern's recordings include "You Better Go Now," "When I Fall in Love," "An Occasional Man" and "Fire Down Below," which she sang in the Rita Hayworth film of the same name in 1957.
" For the film "Knock on Wood" (1954), she wrote "All About You," which Cole Porter called "a perfect love song.
"My Son's Story," published in 1990, describes "love in an insupportable society, the complications and obstacles inherent in the path to change," the academy said.
"
        Ms. Lilly's often provocatively titled books included "How to Make Love in Five Languages" (Bobbs-Merrill, 1965), "Glamor Girl" (Woodhill, 1977, with Robin Moore as co-author) and "Those Fabulous Greeks: Onassis, Niarchos and Livanos (Cowles, 1970).
In that film, a detective (Dana Andrews) falls in love with the portrait of a woman he believes has been murdered.
In 1925 she took up portrait photography as a means of earning a living, but quickly discovered her love and aptitude for the work.
