Her heroines -- intelligent and successful but also riddled with self-doubt -- sought enduring love a little ambivalently, but they didn't always find it, and their hard-earned sense of self-worth was often shadowed by the frustrating knowledge that American women's lives continued to be measured by their success at capturing the right man.
In 1998, seeking to help instill her love for theater in a new generation of New Yorkers, she personally instigated a program to bring smart, underprivileged students from New York's public high schools to the theater.
She thinks he was in love with her, but is pretty sure the feeling was not reciprocated.
With their young children, they explored the country and began a lifelong love of Italian culture, especially its food.
Tennessee Williams had written a play called ''The Rose Tattoo,'' and he wanted the renowned Italian actress Anna Magnani to play the lead role, that of Serafina Delle Rose, an earthy Sicilian-American widow looking for love.
''You love the game and you love to teach the game, which she did very well,'' Summitt said.
''You love the game and you love to teach the game, which she did very well,'' Summitt said.
Her single-mindedness in devoting her ''prime'' to her students has consequences for every life she touches, from the men who love her to the student who is the author of her undoing.
Mr. Allen, whom she married, produced two of her plays, ''Tru'' and ''The Big Love''; he died in 2003.
I sang about love.
Their closeness was apparent to anyone who observed them onstage at Symphony Hall in Boston in November during the ovations for ''Neruda Songs,'' Mr. Lieberson's setting of five Spanish sonnets by Pablo Neruda, each a reflection of a different aspect of love.
She fell in love with the married movie star Dick Powell.
I love to speak the language, but I'm only going for professional reasons.
In her own case, she said, she was torn originally between her love for Balanchine's works and the greater applause and cheers she received when dancing as a guest with other companies.
''
        Those who saw her in ''Illuminations,'' Ashton's meditation on the poet Arthur Rimbaud, will hardly forget her as Profane Love, one foot bare and one in a toeshoe as a turbulent allegorical figure.
Ms. Shamash was born in Manhattan and maintained a love for the city's waterfront and for the Hudson Valley that motivated much of the work of Minetta Brook, named after a stream that once ran through what is now Greenwich Village.
''By being in love,'' he replied.
Never married, she fell in love with one of her subjects, the Greek poet and activist Alekos Panagoulis, who was convicted of trying to assassinate Greece's military ruler, George Papadapoulos, in 1967.
She did find love on the battlefield.
Their daughter said neither knew much of the other's language, but shared what her mother called ''the language of love.
Mr. Levine said when he asked Ms. Varnay late in her career why she still undertook small roles like Mamma Lucia in Mascagni's ''Cavalleria Rusticana,'' she told him, '' 'I just love being on stage, seeing up close the work of my younger colleagues.
Written when Ms. Daly was a teenager and published while she was still in college, ''Seventeenth Summer'' told the story of Angie and Jack, two teenagers who fall in love during one enchanted summer in a Wisconsin lakeside town.
Among her many other books are the young-adult novels ''Acts of Love'' (1986) and ''First a Dream'' (1990), both published by Scholastic, and ''Mention My Name in Mombasa: The Unscheduled Adventures of an American Family Abroad'' (Dodd, Mead, 1958), a travel memoir written with her husband, William P. McGivern, a well-known crime novelist.
''
        ''I was so wildly and vividly happy about love and life at a particular time in my existence,'' she said.

        Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles.
''
        Correction:  October 6, 2006, Friday  An obituary on Tuesday about Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the missionary who falls in love with a gambler in the Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' misstated the name of the organization she represented.
She stirred together patter song and madrigal, paternal stubbornness and young love, class snobbery and babes switched at birth and led her star-crossed heroine, Pneumonia Vanderfeller, to happiness and ever-greater wealth.
Her Broadway credits included ''Night Music'' (1940), by Clifford Odets, a Group Theater production directed by Harold Clurman, in which she played a young woman who finds the love of her life in New York; and ''Hope for the Best'' (1945), by William McCleery, with Ms. Wyatt as a factory worker who helps a popular columnist (Franchot Tone) see the light of liberalism.
The High Lama is looking for a successor, Sondra is looking for love, and the Colman character must choose whether to stay or return to the war-torn world beyond the mountains.

        Petra Cabot, whose first and deepest love was painting but whose most famous work was an insulated pail covered with plaid, the ubiquitous Skotch Kooler of the 1950s, died on Oct. 13 at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 99.

        Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29.
''Now I love it, because so many people liked it.

        Bettye Ackerman, an actress best known for her role as Dr. Maggie Graham, Vince Edwards's love interest in the television drama ''Ben Casey,'' died on Nov. 1 at her home in Columbia, S.C. She was 82.
''
        Through the years they worked with composers like Leonard Bernstein, Cy Coleman, Jule Styne and André Previn, creating songs like ''New York, New York,'' ''The Party's Over,'' ''It's Love'' and ''Some Other Time.
''
        That 1956 musical reunited them with Ms. Holliday, who headed the cast as an operator at an answering service who falls in love with one of the service's male clients (Sydney Chaplin) after listening to his voice over her telephone line.
The youngest of six children, Ms. Castanis, born Muriel Brunner, grew up in Greenwich Village and discovered her love for art at Greenwich House, the settlement house where she would go to escape her family's hectic, crowded cold-water apartment.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
