Her grandfather, Sam Bryant, a onetime gardener at Buckingham Palace, had no known theatrical inclinations until he fell in love with a young Gilbert and Sullivan actress named Violet Chapman, who had inclinations enough for both of them.
At the age of 5 months she appeared in her mother's vaudeville act, and at 3 she made her first public singing appearance when Paul Whiteman, in whose band her father used to play, stood her on a piano while she sang ''I Never Knew I Could Love Anybody'' at the Palais Royale in Times Square.
But don't go thinking I don't love the South.
By then she had fallen in love with one of George's poker cronies, Leopold Godowsky Jr., the son of the celebrated Austrian pianist.
Her other works were  ''Phaedra's Love,'' an adaptation of Seneca, produced at the Gate in 1996,  and ''Crave,'' which opened at last year's Fringe Festival in Edinburgh before moving on to the Royal Court.
One classed her tormented visions as ''the bleached language of truth and poetry'' depicting a world in which love and violence are intertwined.
You can't have faith without doubt, and what are you left with when you can't have love without hate?
As Esther Sherman in Petoskey, Mich., the future Ragini Devi was already in love with Indian dance when she met Ramlal Bajpai in Minneapolis.
Miss Murdoch's first novel was published in 1954 and in a career that lasted for more than four decades, her fiction received many honors, including the Booker Prize for ''The Sea, the Sea,'' the Whitbread Literary Award for Fiction for ''The Sacred and Profane Love Machine'' and the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for ''The Black Prince.
In interviews she remembered that as a child she had existed ''in a perfect trinity of love.
Revisiting Themes Of Pure Love
        The double-edged nature of love figures often in Miss Murdoch's fiction.
Revisiting Themes Of Pure Love
        The double-edged nature of love figures often in Miss Murdoch's fiction.
True love, she asserted in the essay ''The Sublime and the Good,'' was perhaps the best way to overcome isolation and the absorption with one's crippled and constricted self.
Many of the figures in her fourth novel, ''The Bell'' (1958), are crippled by their inability to clearly see, and thus to truly love, those around them.
''The Bell'' reached a new level of sophistication for Miss Murdoch, displaying elements that would  become hallmarks of her fiction: effortless shifting between the grim and the humorous; deft marshaling of a large, varied cast of characters and numerous subplots, and creation of fables or myths that could suggest the struggle between true and diminished forms of love.
In ''The Sacred and Profane Love Machine'' (1974), the only character who comes close to true altruism is destroyed.
Its protagonist, a retired theatrical director trying to win back his first love, is not so much evil as simply self-absorbed and dangerously certain of his limited view of the world.
''Italian Girl'' traces the struggle of a young man to liberate himself from the corrosive effects of family secrets and a shallow, destructive image of love.
Her fiction takes a distinctive vigor and texture from its combination of the usual elements of a tale with a sustained, sophisticated inquiry into such concepts as the defining characteristics of goodness, the nature of morality, the place of faith in everyday life and the conflict between spiritual and carnal love.
Harold Bloom, while praising her ''formidable combination of intellectual drive and storytelling exuberance'' in a review of her novel ''The Good Apprentice'' in The Times, and noting her ''mastery'' in ''representing the maelstrom of falling in love,'' also found that her narrative voice often lacked authority, ''being too qualified and fussy.
John Bayley fell in love with Iris Murdoch when he was in his late 20's and she was in her early 30's; she passed his window on a bicycle.
From the beginning, she had friendships that she kept from Bayley, and love affairs that he was meant to understand had nothing to do with him.
If ''Elegy for Iris'' offers a moving evocation of a great love story, it also provides a grim record of watching the personality of a loved one gradually dwindle under the burden of fear, bafflement and grief.
Over the next few years, Miss Bloch worked on Rivera's controversial mural at the Detroit Institute of Art and on the Rockefeller Center project, along the way falling in love with the artist's chief plasterer, Stephen P. Dimitroff, a young Bulgarian immigrant, and immortalizing their romance in lyrical passages in her diary, which a granddaughter, Lucienne Allen, plans to use as the basis for a book.
Ms. Springfield had one of the longest recording careers of any contemporary pop star, beginning in 1961 when she had the first of several hits with her folk-pop trio, the Springfields, and ending with her 1995 album, ''A Very Fine Love.
Ms. Springfield became an international pop star in 1964 with ''I Only Want to Be With You,'' a perky early-Beatles-style love song.
Other major 60's hits included ''Wishin' and Hopin' '' (1964), and ''The Look of Love'' (1967), both written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, the team that supplied Ms. Warwick with most of her early hits.
Ms. Springfield's sultry rendition of ''The Look of Love,'' from the soundtrack of ''Casino Royale,'' anticipated the heavy-breathing eroticism of Donna Summer a decade later.
Her best seller, ''You Don't Have to Say You Love Me'' (1966), was a big-belting tear-jerker that reached No.
Although her subsequent American albums -- ''Cameo'' (1973, ABC-Dunhill), ''It Begins Again'' (1978, United Artists), ''Living Without Your Love'' (1979, United Artists), ''White Heat'' (1982, Casablanca) and ''A Very Fine Love'' (1995, Columbia) -- found her voice as full and compelling as ever, the material and production rarely matched the singing.
Although her subsequent American albums -- ''Cameo'' (1973, ABC-Dunhill), ''It Begins Again'' (1978, United Artists), ''Living Without Your Love'' (1979, United Artists), ''White Heat'' (1982, Casablanca) and ''A Very Fine Love'' (1995, Columbia) -- found her voice as full and compelling as ever, the material and production rarely matched the singing.
They love it.
A review in The New York Times Book Review  found the book most affecting when Ms. Anderson recounted her domestic anguish and search for love outside the marriage.
Marry me now and in three years, if you don't love me, you can leave and start your life all over again.
''If you love the theater you must be innovative,'' she once said.
''This will kill my love life,'' she said.
      
John Ruskin (1819-1900) was a British social theorist and critic whose wife, Effie, fell in love with Millais.
She published her first novel, ''Careless Love,'' to mixed reviews and after years of struggling to establish herself published her first short story for The New Yorker in 1969.
''But when it became apparent that his inclination and his own studies were leading him not to a love of Clinton or even to a degree of political solidarity with him, let alone any sympathy for what he did, but rather to conclusions about the Constitution that would be advantageous to Clinton, all that quickly changed.
On television she appeared on ''The Abbott and Costello Show'' in the early 1950's, and played Roberta Townsend, the love interest of Charles Farrell, as Gale Storm's widowed father, in ''My Little Margie,'' which ran from 1952 to 1955.
''Animals are always loyal and love you,'' she said, ''whereas with children you never know where you are''
        When the other woman in British life who was often referred to as the Iron Lady lost her job, Miss Foyle was asked for her reaction.
After graduation, she returned to Chicago and fell in love with Lieut.
Ms. Forrest's recordings with Shaw included ''Any Old Time,'' ''I'm in Love With the Honorable Mr.
'' Among her recordings with Goodman were ''The Man I Love,'' ''Taking a Chance on Love'' and ''More Than You Know.
'' Among her recordings with Goodman were ''The Man I Love,'' ''Taking a Chance on Love'' and ''More Than You Know.
''
        In addition to recording and touring, Ms. Forrest made several film shorts with Shaw and appeared in several features with James, including ''Private Buckaroo'' (in which she sang ''You Made Me Love You''), ''Bathing Beauty'' and ''Best Foot Forward.
In high school, she realized a love of language and was encouraged to apply to college.
''If you look at any 'I Love Lucy' rerun, if Lucille Ball is wearing glasses, they are Harlequin glasses,'' said David Mayhew of Maplewood, N.J., a friend of Mrs. Miranda's family.
''
        But she remembered how she ''totally fell in love with boxing.
She played on the original version of ''Sea of Love,'' by Phil Phillips.
'') The couple eventually divorced, but in the late 1970's, after Mr. Ek's death, Miss Cullberg choreographed a meditation on their life entitled ''Dreams of Love and Death.
''A common chord, uniting all, is a real love and appreciation for the Charge of the Goddess,'' she said.
''You Don't Love Yourself,'' published in 1990, is a dialogue about self-hate in which, as often is the case, there is a counterpoint between language and emotion.
Shown in the United States in 1992 as a three-part series on ''Masterpiece Theater'' on PBS, the programs were upsetting to many viewers because of their portrayal of homosexual liaisons and lesbian love scenes.
As World War I started, she got her first job and fell in love with a young soldier.
She went to India on an assignment to photograph Ravi Shankar in 1956 and fell in love with Frank Moraes, then editor of The Indian Express.
At her concerts, including her last New York City performance at Town Hall in 1990, rapt listeners sang along to her songs of love and death.
Among her other hits were ''Shoo-Shoo Baby,'' ''Mister Five by Five,'' ''No Love, No  Nothin,' '' ''Milkman, Keep Those Bottles Quiet,'' ''The Patty-Cake Man'' and her million-selling 1952 comeback hit, ''The Blacksmith Blues.
But it was her love of nature, especially the mountains where she often retreated, and her pragmatism that tempered the strict angularities of their furniture classics like the chaise longue and the famous cube-shaped Grand Confort chair.
But it was her love of nature, especially the mountains where she often retreated, and her pragmatism that tempered the strict angularities of their furniture classics like the chaise longue and the famous cube-shaped Grand Confort chair.
Mrs. Hofmann learned to ride horses bareback and said that was when her love for them began.
She was particularly remembered for a work called ''The Love Song of R. Milhous Nixon,'' in which she borrowed from T. S. Eliot to lampoon President Nixon at the height of the Watergate scandal in 1973.
Bode's books were about interracial dating, teenage immigrants, rape, sibling rivalry, teenage parents, troubled love, friendship, eating disorders and other concerns of young people.
She moved to Rome after the war, where she met and fell in love with Palmiro Togliatti, Italy's Communist Party leader.
