In theater, she worked extensively in summer stock and on Broadway, which she called her first love.
''
        But it was her role on ''A.M.C.,'' as her fans love to call it, that she treasured.
''
        Her first love was nature.
Ms. Velázquez's other songs, none of which rivaled the success of ''Bésame Mucho,'' include ''Amar y Vivir'' (''To Love and to Live'') and ''Verdad Amarga'' (''Bitter Truth'').
      
A past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America, Ms. Rostenberg wrote numerous books herself: scholarly works on printing history, and memoirs written with Ms. Stern that twinned their love of literary sleuthing with reminiscences of their life together.
Writing in The New York Times in 1995, Dinitia Smith described the partnership as ''both a love story and a detective story, a tale of doggedness and devotion to books and to each other.
The 'deep, deep love' that existed and exists between us and that is mentioned in Dinitia Smith's last paragraph has no bearing upon sex.
Eventually, one of the lost Alcott works, ''A Long Fatal Love Chase,'' was published.
The next year, she was nominated for best actress for her next role, opposite Gary Cooper as Lou Gehrig's wife in ''The Pride of the Yankees,'' and won the Oscar for best supporting actress as the love interest of Greer Garson's war-bound son in ''Mrs.
Ms. Ellis's submission began, dryly: ''Men love women/Women love children/Children love hamsters.
Ms. Ellis's submission began, dryly: ''Men love women/Women love children/Children love hamsters.
Ms. Ellis's submission began, dryly: ''Men love women/Women love children/Children love hamsters.
While he was away, Brenda had more suitors than Penelope, but she remained loyal to her true love.
She publicly identified herself as a lesbian, speaking movingly about ''this love of women'' as ''the soil in which my life is rooted,'' and her work was a touchstone for many gay men and women.
At Curtis, Serkin schooled her in the basics of Mozart and Beethoven, turning a disapproving eye on her youthful love for Rachmaninoff.
'' She later channeled her love for Rachmaninoff into scholarship, preparing a new edition of his piano preludes for the C.F.
Reviewing her memoir, ''Happy Days,'' in The New York Times Book Review, Delia Ephron called it ''heartbreaking,'' adding: ''There is no physical cruelty in this tale, just the awesome power of withheld love.
's, Miss Langford was known for songs like ''I'm in the Mood for Love,'' ''You Are My Lucky Star'' and ''Hooray for Hollywood.
'' The troops frequently asked Miss Langford to sing ''I'm in the Mood for Love,'' a ballad by Dorothy Fields and Jimmy McHugh, her hit record from an otherwise forgettable 1935 movie, ''Every Night at Eight,'' which was mostly a vehicle for George Raft and Alice Faye.
Other fanciful plots include a woman who falls in love with a young man who turns out to be her illegitimate son in ''Emmeline'' (1980), and conjoined twins who marry two women in ''Attachments'' (1977), with the curiosity-inspiring sexual gymnastics hardly ignored.
''The Love Eaters'' (1954) was about a small-town theater company.
''I thought if I were 10 years younger, I would love to do it,'' she told People magazine in 1987.
She fell in love with the continent.
Although some of the great piano-playing accompanists, including Hank Jones and Jimmy Jones, were hired to play on her records, and although ''Loads of Love,'' from 1962, showcased her voice well -- she could sound like a quieter, subtler version of Dinah Washington -- the situation made her uncomfortable.
If children live with acceptance, they learn to love.

        Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan.
''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon'' (Farrar, Straus, 1968) reached the best-seller lists and drew considerable praise from critics.
Essentially commissioned by the movie producer Jerry Wald, Ms. Jaffe was a 25-year-old former associate editor in publishing when she sat down to write a book that Mr. Wald could turn into a blockbuster feature like ''Kitty Foyle: The Natural History of a Woman,'' a 1940 film that won Ginger Rogers an Academy Award for playing a plucky working girl who finds love, heartache, an unwanted pregnancy and, finally, romantic redemption.
''It was a basic story -- three or four or five girls start off together, one finds love, one goes crazy and/or dies, and one of them becomes a huge success -- but Rona's take was very up-to-date,'' Mr. Gottlieb said last night in a telephone interview.

        Mary Aiken Littauer, whose love affair with horses began with a childhood pony, blossomed with her marriage to an officer in the cavalry of Czar Nicholas II, and flowered famously when she became a leading expert on horses of ancient times, died on Dec. 7 at her home in Syosset, N.Y. She was 93.
