She was the author of many novels, including "Now That April's Here," "Diligence in Love," "The Autumn's Brightness" and "I Take Thee, Serenity.
Mrs. Wohlforth's breathless coverage of flappers, bootleggers, love nests and trunk murders earned her a reputation as one of journalism's first sob sisters.
But she resisted all attempts to steer her away from singing, which was her first love.
If you love music, what would life be without it -- can you imagine?
Ms. Frankel was the author of "Love Me Long," which starred Shirley Booth and Anne Jackson on Broadway in 1949.
Marriage and a Retirement
        Over the next seven years she was seen in more than a dozen films, and the press chronicled her comings and goings, her rumored or real love affairs and every change of hairdo.
She also had roles in "Kiss and Tell" (1943), "For Love or Money" (1947) and "Wake Up, Darling" (1956).
" Politics and Pacifism
        The outspoken actress and politician with a flashing smile and feline movements was a favorite of interviewers, who called her a charming, forceful and quotable woman very much in love with life.
" As for love, she commented: "All any woman wants is to sleep with a man.
"It was this watertight, interior suffisance, coupled with a need for attention, and corresponding love of being at center stage, which puzzled her relatives so and which in time would alternately charm and perplex the world," Mr. Davis wrote.
Her love of Egypt inspired her, among other things, to bring the Cairo Trilogy, "Palace Walk," "Palace of Desire" and "Sugar Street" by Naguib Mahfouz, the Nobel Prize winner from Egypt, to Doubleday, where they were published in translation.
In the interview, in typically self-deprecating style, she said she had joined the profession because of a simple love of books.
Her television credits include appearances on "I Love Lucy," "The Rifleman," "The Patty Duke Show" "Mannix," "Days of Our Lives" and "General Hospital.
"
        In that interview, she went on to observe about the writing of a biography, "The whole venture follows the pattern of a love affair: initial infatuation, experience, disillusion, friendship, in that order!
" 'Wedding Band'
        One of her plays was "Wedding Band," an interracial love story set in Charleston, S.C., at the time of World War I. Ms. Childress wrote the play in 1965 but was unable to find a New York producer until the New York Shakespeare Festival presented it in 1972.
" She also grew to love Shakespeare, one of the few in her class who did.
' "
        Nevertheless, her love of the theater led her to the Ben Greet Academy of Acting where, in 1924, she began three years of dramatic training.
"The least we can do back home here is give them the love, the respect and the dignity that they, our flag and our country deserve.
But her film career picked up in the late 1960's with roles in films such as "The Odd Couple," The Love Bug," "The Apple Dumpling Gang" and "Herbie Goes Bananas.
"I love what the Olympics stand for," she said.
She later appeared Off Broadway in "The Duchess of Malfi," "Love's Labour's Lost" and "A Touch of the Poet.
But her love for the theater gradually took precedence over architecture.
"She taught me to love when all I wanted to do was hate," Mrs. Glaser said.
"She taught me to love when all I wanted to do was hate," Mrs. Glaser said.
