Nonetheless, she was equally unforgettable in the Robbins ballets and as the stunning white-faced allegorical figure of Sacred Love wafted high above the ground by a male retinue in ''Illuminations,'' which the British choreographer Fredrick Ashton choreographed for City Ballet in 1950.
After her father visited New York and fell in love with it, the family began spending more and more time in the United States, finally emigrating in 1909.
''To be deeply in love is, of course, a great liberating force,'' she observed in the introduction to ''Hour of Gold, Hour of Lead.
'' He said in a 1998 interview that there was no doubt that Lindbergh ''deeply loved his wife and children, but that love manifested itself in unusual ways.
''
        Falling in Love With Other Men
        In the summer of 1939, Mr. Berg wrote, Mrs. Lindbergh, ''living less with Charles than through him, only knew that she was feeling incomplete and unfulfilled -- and mildly depressed.
'' And then she, ''most unexpectedly, found inspiration, and even more, as she fell in love with another man.
''The friendship of these two longing souls blossomed into a love affair in 1956,'' Mr. Berg wrote, ''and continued for the next few years.
''
        ''I would love to be an evangelist,'' Miss Evans said, ''but I think God has revealed to me that I can serve him best by just remaining at my post.
Invited to join the Kirov, she danced with that company until 1970, performing in the classics and the premieres of major Soviet ballets including Leonid Jakobson's version of ''Spartacus'' and Yuri Grigorovich's ''Legend of Love.
''
        A writer of light verse and memoirs that plumbed her own life, Mrs. Bevington wrote about her world travels, her romance and marriage to her husband, Merle M. Bevington, and even the small-town love affairs of her Methodist minister father.
''I have really given up falling in love with men!
''Checkmate'' (1937) was an allegorical chess game between love and death.
Despite her love of art as source material, Dame Ninette's ballets were more than living pictures.
In the 1950's she recorded three albums that were to become classics of their kind, ''Let Me Love You,'' ''Portia Nelson Sings Bart Howard'' and ''Love Songs for a Late Evening,'' all of which have recently  been re-released on DRG Records.
Lucille Ball, as Lucy Ricardo, was a guest star on the first episode, and Ms. Sothern returned the favor several times as the Countess Framboise on ''I Love Lucy.
From ''Let's Fall in Love'' in 1933 through ''The Hell Cat,'' ''Blind Date'' and ''Kid Millions'' with Eddie Cantor in 1934, the Maurice Chevalier musical ''Folies-Bergère'' in 1935 and a dozen more lightweight but pleasant musicals and comedies, she bubbled and sang.
It was ''The Lucy Show,'' not ''I Love Lucy.
The series was exhibited at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, and ''Hollis Sigler's Breast Cancer Journal,'' a book of related essays by Ms. Sigler, Susan M. Love and James Yood, was published by Hudson Hills Press in 1999.
'' Nonetheless, she often spoke of ballet as her first love.
She also had special and continuing love for Brazilian pop, to which she devoted an album, ''Sabia'' (Concord Jazz), whose lyrics included her own translations from  Portuguese.
She also had special and continuing love for Brazilian pop, to which she devoted an album, ''Sabia'' (Concord Jazz), whose lyrics included her own translations from Portuguese.
'' They also recalled her wit, intelligence, strong-mindedness and love of cats.
Beginning in 1950, in a project inspired by her love of gardening, Dr. Thompson reconstructed all 20 acres of the ancient garden and replanted olive, laurel, oleander and poplar trees in the garden.
Her first love was the stage, but television overtook her theater career.
When she was a child, Ms. Smith says, her love of art and poetry were inspired by reading an illustrated volume of Blake's poetry, ''Songs of Innocence and Experience.
Her first love was the stage, where her Broadway credits included ''All That Glitters'' (1938), ''The Walking Gentleman'' (1942), ''The Overtons'' (1945) and ''The Little Blue Light'' (1951), in which she appeared with Melvyn Douglas, Burgess Meredith and her husband, Martin Gabel.
''I love you,'' she says passionately.
''I love you,'' he says gamely.
'' Her final movie, made last year, is titled ''The Agonies of Love.
''Yet regardless of where they came from, I cannot remember a time when I was not in love with them -- with the books themselves, cover and binding and the paper they were printed on, with their smell and their weight and with their possession in my arms, captured and carried off to myself.
''Learning Latin (once I was free of Caesar) fed my love for words upon words, words in continuation and modification, and the beautiful, sober accretion of a sentence.
I see as my privilege writing about human beings as human beings with all the things that make them up, including bigotry, misunderstanding, injustice and also love and affection and whatever else.
In 1959 she played a middle-aged woman in love with a handsome 19-year-old (Horst Buchholz) in ''Cherie,'' adapted by Anita Loos from two novels by Colette and set in France in the years just before and after World War I. Atkinson found her performance ''magnetic and illuminating.
'' She and Mr. Lewis shared a love, she said, ''for clowns and crazy people.
She was a regular on numerous 1960's sitcoms, including ''The Beverly Hillbillies,'' playing Flo Shafer, one of the bumpkins' many nemeses; and ''Hogan's Heroes,'' as Frau Linkmeier, the great love of Colonel Klink.
It sold a million copies and included two Top 10 singles, ''Back and Forth'' and ''At Your Best (You Are Love).
Ms. Hearne, who trained animals and their owners at Silver Trails: The Animal Inn, turned her childhood love of dogs and horses into a life's work and the foundation of a philosophy of human and animal relations and communication that was articulated in her best-known book, ''Adam's Task: Calling Animals by Name'' (Knopf, 1986).
Mrs. Wheeler's love of horses stemmed from her childhood.
Supported by her stake in the family company, Sallie made a living of her love of horses.
We both realize that none of this would be possible without the fabulous animals we do dearly love and appreciate.
''
        Over the years, Ms. Kael's reviews and essays were assembled in a series of books whose double-entendre titles suggested the intimacy of her love affair with movies (she preferred the word ''movies'' to ''film'' or ''cinema'').
Among them were ''I Lost It at the Movies'' (1965); ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang'' (1968); ''Going Steady'' (1970); ''Deeper Into Movies'' (1973), a 1974 National Book Award winner; ''Reeling'' (1976); ''When the Lights Go Down'' (1980); ''Hooked'' (1989); ''Movie Love'' (1991); and ''For Keeps'' (1994).
Looking back on her impassioned love affair with movies, she once said, ''I was a film critic the way somebody might write poetry, for fun or love.
Looking back on her impassioned love affair with movies, she once said, ''I was a film critic the way somebody might write poetry, for fun or love.
'' By happenstance, her apartment was used for a scene in the movie, but she later said she had been in love with the actor since age 12.
On her own, Mrs. Goetz wrote ''Sweet Love Remember'd,'' a play about her husband.
Mrs. Goetz later adapted ''L'Amour Fou'' by André Roussin into ''Madly in Love.
She had three Grammy nominations, for the ''Don't Go to Strangers'' LP in 1960, ''Save Your Love for Me'' in 1981 and ''My Buddy'' in 1999.
Dr. McDowell called Dr. Fischman ''the exact opposite'' of what one would expect from a researcher, recalling her love of walking, baking and single-malt Scotch.
Dr. Schor once said she had love affairs with intellectual ''ism's,'' including fetishism, realism, idealism, universalism and feminism, her favorite.
She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.
''Step by Step'' (1979) projects mother love against the impossibility of protecting children in a world of foul water and limited food.
Although she spent several months of the year in Hawaii, the island she came to love in the 1940's while covering the war in the Pacific for Reuters, Ms. Johnston was a ''dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker,'' her daughter said.
''She spent her last few days walking around the World Trade Center site,'' Ms. Johnston said, ''and arrived in Honolulu quite frail but wearing an 'I Love New York' T-shirt.
