Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
Soon she found herself working at fashion shows and for photographers, appearing on major magazine covers and in pictures for advertisements and fashion news articles.
President Mugabe is expected to cancel scheduled visits to a United Nations Security Council meeting in New York and talks in London with British Prime Minister John Major.

        Jean R. Yawkey, the majority owner of the Red Sox, a fixture at Fenway Park for almost half a century and a major Boston philanthropist, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston, six days after suffering a severe stoke.
She became a major benefactor of the museum, donating two wings to the building and commissioning the famous basswood statue of Williams at work by Armand LaMontagne.

        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii.
Before becoming president at Houston, Dr. Barnett had been an administrator at other major universities, including the City University of New York.
The biography was published when she was director of the Museum of American Folk Art in New York City, where she had organized the first major show of Phillips's work.
Miss Sherman also played den mother and sergeant major to the 46 precision dancers in the troupe, any 36 of whom kicked off four times daily in a wheeling straight line nearly a city block long.
" Another major work was "Maria: The Potter of San Ildefonso" (University of Oklahoma, 1948).
To observe her 80th birthday in 1988, a major Vieira da Silva retrospective was presented at the Gulbenkian Museum in Lisbon and the Grand Palais in Paris.
She left that production to join the Group Theater, taking major roles in "The House of Connelly," "Men in White" and Clifford Odets's "Till the Day I Die.
She was also a frequent contributer to the major food magazines and for several decades wrote a column about food, wine and travel for The National Review.
She graduated from Vassar College in 1940 with a chemistry major and earned her Ph.D. in chemistry at Columbia University in 1949.
Tuberculosis was a major focus of her work.
An Idol in Jewish Neighborhoods
        To millions of Jews in major cities of the United States, Europe, South America, Africa and Australia, "our Molly" meant the slender, vivacious comedian with the dark, dancing eyes and elfin face whose songs, dances and mimicry provided hilarious joy.
City Elections Due
        Some commentators suggested that Mayor Diepgen and other leaders of the conservative Christian Democratic Union did not want to mount a major tribute to a figure who is unpopular in some rightist circles.
She died of cancer, said her brother, Alwin, of Lake Nebagamon, Wis.
        Dr. Wiesner, who was born in Rice Lake, Wis., was a physical-education major at the University of Wisconsin in Madison when she discovered the university's dance program.
Her father, Louis Erich Otto Dietrich, who was a police lieutenant and a former cavalry major, died when she was 9 years old.
Children and health were her major themes and she was a leading advocate of improving day and foster care.
Miss Nirenska was a major force in dance in Washington, as a teacher, as director of a company whose dancers included Liz Lerman and Sharon Wyrrick (later choreographers in their own right), and as a creator of impressively fashioned dances filled with often raw emotion.

        Marion P. Ames, a major force for court reform in New York State for 35 years and a leader in many other public causes, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
The American Judicature Society, a national group for improving the courts, honored her with an award for the major progress she made on all those points.
She suffered from severe asthma and weakness from childhood polio, an illness that required three major operations and left her a paraplegic at the age of 5.

        Marion P. Ames, a major force for court reform in New York State for 35 years and a leader in many other public causes, died on Friday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
The American Judicature Society, a national group for improving the courts, honored her with an award for the major progress she made on all those points.
Ms. Peterson graduated from Barnard College in 1937 with a major in zoology, and earned an M.A.
She also directed a major collection of historical material on women, served as Harvard's first female assistant dean and was a mentor to other female scholars.
The foundation and the awards program were founded by Mrs. Fordyce, Mrs. Lasker and her husband, Albert, in 1944 to draw attention to major achievements in basic and clinical medical research and stimulate Federal financing of research.
No woman has ever umpired in the major leagues.

        Anna Johnstone Robinson, who designed the costumes for many major films and Broadway shows and was nominated for Academy Awards for "The Godfather" and "Ragtime," died on Friday at the Kimball Farms nursing home in Lenox, Mass.
According to Miss Bond, Miss Green was not a fan of major league baseball until later life, when she began rooting for the Red Sox.
Her recent shows at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York City won wide praise, and the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum and the National Gallery were among the museums that had recently bought major works of hers.
Among her major retrospective exhibitions were those at the Whitney Museum of American Art (1974), the Musee d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris (1982), and in 1988 a touring exhibition that went to the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo and elsewhere.
From her father, Mrs. Manning inherited thousands of Italian and French paintings and drawings, to which she and her husband added major works.
The harm to children's health from poverty, discrimination and the lack of housing was a major theme of her work.
She made her New York City Opera debut in 1943, and by 1945 had performed with the San Francisco Opera, the New York Philharmonic and other major orchestras.

        Alice I. Bryan, a psychologist who fostered the advancement of women in her profession and who led a major study on the role of libraries, died on Friday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.

        Hanya Holm, a major choreographer of modern dance and Broadway musicals, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
"There is security in a major leg extension.
She made her New York debut that year in a program that included "Trend," her first major work in America, which had a cast of 33 dancers, some of them from her own company and the rest students at Bennington.

        Blanchette Ferry Hooker Rockefeller, a major benefactor of the Museum of Modern Art and the widow of John D. Rockefeller 3d, died on Sunday at her home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. She was 83 years old.
"
        Still, as a lay administrator, as she called herself, she had a major impact on the museum, leading a successful fund-raising campaign that enabled it to complete an expansion that doubled its gallery space.
The major themes of her scholarly work were the emotional development of students and their interactions with teachers and counselors.

        Elaine Whitelaw, for half a century the chief fund raiser and a major force for the March of Dimes, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan.
"I had a cancer operation and then I had a major heart attack," she told an interviewer, "and they must really have thought, 'This old girl can't go on much longer.
