
        Barbara E. Brooks, an editor at three major women's magazines, died yesterday at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan.
Later she was hired to edit major articles at House Beautiful.

        Diana Adams, who was a leading ballerina with both the New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater and the former dean of students at the School of American Ballet, died on Sunday at Mark Twain-St. Joseph's Hospital in San Andreas, Calif. She was 66 and lived in Arnold, Calif.
        Miss Adams was one of George Balanchine's favorite dancers and created roles in many of his major ballets of the 1950's.
She then joined the Home Modernization Bureau, where a major contractor tutored her on the construction industry.
An Oscar for a Princess
        Her first major film role made her a star.
Dr. Bernstein argued that the welfare system's major failing is in fostering continued dependency for people receiving aid, instead of guiding them off the welfare rolls to independence.
One participant was Mr. Trudeau, then a law professor and editor; another was Rene Levesque, a radio commentator who would later became a secessionist and Premier of Quebec, and a major adversary of Mr. Trudeau.
Securing financial backing for "The Birth of a Nation," a Civil War epic and a milestone in the history of the motion picture, was a major battle for Griffith, for the movie's costs constantly outstripped the budget estimates.
"
        Miss Hayes won an Academy Award for best actress for her first major film role, in "The Sin of Madelon Claudet" (1931).
Major Roles on Broadway
        In her Broadway debut in 1962, she was praised for her performance as Martha in the matinee cast of "Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
She was the first violinist in the Italian chamber orchestra I Musici, which often performed at Carnegie Hall and other major halls in the United States and Europe.
Mr. Goldstone, an architect, was a major force in establishing the Landmarks Commission and served as its chairman from 1968 to 1973.
Legacy to Museums and Artists
        Ms. Rothschild left a collection that included her paintings and major works by Mondrian, Matisse, Brancusi, Gris and Picasso.
Because of her interests, her parents began collecting art, including some of the major pieces now part of her estate.
There she worked with authors such as Robert Pirsig, whose "Lila" (1991) became a major best seller.
She was among the early in-house bidders -- Sotheby's representatives who initiate telephone bids for major art collectors who do not want to appear on the auction floor.
The money she saved eventually got her back to California and into the University of Southern California, where her major was merchandising.

        Ethel Hausman, a founder and major supporter of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City and North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Manhasset, L. I., died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Her two major contributions to fashion resulted from chance and keen observation.
He was the eldest son of Felix M. Warburg, a young German banker who became a major financier in the United States, whose family mansion on Fifth Avenue is now the Jewish Museum.
Amassing a major collection of museum-caliber textiles, she would sell swatches to fabric houses to copy.
In her first major issue, she led the efforts that blocked state plans to build a highway that would have destroyed some old silk mills.
Judge Simon, who was still active as a lawyer at her death, served in state posts under appointments from both Republican and Democratic governors and was the first woman nominated by a major party for citywide office in New York City.
But her first major appearances were at Aix-en-Provence, France, where she made her debut in 1966 as the Composer in Strauss's "Ariadne auf Naxos," and at Covent Garden, where she performed her first Octavian in 1969, learning the role in a week to fill in for another singer.
She reached the rank of major during active duty and retired from the reserve in 1970 as a colonel.
She also was co-author of two books reporting major research studies: "Child Life in School" (1942) and "The Pyschological Impact of School Experience" (1969).
Her honors included the American Medical Association's Joseph B. Goldberger Award in Clinical Nutrition in 1987, and, the same year, the Lederle Award of the American Institute of Nutrition, which described her as "a major contributor to the recognition of drug-induced nutritional deficiencies.

        Florence Small Gaynor, the first black woman to head a major teaching hospital in the United States, died on Sept. 16 at Christiana Medical Center in Newark, Del.

        Mary E. Clark, a lawyer who successfully campaigned for a change in Florida law so that people with major illnesses would not lose a large part of their medical insurance coverage, died here on Saturday.
But her father was not sympathetic to her desire to make dancing her professional career,and she became an English major at the University of California at Los Angeles, graduating cum laude.
She sang all the major soprano roles in a Mozart cycle staged by Jean-Pierre Ponnelle in Cologne in the 1970's, and recorded many of them.
With her husband, Lee, an insurance executive, Mrs. Coffey was a major contributor to the Metropolitan Jewish Geriatric Center and its Brenner Pavilion and to Mount Sinai Medical Center, where the couple established the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Outpatient Geriatrics Clinic and the Phyllis and Lee Coffey Non-Invasive Cardiology Area.
"
        Miss Blake had a following of hundreds, if not thousands, of people who believed that listening to a live musician at 3 A.M. in a smoke-filled cafe was a major part of what living in Manhattan was all about.
