She subseqently played with most of the major American orchestras and gave recitals in Town Hall, Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall.
Mrs. Hupper was born in Rockville Centre, L.I., and graduated from Goucher College with a major in psychology.
Other major roles were a rebellious student in "These Glamour Girls" (1939), a shallow performer in "Ziegfeld Girl" (1941) and an alcoholic actress in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952).
Mr. Minnelli recalled using "many ruses and subterfuges" to extract a major performance from Miss Turner, adding, "As she got more into the picture her nervousness disappeared, and she effectively made the character's transition from tramp to glamour queen.
Other major roles were a rebellious student in "These Glamour Girls" (1939), a shallow performer in "Ziegfeld Girl" (1941) and an alcoholic actress in the thrall of a megalomaniac Hollywood producer (Kirk Douglas) in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952).
Mr. Minnelli recalled using "many ruses and subterfuges" to extract a major performance from Miss Turner, adding, "As she got more into the picture her nervousness disappeared, and she effectively made the character's transition from tramp to glamour queen.
Matisse, Degas, Kandinsky and Seurat are among the major artists represented in the exhibition.
Miss Keswick's father, Sir John Keswick, was a major trader at the head of the Scottish company Jardine Matheson.
She had, it was said, a difficult life; her work has been virtually ignored by major critics and she gained her reputation primarily by word of mouth.
from 1936 to 1960, World War II provided her with her major platform.

        Marcia Cayne, president of the Association of Reform Zionists of America and a member of the Conference of Major American Jewish Organizations, died on Saturday at Tarzana Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Prevention of sexual abuse was a major concern in her nearly 40 years of work with prisoners and, she said, she would be "tough with those guys.
Ms. Tobin's first major theatrical role was in the 1920 show "Little Old New York.
Last year she was persuaded to accept a major literary award in Taiwan, but, typically, she refused to accept it in person.
She was a major contributor to dance programs at the Kennedy Center, to the National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
To Henry Louis Gates, the appointment of a black woman to the top job at Smith is "a major event in the history of American letters.

        Lita Annenberg Hazen, a major philanthropist in medical research whose interests encompassed art, music and education, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the former United States Ambassador to Great Britain, is a major benefactor of art institutions, and a sister, Enid Haupt of New York, has devoted much of her fortune to public gardens and horticultural institutions, as well as museums and libraries.
")
        In later years, as the contest grew into a major annual event, Mrs. Cahill, who in 1925 married Vincent Cahill, a real estate broker, sought to distance herself from her role in the pageant, especially the beauty queen label.
After graduating from Vassar College as an English major in 1961, she attended Yale, where she earned bachelor's and master's of fine arts degrees from the School of Art and Architecture in 1964.
After graduating from Vassar College as an English major in 1961, she attended Yale, where she earned bachelor's and master's of fine arts degrees from the School of Art and Architecture in 1964.
She played in a number of chamber groups, notably the Perole String Quartet and the Musicians Guild, and appeared as a soloist with major orchestras, including the New York Philharmonic and the Casals Festival Orchestra.
The festivals provided exposure and creative opportunities to most of the major modern-dance choreographers at crucial times in their young careers.
Her honors were all the more unusual because unlike such better-known designers  as Edith Head, who supervised all of Paramount's movies for decades, Ms. Jeakins was never on the payroll of a major studio for more than one movie at a time.
In addition to Huston, with whom she made six movies, and Fleming, whose "Joan of Arc" brought her the first Academy Award for costume design, in her first major work on a film, Ms. Jeakins worked with such directors as Cecil B. DeMille, Martin Ritt, Robert Wise and William Wyler.
In New York, she designed for stage productions including "South Pacific," "Affairs of State," "King Lear" (with Louis Calhern), "Too Late the Phalarope," "Major Barbara," "Winesburg, Ohio" and "The World of Suzie Wong.
It was, she later said, a major mistake.
Within a decade, as major labels came to dominate the distribution network, Scepter's success had faded, and by the time the company folded in 1977 Mrs. Greenberg had lost everything.
The Coleman Pavilion and the Link Pavilion went up in place of outdated buildings, four other buildings underwent major renovations and an apartment building was bought to house residents and nurses.
As a member of Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes from 1932 to 1937, she was  a favorite of the choreographer Leonide Massine, who created major roles for her in two of his monumentally scaled symphonic ballets of the 30's, "Les Presages"  and "Choreartium," both of which have recently been revived with success.
She was delighted when in 1967 his last major work, the scenographic "Etant Donnes," or "Given," was installed there.

        Gretchen Geber, a cello instructor whose students have gone on to play in major American orchestras, died on Saturday at her home in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 81.
In the early 1970's, Ms. Bambara was a major contributor to the emerging genre of contemporary black women's literature, along with the writers Toni Morrison and Alice Walker and others.
Her first major find for the company was "Cimarron," which brought the studio an Academy Award in 1931.
That activity, using office space at WMCA, became the prototype for similar organizations in nearly all major United States cities.
Her 14 second-place results included all three major national team championships, the Spingold Knockout in 1944, the Board-a-Match in 1953 and the Vanderbilt Knockout in 1954.
The killing of the star, who had won a Grammy music award last year and whose recording "Amor Prohibido" ("Forbidden Love") sold 400,000 copies in the United States and many more than that in Mexico, stunned her fans and prompted almost non-stop coverage on Spanish-language radio and television stations here, in Texas's major cities and all along the Mexican border.
She was a major contributor to the building of Holocaust museums in Washington and Budapest.
"
        A distinguished, articulate woman, Mrs. Bingham was for more than 60 years a major presence on the Louisville scene.
It was while she was a classics major at Radcliffe College that she met her husband, then a student at Harvard University.
Her gift for comedy bubbled through movies like "Bachelor Mother" (1939), "Tom, Dick and Harry" (1941) and "The Major and the Minor" (1942).

        Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta.
