On the  advice of the choir director, R. Nathaniel Dett, she changed her major to music  and earned a bachelor's degree in 1933.

        Marie-Helene de Rothschild, one of Europe's most imaginative hostesses, whose activities were a major part of the Paris social season for many years, died on  Friday at her home in Ferrieres, 20 miles northeast of Paris.
The Baroness was also a major supporter of French couture and for many years  was in the front row at important shows.
She met Mr. Ford while returning from a European trip in 1936, and they were married in 1940 in what was a major event of the Southampton social season.
One of the first women to work as a film editor in Hollywood, Miss McLean, who began as an assistant in the 1920's and cut her first movie, "Gallant Lady," in 1933, knew her place:
        For decades it was in the chair next to Darryl F. Zanuck, the Fox studio chief, who relied so much on the judgment of the woman he called Bobby that he rarely made a major decision on anything from costumes to casting without consulting her first.
Her portrayals were so proper that one sequence in "Random Harvest," a major dramatic hit of 1942, created a sensation when she was allowed to wear kilts and show her shapely legs.
For decades it was in the chair next to Darryl F. Zanuck, the Fox studio chief, who relied so much on the judgment of the woman he called Bobby that he rarely made a major decision on anything from costumes to casting without consulting her first.
In 1992, she assumed major responsibilities for the company's television advertising around the world as vice president for creative services in global advertising.
In 1977 and 1987 she had a major role in the 200th and 210th anniversary re-enactments of the Battle of the Brandywine, in which Washington's troops failed to check a British advance on Philadelphia.
Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.

        Hedwig Adele van Ameringen, a philanthropist who was a major supporter of the New York Philharmonic, died on April 27 at her home in Manhattan.
Miss Holland was born in London, the daughter of a British major and an Ethiopian princess.
Miss Lorengar sang most of the major Mozart roles in Berlin, as well as Wagner's Elsa in "Lohengrin" and Eva in "Die Meistersinger," the title roles in Puccini's "Manon Lescaut," "Madama Butterfly," "Tosca" and "Suor Angelica," and Verdi's Desdemona in "Otello," Violetta in "La Traviata" and Alice Ford in "Falstaff.
Although she once described herself as "just a garden-variety English major" at the University of Michigan, Ms. Howard had been bitten by the journalism bug  as a girl in Winnetka, Ill.

        Lily Auchincloss, a philanthropist and major supporter of the Museum of Modern Art, the American Academy in Rome and the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Her mother, Hedwig Pfaltz van Ameringen, who died last month at the age of 95, was a major supporter of the New York Philharmonic.
A member of the board of the American Academy in Rome since 1982, she was a major contributor to the renovation of the Academy's McKim, Meade & White building in Rome.
"
        Ms. Van Fleet, who was a member of the Actors Studio, often credited Mr. Kazan with having a major influence on her career.
Her repertory encompassed show tunes, jazz songs, novelties (like her first major hit, "A-Tisket A-Tasket," recorded in 1938), bossa nova, and even opera ("Porgy and Bess" excerpts, recorded with Louis Armstrong).
Championship, one of the tour's four major championships.
Despite her long identification with Hollywood, Miss Colbert's dramatic skills were versatile enough that she was among the few major film stars who managed repeatedly to return to the stage to critical acclaim.
She decided that the youthful idealism of, say, a 22-year-old English major might be nicely balanced by the experience and special skills of, say, an agricultural scientist in his mid-50's who did spot-welding in his spare time.
Ms. Talma's opera, ''The Alcestiad,'' a collaboration with Thornton Wilder, became the first work by an American woman to be presented by a major European opera company when it had its premiere at the Frankfurt Opera in 1962.
Martha, as she was generally known (Miss Martha to her employees), was for many years a well-known front-row figure at major fashion shows in New York and Europe and a booster of, among others, Valentino, Halston, Geoffrey Beene, James Galanos, Pauline Trigere, Bill Blass, Oscar de la Renta and Zandra Rhodes at the beginning of their careers.
Miss Prowse never became a major movie star, but in the years after ''Can-Can,'' she was rarely out of work partly because, for all her gossip column celebrity, she was a hard-working, disciplined professional whose performances were almost always well received.
Miss Prowse never became a major movie star, but in the years after ''Can-Can'' she was rarely out of work partly because, for all her gossip- column celebrity, she was a hard-working, disciplined professional whose performances were almost always well received.
's during World War II, was in her heyday at a time when the major studios believed that certain actresses needed something of a signature.
's during World War II, was in her heyday when the major studios believed that certain actresses needed something of a signature.

        Ludmilla Chiriaeff, the founder of Les Grands Ballets Canadiens of Montreal and a major force in Canadian dance, died on Sunday at a hospital in Montreal.
Chiriaeff developed a major company in a city that knew little about ballet before her arrival there in 1952.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
Although the field expanded greatly in the 1970's, he said, Dr. Jones ''was at the front with a handful of other labs'' in the 1950's, when she did her first major research at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
The company's major account is the International Olive Oil Council, a nonprofit educational and promotional agency supported by the governments of many Mediterranean countries, which also set standards for olive oil.
Mr. Dickerson, who won major legal battles involving housing segregation in Chicago, took her along as a child when he visited whites-only restaurants, was refused service and sued their owners.
Later, barred from the dining room of a major Chicago hotel, she asked her father's advice.
Other major recipients included UJA-Federation of New York and the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem.
She began by singing with major local choral societies and orchestras, and made her debut at Town Hall in 1924 in a program that included Bach and Handel airs, Swiss and Jewish folksongs and modern French, German and Russian songs with American lyrics.

        Eleanor Lansing Dulles, an economic specialist for the State Department who played a major part in planning the reconstruction of West Berlin in the 1950's, died on Wednesday in the Knollwood military retirement home in Washington.
She graduated from Bryn Mawr College with a major in social sciences, worked in refugee rehabilitation and reconstruction projects in France after World War I and returned to Bryn Mawr to earn a master's degree in labor and industrial economics.
Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party.
She began playing on the sandlots of St. Paul, becoming so proficient that Gabby Street, a former major league catcher and St. Louis Cardinals manager who was managing a minor league team in St. Paul, bought her a pair of spikes and let her attend his baseball camp.
While her husband was securing his reputation as a major critic, Mrs. Macdonald was becoming known for her intellectual fervor and for what Mr. Kazin recalled as her abiding kindness and concern for others.

        Grace M. Mayer, a pioneering curator of photography who was instrumental in rediscovering the work of Jacob Riis and who built a major collection of prints and photographs for the Museum of the City of New York, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
She also secured major and varied collections, including the Harry T. Peters Collection of Currier & Ives prints, and more than 10,000 photographs of the city.
But in her autobiography, Mrs. Leakey wrote that after an earlier major find they ''cast aside care'' and that was how their son Philip ''came to join our family.
At that time she operated a dairy and pig farm that became the Hawthorne-Melody Dairy, a major Illinois enterprise.
After Alicia Patterson died in 1963, Mrs. Albright helped establish and became a major benefactor of the Alicia Patterson Foundation, which awards fellowships to print journalists and photographers.
At her death she was chairwoman of the Irwin-Sweeney-Miller Foundation of Columbus, a major regional donor to the arts, Christian education, social services, child welfare and community development.

        Clare Lindgren Wofford, director of major gifts at American College in Bryn Mawr, Pa., died yesterday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
It provides full tuition, renewable for three years, for promising students from the New York City region, regardless of major.
