During her years at the Met, Ms. Rankin sang many of the major dramatic mezzo-soprano roles.
''
        In addition to her performances at the Met, Ms. Rankin continued to sing at major houses around the world, including La Scala, where she sang Cassandra, in Berlioz's ''Troyens,'' in 1960, and the Teatro San Carlo, in Naples, where she sang Adalgisa in Bellini's ''Norma,'' in 1963.
She charted how the business evolved from one dominated by major corporations to one controlled by the nationalized companies in the 1970's.
She won a scholarship to Oberlin and graduated summa cum laude with a major in English in 1938.
She said Ms. Fittko's death was announced on German radio and television, and obituaries appeared in the major national newspapers.
''
        Dr. Beck added, ''After that initial successful scan, the field of nuclear medicine took a major and continuing upward turn.
''
        ''It was a major development, which essentially allowed I.V.F.
After the war she embarked on a major international career.

        Maria Schell, an Austrian actress who achieved international fame in Hollywood and became a major star of German-language films, died on Tuesday at her home in Preitenegg, Austria.
Already noticed for what Soviet critics called her femininity as well as her strong technique, she showed off a comic gift in her first major role as Lise in ''La Fille Mal Gardée'' in 1946.
Major 20th-century writers whose verse appeared there included Marianne Moore, John Ciardi, Mark Van Doren, Randall Jarrell, Maxine Kumin, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Walter de la Mare, Galway Kinnell, Maxwell Anderson and John Updike.
'' Other major roles included '''Night Mother,'' as a woman struggling with her daughter's decision to commit suicide, and ''84 Charing Cross Road,'' in which she played an American writer whose correspondence with a London bookseller (Anthony Hopkins) develops into a long-distance romance.
''
        Correction:  June 18, 2005, Saturday  The obituary of the actress Anne Bancroft on June 8 misstated the name of the acting school she attended and omitted a major award.
'' Ashton's major neo-Classical ballet ''Symphonic Variations'' (1946) featured her along with Fonteyn and Moira Shearer.
She and her partner were the first women to reach that summit, and it was her last major climb.
But she never considered comfort a major factor.
Hal Wallis, a major Hollywood producer, saw her in Shaw's ''Heartbreak House'' and signed her to a Warner Brothers contract.
She successfully argued a major tax case, Walz v. Tax Commission, before the Supreme Court.
Dame Cicely, a medical doctor, played a major role in reinventing them as last way stations for the terminally ill, offering palliative care and, if possible, peace of mind before a death without needless pain.
''
        Mr. Meredith's admission to the University of Mississippi in September 1962 was a major victory for the civil rights movement.
The idea turned into the PEN/Faulkner award, which began in 1980 and which, with a $15,000 grand prize, has become the largest of the country's major fiction awards.
The events that began on that bus in the winter of 1955 captivated the nation and transformed a 26-year-old preacher named Martin Luther King Jr. into a major civil rights leader.
A major portion of her gift went to the resurrection of the garden's glass-domed Victorian conservatory, which by the 1970's had become a sodden and broken-paned ruin.
She also made major gifts to museums.
She was a juror at several major competitions, and in addition to her work at the Manhattan School, she gave master classes in Europe, Asia and South Africa.
