Ms. Oysher's brother, Moishe, was a major star in Yiddish theater and films and a cantor known as ''the master singer of his people.
After bad deals with major labels, the company went bankrupt in 1975.
Mrs. Lash, who worked for the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations before joining the staff of the Citizens Commission for Children, collected data on the status of children in New York for major studies in 1976 and 1980.
During that time she created the major roles of the Attendant in Graham's ''Herodiade'' (1944), She of the Earth in ''Dark Meadow'' (1946) and the Chorus in ''Cave of the Heart'' (1946).

        Jane Engelhard, a philanthropist and art collector whose many gifts ranged from major donations to the Metropolitan Museum of Art to the Christmas crèche displayed at the White House, died on Sunday at her home in Nantucket, Mass.
When she took control of the Reds, Mrs. Schott, a socially prominent widow and heir to an industrial fortune, was the only female owner in the major leagues who had bought a team in her own right.
Mrs. Schott was a major contributor to local charitable causes, including Children's Hospital and the Cincinnati Zoo.
He said later that a major factor in his leaving was the failure of the Reds' management to support him in a defamation suit -- later dropped -- that was filed by Umpire Gary Darling and the Major League Umpires Association.
He said later that a major factor in his leaving was the failure of the Reds' management to support him in a defamation suit -- later dropped -- that was filed by Umpire Gary Darling and the Major League Umpires Association.
Mrs. Tishman was one of the first women to gain national recognition as the chief executive of a major charitable federation.
At Connecticut, where she was president from 1947 to 1962, she expanded the student body by one-third, strengthened the curriculum, built major new buildings and was a tireless fund-raiser.
When Yale gave her an honorary degree in 1958, it said she had been a major force in ''adding a bright star to the galaxy of liberal arts colleges for women.
''
        At Barnard, she followed a similar agenda, strengthening the curriculum, adding major buildings and raising money.
She played a major role in many groups, including the Coalition of Labor Union Women, Emily's List, Americans for Democratic Action, the National Abortion Rights League and the American Civil Liberties Union.

        Betty Miller, who played major roles on New York stages in a 60-year career, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographer, teacher and cultural crusader, Ms. Lewitzky struggled to make modern dance a major art form in California and to make Los Angeles an important dance center.
She made her La Scala debut in 1985 as Liù in Puccini's ''Turandot,'' and in her 20-year career she sang other major Puccini heroines as well as roles in works of Mozart, Verdi, Gounod and Bizet.
Until 1992, the company's two flagship newspapers, The San Diego Union and its afternoon sister paper, The San Diego Tribune, were the major competing papers in the city.
Ms. Mirrer was a pre-med major at the University of Pennsylvania until a curriculum requirement -- a history course -- changed her trajectory.

        Rose Slivka, a writer, critic and editor and a major figure in the advancement of crafts as a serious artistic discipline in the United States, died on Thursday in Southampton, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Springs, N.Y.
) Blue Sox in the All-American Girls Baseball League, created the previous season by the Chicago Cubs' owner, Philip K. Wrigley, to provide entertainment if major league baseball was curtailed by World War II.

        Jane Meyerhoff, a philanthropist and collector who was a major donor of modern art, most of it American, died on Saturday in Baltimore.
Ten years later the gallery organized a show of the Meyerhoffs' collection, which included 194 works and filled major portions of two levels of the East Building.
She performed Mozart and Beethoven Concertos with most of the major American and European orchestras, and was a favorite at the Mostly Mozart Festival from its early years.
Parks also acted in films, like ''Fail Safe'' in 1964 and ''The Group'' in 1966, and made regular appearances on major television shows for 12 years.
Miss Tebaldi had a long and productive relationship with the Decca recording company (also called London Records) and left classic accounts of major roles in complete recordings of ''Otello,'' ''La Forza del Destino,'' ''Andrea Chenier,'' ''La Bohème,'' ''Tosca,'' ''Madama Butterfly'' and ''Il Trovatore,'' among many other works.
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
After capturing the attention of Antony Tudor, then a young choreographer eager to explore the possibilities of dramatic ballets, she danced in major works of his like ''The Planets'' (1934) and ''Dark Elegies'' (1937).
Her work is in most major United States museum collections.
