With a naturalness and an authority that belied her limited theatrical experience, she was an astonishing success in her first major role.
There is no denying that this would require major institutional changes.
When she gave her first scientific paper at a major meeting, she said she got into an argument with a distinguished scientist and stood her ground because ''I knew I was right.
''
        With other international companies she was heard in major mezzo-soprano roles, including Massenet's Charlotte and Verdi's Eboli.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
At Ballet Theater, Ms. Bentley also danced major roles in Leonide Massine's ''Capriccio Espagnol,'' in de Mille's ''Three Virgins and a Devil,'' and in Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris,'' ''Undertow'' and ''Gala Performance.
''
        She also performed lead roles in major ballets by Agnes de Mille and Antony Tudor at Ballet Theater, where she danced as a company member from 1940 to 1946 and as a guest artist from 1954 to 1956.
At Ballet Theater, Ms. Bentley also danced major roles in Leonide Massine's ''Capriccio Espagnol,'' in de Mille's ''Three Virgins and a Devil'' and in Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris,'' ''Undertow'' and ''Gala Performance.

        Dr. Hildegard Elizabeth Peplau, a nursing educator who played a major role in developing the theory and practice of psychiatric and mental health nursing, died on March 17 at her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. She was 89.
'' She had most of her major hits in the 1960's when she was considered the British equivalent of Dionne Warwick and recorded only intermittently after the early 1970's.
Other major 60's hits included ''Wishin' and Hopin' '' (1964), and ''The Look of Love'' (1967), both written by Burt Bacharach and Hal David, the team that supplied Ms. Warwick with most of her early hits.
While attending British convent schools, she discovered the music of Peggy Lee, whose intimate come-hither style was a major formative influence.
Harriet West tried to ease their distress after she was promoted to major and named an aide to the WAC director, Col. Oveta Culp Hobby.
Major West and Maj. Charity Adams, who commanded the only unit of black Wacs sent overseas in World War II, were the only two black women to attain the rank of major in the wartime WAC.
Major West and Maj. Charity Adams, who commanded the only unit of black Wacs sent overseas in World War II, were the only two black women to attain the rank of major in the wartime WAC.
''
        Major West's composure must have been sorely tested when she was dispatched to the South to hear the grievances of black Wacs.
Lula Jones Garrett, a reporter for The Philadelphia Afro-American, who accompanied Major West on a trip from Atlanta to Fort McClellan in Anniston, Ala., in 1944, wrote how Major West ''had been insulted by a white conductor whom she had asked to hand her baggage from the train.
Lula Jones Garrett, a reporter for The Philadelphia Afro-American, who accompanied Major West on a trip from Atlanta to Fort McClellan in Anniston, Ala., in 1944, wrote how Major West ''had been insulted by a white conductor whom she had asked to hand her baggage from the train.
''
        Major West fought racially insulting Army decrees.
Bowman began her career when there were no major American ballet companies.
She then was a lecturer in the university's psychology department until 1942, when she was commissioned in the Canadian Women's Army Corps, attaining the rank of major.
After years of denying Miss Sapir's claims that Credit Suisse, a major Swiss bank, was holding a fortune deposited by her father shortly before he died in a concentration camp, last year the bank joined Miss Sapir in announcing that her case had been settled.
At that point, the bank entered into serious negotiations with Miss Sapir, and she agreed to accept a payment in exchange for withdrawing from the class-action suit against the three major Swiss commercial banks -- Credit Suisse, Union Bank of Switzerland and the Swiss Bank Corporation.
He called it ''a conscience-wrenching book of major significance,'' and said that ''every American concerned with human liberty should know of this bleak period of our national history.

        Sara Holmes Boutelle, an architectural historian who rediscovered Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects to achieve major success, died on Wednesday at the Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. She was 90.
She graduated summa cum laude from Smith College in 1952, with a major in English literature, then spent a year as a Fulbright Scholar at Cambridge University in England, specializing in William Blake's works.
Her first major performances were in Bournonville ballets: she made her theatrical debut in a children's role in ''Konservatoriet'' in 1933 and received her first solo part as an adult dancer in ''La Ventana'' in 1941.
Her first major performances were in Bournonville ballets: she made her theatrical debut in a children's role in ''Konservatoriet'' in 1933 and received her first solo part as an adult dancer in ''La Ventana'' in 1941.
She quickly rejuvenated Danieli's management, then gained a major breakthrough when the company captured a $240 million contract for a steel mill in the former East Germany from its nearest competitor, the giant Krupp group of the former West Germany.
Mrs. St. Louis was senior vice president of Festival Productions Inc., which promotes the JVC Jazz Festival, the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, the Newport Jazz Festival and other major events.

        Anne Woolliams, a British ballet teacher who played a major role in the international success of the Stuttgart Ballet and who became artistic director of the Australian Ballet and the Vienna State Opera Ballet, died in Canterbury, England, on July 8.
As company teacher and ballet mistress, Ms. Woolliams taught many of the company alumni who now direct major companies, including Jiri Kylian, William Forsythe and John Neumeier.
Her new glasses were initially rejected by the major manufacturers, but Mrs. Miranda allied herself with a stylish optical shop, Lugene, on Madison Avenue, where one of the first pairs was sold to the writer Clare Boothe Luce.
Her second major history, considered her culminating work, was the four-volume ''Western European Ballet Theater,'' completed in 1996.
She contributed to many major reference books on ballet.

        Mignon Garland, a dancer and teacher who played a major role in keeping Isadora Duncan's legacy alive in the United States, died on Sept. 15 at her home in San Pablo, Calif. She was 91.
She opened her own studio in 1973 and gave her last major recital with her students in 1989.
' ''
        Giving games away was a major part of the strategy, and she and Mr. Byrne would sometimes pass out free Pictionary games to every passenger on a flight they were on.
It was a major step toward recapturing women's traditionally strong role in Tibetan Buddhism, said Gene Smith, a Boston-based publisher of Buddhist books.
When the family moved to Paris, Tex., she befriended an elderly black guitar player who taught her the blues and became a major influence on her style.
The result was one of the early major victories in the civil rights movement.
Born in Wilmington, Del., she graduated from the University of Delaware with an English major.
Among Mrs. Yang's major translations was ''The Selected Stories of Lu Xun'' (Foreign Languages Press, 1960) by one of the foremost Chinese writers of the early 20th century.
Mrs. Blunden, who was awarded a MacArthur Foundation grant in 1994, was also a major and much-honored proponent of the contributions of black choreographers and performers to American modern dance.
Mrs. Slatkin, who published numerous articles on Boucher in Burlington magazine and other journals, was instrumental in organizing the National Gallery of Art's 1974 exhibition of Boucher drawings, the first major show of its kind in North America, for which she wrote the catalog introduction and entries.
''For nearly three quarters of a century, Perriand has been one of the major innovators in French design, and her career embraces much of the history of 20th-century design in France,'' said Mary McLeod, an architectural historian at Columbia University.
''For nearly three quarters of a century, Perriand has been one of the major innovators in French design, and her career embraces much of the history of 20th-century design in France,'' said Mary McLeod, an architectural historian at Columbia University.
She graduated from Swarthmore College as a German major, and then taught science at the Baldwin School, a private girls school in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
In addition, she was also a trustee at Yeshiva and a major contributor to both institutions.
As early as the summer of 1941, months before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, there was talk in Washington that it might be necessary to conscript nurses to care for the inevitable high number of casualties there would be should the United States become engaged in a major war.
Ms. Bird, who came of professional age at a time when major law firms still resisted hiring women, held a succession of path-breaking jobs.

        Jeanne S. Chall, a leading expert on how children learn to read and a vociferous antagonist in at least two of the major educational controversies of the last quarter-century, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
