Beginning in 1972, when she moved to Manchester and re-established the Seaward Kennels, which had been started by her mother in 1932, Miss Ayers became a major dog breeder.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
She was a major contributor to many New York City cultural and educational institutions, including Lincoln Center and the New York Botanical Garden, and received the Mayor's Award for Arts and Culture in 1983 and the New York State Governor's Arts Award in 1986.
While teaching at Smith College, Dr. Carter decided to examine the major countries of the British Commonwealth.
Dame Margot was also known as the muse of England's great choreographer, Sir Frederick Ashton, who created many of his major works for the young dancer whom he helped develop.
"
        Dame Margot's partners over the years included British ballet's major male dancers, among them Mr. Somes, Robert Helpmann and David Blair.

        Florence Ford Schumann, a founder of a major philanthropic foundation in New Jersey and a generous contributor to health, education and community development causes, died on Friday at her winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mrs. Schumann, who also lived in Montclair, N.J., and Madison, Conn., was 99 years old.
Mrs. Mead and her cousin, Marcellus Hartley Dodge, were major donors to a building program at Columbia that included the M. H. Dodge gym, Hartley Hall and the gates at Barnard.
Subsequently, she conducted several major fund-raising campaigns.

        Hannah Falk Hofheimer, a philanthropist and a major benefactor of Barnard, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She was a major benefactor of Barnard and on the occasion of her 90th birthday endowed the Hannah and Henry Hofheimer Scholarship there.
Denishawn, organized by Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, was then the only major dance company that worked outside the classical ballet tradition, and it became the incubating ground for such pioneering talents as Doris Humphrey, Charles Weidman and Miss Graham herself.
It closed in 1963 but reopened in 1976, after Mrs. Taylor played a major role in raising funds to install it in the renovated mansion.
It closed in 1963 but reopened in 1976, after Mrs. Taylor played a major role in raising funds to install it in the renovated mansion.
Besides helping her husband, Olaus, build the Beneficial Loan Society, now known as the Beneficial Corporation, into one of the nation's largest consumer-loan concerns, Mrs. Caspersen was the director of the Beneficial Foundation and chairwoman of the O. W. Caspersen Foundation, a major contributor to health and educational programs.
Based in Washington, she reported from practically every major country except the Soviet Union and Australia.
She had previously won a string of awards as the finest actress on the British stage, and in April she won a special Laurence Olivier Award, London's major theatrical prize, for lifetime achievement in the theater.
Tiananmen Date Passes Quietly
        In fact, the Tiananmen anniversary passed quietly today, and Ms. Jiang's death seems unlikely to have any major impact on the Chinese political scene.
She grew up in Brooklyn and was a freshman at Hunter College who intended to major in English literature and history when the stock market crashed in 1929.
"
        Among her other major portrayals were Lavinia in Lillian Hellman's "Another Part of the Forest," Big Mama in Tennessee Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," and Miss Ronberry in "The Corn Is Green," a 1940 Emlyn Williams play starring Ethel Barrymore.
She became, as one New York Times writer, Warren Hoge, put it in 1976, "an institution among first-nighters, the creator of several major characters in American dramatic literature, a performer studied and revered by younger actors and actresses.
"
        Among her other major portrayals were Lavinia in Lillian Hellman's "Another Part of the Forest," Big Mama in Mr. Williams's "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," and Miss Ronberry in "The Corn Is Green," a 1940 Emlyn Williams play starring Ethel Barrymore.
She became, as one New York Times writer, Warren Hoge, put it in 1976, "an institution among first-nighters, the creator of several major characters in American dramatic literature, a performer studied and revered by younger actors and actresses.
Mrs. Halperin's first major work of translation was Francis Ambriere's "Long Holiday," a World War II prison camp memoir published in 1948.
Start of a Team
        Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming young performer, George C. Scott.
Major success began after the 1958 Greenwich Village Circle in the Square production of Edwin Justus Mayer's "Children of Darkness," in which she appeared with another up-and-coming performer, George C. Scott.
Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
DIVERSE ROLES, MAJOR AND MINOR
        Theater The Taming of the Shrew, 1956 Children of Darkness, 1958 Antony and Cleopatra, 1959, 1963 Caligula, 1960 All the Way Home, 1961 Desire Under the Elms, 1963 Ballad of the Sad Cafe, 1963 More Stately Mansions, 1967 Hello and Goodbye, 1969 Mourning Becomes Electra, 1973 A Moon for the Misbegotten, 1974 Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?, 1977 You Can't Take It With You, 1983 My Gene, 1987 Ah, Wilderness!, 1988 Long Day's Journey Into Night, 1988  Television And Those She Left Behind Anne of Avonlea Anne of Green Gables As Is Between Two Women The Crucible Lantern Hill A Moon for the Misbegotten Murphy Brown No Exit The Price The Women's Room  Films The Nun's Story, 1959 Man on a String, 1960 A Fine Madness, 1963 The Last Run, 1971 Cowboys, 1972 McQ, 1974 Annie Hall, 1977 Ice Castles, 1978 When a Stranger Calls, 1979 Final Assignment, 1980 Tribute, 1980 The Dead Zone, 1983 Dying Young, 1991
      
She had exhibitions in major galleries in Paris, London and New York City.
Parabola, a quarterly magazine which Mrs. Dooling founded in 1976 in Manhattan, quickly earned a reputation as the major journal exploring myth and ancient spiritual traditions.
Although once dismissed as a minor writer because of her preoccupation with family life, Miss Ginzburg had seen her six works of fiction, a play ("I Married You for the Fun of It"), essays, a biography of the 19th-century novelist Alessandro Manzoni and translations of Flaubert and Proust recognized in recent years as the creations of a major artist.
Even in "Laura," which more than any other movie established her as a major star, Miss Tierney was faulted by some critics.

        Mary Vandergrift, a founder and longtime executive of Parke-Bernet Galleries auction house and for many years a major figure in international auctions, died in her sleep on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Jean Wade Rindlaub, one of the first American women to become a major advertising executive, died on Thursday at the Courtland Garden Health Center in Stamford, Conn. She was 87 years old and lived in Stamford.
Her friends included major fashion figures such as the designers Ben Zuckerman, Archie Davidow and Norman Norell.
" A Major Retrospective
        During her years in New York, Miss Abbott was an active freelance photographer.
In 1966 she moved to Maine, where she lived until her death, although she retained a connection to the city through a continuing association with the New York Public Library, which sponsored a major retrospective exhibition of her work in 1989.
Over the years Miss Abbott's work was the subject of many other exhibitions at major museums, including the Smithsonian Institution's Museum of History and Technology in Washington (1969) and the Museum of Modern Art in New York (1970).
