Her first major success came quickly, with ''Uncommon Women'' in 1977, produced by the Phoenix Theater.
A major movie presence for more than five decades, Shelley Winters turned herself from a self-described ''dumb blond bombshell'' in B pictures to a widely respected actress who was nominated four times for Academy Awards.
Building the center was a major achievement, but many of Dr. King's allies, particularly the leaders of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, said it was draining scarce resources.
She also headed China's first major ballet company, the Experimental Ballet Troupe, which was reorganized as the Central Ballet of China in 1959.
Ashton brought her to the public's attention with a major role as Pride in his ballet ''The Quest'' in 1943.
They had no thought for the unfeminine problems of the world outside the home; they wanted the men to make the major decisions.
Discouraged by her stepfather from pursuing a career in music, Ms. Caldwell entered the University of Arkansas as a psychology major.
Within a year she was a violin major at Hendrix College in Arkansas.

        Cindy Walker, a country songwriter whose pure, plainspoken lyrics of romance, heartbreak and picturesque prairies were recorded by major artists like Bing Crosby, Elvis Presley and Willie Nelson, making Top-40 country or pop charts more than 400 times, died on March 23 in Mexia, Tex.
''
        In 1968, she wrote in The American Journal of Archaeology, ''International legal action is needed because technical progress and the 'archaeology explosion' will destroy a major part of the ancient record in a frightening tempo.
'' She was a thoroughly trained musician, having studied the piano and viola when she was a voice major on scholarship at the Curtis Institute of Music in Philadelphia.
But the stress of her first major role also introduced the demons that would pursue her throughout her career.
Last year, one of her paintings from the 1940's was included in ''Surrealism USA,'' a major survey of American Surrealists at the National Academy Museum in New York.
      
Each of her major books led naturally to the next.
Her seemingly simple prescriptions for neighborhood diversity, short blocks, dense populations and a mix of buildings represented a major rethinking of modern planning.
George Balanchine cast Miss Dunham in a major role in ''Cabin in the Sky,'' a Broadway musical starring Ethel Waters, which he staged and choreographed in 1940.
Ms. Becker, a New York City public school teacher for 33 years, was a founder of the Fifth Avenue Peace Parade Committee, which on Oct. 16, 1965, sponsored one of the nation's first major demonstrations against the Vietnam War.
Yet she had had a public bout with breast cancer some years ago, which caused her to withdraw from, among other major performances, the premiere of Kaija Saariaho's opera ''L'Amour de Loin'' at the Salzburg Festival in 2000.
'' With this luminous, stylistically informed and emotionally true portrayal she showed that she could galvanize the Met's stage in a major role.
For the next decade her career thrived as she collaborated with the early-music conductor Nicholas McGegan and the Philharmonia Baroque Orchestra on a series of Harmonia Mundi recordings of Handel operas and oratorios (''Susanna,'' ''Theodora,'' ''Ariodante''); took part in Mr. Sellars's updated production of Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' and, later, his triumphant staging of ''Theodora'' at Glyndebourne; and worked with William Christie and other major musicians.
It was clear, though, that bridge would be a major element of her life.
) Mrs. Truscott competed in Buenos Aires and was one of the main accusers in a major bridge scandal involving cheating allegations against the British pair of Terence Reese and Boris Schapiro.
Unlike many directors of professional ballet troupes in the United States, Ms. Day was not a major choreographer, financial patron or even a former professional dancer.
Her work is in the collections of major museums, including the Guggenheim, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston.
She also instituted a major substance abuse program for prisoners and championed creation of the Texas lottery as a source of public school financing.
That association became a major recreational group.
In an interview quoted in the reference book Major Authors and Illustrators for Children and Young Adults, Ms. Daly recalled the special urgency -- akin to grasping quicksilver -- that gave rise to ''Seventeenth Summer.
When Ms. Levien herself began offering lessons in Duncan's work to younger students, she not only had them learn Duncan's way of moving and her choreography but also wove together classroom exercises with a running commentary on the arts and social issues of Duncan's time and the major influences that helped to shape Duncan's philosophy of movement.

        Patty Berg, the winner of a record 15 women's major golf championships and a founder of the Ladies Professional Golf Association, died yesterday in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 88.
Berg won the first United States Women's Open, in 1946, and she won the Titleholders Championship and the Western Open seven times each when they were major tournaments.
''Patty got kicked under the rug because of Babe,'' Mickey Wright, who is second on the career list with 13 major victories, once said.
Representative Patsy T. Mink of Hawaii had just urged the committee to make women's rights a major issue.
Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
In her first major successful season, 1952-53, she performed in 37 cities in the Unites States and Canada before an estimated 100,000 listeners.
''A young girl is on her way to Hollywood with a contract for one thousand dollars a week from a major film company in her pocketbook,'' Ms. Orr's story begins.
Ms. Allen played major roles in five Broadway shows and in six movies, appeared on numerous television shows, including ''Kojak'' and ''Mannix,'' and sang at the Stork Club in New York.
Among other major film roles, she played in ''Diamond Head'' with Charlton Heston, in ''Donovan's Reef'' with John Wayne and in ''From the Terrace'' with Paul Newman.
Their last major Broadway show was ''The Will Rogers Follies,'' a 1991 Ziegfeld-style extravaganza with music by Mr. Coleman, book by Peter Stone and direction and choreography by Tommy Tune.
