At a time when a segregated military provided few opportunities for blacks, Charity Adams was one of only two to hold a wartime rank in the Wacs as high as major.
The assignment of Major Adams as the battalion commander seemed a natural choice.
Major Adams recalled in her memoir that when a general inspecting her battalion was told that not all the women would be present, since some were working and others sleeping after a night shift, he responded, ''I'm going to send a white first lieutenant down here to show you how to run this unit.
''
        Major Adams replied, ''Over my dead body, sir.
''
        The general threatened to court-martial Major Adams for that remark, and she, in turn, prepared to file charges against him for disobeying a directive from Allied headquarters to refrain from language stressing racial segregation.
The matter was dropped by both sides, and the general later told Major Adams he had come to respect her.
While in England, Major Adams refused equipment from the Red Cross for a segregated recreational center -- the battalion had been permitted use of the same recreational area used by whites -- and persuaded members of the unit not to stay at a segregated Red Cross hotel in London while on leave.
Edith, the mother, also incurred the wrath of her father, Major Bouvier, by showing up at the wedding of her son dressed like an opera star, just as the ceremony ended.
''Did I really want to be told what a major motion picture was?

        Barbara Barker, a dance historian focusing on American classical ballet and dance in popular culture and the organizer of a major attempt to document the choreography of Agnes de Mille, died Thursday at her home in Sioux City, Iowa.
'' She portrayed the stolid Soviet commissar Ninotchka (one of Greta Garbo's major film roles), who yields to romance on a spree in Paris.
In the ensuing decades, she received, in addition to three Coty Awards and inclusion in the Coty Hall of Fame, major fashion awards from Neiman Marcus and Filene's, the National Cotton Award and both the silver and the vermeil medals of the City of Paris.
In the ensuing decades, she received, in addition to three Coty Awards and inclusion in the Coty Hall of Fame, major fashion awards from Neiman Marcus and Filene's, the National Cotton Award and both the silver and the vermeil medals of the City of Paris.
The films established the team's international reputation, with each one winning a major prize at the Cinéma du Réel festival, which honors documentaries.
Albert began courting Elizabeth himself, and Major Stuart ended up being summarily shipped off to work on an oil rig in Oklahoma.
Her parents were poor farmers, but she was able to attend high school with the help of scholarships offered to young women by Cadbury, the chocolate company, which was a major buyer of Ghana's cocoa crop.
Fifteen years later, Mr. Fuentes again publicly dissected Ms. Félix's personality, along with that of another major Mexican actress, Dolores del Rio, in a play, ''Orchids in the Moonlight.
One of her innovations was arranging interviews with major authors in broadcast studios, which saved the expense of travel and allowed dozens of interviews to take place in just a few hours.
She worked with scores of writers over the years but forged particularly close bonds with Erma Bombeck, Ray Bradbury and Robert B. Parker, who like many major writers would insist on working with Ms. Shapian.
Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the country's major private collections of 17th-century Dutch drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Bruegel.
Miss White edited Harper's from 1958 to 1971, at a time when there were only two major women's fashion magazines in America.

        Davida S. Herwitz, who built a major collection of modern art from India with her husband, Chester, died on Sunday in a hospital in Rockville, Md.
''I thought it was unreasonable to expect the city to cut a major artery and detour traffic through narrow streets,'' Mr. Koch said, ''but she proved her goal was not unrealistic.
Her first major assignment for The Times was the secret peace talks in Paris between Henry A. Kissinger and the North Vietnamese negotiator Le Duc Tho, which produced a short-lived cease-fire in Vietnam in 1973.

        Elizabeth Mongan, an expert in fine-art prints and drawings who helped to create a major collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on June 7 at her home in Rockport, Mass.

        Irène Lidova, a dance critic and producer who played a major role in founding creative ballet companies in postwar France, died on May 23 in Paris.
Roland Petit, one of the world's major choreographers, was an unknown dancer chafing under the strictures of the Paris Opera Ballet when Ms. Lidova presented his first ballets with another young dancer-choreographer, Janine Charrat in 1943 and 1944.
Her first major assignment for The Times was the secret peace talks in Paris between Henry A. Kissinger and the North Vietnamese negotiator Le Duc Tho, which produced a short-lived cease-fire in Vietnam in 1973.
Her first major success was playing the lead in ''Annie Get Your Gun'' in London in 1947.
''
        Her London success led to major Broadway roles.
A year ago, she bought at auction a major 1963 painting by the California-based artist Ed Ruscha, and last November she helped the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art acquire ''Splitting: Four Corners'' (1974), by Gordon Matta-Clark, which consists of parts of a house that the artist had sawn vertically in half.
      
'' It told the story of the women's baseball league established in 1943 as a substitute for the men's professional game if major leaguers were drafted.
He feared that major leaguers would be drafted; minor leaguers were already being called up.
The women's league was started in 1943 by Philip K. Wrigley, the chewing gum magnate and owner of the Chicago Cubs, as a substitute for major league baseball if major leaguers were drafted.
The women's league was started in 1943 by Philip K. Wrigley, the chewing gum magnate and owner of the Chicago Cubs, as a substitute for major league baseball if major leaguers were drafted.
She coached the Linden, N.J., Arians, a team in the Eastern Major Girls Softball League.
She was also a major player in coordinating the ''Tribute in Light,'' the temporary memorial near the World Trade Center site that so moved her she sobbed when the twin beams were switched on.
Mrs. Olmedo became the major collector of Riveras as well as Rivera's benefactor late in his life, thanks to her entrepreneurial acumen.

        Lillian Goldman, who made a major contribution to the reconstruction of the library at Yale Law School, in part because it was among the first law schools in America to admit women, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 80.
Miss Hawkins spent more than 30 years at the Sather Gate shop, which was a major supplier of books for schools and libraries.
By the time the battle ended in 1987, Ms. Lipton had won what she and other advocates considered a major civil rights battle.
She graduated from the University of California with an English major and experience in many campus demonstrations.
She began her stage career in fringe theaters, but soon moved on to the Royal National Theater and other major companies, and continued to act onstage after her film career took flight.

        Zara Nelsova, a prominent cellist who recorded Ernest Bloch's ''Schelomo'' for cello and orchestra with the composer conducting, and appeared with major orchestras in North America and Europe, died on Oct. 10 at her Manhattan home.
By the 1980's Lady Longford, who had begun public life as an ardent socialist, had become close to the royal family, and her next major biography was ''Elizabeth R,'' in 1983.

        Patricia Hochschild Labalme, an executive and a trustee of foundations that give major support to education and scholarly research as well as a scholar of the Renaissance, died on Friday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Dr. Kilbourn's discovery also made it increasingly important to protect the major concentration of gorillas, believed to be the largest left in the world, living in the nearby Odzala National Park, about 100 kilometers away over the border in Congo, by controlling access to them by humans and animals that might be carrying the virus.
She attended the State University of New York at Stony Brook as a mathematics major but spent the early 1970's in Paris studying movement and mime.
