
        Irene Diamond, who after a successful career scouting scripts and talent in Hollywood became a major benefactor of the arts and medical research in New York City, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
She also had a major London success with Jerome Kern's ''Music in the Air.

        Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg.
Mrs. Ginsburg was also a consultant and seller to Colonial Williamsburg, the Fashion Institute of Technology and other major institutions.
In that bitter struggle, Mr. Bridges's major adversary was Ed Flynn, president of the Pacific Maritime Association.
She felt a special affinity for Tudor, the British-born choreographer who created major productions for American Ballet Theater.
''
        It was not until two decades after she left the Met, however, that she was to receive major attention again in New York when, in 1974, the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater paid homage to her and Pearl Primus as pioneering black women in dance.
And the Hale family remains a major presence.

        Dame Wendy Hiller, the distinguished English stage and screen actress who was George Bernard Shaw's choice to play two of his most famous heroines, Eliza Doolittle and Major Barbara, died on Wednesday at her home in Beaconsfield, England.
Dame Wendy's performances were celebrated for spirit and integrity, and she became a major film personality despite only a handful of starring roles in movies.
She lived with her sister and brother-in-law in Pailin, where they were granted amnesty by the Cambodian government, after a major defection from Pol Pot and the remaining Khmer Rouge in 1996.
      
''
        In a career that began in the 1940's, Ms. Cruz sang with every major Latin bandleader and recorded more than 70 albums.
She appeared in several movies, and went through a Bombay university in order to be hired by a major studio, Bombay Talkies; it hired only college graduates.
He became a major influence in her life.
She had a major role in organizing the millennium summit meeting, as well as the responsibility for keeping feathers unruffled during the three-day gathering.
In 1998, Mrs. Reeves won the Chester A. Reynolds Award for major contributions to the Western way of life from the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City, one of two women to do so.
Mrs. Reeves graduated from Texas Women's University in Denton as a speech major and then attended the University of Texas School of Law, but left to take a job because her family was short of money in the Depression.
To qualify for an invitation to the 1950 nationals, she was required to first make a name for herself at one of the major preliminary grass-court events.
On Aug. 28, 1950, three years after Jackie Robinson had broken the color barrier in major league baseball, Gibson became the first black player to compete in the national tennis championship.
In 1997, when a Hamburg gallery held the first exhibition of her work in postwar Germany, Ms. Riefenstahl agreed to be interviewed by major German news weeklies even though she knew much of the questioning would be hostile.
Through foundations and in her own name, she also gave major gifts for AIDS research, hospice care, environmental causes, nuclear disarmament and programs to combat drug and alcohol abuse and hunger.

        Evan Ruderman, whose theatrical monologue about her own experience with AIDS was a major part of a documentary shown on public television in 1996, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
She systematized both the department's storage and its files, oversaw the installation of permanent galleries and period rooms, contributed to major exhibitions like ''The Arts Under Napoleon'' (1978) and guided acquisitions.
Her last major project, the Directors' Council, was established this year in Phoenix and New York.
Jenifer Greer Estess was born on Feb. 17, 1963, in Moline, Ill., and grew up in Harrison, N.Y. After graduating from New York University with a major in drama, she worked as an actor.
Mrs. Stevenson was responsible for several major innovations in her long tenure at the wing, which is primarily a service and education organization, building audiences for the stage as well as honoring excellence in the theater.
