Mrs. Loeb was a granddaughter of E. W. Scripps, a major figure in the creation of what became the Scripps-Howard newspaper chain.
She shifted to theater in the 1930's, studying at the Pittsburgh Playhouse and in New York at the Neighborhood Playhouse before joining Clare Tree Major's Children's Theater in 1934.
The two performed together for several years with the Major and Elwyn companies.
She also played a major role in founding New Dramatists in 1949, served for many years on its board and was its president in the early 1980's.
''To me, she seemed to know everything,'' said Helen Mattin, who almost seven decades ago began crossing Washington Avenue as an 8-year-old to take classes and is now a major benefactor to the garden.
''One of her major causes was always for labor to join with environmentalists,'' he said.

        Suzanne Gallo, a designer who created costumes for many of Merce Cunningham's major recent works, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan.
She was, for example, included in only one Whitney Biennial, in 1973, and is not represented in any of the city's four major museums.
Ms. Washburn was editor, with John S. Major, of ''World Poetry: An Anthology of Verse From Antiquity to Our Time'' (W. W. Norton, 1998), an updated and expanded version of Mark Van Doren's 1928 ''Anthology of World Poetry.
Her last major work, ''The Memoirs of Uliana Rooney'' (1994), was a multimedia opera with a libretto by Sonya Friedman that followed a female composer through the decades of the 20th century.
She played a major role in developing modern dance in another country after 1939, when the Mexican painter Carlos Merida arranged for her to perform in Mexico City.
''
        Soon Mrs. Glover became a courier for Pierre Kaan, a philosophy professor who was a major figure in the Resistance.

        Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington.
Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had lived in Alexandria, Va., since 1980, said her husband, Everett Jones, a retired Army major.
After the war, Major Barnes returned to Howard to complete her degree.
More recently, a single, ''House of Joy,'' became a major dance hit in Britain.
She continued to support it by serving as a member of the board of directors of the QCC Fund Inc., the school's major fund-raising organization; the ceremonial occasions committee, and the Alumni Association cabinet.
She married Desmond Fitzgerald, a major in the Irish Guards.

        Teri Thornton, a jazz singer who had started to resurrect her career after winning the Thelonious Monk International Jazz Competition in 1998 and being signed to a major record label for the first time in three decades, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in New Jersey.
'' Arnold Rampersad of Stanford University called her ''a major shaper and guide in the general area where the subjects of literature, race and feminism meet.
Although she was offered more than 150 parts, her last major role was that of an owner of a fashion magazine in ''Lady in the Corner,'' a 1989 television drama.
Under Ms. Gatling's leadership, the museum expanded the collection and held four or five major exhibitions each year.

        Helene Ritzerfeld, an internationally known executive of a major German publishing house, Suhrkamp Verlag, died on July 22 at her office desk in Frankfurt.
Ms. Willen said Frau Ritzerfeld was on excellent terms with all of Suhrkamp's major writers, including Max Frisch, the Swiss novelist, and Uwe Johnson, the German author and editor.

        Lyn Austin, an innovative theatrical producer who, as the founder and head of the Music-Theater Group, discovered, nurtured and produced the work of Martha Clarke, Julie Taymor, Richard Foreman and other major experimental theater artists, died on Sunday in New York after being struck by a taxi.
She kept, for example, a complete list of the best doctors in every major city on the East Coast in case actors got sick on the road, as well as a list of popular bars and restaurants.
With the new direction of her work and the lack of a major mainstream publisher, however, many of her subsequent books were brushed aside by reviewers for mainstream publications.
At Nonesuch she brought attention to areas of music neglected by the major labels, particularly contemporary music and American vernacular music.
She also issued important recordings of lesser-known works by Schoenberg, Busoni, Stravinsky and other major figures.
A bridge between the 19th-century tradition of gracious landscaping for grand estates and elegant modern design for postwar suburban homes, she also created many major public garden spaces.
''
        After a major planting of evergreens was completed by Mrs. Ireys, Ms. Williams recalled, ''the trees instantly looked as if they had been there for 50 years.
Her first single under her own name, ''They Don't Know,'' was released by Stiff in 1979; it later became a major hit for Tracey Ullman.
With the new direction of her work and the lack of a major mainstream publisher, however, many of her subsequent books were brushed aside by reviewers for mainstream publications.
