As the first City Ballet ballerina personally trained since childhood by Balanchine, she was naturally identified with his major works and the roles he created for her in them.
''
        At a time when few women were represented in the boardrooms of major American corporations, Mrs. McIntosh was a director of several companies, schools, foundations and civic groups.
Dr. Horstmann made significant scientific, educational and public health contributions, and her major scientific achievement was showing that the polio virus reached the brain by way of the blood, a finding that upset dogma and helped make polio vaccines possible.
She studied at the White Conservatory in Portland, where she pursued a double major in drama and speech.
In six years of touring most of the nation's major expositions, including the New York World's Fair in 1939, she was seen by millions.
''Well known, well photographed, made major appearances, as opposed to hicky little fairs.
''
        Dr. Coley is now often described as the founder of modern immunotherapy, a major cancer treatment.
As a result, she became what she termed ''a permanent guest artist'' with the company from 1946 to 1960, creating roles in such major works as Limón's ''Moor's Pavane'' (1949) and Humphrey's ''Ruins and Visions'' (1953).
Invited to join the Kirov, she danced with that company until 1970, performing in the classics and the premieres of major Soviet ballets including Leonid Jakobson's version of ''Spartacus'' and Yuri Grigorovich's ''Legend of Love.
Ms. Converse said she had appeared on stages in every major city in the United States and Canada and ''in most of the towns in between, any town that had a stage and would have me.
The foundation was a major contributor to the renovation of the 19th-century paintings galleries at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and Mrs. Levin's name is on one of the galleries.

        Dame Ninette de Valois, the founder of England's Royal Ballet and a major British choreographer, died yesterday at her home in London.
She danced in London productions and studied with some of the major teachers of the day, including Edouard Espinosa, Nicholas Legat and Enrico Cecchetti.
This troupe was reorganized in several forms over the years and was the forerunner of today's Birmingham Royal Ballet, a major British company.
One of her major goals was to attract more blacks and Hispanics to the volunteer overseas service organization.
One major point of disagreement was Mr. Brown's proposal to send volunteers for short periods to developing countries and then bring back the skills they had learned to fight poverty in the United States.
Dr. Manuel Trujillo, Bellevue's director of psychiatry, said that many of those admitted suffered from two major psychiatric disorders and were among ''the most severely mentally ill patients in the city.
Her major research interest was suicide prevention.
She said that afterward, BBC regarded her as ''our Irene'' and turned aside her agent's efforts to have her cast in other major roles.
For about 30 years, she shuttled between the advertising world, where she worked with Helena Rubenstein, Elizabeth Arden and Leona Helmsley, and magazine editing, where she became a colleague of major fashion figures, including Diana Vreeland and Carmel Snow.
She was a major collaborator with Frank Corsaro, the opera director, in the mid-1970's, helping to develop  systems to meld lighting, film and projections in multimedia productions for the New York City Opera and Opera Society of Washington.
That vote is considered a major triumph for freedom of the press.
But there was a major hurdle.
''
        Mrs. Gelb scored a major coup when she persuaded her friend Antoine, the Paris hairdresser whose clients included Greta Garbo and Claudette Colbert, to color several wigs with Clairol and place them in Saks Fifth Avenue's windows.
''
        Si Newhouse Jr.'s Condé Nast is a major underwriter of the organization's annual fund-raising gala in October.

        Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan.
One of her major grievances, she said, was that although she had fully participated in their art purchases, her husband tried to take sole credit for them.
But she never recorded for a major label; her temperament was decidedly unlike a diva; and outside of the small period of time around ''Don't Go to Strangers,'' she never commanded high concert fees.
She also made movies with major stars like Peter Sellers in ''The Naked Truth'' (1957) and Alec Guinness and Gina Lollobrigida in ''Hotel Paradiso'' (1966).
This did not keep her from being a major Brünnhilde and a celebrated Isolde in her prime.

        Helen Schneider, who with her husband gave major philanthropic support to charities, especially children's hospitals, died on Saturday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
