
        Edna Morris, prominent in thoroughbred racing and social circles for more than 50 years and a major fund-raiser for the Girl Scouts of Greater New York, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
When she was 5, her family  moved to Kenya, taking possession of a 500-acre coffee farm that Major Grant had bought on a whim in the bar of a Nairobi hotel.
They arrived on an ox cart, worked full time on the plantation and had major swings in financial fortune; when they ran out of money for gas, for instance, they had to use oxen to pull the farm truck.
Major Grant and his wife, now the owners of a pig and maize farm, had hoped that their daughter would eventually return to Kenya.
As a member of Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, Ms. Rostova achieved critical acclaim in 1932 when, at 16, she danced the mysterious Hand of Fate pas de deux with Valentin Froman in the premiere of ''Cotillon,'' one of George Balanchine's major early works.
Ms. Piper also wrote a play, ''The Diary of a Seducer,'' based on Kierkegaard, as well as the librettos for Malcolm Williamson's ''Easter'' and several operas by the Welsh composer Alun Hoddinot, including ''What the Old Man Does Is Always Right,'' ''The Rajah's Diamond'' and ''The Trumpet Major.
In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black choreographers who later became major modern dance artists, among them Kei Takei, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar and Bill T. Jones.
She made many recordings for RCA in the 1940's and edited the published scores of several major cello works.
She received a bachelor of arts degree in 1940 from Smith College, where she was a philosophy major.
It was opened in 1944; Mrs. Hewitt planned and supervised a major renovation in 1969.
      
Soon after their daughter's birth, Major Boxer was captured by the Japanese and put in a prison camp.
Major Boxer survived his captivity.
She and her husband often lived an ocean apart,  with Ms. Hahn, because of British tax laws, spending no more than 91 days a year in England while Major Boxer remained at their home in Little Gaddesden, Hertfordshire.
After her death, a former editor of The Observer, Donald Trelford, wrote in The Guardian that she was ''the first female political correspondent of a major British newspaper'' and ''had one of the most distinguished careers any woman has had in British journalism.
''There have always been a lot of cases about sexual content, and currently the major topics of concern seem to be homosexuality, witchcraft and the occult.
So much has been written about the hard life on the the mean streets of Harlem, it may seem surprising that the first major literary work to focus on that life would be a first novel by a woman who not only had not grown up there but whose exposure to Harlem street culture had been limited to nine months working with an experimental after-school program on West 116th Street.
She also held virtually every other major office in Hadassah, which was founded in 1912 and grew into the world's largest Zionist organization.
Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
Still, if there were no major leagues for women, there was Roller Derby, and from the time she attended a tryout in Los Angeles when she was still a teen-ager, she was hooked by the sport.
As a Barnard economics major whose sole exposure to anthropology had been an introductory course during her senior year, Miss Goldfrank, a Manhattan native whose maiden name was Schiff, would hardly seem to have had the credentials to go sashaying off to New Mexico at the age of 24 as a front-line scientific investigator.
Ms. Streibert played a major role in negotiating where the museum's shows would tour worldwide, scheduling them in places from Cologne to Mexico City.
She also ran the District of Columbia Commission on the Status of Women and advised the National Academy of Sciences on child development, working on issues that had been a major concern since she was a child.
It was a task that had its surreal moments, like the time she participated in a White House conference whose major concern seemed to be whether Playboy clubs would be forced to hire men as ''bunnies.

        Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious, a Chicago lawyer who held high posts in the Nixon and Bush Administrations, was active in the civil rights movement and was on the boards of major corporations, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
But afterward, The Sun-Times reported, she could not obtain office space, no major white law firm would employ her, and the Chigago Bar Association would not admit her as a member.
Helen Jacobs was a champion in her own right, winning nine major championships, including the United States national title four straight times from 1932-35 and the Wimbledon singles in 1936.
''
        The two produced another enthralling final in a major championship: the Wimbledon title match in 1935.

        Evelyn Fortune Bartlett, an art patron who was a major benefactor of the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Tuesday at her home in Beverly, Mass.
''It was a very, very major contribution.
Presentations of the Hallmark television series, sponsored by the greeting card company, almost always had an uplifting ending and were shown about five times a year, usually two weeks before major holidays.
Six years later she received a teaching certificate, strapped on a six-shooter and set out for the town of Presidio on the Rio Grande, a major crossing point for Pancho Villa's raiders.
''She was a major person in representing designers,'' said Ming Cho Lee.

        Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years.
''
        Her donation to the Toronto Public Library of more than 50,000 books and periodicals formed the basis of the Merril Collection of Science Fiction, Speculation and Fantasy, one of the major research libraries in the field.
Her Chekhov translations included ''Selected Stories'' (1960), ''The Major Plays (1964) and ''Ward Six and Other Stories''(1965).
After her father's death in the 1940's, Mrs. Slewett became a major figure in the institution.
As a committee chairman, she advocated the idea that the group support the expansion of a vocational educational program from a small high school to a major college, the Hadassah College of Technology in Jerusalem.
She and her husband, William Durney, established the Durney Vineyard, a major California producer of wine.

        Virginia A. Dwyer, a former senior vice president for finance at the AT&T Corporation and one of the first women to gain a top position at a major American company, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
She also made several Latin American tours and was a soloist with many of the major American orchestras.
With her husband accommodatingly commuting between Milwaukee and their new home in Bethesda, , Dr. Miller developed major historical exhibitions.
Noting that Shylock appeared in only 5 of the 20 scenes and had only 30 major speeches, she called the role ''a comparatively scanty part'' -- one that, perhaps more than any other in Shakespeare, was at the mercy of the actor.
Janet Hooker's name is also on a plaque listing the major donors to the restoration of the house and gardens of the painter Claude Monet in Giverny, France.
According to a 1990 article in Forbes Magazine, Mrs. Hooker and two of her sisters, Esther Simon and Lita Hazen, both now deceased, were major beneficiaries of the sale.
Later, her major contributions reflected her interest in the decorative arts.

        Dawn Steel, the first woman to head a major movie studio and who played a prominent role advancing other women to top jobs in Hollywood, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here.
'' She became the first woman to head a major studio when she held the top job at Columbia Studios from October 1987 until January 1991.
On Monday, in a major ruling against the Giuliani administration, she found that city officials had violated New York magazine's free speech rights when they pulled satirical advertisements from buses.
