She wrote three books that pointed to major inconsistencies in the United States Government's findings in the assassination of President John F. Kennedy: ''Subject Index to the Warren Commission Report'' (1966), ''Accessories After the Fact: The Warren Commission, the Authorities and the Report'' (1967) and ''Master Index to the J.F.K.
In 1945 she was commissioned a major in the Army and sent to Germany.
She is credited with being a major force in reviving the German theater after World War II.
She is credited with being a major force in reviving the German theater after World War II.
'' The 1971 biography of Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell, a hard-driving American officer who played a major role in China during World War II, was combined with a history of modern China.
She became the director in 1983, when it was still unusual for a woman to be the sports-information director for a major college athletic program.
In recent years, she and Mr. Logan toured widely, often with their children, in a revue called ''Musical Moments,'' which featured songs from major shows Mr. Logan directed, including ''South Pacific,'' ''Paint Your Wagon'' and ''Bus Stop.
Linguistics was accepted as a major area of study during that time.
It was a major national event when, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy Ricardo gave birth to Little Ricky on the air the same night Lucille Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz y de Acha 4th.
Paintings acquired for the museum during her years as curator included major works by Poussin, Washington Allston and Thomas Cole, and she and Adelyn Breeskin were instrumental in securing the world-famous Cone collection of paintings and sculptures by Henri Matisse and others, Her gift for organizing scholarly exhibitions with wide popular appeal found outlet in ''The Age of Elegance: The Rococo and Its Effects'' (1959) and ''From El Greco to Pollock'' (1968).
Miss Murphy was responsible for the five major university libraries.
She was Lord Custodian of the Great Shrine of Ise, a major Shinto shrine in western Japan, for 14 years.

       Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company died Tuesday.
Dorothy Stimson Bullitt, a major figure in Pacific Northwest broadcasting and founder of the King Broadcasting Company died Tuesday.
Seven years later she became the first woman to conduct an opera performance by a major New York company when she led the New York Hippodrome Opera production of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel.
She was also a major supporter of the Santa Fe Opera and the Spoleto Festival in Italy.
The parties that heralded the openings each fall became major New York events where figures prominent in art, social and fashion circles mingled for dinner and dancing in the museum; the evening was capped by a stroll through the exotically lighted display halls with appropriate music and the flash of photographers' lights.
''
        She was an early enthusiast on the subject of keeping fit, and the magazines she edited were filled with articles on exercise, skin and hair care and grooming long before these topics became major obsessions.

       Mona Ewell, an intelligence analyst at the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration, died of leukemia Sunday at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 36 years old and lived in Sterling, Va.
        Mona Ewell, an intelligence analyst at the Federal Drug Enforcement Administration, died of leukemia Sunday at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 36 years old and lived in Sterling, Va.
        Mrs. Ewell, working from secret agency reports and wiretaps, traced heroin and money-laundering conspiracies in recent major Mafia racketeering prosecutions, including the ''pizza connection'' case in New York.
Her concert tours took her all over the world, and she sang with virtually every major orchestra and conductor in such works as Bach's B-minor Mass, Beethoven's Mass in C and Ravel's ''L'Enfant et les Sortileges.

       Lydia Winston Malbin, an art collector and patron who assembled a major collection of modern European art, died on Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
Lydia Winston Malbin, an art collector and patron who assembled a major collection of modern European art, died on Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
Mrs. Malbin's collection, known for its concentration on the work of the Italian Futurists, has been widely exhibited and much sought after by major museums.
Rosa Conde, the Minister of Communications and spokeswoman for Prime Minister Felipe Gonzalez, rushed to the hospital upon the announcement of the death and said afterward that Mrs. Ibarruri was ''a historic figure'' and probably ''the major symbol of the tragedy of Spain in a good part of the 20th century.
'' 'To Know How to Adapt'
        In what may have been her last major statement, Mrs. Ibarruri reflected her own political mellowing late in life when she told the 12th Party Congress in February 1988: ''Life doesn't stop.
''
        The burial ceremony is sure to be a major political event here.
A major film role was as Natalie Wood's smothering mother in ''Splendor in the Grass'' (1961).
