She maintained the Menil Foundation's commitment to two major scholarly enterprises -- the catalogue of the complete works of Magritte, by David Sylvester, and of Max Ernst, by Werner Spies.
The council published ''Standards for Dance Major Programs'' of colleges in 1979, leading to a national dance certification program.

        Martha Ellis Gellhorn, who as one of the first female war correspondents covered a dozen major conflicts in a writing career spanning more than six decades, died on Sunday at her home in London.
Later, at Bryn Mawr, Ms. Gellhorn changed her major from English to French, which became useful for her  journalistic work in Europe.
In 1979, observing that foreign aid generally alleviated major needs but left smaller ones untouched, the couple set up their own charitable trust fund, called NEEDS (Neighbors Everywhere for Education and Development).
She was a major contributor to the volumes on painting in the complete catalogue of the collection, published in 1965, and wrote the section on sculpture in ''Art in The Frick Collection,'' published by Abrams in 1996.
During his lifetime, she made important contributions to Jung's major studies, particularly his inquiries into the psychology of medieval alchemy.
The Modern received eight major paintings, by artists like Utrillo, Picasso and Seurat, from Mr. Whitney's estate, and Yale received six paintings, valued at $5 million at that time.
''I already had a major success in Europe.
Today, variations of the method are used by major packaged goods marketing companies such as Procter & Gamble.
She was recognized as a major figure in country music, with younger performers, including Emmylou Harris and Vince Gill, appearing on her albums.
She was recognized as a major figure in country music, with younger performers including Emmylou Harris and Vince Gill appearing on her albums, but her songs reached the Top 20 less often.
Her doctoral dissertation, ''Pressure Politics in New York'' (Prentice Hall, 1937) was one of the first major studies of lobbying in New York State politics and it was reprinted in 1967.
When the collection was shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York in 1989-1990, it was widely remarked that the Gelmans' major paintings by Balthus, Bonnard, Braque, Derain, Juan Gris, Fernand Leger, Joan Miro, Matisse, Picasso and others would ideally complement the Met's own 20th-century holdings.
Major examples of Leger, Max Ernst, Miro, Jean Dubuffet and late Picasso resulted.
Mrs. Lipman was a pioneering collector and proponent of American folk art who conceived and organized two major exhibitions for the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan, ''Young America: A Folk-Art History'' in 1986 and ''Five-Star Folk Art: One Hundred American Masterpieces'' in 1990.
More recently, Mrs. Lipman was a major donor to the Museum of American Folk Art: among her gifts is an important blanket chest attributed to the Vermont workshop of Thomas Matteson (circa 1825).
She left Art in America in 1970 and in 1971 became editor of publications at the Whitney, where she also was a co-curator of several major exhibitions.
''
        In her major scene, she resumes drinking after her husband (Lloyd Nolan) has repeatedly berated her for flirting with a young television crewman while the couple were acting in a commercial.
Ms. Pfeffer's achievements included her prosecution of 29 organized-crime figures in a major drug-trafficking case in 1994 and helping run a sensitive Justice Department investigation into allegations that high officials of the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service had deliberately misled Congress about overcrowding and security problems in the agency's Florida operations.
Galina Brezhnev was never involved in politics but she figured in some major scandals in the last years of Soviet power.
Mr. Styron made it a major setting for his 1960 novel, ''Set This House on Fire,'' and it was there that Mr. Matthiessen and Harold L. Humes founded The Paris Review, summoning Mr. Matthiessen's boyhood friend, George Plimpton, from his studies at Cambridge University to run it.

        Gisella Caccialanza, a major American ballerina with George Balanchine's first New York company and with the San Francisco Ballet, died on Thursday in Seton Hospital in Daly City, Calif. She was 83 and lived in San Bruno, Calif.
Mrs. Blumkin's own nominee for the nation's greatest businessman was her son, Louis, who became her major ally in running the Furniture Mart after returning from military service in World War II.

        Minerva Bernardino, a major force behind the founding of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women and a pioneer among Latin American feminists, died on Aug. 29 in the Dominican Republic.
After Mr. Godin was elected to the province's assembly in 1976, the year the separatist party won control of the provincial government, she appeared regularly at major separatist rallies, leading huge crowds in song and fiery speeches.
She played a major role in fighting for women's rights and in obtaining the right to abortion in predominately Catholic Quebec.
Though Dr. Calderone saw serendipity as a major architect of her success, she did not always lead a charmed life.
But it was through her husband that she became an major influence in establishing friendly relations between the United States and Japan.
''She had a major role in helping him shape U.S. policy,'' he said.
At the museums, which she joined in 1988, Ms. Baer was the curator of three major exhibitions: ''Paris Modern: The Swedish Ballet, 1920-1925'' in 1995-96, which traveled to the McNay Art Museum in San Antonio and the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan; ''Theater in Revolution: Russian Avant-Garde Stage Design, 1913-1935'' in 1991-92, also at the I.B.M.
''One of her major secrets was somehow being in the right place at the right time with the right goods,'' Ms. Kleinhans said.
For 15 years, she was a member of the board of the Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, a major recipient of her philanthropies.
For 15 years, she was a member of the board of the Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, a major recipient of her philanthropies.
In addition to solving the soak-through diaper problem, Mrs. Donovan, made another major advance in diaper technology: replacing the optimistically named safety pins with plastic snaps.
'' She also found work in the theater and was invited to join the Comedie Francaise, but she left after two years, complaining that she was being overlooked for major roles.
After the war, she appeared in 200 performances of ''L'Aigle a Deux Tetes'' before taking on another major role, which she would also perform again and again, as Yse in ''Partage de Midi.
She sold that idea to a major toy manufacturer in 1958 for $5,000.
There, Ms. Youshkevitch created one of the two soloists' roles in ''Chopin Concerto,'' considered Nijinska's major neoclassical work.
''
        While still a teen-ager, Ms. Beriosova was given major roles in classical and contemporary ballets.
In her prime, Miss Hervey appeared with some of Hollywood's major names, including Bing Crosby in ''East Side of Heaven,'' Lionel Barrymore in ''The Stranger's Return,'' Alan Ladd in ''Chicago Deadline,'' Raymond Burr in ''A Cry in the Night,'' Burgess Meredith in ''San Francisco Docks'' and William Powell in ''Mr.
She created roles in some of Mr. Cunningham's major early works, among them ''Crises,'' ''Rune'' and ''Nocturne.
Frequently she had solicitations to join major talent agencies, but she remained fiercely independent and placed great emphasis on personal loyalty.
''
        She is survived by her sister, Janet Sovin of Berkeley, Calif., and her brother, David, of Huntington Station, N.Y.
        Ms. Roberts's major passions were theater and horses.
