As collectors, the Avnets focused primarily on Old Master and Modern drawings, assembling major holdings in 20th-century drawings by European and American artists.

        Jarmila Novotna, a Czech-born lyric soprano who sang major roles at the Metropolitan Opera from 1940 to 1956, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
She continued her studies in Milan and became a member of the Vienna State Opera from 1933 to 1938, eventually singing opera and concerts in most of the major houses of Europe.

        Tiana Lemnitz, a German soprano who was a major interpreter of opera and lieder in Europe after World War I, died on Feb. 5 in Berlin.
She sang many of the major lyric and lyric-dramatic roles, including Pamina in "Die Zauberflote," Elisabeth in "Tannhauser," Donna Anna in "Don Giovanni," Agatha in "Der Freischutz," Tatiana in "Eugene Onegin," Elsa in "Lohengrin," Eva in "Der Meistersinger," Micaela in "Carmen," Octavian and the Marschallin in "Der Rosenkavalier" and the title role in "Jenufa.
"
        In addition, Mrs. Lasker strove to persuade Federal, state and city officials and legislators to provide more funds for medical research on major killing and crippling diseases.
Among her other major hits were "The Gypsy" (1946), "The Anniversary Song" (1947), "Buttons and Bows" (1948) and "Dear Hearts and Gentle People" (1949).
Her deep contralto and flamboyant vocal flights made her a leading performer of the 1930's and 40's, and she was a major influence on singers like Mahalia Jackson.
She directed five major archeological excavations in southeastern Europe.
She sang many major roles in operas produced by Uruguay's Symphony Orchestra.
She is survived by her husband, Charles F. Leonard Jr., a retired major general; three sons, Michael, of Washington, Col. Henry A., of Fort Riley, Kan., and Prof. Herman B., of Cambridge, Mass.

        Helen Wolff, an American editor and publisher whose taste and talents led to the acquisition and publication of major works of literature, died yesterday at her home in Hanover, N.H. She was 88.
A major turning point occurred at the 1956 Cannes International Film Festival, where she met Mr. Dassin.
As the line-for-line program grew in acceptance, it included some of the major design names in Europe.
She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000.
Arden Fingerhut designed the lighting for such major productions as "Da," "Bent," "Hay Fever," "Plenty" and "Driving Miss Daisy.

        Jeanne Mitchell Biancolli, a violinist who appeared as a soloist with the New York Philharmonic and other major orchestras, died on Monday at the Albany Medical Center Hospital.
Inspiration for Masefield
        Another major Ballets Russes choreographer, Michel Fokine, coached her in some of his ballets, among them "Les Sylphides," which she danced with several companies.
" Her other major collections were "Westward" (1990, Knopf) and "A Silence Opens" (1994, Knopf).
Nor did major surgery for cancer in 1991.
Earlier, she became the first woman to head a major American bank, the Trenton Trust Company.

        Catherine Filene Shouse, the philanthropist and arts patron who was the founder and major benefactor of the Wolf Trap Farm Park for the Performing Arts in Virginia, died yesterday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 98 and also had homes in Washington, Easton, Md., and Vienna, Va., where Wolf Trap is situated.
Known for an eye as sharp as her opinions, she was a front-row observer to the major fashion shows in Europe as well as in Manhattan, watching for trends that major retailers could adapt into affordable clothes.
Known for an eye as sharp as her opinions, she was a front-row observer to the major fashion shows in Europe as well as in Manhattan, watching for trends that major retailers could adapt into affordable clothes.
"
        Among Professor Oppenheim's other books was "The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914" (Cambridge, 1985), which the journal Victorian Studies called "a major contribution to the history of ideas.
