''She is probably the single most important person in leading to this major change in breast surgery,'' Dr. Chabner said.
Made famous by ''Weekend,'' Mr. Godard's 1966 classic about a group of people taking to the roads to escape a riot-torn Paris, Miss Berto went on to play a major role in Alain Tanner's ''Middle of the World'' (1974), to play Celine in Jacques Rivette's ''Celine and Julie Go Boating'' (1974) and to co-star with Bulle Ogier in Mr. Rivette's ''Duelle'' in 1976.
'' Of her performance as a wealthy Australian who lusts after a young priest, John J. O'Connor of The New York Times concluded, ''When it comes to the big moments, she demonstrates the kind of disarming toughness that made her a major movie star.
'' Of her performance as a wealthy Australian who lusts after a young priest, John J. O'Connor of The New York Times concluded, ''When it comes to the big moments, she demonstrates the kind of disarming toughness that made her a major movie star.
Chess for Central Park
        Although Mrs. Sulzberger's major interests were her family and The Times, she embraced a number of civic and educational institutions.
The beat, on Aug. 23, 1944, was an account by James Reston of secret decisions by four major powers - the United States, the Soviet Union, Britain and China - on the future structure of the United Nations, including the concept of veto power in the Security Council.
Her first major theatrical role was as Sarah Undershaft in George Bernard Shaw's ''Major Barbara'' in 1921.
Miss Li was promoted to major general in 1955 and until 1988 was the only woman serving as a general in the Chinese Army, China Daily said.
Mysterious and aloof, she appealed to both men and women, and she exerted a major influence on women's fashions, hair styles and makeup.
Meanwhile, the European market, which provided the major income from her pictures, was largely cut off by World War II, and M-G-M refused to meet her salary demands.
The actress, a former fashion model and showgirl, made her first major screen appearance in 1936 as a waterfront waif befriended by a forsaken assembly-line worker (played by Chaplin) in ''Modern Times,'' the last silent comedy feature.
''
        Runner-Up for Scarlett
        The last of these roles was a consolation prize for the major disappointment of her acting career: losing the coveted part of Scarlett O'Hara to Vivien Leigh in the final round of the ''Gone With the Wind'' competition.
''
        Powers Model and Ziegfeld Girl
        Paulette Goddard was born Marion Levy in Great Neck, L.I., on June 3, 1911, according to major film refererence works.
She was the major sponsor of a bill barring discrimination in public accommodations, and helped to repeal Maryland's miscegenation ban.
Fashion designers have been major contributors to the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research.
Mrs. Salvatori also made major gifts to the University of Southern California, the Marlborough School, Childrens Hospital of Los Angeles, St. John's Hospital, the Hospital of the Good Samaritan and the Los Angeles Mission.
Mr. Robbins described Miss Dunn yesterday as a ''very, very special dancer,'' adding that she had been outstanding earlier in choreography by Jack Cole, considered the major pioneer of jazz dance in musicals.
Remaining with it until it disbanded three years later, she created roles in such major Robbins ballets as ''New York Export: Opus Jazz'' and ''The Concert.
In 1963 she scored her first major success, as Countess Adele in Rossini's ''Count Ory.
Miss McRae was one of several teachers and choreographers who, from the 1920's to the early 1960's, helped make Chicago a major ballet center, one that, in the 20's and 30's, occasionally rivaled New York City in importance.

       Esther Lucile Brown, an author, educator and social anthropologist whose contributions led to major changes in nursing education and practice, died July 6 at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco.
Esther Lucile Brown, an author, educator and social anthropologist whose contributions led to major changes in nursing education and practice, died July 6 at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco.
Mrs. Baum became president of the company, a major wholesale paper distributor, in 1983, after the death of her husband, Gerald, whose parents founded the company.
She did one or two films at each of the major studios before signing her long-term contract with Fox.
A Turn to the Present
        But among many Gestalt therapists, Laura Perls was seen as the mainstay of the movement, heading the major Gestalt training institute in New York City for almost 40 years, and an unacknowledged contributor to the early books by her husband that formulated the approach.
While the method met with intense opposition and criticism from analysts in its early days, Gestalt therapy is now recognized as a major approach to treating emotional problems, and its methods are widely employed even among therapists of other schools.
She donated tens of millions of dollars to philanthropy, a major part going to the medical field.
The actress later received accolades for two major wartime dramas, ''A Guy Named Joe,'' with Spencer Tracy and Van Johnson, and ''The White Cliffs of Dover.
''
        Active in Philanthropies
        Miss Dunne was miscast in her last major film, ''The Mudlark,'' in 1950, for which her chiseled features were obliterated by the makeup she wore to play a frumpy elderly Queen Victoria.
''
        In her last major film, ''The Mudlark,'' in 1950, for which her chiseled features were obliterated by makeup, she played a frumpy, elderly Queen Victoria.
She was a major force in gaining designation of the Greenwich Village Historic District two decades ago.
Role for Vincent Price
        The film, released in 1946, was adapted by Joseph L. Mankiewicz and was his first directorial effort; it established him as a major force in movies and set a villainous style for Mr. Price that he was to repeat many times.
Her major work, "The War Against the Jews," postulates that the destruction of the Jews was a central and inescapable element in Nazi ideology and was always a principle war aim of Hitler, just as important as his military conquest of Europe.
Miss Bennett got her basic training playing opposite such major stars as Ronald Colman in "Bulldog Drummond" (her first important role, at the age of 19 in 1929), George Arliss in "Disraeli" (1929) and John Barrymore in "Moby Dick" (1930).
In 1938, two years before they were married, he made "Algiers," a major hit that introduced Hedy Lamarr to American audiences.
Later in 1951, Miss Bennett was a principal in a major Hollywood scandal.
"
        She also lent her presence and prestige to television's top gothic soap opera, "Dark Shadows," which ran from 1966 to 1971 and attracted a major cult following.
Her major early setback was a final-round loss of the role of Scarlett O'Hara to Vivien Leigh.
In recent years, the couple donated pieces from their collection of Chinese ceramics or promised them as gifts to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where a major portion of the collection was exhibited in the summer.
It is one of only three major holdings of Chinese ceramics given or promised to the museum since World War II.
