In the 1930's Mrs. Light married J. Paul Getty, the oil magnate.
In 1960, she married Dr. Ruldolph Light, an heir to the Upjohn Pharmaceutical Company and a professor of neurosurgery.
      
In 1937 she married Homer Hargrave, a stockbroker, her third husband, and ended her film career.
She had previously been married to a film producer, John McCormick, and a New York broker, Albert F. Scott.
In 1983 she and Mr. Maginot were married.
Miss Moore was married three times.
In 1983 she and Mr. Maginot were married.
Musical Tributes, as Well
        Ms. Kaye had been married first to the violinist Isaac Stern.
In Spanish Morocco
        She married Francisco Franco, then an up-and-coming army lieutenant colonel, on Oct. 22, 1923, and the couple left soon after for Spanish Morocco, where Franco was responsible for much of the conduct of the Riff Wars and where he built the military power base that served his successful uprising against the Republican Government.
She was married to Louis German, who died in 1969.
She married Menachem Schneerson, her third cousin, in Warsaw in 1928.
Mrs. Goldberg married Justice Goldberg in 1931.
At 22, she married Jorge Jenkins, a student dissident, and the couple spent a year in Italy, where he studied archeology and she banking law.
That year she married Arthur Krock, the four-time Pulitizer Prize winner, who for many years was the Washington columnist and bureau chief of The New York Times.
Miss Bishop was married in 1934 to Dr. Harold Wolff, a neurologist.
In 1941 Miss Hollister married Anthony Anable and after World War II they moved to Stamford.
In 1931 she married Dr. Robert S. Grinnell, a surgeon.
Mrs. Van Santvoord had been married to Thaddeus Reynolds Beal, the first president of the Hudson Gas and Electric Company.
After his death in 1933, she married George Van Santvoord, the late headmaster of the Hotchkiss School, a private preparatory school in Lakeville, Conn.
        She is survived by three children, John Wilkie Beal of Newburgh, Alger Dresel Beal of Bennington, Vt., and Alice Louise Curten of Hyde Park, N.Y.; 14 grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren.
      
She married the abstract painter George L. K. Morris in 1935 Under the name of Suzy Morris, she won considerable acclaim for several seasons as a soprano with the City Center Opera, making her debut in ''Ariadne auf Naxos'' in 1947.
She married John T. McCullough, a former picture editor at Time magazine, who died in 1978.
Although she never married, Miss Wilson was once described as cultivating a screen image of ''the soft, marrying kind of woman.
Mrs. Pincus was the widow of Dr. Gregory Pincus, one of the three ''fathers'' of the birth control pill, whom she married in 1924.
'' In 1920, however, she was married to Charles Nevelson, whose family was in the shipping business, and moved to New York.
'' After she had pawned the last relics of her comfortable married life, it would have been natural for her to apply to the Works Progress Administration for one of the mural or sculptural commissions for which she was well suited.
'' In 1920, however, she was married to Charles Nevelson, whose family was in the shipping business, and moved to New York.
'' After she had pawned the last relics of her comfortable married life, it would have been natural for her to apply to the Works Progress Administration for one of the mural or sculptural commissions for which she was well suited.
'' In 1920, however, she married Charles Nevelson, whose family was in the shipping business, and moved to New York.
'' After she had pawned the last relics of her comfortable married life, it would have been natural for her to apply to the Works Progress Administration for one of the mural or sculptural commissions for which she was well suited.
In 1921 she married William Reed, a director and stuntman, and the couple went to Australia in the late 1920's to make a series of westerns there.
She married Maj. Charles Rich of the Army, with whom she had a daughter, Jane.
In early 1950, when ''As the Girls Go'' was about to end its Broadway run, Miss Rich was married to George Henry Clifford, a businessman, and announced her retirement.
After her graduation in 1919, Mrs. Matthews, now married to a lawyer, Percy A. Matthews, applied to the Veterans Administration for a job as a lawyer.
In 1964, she married Dr. Howard Bellin, a plastic surgeon.
They were married in 1933.
In 1951, she married Vincent Glinsky, a sculptor, who was a founding member of the Sculptors Guild in Manhattan.
Married After Playwright's Death
        Pirandello died in 1936.
Two years later, Miss Abba married an American, S. A. Millikin, grandson of a Cleveland steel baron.
In 1947 she married an Air Force major, Robin Olds.
She sent a frisson through the trial when she described her obsessive love affair with Mr. Koischwitz, who was married.
'' Less than a month later she married the widowed Mr. Berlin, who was 15 years her senior and an immigrant Russian whose fame as a songwriter failed to impress the Mackay social circle.
''
        In 1927 she met and appeared opposite Mr. March in Molnar's ''The Swan,'' and they were married within the year.
They were married in 1946.
She was married in 1940 to Horace Brock, who died in 1981.
She married Charles Hodges, a New York University professor, and their rooftop loft on lower Fifth Avenue became a meeting place for New York intellectuals and artists in the 1930's and 40's.
They married and moved to California in 1941.
Married Into Wealth
        In 1927, Miss Dawn married Charles Gruwell, a mining engineer from Montana, reportedly ''one of the richest men in the West,'' and largely gave up her career, though she did appear on stage in ''Wonder Boy'' in 1931.
Married Into Wealth
        In 1927, Miss Dawn married Charles Gruwell, a mining engineer from Montana, reportedly ''one of the richest men in the West,'' and largely gave up her career, though she did appear on stage in ''Wonder Boy'' in 1931.
Mrs. Sullivan, the former Leonor Kretzer, began her political career after she married Representative John B. Sullivan in 1941.
She was married to Rudolph F. Malina, a research engineer, who died in 1970.
Mrs. Gerber, a native of Ithaca, Mich., who married Daniel Gerber in 1923, liked them and, more important, so did her 7-month-old daughter Sally.
In the 1930's, she married Winthrop Sargeant, who became the music and dance critic of The New Yorker magazine.
The Queen, an Egyptian, was married to the young Farouk in 1939.
Seeking a Sedentary Pursuit
        At 18, she married Dr. Herman Feinberg, who was her grandmother's physician.
She was later married to Dr. E. Cooper Person, who died in the mid-1940's, and to Richard Dwight Lunn, from whom she was divorced.
''
        She and Mr. Lowry married in 1940.
They were married in 1930; he died in 1971.
'' Married to Bevan
        She was born Janet Lee on Nov. 3, 1904 in Lochgelly.
Lady Lee was married in 1934 to Aneurin Bevan, a prominent Labor Party figure who was known as Nye.
It was there that she met, and married in 1941, Trevor Cresswell Lawrence Westbrook, an executive of the company that manufactured the Spitfire fighter plane.
And Ari Onassis, in 1968, married Mrs. Kennedy, the widow of President John F. Kennedy, whom he first met in 1963.
Marries Frenchman
        She married a French businessman, Thierry Roussel, in 1984 and had a daughter with him, Athina, the following January.
In 1932 she married Mr. Gottlieb, and began teaching tailoring skills at the Cental Needle Trades High School - now Fashion Industries High School.
She met her husband in 1928 and they were married the next year.
They married and opened a gallery on Fifth Avenue.
''
        After she married, Miss Kahane transformed her dining room into a library for Mr. Grauer's book collection.
Born Dorothy Pinto in London, she married Mr. de Rothschild in 1912.
