''
        Mrs. MacArthur, whom William Manchester, the MacArthur biographer, described as ''a poem of womanhood,'' married General MacArthur in New York in 1937.
''
        Mrs. Faircloth married again in 1907 and there were two children of that marriage to Frederick Smith -- Harvard Smith and Donna Angeline Smith.
She married Stephen B. Botsford, The New Yorker magazine's president from 1956 to 1961, in 1966.
She also performed in summer stock in Putney, Vt., and with Bob Elwyn's Maverick Theater in Woodstock, N.Y.
        Ms. Macdonald married C. Robin Batcheller, a fellow actor, in 1935.
She was married to John Ferraro, the Los Angeles City Council president, and had become a zestful participant in the city's life.
In 1942, Miss Hart, who was known for her flaming red hair and statuesque figure, married Seaman Block Jacobs, a comedy writer for Bob Hope, Lucille Ball, George Burns and others, and switched to legitimate theater.
They married in 1982.
She was president of Screen Smart Set, a support group for the Motion Picture and Television Home in Woodland Hills, Calif.
        She suffered an aneurysm and a stroke that left her partially paralyzed shortly after she married Mr. Ferraro, but continued to attend charity events in elegant, sometimes flamboyant fashions.
She married Jack Fromkin in 1948.
In 1941, she married John Devenney, and in 1956, the couple moved to Putnam Valley, N.Y., from which Mr. Devenney commuted to his draftsman's job in New York City.
She married Alfred Lippmann, an advertising executive, in 1929.
By the time ''Ecstasy'' had begun to make the rounds in Europe, Miss Kiesler  was married to the first of her six husbands, Fritz Mandl, a Viennese munitions maker who was then in the process of making a tidy fortune by selling his wares to the Nazis.
She divorced Mr. Markey the following year, complaining to a judge that they had been married for 14 months and that in all that time, he had spent only four evenings alone with her.
'' In the spring of 1943 she married the British actor John Loder.
She knew him six months before she married him.
In 1927 she married Wilhelm Schutte, and the couple moved to the Soviet Union in 1930.
''
        Ms. Hebert, who never married, often said she would have liked to have had children but could not reconcile the demands of writing with the demands of motherhood.
      
In 1942 she married a musician, Lyn Davies, against her father's wishes.
They were married in 1960 and teamed for several of his political campaigns, including the senator's 1988 stab at the Democratic presidential nomination.
While she was practicing negligence and criminal law, she married Max Greenberg, a 1919 New York University law graduate who became a highly successful expert in contract law; he died in 1980.
Married in 1929, the Mottahedehs began acquiring Oriental porcelains, ivories, jades and bronzes, amassing one of the world's finest private collections with some 2,000 pieces.
She married Doron Askhenazi, who survives her, in 1997.
During her early design years, she was married briefly to Robert Sterner, an art director.
She never married, perhaps because her social life was circumscribed by the mountains of work she habitually brought home.
Ms. Kenner-Jackson, who was married and divorced twice, is survived by four children, Antonio Kenner, Gary Kenner, Tracey Jackson, and Staci Jackson-Richardson, all of Sacramento; two sisters, Ernestine Francies of Passaic and Agnes Coley of Bloomfield, N.J.; a brother, Jeremiah Coley of Paterson, four grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      
Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and married the son of the man who would become president of France.
However, two years after their original meeting, they married at a small mountain chapel.
She married Dr. Charles Talbot Porter and reared four children while he practiced medicine in Pepperell, Mass., later moving to a house overlooking the sea in Damariscotta.
As a young woman, Ms. Finch settled in New York, where she married Thomas Finch in 1967; they were divorced a few years later.
According to The New York Times of Aug. 26, 1934, the two had attended a Friday night dinner party at the Colony restaurant in New York and decided to get married immediately.
They lived together for nine years, mainly in Capri and Rome, and were married in 1973.
The two were married, with cases of  Champagne to celebrate, despite Prohibition.
Ms. Converse married Mr. Cooper in 1933.
After his death in 1961 she married Dr. John Converse, a plastic surgeon, who died in 1981.
''
        She was married to Francis de Regniers, who worked as a manager  for Air France, and they lived in New York until his death in 1992.
She and Sidney J. Legendre married in 1929.
''
        Her agent, Nina Beskow, said that Ms. Freund had been briefly married ''for paper reasons.
Ms. Dlugoszewski was a prominent contemporary composer in her own right but also created scores for many signature works by Hawkins, to whom she was married.
She married her husband in 1938.
Two days later, she married Mr. Marriott, another University of Utah graduate, and the couple set off in a Ford Model T to Washington, where Mr. Marriott had just opened a root beer stand.
''
        Her second husband, Richard Howard, a director whom she married in 1969, said that Miss Kedrova, who had no other immediate survivors, made her last stage appearance in the early 1990's at the Chichester Festival and her last film in 1993.
The couple married and moved to White Plains in 1955.
In 1939 she married Patrick Hayes, a music administrator.
She was married to Clark Andrews, director of her radio show, from 1938 to 1942, when they divorced.
In 1943 she married Cylos Dunsmoore, a Navy lieutenant.
She married Dr. Milton Plotz in 1933.
She was married for six decades to Robert J. McDonald, who was a tax lawyer with the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell.
After graduating from Vassar in 1944 she met Mr. Tanner; they were married four years later, preventing her, she once remarked, from having ''wound up a very embittered ex-debutante.
''I do allow them to go to bed if they're married, but it's all very wonderful and the moon beams.
Although twice married and the mother of three, she did not really like being kissed or touched, wrote a biographer with whom she cooperated, Gwen Robyns.
She married Alexander McCorquodale in 1927.
They were divorced five years later, and although she said she did not like the McCorquodale family much, she married Hugh McCorquodale, Alexander's cousin, in 1936.
She married Desmond Fitzgerald, a major in the Irish Guards.
Yet despite the difficulties of her life as a young married woman, she refused to blame the delay in her writing career on her obligations as a wife and mother.
The next year, she married another naval officer, Chief Warrant Officer Francis L. Beardsley, whose wife had recently died of diabetes, leaving him with their 10 children.
When the Beardleys were first married, they lived in a two-story, four-bedroom house in Carmel, Calif. Later, using proceeds from the book and movie, they added a floor, five bedrooms and five bathrooms.
She never married.
Her husband, whom she married in 1937, died in 1997.
Mrs. Fowle is survived by her husband, Farnsworth Fowle, a retired New York Times reporter and former foreign correspondent, whom she married in Europe 49 years ago.
      
She married Mr. Ames in 1948.
In 1962 she married Arthur Cowen Jr., the chairman of the securities firm Cowen & Company.
After their divorce, she married D. Samuel Gottesman in 1944.
In 1932 she married Harry Rubin, who died in 1971; the couple's only child, Michael, died in 1959.
She was married in 1957 to Benjamin A. Gilman, a law partner and fellow Republican, and in 1972 worked in his successful campaign for Congress.
After her divorce that year from Representative Gilman, she married Manuel G. Guerreiro, a former judge on the Family Court of New York City, who died in 1994.
It was while acting in Shakespeare and Shaw at the Brattle Theater in Cambridge, Mass., that she met -- and then married -- Mr. Sparer.
She never married.
She never married.
She graduated from Smith College in 1926, and when she married a few years later, she told an interviewer, she could ''hardly make a meat loaf.
On the ship going to Antwerp, Alice Lord met Dick Landon, and the high-jumper and the diver were married two years later in a burst of publicity over their Olympic romance.
At 19, she married a  fellow patient, a social worker named Earl Martin.
After divorcing Mr. Martin, she married Cedric H. Belfrage, one of the founders of the leftist National Guardian.
In 1967, after her divorce from Mr. Belfrage, she married Mr. Schwartz, a banker who had helped her with financial matters.
Her espionage work was entwined with her romantic life, which included an affair with one of her spy chiefs; later she married a British Communist to become a British citizen and only later came to love him.
Soon afterward she met and married Rolf Hamburger, an architect.
She also helped start a fundraising campaign for Long Island Jewish Hospital in Hyde Park, N.Y.
        Mrs. Wulwick's first husband, Joseph S. Wohl, to whom she was married for 46 years, died in 1979.
She is survived by Sam Wulwick, whom she married in 1988; three daughters, Elinor Wohl of Manhattan, Nancy Drake of Aspen, Colo., and Vicki Greenberg of Lawrence, N.Y.; a son, Larry W. Wohl of Manhattan; a brother, Jack Jaffess of Miami; and seven grandchildren.
      
She met Mr. Thomas in Detroit, and they were married in 1936.
Born Dorothea Schlesinger in Munich in 1902, she studied piano and was tutored by her father, a lawyer, author and violinist who had married the daughter of a wealthy banker.
In 1950, she married a fellow refugee from Germany, Lawrence Grieg, known as Lolo.
She received a degree in nursing in 1926, and the next year married a cousin, Harry Holt.
She arrived in the United States in 1949, married Col. Sterling Loop Larrabee and settled in Chestertown, where she established a long association with Washington College.
In 1935 when the film was made, Miss Young was single and Gable was married to Ria Langham.
In 1940, she married Thomas H. A. Lewis, an advertising executive who later became a producer of her television series.
Her later years were quietly shared with her third husband, Jean Louis, a designer for Columbia Pictures, whom she married in 1994.
After leaving the Navy, Frieda Green married William Kirsten, a chef, and they settled in the Lodi-Stockton area of California.
They married in 1942; their son, the actor Robert De Niro, was born in 1943 and lives in New York City.
The Amatos married in 1945, and continued to work together at the American Theater Wing, where Mr. Amato directed workshops.
She and Mr. de Land, whose SoHo gallery, American Fine Arts, is as much an art piece as her own, were married last year after almost 10 years together.
In 1935 she married James Henry Breasted Jr., an art historian who later became chairman of the art and art history department at the Kent School in Kent, Conn.
By 1951, she was studying child development at the University of Illinois's Chicago campus, where she met and married Leonard Sagan, a medical student.
They married in 1936 and settled in Jamaica Estates, and Mr. Trump went on to become one of the city's biggest developers.
Ms. Moyes was married twice.
When the school gave her an honorary degree at that time, she brought a phalanx of friends and relatives to the ceremony to see her in her academic cap and gown; she had dropped out of City College to get married.
After skipping a grade in high school, she attended City College at night; there she studied accounting and met Leonard Davis, whom she married in 1945.
The following year Dawn Hall married her 22-year-old black butler, John-Paul Simmons.
Ms. Riabouchinska began her ballet career at 14 and continued performing into the early 1950's, dancing most notably with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo from 1932 to 1942 in works by George Balanchine, Leonide Massine and David Lichine, whom she married in 1943.
In 1939 she married Mr. Herrmann.
In 1949 she married John Douglass  Wallop, a novelist whose ''Year the Yankees Lost the Pennant'' was adapted into the 1955 musical ''Damn Yankees.
Ms. Gordon, who always used her maiden name professionally, married Carl Hafey Norcross, a writer and expert on aviation and planned communities, and became a pilot herself.
They married 10 years later and had three daughters, Fifi Trixibelle, Peaches and Pixie.
In 1937 she married E. V. Knox, a friend and colleague of her father's, and outside publishing was known as Mary Knox.
Because of the long nature of their relationship, there were frequent rumors that the couple had secretly wed.
        For a few months, in 1954, Ms. Peters was married to Stanley W. Cramer 3rd, a Texas oil executive, but it ended in divorce and, like all of her marriages, without children.
The couple had married in a private ceremony in Tonapah, Nev.
        Ms. Peters, whose final movie was ''A Man Called Peter'' (1955), retired from film acting and was rarely seen in public during the 13 years she remained married to Hughes.
The couple had married in a private ceremony in Tonapah, Nev.
        Ms. Peters, whose final movie was ''A Man Called Peter'' (1955), retired from film acting and was rarely seen in public during the 13 years she remained married to Hughes.
''At that time, in 1968, very much married to Howard, she lived in splendid solitude on Bel Air Road, atop a peak of the Santa Monica Mountains, under 24-hour surveillance of guards who followed her everywhere,'' he wrote.
Shortly after her divorce became final in 1971 she was married for a third time, to Stanley Hough, vice president and director for production operations at 20th Century Fox.
Nothing in Ms. Fanning's childhood and early married life hinted that she would, at nearly age 40, reinvent herself as a risk-taking journalist.
In 1966, she married Larry Fanning, who had worked as editor of The Chicago Sun-Times.
She married her third husband, Amos Mathews, around the same time.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
Nothing in Ms. Fanning's childhood and early married life hinted that she would, at nearly 40, reinvent herself as a risk-taking journalist.
In 1966, she married Larry Fanning, who had been editor of The Chicago Sun-Times.
She married Amos Mathews around the same time.
Mrs. Koulomzin was married in 1932 to Nikita Koulomzin, an engineer who was also of aristocratic descent, who survives her.
In 1956 Ms. Wolfe moved to Canada, where she married John Forrest Mackay Ross and went to work for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation as an actor, writer and director.
In 1940 -- 60 years ago today -- she married S. W. R. D. Bandaranaike, the scion of an elite, feudal clan that had thrived for generations with the patronage of the British Empire.
Sometime in the mid-1920's she was briefly married to the painter Lee Gatch.
In 1943, having returned to New York, Biala married Daniel Brustlein, an Alsatian-born painter who contributed cartoons to The New Yorker under the name Alain.
They married in 1951, and for five decades lived and worked together while managing to retain their individual visual perspectives.
Mrs. Johnston was born in France, received degrees from French and American universities, married an American in 1959 and lived for years in the United States before returning to France in 1977.
The following year, when ''Redhead'' was on tour in Chicago, Miss Verdon and Fosse were married, and by the time the tour reached Los Angeles she had decided to retire from show business with the intention of concentrating on family life.
Then, in 1947, she married the actor Jack Webb, later famous on ''Dragnet,'' and stopped working to be a full-time wife and mother.
On New Year's Eve 1959, she married Mr. Troupe, who died last year.
They married in 1947, and she gave up her budding movie career to become a full-time wife and mother.
In 1946 she married George Abbott, the Broadway producer and director.
In 1943, she married Charles S. Lyon, who was a deputy chief prosecutor at the Nuremberg trials and later became a United States assistant attorney general.
She married Edward F. Addiss, a Burlington Industries executive, when she was 29.
In 1935, she married Myron S. Falk Jr.  Mr. Falk, who died in 1992 at 85, began amassing a vast collection of Asian art after making a trip to China in 1936.
She was one of the first women admitted to Tufts Medical School in the late 19th century, but school officials made her drop out when she married, Ms. Carter said.
The free spirit of Mrs. Belcher, who by then was married to Arthur Fuller Belcher, a lawyer, is suggested by a family story of borrowing a minister's house for a Maine vacation.
In 1935, she married Myron S. Falk Jr.
        Mr. Falk, who died in 1992 at 85, began amassing a vast collection of Asian art after making a trip to China in 1936.
That same year she married Mr. Hines, a leading bass at the Metropolitan Opera.
Sue Ryder, who once thought that she would become a nun, married a young naval officer at 18.
In 1959, Sue Ryder married Group Capt.
In 1933, she married Louis F. Edelman, a Hollywood motion picture and television producer.
The reader meets Maud as a lonely, overweight girl of 7, follows her through a dreamy adolescence and finally sees her as a young newlywed living ''in a sad gray building in a cold white world,'' married to a man numbed by his struggle with white society.
Three years after her graduation from the newly opened Woodrow Wilson Junior College in Chicago in 1936, Ms. Brooks married Henry L. Blakely, a young writer who later published a volume of his own poetry.
In 1927 she married William Gresser, a New York City lawyer and musicologist.
Ms. Sterne, who never married, leaves no immediate survivors.
''
        Miss Kelley married Thomas Martin, a conductor who was born in Vienna and later conducted at the New York City Opera and worked with several other music theater ensembles.
Her husband, Henry T. Ireys, whom she married in 1943, died in 1963.
''
        Jane received numerous marriage proposals, but the smitten soldiers  did not know that the real Jane was married, something Mrs. Leighton-Porter kept secret so as not to disappoint her fans.
Mrs. Kanzler, who was married five times, was said to have made the original introductions that led to several famous marriages.
Mr. Ford's daughter, Charlotte Ford, met Stavros Niarchos, the Greek shipping tycoon whom she later married, at the Kanzler residence in St. Moritz.
She landed in Cuba and soon went on to Mexico City, where in 1944 she married Manuel Reachi, a film producer.
In 1953 she married Carlos Oriani, a Mexican entrepreneur.
Within months she was married again, to Frederick Weicker, an uncle of the former Connecticut governor Lowell P. Weicker Jr. and an heir to the Squibb pharmaceutical empire.
In 1955 she married Ernest Kanzler, a Detroit business executive who was head of the War Production Board during World War II.
She married Mr. Flam in 1985, and in 1986 they opened the LedisFlam Gallery, the first commercial gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, which exhibited artists including Amy Sillman, Terry Adkins and David Mann.
She was married for 59 years to William Corbin McGraw, who wrote for children as William Corbin.
''
        She married the producer Steve Lillywhite in 1984.
''
        In 1957, Ms. Kennedy married Charles Dye, a writer 10 years her junior.
She followed a fellow student, Julian C. Dowell, to New York and married him.
In 1955, Miss Carlson married David A. Schulte, a financier who advised presidents on employment policy and still serves on the New York City Board of Corrections.
The next year Duarte married Col. Juan Domingo Peron, and in 1946, Peron became president of Argentina.
In 1989 Ms. McCready married Mr. Noblet, a fine-art printer, and in 1995 she opened a gallery, Karen McCready Fine Arts, in half of his print studio, Noblet Serigraphie, in a large second-floor loft on West 13th Street in Greenwich Village.
The reader meets Maud as a lonely, overweight girl of 7, follows her through a dreamy adolescence and finally sees her as a young newlywed living ''in a sad gray building in a cold white world,'' married to a man numbed by his struggle with white society.
Three years after her graduation from the newly opened Woodrow Wilson Junior College in Chicago in 1936, Ms. Brooks married Henry L. Blakely, a young writer who later published a volume of his own poetry.
She married Helmut Krone, a well-known advertising art director, in 1970.
She married Judge Irving L. Levey in 1947.
