It was written in the years after the death of her second husband, Eric Siepmann, a journalist she married in 1952 and whose name she kept for the rest of her life.
During the 1950's, Ms. Giroud was married briefly and had two children.
(She liked to say that at the time they married, however, she made more money than her husband.
Married and divorced twice, Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Tracy, and by two sons, Joshua and Daniel.
      
In 1947 she married Charles Gershenson of Detroit and retired from the music business.
He moved to New York to be with her, and they married in 1926.
In 1947 Ms. Brian married George Tomasini, a Hollywood film editor; he died in 1964.
In 1965, after the rules changed, she was appointed to an endowed chair as a professor of psychology, and the Gibsons became one of the first married couples in a single department at the university.
But she also had an unquestioned gift for finding the comic in the commonplace anxieties of suburbia and married life.
Shortly after earning her bachelor's degree at Marywood, she married and received a master's degree from Catholic University in 1945.
They married on a whim in 1929.
Her last husband was Jock Muir Stewart Robinson, whom she married in 1938 after a hectic courtship.
She never married again.
      
The couple had married a decade earlier and had settled into a routine that included weekly gatherings with friends for various activities; for example, they would hire an instructor to learn a new dance.
''
        Ms. Schimmel was briefly married in the 1950's.
In the 1930's she was married to and divorced from James J. Regan, a lawyer, and did public relations work in theater.
In 1940 she married Abraham Ellstein.
Her husband, whom she married in 1929, died in 1994.
After his death more than three decades later, she married Ed Flynn, president of a Pacific shippers association, who had long skirmished with Mr. Bridges across bargaining tables and picket lines.
She married Mr. Flynn, the shipping boss, on May Day, the international socialist holiday.
The two obtained their license and were married in Reno.
They married in 1994.

        Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris.
But when Philippe's daughter, Philippine, was to be married in 1961, Liliane de Rothschild fulfilled her frequent role of unifying the family.
In 1959 she ended her professional career and moved to Los Angeles with her husband, Tom McDermott, whom she had married in 1953.
Ms. Conklin married James D. Thompson, an advertising executive, in 1935.
The two were married 25 years ago, at a home that they shared in Sag Harbor, N.Y.
        Mr. Tarlow struck out on his own and founded Kurtz & Tarlow, where Mrs. Tarlow worked as a partner and creative director.
Mrs. Hewitt, who was then married to Don Hewitt, producer of ''60 Minutes'' on CBS, argued that it should be more than a testament to the awful historical episode and should make an active contribution to cultural life.
Even before she married, Miss Jacobs changed her name to Barrie because it sounded like Barrymore.
Miss Barbieri married Luigi Barlozzetti, a music director, who managed her career.
While studying music at the University of California in Los Angeles, she was briefly married to a classmate, whose name she kept for the stage.
She was married again, in 1939, to Laurance Heacock, a surgeon, with whom she returned to Southern California in 1970.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
'' Some, like ''Follow the Boys,'' did not involve Balanchine, but she collaborated with him in Broadway musicals, including ''I Married an Angel'' and ''Dream With Music,'' and for her role as Ariel in Shakespeare's ''Tempest.
''
        In 1946, Ms. Zorina married Mr. Lieberson, who died in 1977.
In addition to Peter Liberson and Mr. Wolfe, whom she married 12 years ago, she is survived by three granddaughters.
They were married in 1934 and several years later came east.
They were married that same year, and until his death, Mr. Steinbeck would often raise a glass at parties and offer a toast to Ava Gardner.
A portrait head of her husband, whom she married in 1939, is at the New York Public Library on Fifth Avenue and 42nd Street.
While still a student she married Robert John Herwig, a football star.
After her divorce from Mr. Herwig, she married the bandleader Artie Shaw and then Arnold Krakower, the lawyer who handled her divorce from Mr. Shaw.
She later married the composer Mel Powell, who died in 1998.
Her father died at about that time, and her mother later married Richard Talmadge, a motion-picture stuntman and actor.
Her often-quoted remark that she could love a man more when she was not married to him exploded in headlines when it turned out she was secretly married.
Her often-quoted remark that she could love a man more when she was not married to him exploded in headlines when it turned out she was secretly married.
That marriage, to Pierre de la Salle in 1958, was actually her second; she had been briefly married to a high school sweetheart.
In 1963 she married Mr. Dillman, who survives her, along with their daughter, Dinah Kaufman of Irvine, Calif.; their sons Charles, of Los Angeles, and Christopher, of Encinitas, Calif.; and four grandchildren.
Her mother was Mother Maybelle Carter, who sang and played guitar on songs like ''Single Girl, Married Girl'' and ''I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes,'' some of the most important recordings of early commercial country music in the late 1920's.
''
        By 1961, June Carter was married to her second husband, Rip Nix, and Maybelle and the Carter Sisters (renamed the Carter Family after the death of the original family's patriarch, A. P. Carter, in 1960) became part of Johnny Cash's touring show.
Once married to Mr. Cash, she became a fixture in his show, telling jokes and singing, often appearing in antique lace dresses amid the silk and sequins and tasseled suits that were the standard outfits for country stars well into the 1970's.
A year later, she married Ronald Gow, one of the two writers who adapted the work for the stage.
They married, and when he retired they moved to Maryland.
Tracy was unhappily married and the father of two when they met, and he remained married until the end of his life.
Tracy was unhappily married and the father of two when they met, and he remained married until the end of his life.
''
        The frisson of their off-screen romance, always hinted at but never acknowledged during his lifetime, followed them on screen and became especially poignant when they played a married couple in their last movie together, ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.
For most of her life, the public thought she had never married.
In fact, in 1928 she married Ludlow Ogden Smith, a member of a wealthy Pennsylvania family.
In ''Adam's Rib'' (1949), they are married, opposing lawyers, both nicknamed Pinky.
In 1955 she married Harvey L. Karp; the marriage ended in divorce in 1987.
The owner's son Henry Koch flirted with her, but she thought he was married.
''
        Their first date was the opening night of ''Showboat'' in 1927, and they were married the next year, her son Peter said.
In 1947, she married Mr. Andrews, a fellow student, and they became working artists who painted in watercolors.
A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Stanford University, she married Julius Heldman, a former United States junior tennis champion, in 1942.
Khieu Thirith, the outgoing if less studious sister, married Ieng Sary, who was part of the brain trust under Pol Pot, then known by his given name, Saloth Sar.
Khieu Thirith, then known by her married name, Ieng Thirith, became the minister of social affairs in a regime that became notorious for overworking the population, starving many to death and tearing apart families.
In 1962, she married Pedro Knight, a trumpeter from La Sonora Matancera who became her musical director and manager.
She married a much older man at 15 or 16, and quickly had four children.
She attended Hanover College in Indiana, and after earning a bachelor's degree in 1957 she married Donald Hugh Shields, a Canadian civil engineer.
Mrs. Matthau was the widow of the actor Walter Matthau, to whom she was married from 1959 until his death three years ago at 79.
''
        In an interview with The New York Times shortly after the book's publication, she said: ''I married Saroyan the second time because I couldn't believe how terrible it was the first time.
I married Walter because I love to sleep with him.
Carol Grace Marcus Matthau was born in Manhattan and never knew her father; she grew up in foster homes until she was 8, when her mother married Charles Marcus, an executive with the Bendix Aircraft Corporation, who adopted her.
Moving to Fifth Avenue, she went to the Dalton School, became friends with Oona O'Neill, the daughter of the Eugene O'Neill who later married Charlie Chaplin, and started meeting other people in the theater.
As told in ''Among the Porcupines,'' Saroyan, the Pulitzer Prize laureate, dated her when she was still in her teens, and they were married in 1943.
'' and married Matthau in August 1959.
In 1937, she married Willis Livingston Meier Reese, who shared her interests in conservation and historical preservation in the Hudson Valley.
She was briefly married to Hugh Sykes Davies, a critic and Cambridge don, who died in 1984.
Privately educated, she graduated from Roland Park Country School in Baltimore in 1926, and in 1932 married Eric Jacobsen.

        Isabelle d'Orléans et Bragance, Countess of Paris, who was married to a pretender to the throne of France, died on July 5 in Paris.
The couple began married life in Belgium, where the count ran two newspapers.
From 1932 to 1948, the countess bore five sons and six daughters, most of whom married into their own social class.
Besides her husband, whom she married in 1979, she is survived by a sister, Dr. Ruth Rappaport, of Radnor, Pa.
      
Married briefly in the late 1950's, she is survived by her sister.
      
Mr. Ammon, who was chairman of Jazz at Lincoln Center, was found bludgeoned to death on Oct. 22, 2001, at his estate in East Hampton, N.Y. His widow and Mr. Pelosi married three months later.
The Ammons were in the final stages of a divorce at the time of Mr. Ammon's death but were still married.
They married in the mid-1980's.
When Mr. McCrary returned from the war after service as a photographer and public relations officer for the Army Air Corps, he courted Miss Falkenburg and they were married in June 1945.
In 1939 she married Mr. Hyde, and in 1943 they bought Four Oakes Farm, which was her home for the rest of her life.
In 1984 she married Lord Eccles, who died in 1999.

        Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said.
Deborah, another sister, married the Duke of Devonshire, one of the best catches in all of British bachelorhood.
In 1932, she left her husband for Oswald Mosley, the strikingly attractive leader of the fledgling British Union of Fascists, a bold step, not least because he was still married (his wife conveniently died, of peritonitis, the following year).
After the two were married, in 1936, Diana Mosley had two more sons, and devoted herself to raising them.
''
        Correction:  September 9, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 14 about Diana Mosley, the British aristocrat who was a staunch supporter of Hitler and fascism, referred incompletely to Esmond Romilly, who had married one of her sisters, Jessica Mitford.
They were married a few months later.
They married in 1942; he died in 1985.
She is survived by her third husband, Peter Gracey, whom she married in 1999.
      
Gibson was married twice, to William Darben and Sidney Llewellyn.
Her mother moved from place to place, married seven times or so, and from time to time vanished completely.
Shortly after graduation from high school in Long Beach, Calif., Norma Greve married Jack May, a competitive surfer, with whom she had a son, Lary.
They were married in 1961, and two years later moved to Hollywood, where she managed his career.
In 1936, she married Seymour Berkson, a journalist and newspaper executive at the Hearst Corporation, who died in 1959.
Because she was married to a baron, she was called lady rather than her own title of dame, which goes with the lord mayor's job.
They were married in 1945.
Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang Kai-shek in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
''
        Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
They soon married, despite the age difference: he was 50 and she was 21.
Chiang had already fathered a son in a marriage that was arranged when he was only 14, and had adopted a second son and married a second wife, Chen Chieh-ru.
In 2000, Ms. Marx married E. David Ellington.
She was married in 1945 to James Heilbrun, a Harvard student who became a professor of economics at Fordham University.
She and Mr. Kroc were married in 1969, a second marriage for both, and moved from Chicago to San Diego after he bought the Padres in 1974.
They married when she was 19.
''
        In 1937, she married Jack Brown, a singer.
She later married Bill Marcus, a trumpet player and later a lawyer.
Among her other Broadway shows were ''The Flowering Peach,'' ''The Happiest Girl in the World'' and Michael V. Gazzo's ''Night Circus,'' a 1958 production with Ben Gazzara, whom she later married.
She married John Hicks, an engineer, in 1942.
Through Mr. Kallman, who was about her age, Ms. Farnan met his father, Eddie, whom she eventually married.
Ms. Farnan fell in love with Mr. Kallman's father, Eddie, and married him -- ''somewhat illegally,'' she wrote in her book -- in 1948.
After the death of Eddie's actual wife, they were legally married in 1975.
They married in 1934, as Hitler came to power in Berlin.
In addition to her husband, a teacher of mathematics and the history of science whom she married in 1958, Mrs.
In 1952 she married Disque D. Deane; they divorced in 1991.
When she was married in 1947 to Winston Frederick Churchill Guest, an international polo star, heir to the Phipps steel fortune and a second cousin of Winston Churchill, the ceremony was held at the home of Ernest Hemingway in Cuba, with Hemingway serving as best man.
When she was married in 1947 to Winston Frederick Churchill Guest, an international polo star, heir to the Phipps steel fortune and a second cousin of Winston Churchill, the ceremony was held at the home of Ernest Hemingway in Cuba, with Hemingway serving as best man.
At 20, she married a British dancer, Ernest Berk, with whom she had a daughter, Esther.
According to The Guardian in London, Ms. Berk stated that she had been married seven times, ''twice on paper.
In 1929, she was ''practically engaged'' to one man, and suggested to him that it might be difficult being married to a woman who could not hear well.

        Sylvia Sebastiani, who married the boy next door and became the matriarch and later the chairwoman of one of America's most prominent wine families, died on Sunday in Sonoma.
In 1936 they married.
She met her future husband, Paul, in Germany before her departure, and they married after he arrived in New York a short time later.
Mrs. Stevenson was born Isabelle Lubow in Vineland, N.J., on May 15, 1913, the daughter of Sonia Lubow and Samuel Lieberman, who were married but lived separate lives.
He returned to New York as promotion manager of The New York Post, and they were married in 1937.
They married in 1937, the year after she graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Cornell.
Mrs. Pinkett is survived by her husband, William, whom she married in the late 1950's, and a sister, Loretta Glover.
      
She opened The Bride's Shop with her husband, James Kidder, a businessman whom she married in 1940.
