In 1937 she moved to New York City and married George W. Naumburg, an investment banker.
She met Sir John, a prominent landowner, and they were married in 1944.
In the early 1970's, she married Michael Chow and worked with him in running his Mr. Chow restaurant in London, a fashionable restaurant featuring Peking cuisine.
In the early 1970's, she married Michael Chow and worked with him in running his Mr. Chow restaurant in London, a fashionable restaurant featuring Peking cuisine.
They married in 1961.
She was married and divorced three times.
She was divorced in 1945 but kept her married name.
In 1937 she moved to New York City and married George W. Naumburg, an investment banker.
Her first husband, Alexander Bloomfield McFadden, a cotton broker in Memphis, died, and in 1953, she married Mr. Blair, a banker with J. P. Morgan & Company.
She worked in her father's firm, then married Reuben Oscar Everett and worked with him.
The group earned $1 million in five years but dissolved when two sisters dropped out to get married and a fourth, who was the group's manager, also departed.
After her career peaked she was married twice to prominent businessmen.
After he died, she married Walter Hoving, who had owned Tiffany & Company and Bonwit Teller.
The group earned $1 million in five years but dissolved when two sisters dropped out to get married and a fourth, who was the group's manager, also departed.
After her career peaked she was married twice to prominent businessmen.
After he died, she married Walter Hoving, who had owned Tiffany & Company and Bonwit Teller.
The couple, who had married in 1925, six years after Mr. Yawkey had inherited $20 million at the age of 16, divorced in November 1944, and Mr. Yawkey remarried the next month.
The judge, who was not married, is survived by a sister-in-law, Olive Levittan of Halifax, Nova Scotia.
      
She was married in 1960 to Mr. Tang, who is the president of Reich & Tang, a financial services firm with headquarters in Manhattan.
An elegant blonde, the Swedish-born model posed for some of the most famous photographers of the age, including Horst P. Horst, George Hoyningen Huene and Irving Penn, whom she married in 1950.
She met and married Fernand Fonssagrives, a dancer, there in 1935.
"
        Miss Vosseler married the tap dancer Paul Draper in 1941 and lived with him in Europe until returning to the United States in 1954.
"
        Miss Vosseler married the tap dancer Paul Draper in 1941 and lived with him in Europe until returning to the United States in 1954.
In 1924, she married Gerald H. Carson, an advertising executive, who later wrote several books as a social historian, including "Cornflake Crusade.
In 1974, when Rhoda was finally married after a long run as Miss Moore's unmarried best friend, all Rhoda and Joe wanted was a small ceremony before a justice of the peace.
Mrs. Herman, who was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, married Mr. Herman in 1930.
In 1974, when Rhoda was finally married after a long run as Miss Moore's unmarried best friend, all Rhoda and Joe wanted was a small ceremony before a justice of the peace.
"
        She was married to John Martin Hanchak and later to Duncan Stephenson.
As a playwright, Miss MacGrath collaborated on three Broadway shows with Mr. Kaufman while they were married: "The Small Hours" (1951), "Fancy Meeting You Again" (1952) and "Silk Stockings," a lampoon of life in the Soviet Union that starred Don Ameche and Hildegarde Neff.
She was married and divorced five times.
She married a singer in the trio Los Tropicuba; after her first performance, he said he thought she was having an epileptic fit.
In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, she and her husband, Arpad Szenes, a Hungarian-born painter she married in 1930, fled to Rio de Janeiro.
She married Harold Hazelton in 1956.
She married Mr. Zhu, the commander of the Communist forces, whose full name is also spelled Chu De.
In 1934, she married a noted outdoorsman and author, Selwyn Kip Farrington Jr.
        Mrs. Farrington, under the pen name of Chisie Farrington and as an internationally known angler with seven world records to her credit, wrote "Women Can Fish" in 1951.
She married Salomon Markus, a businessman, in 1929 and a daughter, Margot, was born the following year.
She was married for 32 years to Francis Scott Bradford, a noted painter, until his death in 1961.
In 1964 she married Mr. Ingersoll, an author and the former managing editor of The New Yorker and publisher of Time and a founder of Fortune and Life magazines, the newspaper PM and the Ingersoll newspaper chain.
In January 1982 she married Victor Alzamora, a fellow student at the School of Visual Arts, who died in June 1983.
In 1935 she was married to Louis Reynal, an industrial display designer.
For more than 40 years she was married to James Montgomery, the playwright who wrote "Nothing but the Truth" and the book for the musical "Irene," among other works.
She married Mr. Miller, the entertainment editor of Seventeen magazine, in 1953.
She was married at the age of 19 to a French mathematician, Paul Dienes, and she did not decide to become an artist until she was 29 and living in Wales with her husband.
Her mother was Wilhelmina Elisabeth Josephine Felsing, the daughter of a well-to-do watch merchant, who soon after being widowed, married Edouard von Losch, a cavalry lieutenant.
They were married on May 17, 1924, and the next year had a daughter, Maria.
" Her daughter, also an actress, married William Riva, a scenic artist, in 1947, and had four sons.
Mrs. Clark married Forrester A. Clark, a retired investment banker, in 1987, two years after Mr. Lodge died.
She met Mr. Lodge at a debutante party in Boston, and they were married in 1926.
She was married in 1950 to John F. C. Bryce.
She was married for 57 years to John Johnides, who worked in real estate in Boston.
She was married for 57 years to John Johnides, who worked in real estate in Boston.
In 1930 she married Henry C. Hamilton, a dean at LeMoyne-Owen College in Memphis.
Five Doubles Titles
        She married Leslie Godfree, the captain of England's Wightman Cup Team, in 1926.
" After brief sojourns at Illinois College, Whittier College, Occidental College and the University of California at Los Angeles, she married a doctoral student, Alfred Fisher, in 1929 and moved to Dijon, France, where he would complete his doctorate in literature.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
Her daughter, Anna, was born in 1943 and in 1945, she married Donald Friede, a literary agent.
" After brief sojourns at Illinois College, Whittier College, Occidental College and the University of California at Los Angeles, she married a doctoral student, Alfred Fisher, in 1929 and moved to Dijon, France, where he would complete his doctorate in literature.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
Her daughter, Anna, was born in 1943 and in 1945, she married Donald Friede, a literary agent.
For nearly 52 years she was married to the Hollywood producer Ray Stark, who produced the movie "Funny Girl" in 1968.
Mrs. Clark was married to Forrester A. Clark, a retired investment banker, in 1987, two years after Mr. Lodge died.
She met Mr. Lodge at a debutante party in Boston, and they were married in 1926.
She designed for Mondi, a German sportswear manufacturer, for 10 years before founding Escada with her husband, whom she had married in 1974.
She was married for more than 40 years to Guiles Deane Davenport, who is deceased.
"
        At the time, she lived in Baxley, Ga., and was married to her first husband, William D. Miller.
In 1937, she married Clyde H. Ray Jr., a businessman in Waynesville.
Miss Driggs married the painter Lee Gatch in 1935 and lived with him in New Jersey until his death in 1968, when she moved back to Manhattan.
In no time, she had her name on the door, and then, in partnership with a man she met in school and later married, built a dress business that in its best years grossed $10 million.
She and Leon Livingston were married in 1930 and in 1933, in the midst of the Great Depression, they went into business together.
She returned to the Bronx at the age of 40 and married Dr. Martin J. Loeb, a surgeon and philanthropist.
In 1923, she married Samuel Rudin, who four years later founded Rudin Management, realtors and builders, whose holdings now comprise dozens of tall buildings.
Mrs. Oppenheimer was married to Joseph B. Kruskal and later to Harry C. Oppenheimer, both now deceased.
In 1953 Mrs. Lessman married Herbert L. Miskend, the president of a New York-based apparel company, and retired from acting.
Mrs. Lessman married Jac Lessman, a hotel and resort developer, in 1965.
Months after its publication, she married Dr. Fensterheim, a clinical psychologist who also became her co-author.
For 54 years she was married to Lewis W. Douglas.
Her sister, Ellen, married John J. McCloy, an adviser to several American Presidents, and a cousin married Konrad Adenauer, a Chancellor of West Germany.
Her sister, Ellen, married John J. McCloy, an adviser to several American Presidents, and a cousin married Konrad Adenauer, a Chancellor of West Germany.
In 1930 she married Mr. Rodgers, who collaborated with the lyricist Oscar Hammerstein 2d on musicals including "Oklahoma!," "South Pacific," "The King and I" and "The Sound of Music.
Mr. Morgan, whom she married in 1925 and who died in 1967, was a photojournalist who made the Leica camera popular.
She attended schools in England and Germany and in 1922 married Otto Kallir, who owned an art gallery and a publishing house in Vienna.
She was married for 55 years to Mr. Hanes, who died in 1987.
Grant Fordyce, an architect, whom she married in 1939, died in 1972.
"
        For 33 years she was married to John Cromwell, founder of the Screen Directors Guild.
"
        For 33 years she was married to John Cromwell, founder of the Screen Directors Guild.
As a young woman, she scandalized her family by falling in love with a married businessman, Hugh Fenwick.
They later married, but it lasted only several years.
In Mrs. MacKaye's hands it was devoted each month to the travails of a married couple.
For 25 years she was married to Harry Levin, a lawyer who died in 1945.
For more than 50 years she was married to Curville Jones Robinson, a mechanical engineer, who died in 1989.
Miss Gilbert was married and divorced three times.
"
        Miss Booth was married to Ed Gardner, the Archie of "Duffy's Tavern," from 1929 until their divorce in 1942.
She married Joseph Viertel and lived in Stamford, Conn., where she took part in civic activities.
While in France, she married Barney Rosset, the founder of the Grove Press publishing house.
He died in 1955, and she later married Ervin Robinson of East Chicago.
A native of St. Louis, she was married in 1934 to John C. Carrington, who became an executive vice president of The Freeport Minerals Company and the president of the Hewitt School's board of trustees.
In 1955 she married Tobias Stone of Las Vegas, Nev., a champion bridge player who taught her to play the game.
They won the Goldman Pairs in 1957, making them the only married couple to win in the 64-year history of the event; they also won the Master Mixed Team Championship in 1965.
Mr. Stone and Mrs. Fulton divorced in 1975, and in 1980 she married Mr. Fulton, who had been the chief mining engineer in the Stone family gold and silver mining business, where she worked from 1974 to 1978.
In 1951 she married Dr. Eugene Chapman, who died in 1954.
In 1955, she married Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who was director of the Brain Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Surviving are her husband, Martin; a son, Steven; a daughter, Susan Weprin, who is married to a nephew of the Speaker, and a granddaughter, all of Manhattan.
      
A year later, she married Mr. Rockefeller, the eldest of the five sons of John D. Rockefeller Jr.
        At 24, and newly married, she began her involvement in the city's charitable and civic activities, joining the Central Council of the Community Service Society, one of the country's oldest and largest private family and health agencies.
A year later, she married Mr. Rockefeller, the eldest of the five sons of John D. Rockefeller Jr.
        At 24, and newly married, she began her involvement in the city's charitable and civic activities, joining the Central Council of the Community Service Society, one of the country's oldest and largest private family and health agencies.
She later married Otto Brodnitz, an economist and stockbroker, and the couple lived on the Upper East side of Manhattan until his death in the mid-1970's.
After high school, she married Thomas Hale.
Arriving in South Africa in 1931, she settled in Durban, married a dentist, and "threw herself into the life style of a socialite," as The Weekly Mail of Johannesburg said in 1986.
She later married Dr. James M. Toolan, who survives her.
With her first husband, Richard Brault, a French engineer whom she had met in Cincinnati and married in 1923, Miss Boyle briefly lived in New York City, where she attended Columbia University.
They later divorced, and in 1943 she married Baron Joseph von Franckenstein.After World War II she was a correspondent in Europe for The New Yorker for a time.
A Change in Style
        In 1938, the lyricist Lorenz Hart came to the rescue, offering her the role of a cynical countess in "I Married an Angel" on Broadway.
In 1950, she married Hubbell Robinson Jr., a vice president of CBS.
She was married for 56 years to Hyman Besser, who founded an accounting firm in Newark.
She married Bobby Candaele during her career and gave birth to the first of their five sons before the 1948 season.
She and Mr. Candaele were eventually divorced, and she later married Ronald J. St. Aubin.
