When she was married, in 1976, it was to Mr. Carroll, then a reporter covering politics for The New York Times, in a ceremony presided over by Mayor Abraham D. Beame in City Hall's ceremonial Blue Room.
Looking around at her materialistic, married, self-obsessed peers two decades after the exhilarating birth of feminism, Heidi observes: ''We're all concerned, intelligent, good women.
In Stanley Kubrick's ''Lolita'' (1962), James Mason married her to get close to her young daughter; when she finds this out she blindly runs in front of a car and is killed.
'' Ms. Winters played gangsters' girlfriends (''Larceny,'' ''Johnny Stool Pigeon''); a bad-girl cabaret singer whose piano player is Liberace (''South Sea Sinner''); the Marlene Dietrich role in a warmed-over-lightly version of ''Destry Rides Again'' (''Frenchie''); a better-quality nightclub singer who is the object of Frank Sinatra's affections (''Meet Danny Wilson''); a waitress in the Old West married to bad guy (''Untamed Frontier''), and a number of other good/bad girls.
Ms. Winters married the Italian actor Vittorio Gassman in 1952.
In 1957 Ms. Winters married Mr. Franciosa, her co-star in ''A Hatful of Rain.
She married Mr. Root, an amateur filmmaker, in 1961.
Ms. Maynard was married twice, once to a man named Bacchus and once to one named Maynard, and divorced twice.
After working briefly as a secretary in London, Andrea married David Cohen, and moved with him to Canada.
She married Mr. Bronfman in 1982.
'' A year later she and Dr. King, then a young minister from a prominent Atlanta family, were married, beginning a remarkable partnership that ended with Dr. King's assassination in Memphis on April 4, 1968.
When he proposed, she deliberated for six months before saying yes, and they were married in the garden of her parents' house on June 18, 1953.
In New York, she married Steve Kingston, a retired merchant seaman and a Communist.
''
        At 16 she married her manager, Shlomo Bushmi, who died 19 years ago.
At this time she married the distinguished painter Ye Qianyu.
The couple, both of whom had deep roots in theatrical administration, bought the theater, a converted 19th-century corn, paper and water mill on the Lambourn River in West Berkshire just outside Newbury in 1981, a year after they were married.
In addition to Mr. Morris, whom she married 23 years ago, she is survived by a daughter from the earlier marriage, Miela Ford of Rochester; a brother, the writer Russell Hoban, of London; a granddaughter; and one great-granddaughter.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.
In the 1970's and afterward, some feminists criticized Ms. Friedan for focusing almost exclusively on the concerns of middle-class married white women and ignoring those of minorities, lesbians and the poor.
In 1947, she married Carl Friedan, a theater director who later became an advertising executive.
In the 1970's and afterward, some feminists criticized Ms. Friedan for focusing almost exclusively on the concerns of middle-class married white women and ignoring those of minorities, lesbians and the poor.
In 1948, she married Stephen Guest, an Englishman who later became Stephen Lord Haden-Guest.
Guest married Trumbull Higgins, a military historian; their marriage ended with his death in 1990.
When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
In 1945, she married George O'Neill, who called her Nena (pronounced ''NENN-uh''), a Spanish term of endearment.
Many articles about her, often based on interviews, say she never married.
They were married on April 11, 1992, in an outdoor ceremony at a farm in South Williamstown.
She and Mr. Lanfranchi married in 1957.
Two years later she married Robert W. Sarnoff, the chairman of RCA, who was enthralled with his glamorous wife.
Miss Marly, who in her later years used her married name, Smiernow, wrote the melody to ''Chant des Partisans,'' or ''Song of the Partisans,'' which became an unofficial French anthem in the last years of World War II.
In 1938, she married a Dutch aristocrat whose name does not seem to be mentioned in articles about her in print and the Internet.
They married in 1946, lived for four years in Paris, then moved to the United States in 1959, where they lived in Pennsylvania, Florida and New York.
She married Max Allentuck, general manager for the producer Kermit Bloomgarden.
In 1959 she and Mr. Allentuck were divorced, and she began a relationship with the playwright David Rayfiel, whom she eventually married.
''
        By this time, she was married again, to Mr. Rayfiel, but her drinking was out of control.
In 1951, she met Roy Langley, a handsome referee, and she retired after they married the next year.
They were married in 1948.
Ms. Cosman's husband, Bard, a plastic surgeon whom she married in 1958, died in 1983.
Ms. Gaines's husband, Albert Denis Gaines, whom she married in 1941, died in 1995.
Rather than comply with the dictates of the fascist government, Ms. Valli retreated into hiding and in 1944 married Oscar de Mejo, a Surrealist painter and composer, whose most successful song was ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.
According to The Guardian of London, she lived for three years in Mexico, where she married Giancarlo Zagni, but again returned to Italy.
They met in April and married in May.
Mrs. Jordan was briefly married to Robert Jordan, a lawyer, before they divorced in the early 1950's.
An only child who never married, Miss Mars had no immediate survivors.
After the case ended, she married a fellow Nuremberg prosecutor, William A. Zeck, and returned with him to Suffern, her home town, to practice law.
They married in 1943.
Mr. Allen, whom she married, produced two of her plays, ''Tru'' and ''The Big Love''; he died in 2003.
She began premedical studies at Hunter College, and in 1941 married Herbert Mois Avram (pronounced AH-vrum).
She and Mr. Buloff were married in 1923.
But since I was married and wanted a family, I could afford to wait.
Her father then married Annette Poindexter, a schoolteacher from Iowa, and moved his family to predominantly white Joliet, Ill., where he ran a dry-cleaning business.
In the United States, she worked with the Federal Theater in Chicago, where she met John Pratt, an artist and designer to whom she was married from 1941 until his death in 1986.
Ms. Moore married and divorced twice.
In 1940, she married Ephraim Jacobs.
In 1954 she married Mr. Epstein.
At the time he was married with three daughters.
After an understandably upsetting divorce for Mr. Lieberson, he and Ms. Hunt Lieberson were married in 1999.
She met Thomas Church, a prominent immigration lawyer, shortly after arriving in New York, and they were married in 1963.
Miss Odum, who never married, has no immediate survivors.
''
        Dr. Newlin, who never married, leaves no immediate family members.
Then, in May 1954, she married Mr. Coverly; they returned to Jamaica in 1955.
When I left the studio I was already married and had two children, but I felt as sad as a child leaving home for the first time.
She fell in love with the married movie star Dick Powell.
Mr. Powell divorced his wife, the actress Joan Blondell, and married Miss Allyson in 1945, despite Mr. Mayer's opposition.
Pamela Allyson Powell now lives in Santa Monica, Calif. Richard, of Los Angeles, also survives Miss Allyson, as does her husband, David Ashrow, a dentist whom she married in 1976.
They married in 1964; her husband is her only immediate survivor.
''
        Joan Bleckman was raised in Queens and married Peter Guggenheimer, an architect, 33 years ago.
Legge, then divorced from his first wife, Nancy Evans, a mezzo-soprano, married Miss Schwarzkopf in 1953.
Adding further exotic gloss to the Yarde-Buller clan was the duchess's sister Joan, who married the playboy Prince Aly Khan, converted to Islam and adopted the name Princess Tajuldowlah.
The duchess married her first husband, Capt.
She married the Duke of Bedford in 1947, about a year after the suicide of his first wife, when he was still the Marquess of Tavistock.
Ms. Cajori was married to Paul Jay, but had been separated from him for many years.
In 1939, she married Paul Juda, also German, and in 1949 she returned with her husband to Germany to try to reclaim his family's confiscated property.
There she met John W. Taylor, a painter, whom she married in 1929.
She married Warren F. Ilchman in 1960.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Johnson married the writer and critic Gerald Sykes, from whom she was later divorced.
Ms. Richards went on to enroll at Baylor University in Waco on a debate scholarship and married.
Never married, she fell in love with one of her subjects, the Greek poet and activist Alekos Panagoulis, who was convicted of trying to assassinate Greece's military ruler, George Papadapoulos, in 1967.
Mrs. Boegner lived in the main house until 1930, when she married J. Gordon Douglas Jr.
In 1951, she married Etienne Boegner, a French diplomat.
In 1953, she married Everett, an editor at Popular Science magazine for 33 years.
She met Herbert Levine, who was running that company, and married him three months later.
Her mother married an Italian tenor, and the family settled in Jersey City, where Ms. Varnay was brought up.
In 1944 she married her coach, Mr. Weigert, who died in 1955.
While continuing to work for Radio Tokyo in 1945, she married Felipe D'Aquino, a Domei news agency employee with Portuguese citizenship and Japanese ancestry.
She had met Ernest Bayer while he was training on the Schuylkill for the rowing competition at the 1928 Amsterdam Olympics, and they married in January 1928.
''
        Ms. Levien married and settled in Queens, where she raised a family and taught Duncan dance to children.
Besides her daughter, of Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, James T. Ramey, whom she married in 1941; a son, James N., of Bethesda; a brother, Jack Rubin, formerly of Little Neck, N.Y.; and five grandchildren.
She later married Charles Goldhammer, an artist and teacher; the marriage was reported to have ended in 1954.
She married Silvio Médici de Menezes, a Portuguese aristocrat, in 1949.
And in Lillian Hellman's ''Autumn Garden,'' on Broadway in 1951, she was married to an indolent drifter (Fredric March) for whom she felt nothing but contempt.
She was cast as a courageous nurse in ''Canadian Pacific'' (1949); as the faithful, supportive wife of a naval airman (Gary Cooper) in ''Task Force'' (1949); and as a happily married (to David Wayne) mother of five in ''My Blue Heaven'' (1950).
''
        Ms. Wyatt married Edgar Bethune Ward in 1935.
Ms. Cabot married Laurence Jordan, a poet, when she was 19; the marriage ended in divorce in 1931.
In 1937, she married Blake Cabot, a medical writer and publisher, who died in 1974.
While at Whitworth, she met and married Nick Chenoweth, and they had two children, Mike and Meg Chenoweth-Keenan, of Boise, Idaho, who survive her, along with several grandchildren.
In 1999, she married Wayne Hage Sr., a Nevada rancher prominent in the movement to expand private property rights.
They married, struggled financially and soon had trouble getting along.
In 1954, she met and soon married Mr. Straub, a kindred spirit from Lorraine.
There, at the age of 24, she met Liu Shaoqi, who was nearly twice her age and had married five times before.
She married him, or thought she did; he was already married.
She married him, or thought she did; he was already married.
)
        In 1955 Ms. Brown married Earl Swanson, a saxophonist, and had a second son, Earl; the marriage ended in divorce.
She lived on Long Island, raised her sons, worked as a teacher's aide and a maid and was married for three years to a police officer, Bill Blunt.
Ms. Comden married Steven Kyle, a designer and businessman, in 1942.
He introduced them at a party and they were married in 1940.
They married in 1975.
He introduced them at a party and they were married in 1940.
They married in 1975.
She is survived by her husband, Ellis Gordon Jr., whom she married in 1984; her mother, Doris Moore of Los Angeles; a daughter from her first marriage, Maia Campbell of Los Angeles; a stepson, Ellis Gordon III of Mitchellville, Md.
The patient, a married mother of three, had contracted German measles early in her fourth pregnancy.
In 1940, Dr. Hodgson married Frank Quattlebaum, a vascular surgeon; he died in 2004.
Ms. Marsh, who was known by her married name, Marian Marsh Henderson, died in her sleep, her daughter, Cathy Scott, said.
In 1960 she married Clifford W. Henderson, a prominent developer who was a founder of Palm Desert.
Mr. and Mrs. Mattus were married in 1936, and soon after she began working for the family business.
''
        Born in 1930 in Tokyo, she was married to the actor Noboru Nakaya from 1954 until their divorce in 1978.
In 1940 she earned a bachelor's degree in speech from Northwestern University; she married Mr. Stokely the same year.
(Effie Mae Howard was her married name.
It is known that Ms. Tompkins was married and divorced twice; survivors include her mother; several children and stepchildren; and many siblings, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
They married in 1955 and had three sons -- Douglas Jordan, John Evron and Stuart Alan.
In the late 1950's, Ms. Gibbs married Frank Gervasi, a journalist; he died in 1990.
She resided for years in a house overflowing with raccoons (some live, many stuffed); was married four times; and was partial to dressing in feathers and gold lamé.
Then there were those who found notoriety through marriage, including Tammy Faye Messner (better known as Tammy Faye Bakker, who was married to the television evangelist Jim Bakker) and John Wayne Bobbitt (whose wife, Lorena, cut off his penis with a kitchen knife).
Ms. Webb was married twice to actors, once to a lobster salesman and once to a man whose line of work (something to do with making bottle caps) resulted, she often said, in the Mafia's putting a price on her head.
(A former singer and actress who was a client of Ms. Webb's, Ms. Spillane was once married to the crime novelist Mickey Spillane.
He married again and had four children.
