At the time she was also married to Balanchine, his fourth wife.
After Kirstein and Balanchine founded Ballet Society in 1946, the precursor to City Ballet, she recreated her role as the second ballerina opposite Maria Tallchief, whom Balanchine had married in 1946.
After his first wife, Tamara Geva, left him, he lived with the ballerina Alexandra Danilova and subsequently married Vera Zorina and Ms. Tallchief.
He married Ms.
An outspoken feminist in the 1940's and 50's before feminism became popular, Mrs. McIntosh was the first married woman to head one of the seven top women's colleges known as the Seven Sisters and became a national icon.
In 1932, after she married Dr. McIntosh, her aunt discouraged her retirement, telling her, ''You can have your babies in August.
In 1940, she married Francis A. Jamieson, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1933 for his coverage of the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby.
In 1962, she married James J. Storrow III, who became publisher of The Nation magazine in 1967.
Princess Vera never married.
      
Some years later she studied voice with the tenor Hardesty Johnson, whom she married and with whom she toured as an accompanist.
''
        In 1928, she married Marion Carter Collins, whom she had met in the eighth grade.
She then worked in movie scriptwriting, the field in which she met the documentary maker Pare Lorentz, whom she married.
The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria José in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, whose father, King Vittorio Emanuele III, cooperated with Mussolini before and during World War II.
She was a lieder and opera singer in Germany for a few years before she married Dr. Schaeffer, who was also born in Germany, not long after World War I ended.
They married in 1937, and Justice Burstein became an associate at her husband's law firm when she finished law school.
In 1959, Dr. Adler married Dr. Halfdan Gregersen, a former dean and professor of Romance languages at Williams College.
They were married in 1941 and had seven children, all of whom survive her: three sons (John, Charles and More) and four daughters (Barbara, Mary, Jennifer and Tamsin).
'' A year later, he married Princess Margaret and became Lord Snowdon, but Mrs. Kenward was still unforgiving.
''
        Mrs. Kenward married Capt.
Ms. Lawrence, who was also known by her married name, Eleanor Steindler, was born in Boston and grew up in Athens, Ohio, where her father, John C. Baker, was president of Ohio University.
They married in 1930.
They married in 1948 and moved to New York City.
She is survived by her mother, Ruth Jaffe, who married Rona Jaffe's father, and a sister, Susan Chapin of Washington.
      
Ms. Arova became increasingly involved with company direction, often in association with Thor Sutowski, the American dancer and choreographer, whom she married in 1965.
They married in 1935.
In 1927, she married Harry Freedman, an American she had first met at the American Club in Vienna.
''
        She was married several times, most notably in 1964 to her personal manager, Joe Levy.
In 1944, she married Michael Lawry; they were divorced two years later.
She used the last name Lawry for the rest of her life, though she married Stanley Englander, who was in the wholesale meat business, in 1957.
''
        Two years later the man known as Lucky Lindy married the shy, literary Miss Morrow.
He and his wife were married for 45 years and it was the only enduring relationship of his life.
With a new awareness, both painful and humorous, I begin to understand why the saints were rarely married women.
She went on to become an accomplished sound-stage equestrienne, playing opposite rugged, handsome and likable cowboys in dozens of Westerns before she met and married Rogers, the King of the Cowboys, and composed the couple's enduring theme song, ''Happy Trails to You.
Miss Evans was no señorita -- at the time, she was married to her second husband, Robert Dale Butts, a pianist.
Miss Koner was married to the conductor Fritz Mahler from 1939 until his death in 1973.
She was married twice to fellow dancers, first to Nikolai Zubkovsky and then to Sviatoslav Kuznetsov.
      
She and Mr. Porter, whom she met at a cast party at the Carmel Playhouse, were married for 53 years.
They married, saved up $1,500 to travel and roamed the globe until they returned to New York to face the stock market crash in 1929.
In 1951, she married J. Langdon Sullivan, an investment manager, who died in 1995.
She left show business in the 1950's and in 1953 married her fifth husband, Septimus Rutherford, chief steward for the Moore-McCormack Lines.
After a brief fling with an Apache, she married a young man from the home pueblo, a distant relative with the same last name.
In 1924 she married Alcario Tafoya, a professional cook who was also related to famous potters.
In ''Come Dance With Me,'' an autobiography published in 1957, she noted that she was married in 1935, but not once in the book did she mention her husband's name: Dr. Arthur Connell, a physician who died in 1987.
Married to the bandleader Rogert Pryor and living in a huge rented house in Beverly Hills, she decided she had had enough of B movies.
In 1943 she married the actor Robert Sterling and had a daughter.
Russian sources did not provide information about her survivors, but The Daily Telegraph in London said she had been married twice, to Aleksandr Buslayev, her coach and acrobatic partner, and to Konstantin Parmakyan, a dressage rider.
Ms. Premice, whose married name was Fales, also starred on Broadway from 1976 to 1977 in the musical ''Bubbling Brown Sugar.
In 1974 she and Mr. Matisse, then in his 70's and a widower, married.
Ms. Karnilova met her husband, the actor George S. Irving, in the cast of ''Call Me Mister'' and married him in 1948.
They were married six months later and settled in London, where The Economist hired her in 1965.
She married H. Warren Dunham, a professor of sociology at Wayne State, in 1942.
After the run, she and Mr. Cookson married.
In 1976 Ms. Porter married another actor, Robin Halstead.
In 1926, she married Leo Davidoff, a neurosurgeon who became one of the founders of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University.
It was there that she met Dr. Homer A. Thompson, assistant director of the Agora excavation, whom she married that same year.
Three years later she joined the Carl Rosa Opera and married a colleague, the baritone John Darnley-Thomas.
Dr. Metlitzki married three times.
They were married a year later, and shortly after Mr. Lee left to start Tom Lee Ltd., a design company.
Mrs. Robb, a political independent who had had training to become a legal secretary, was married to Gene Robb, who was the publisher of Capital Newspapers, including The Times Union of Albany.
They were married in 1933.
After a first marriage ended in divorce, she married the actor Martin Gabel, who died in 1986.
Soon after the war she married Mr. Dance, whom she originally met while working for Mills, and they began their 50-year collaboration on  articles, histories and record productions.
She met Mr. Bernstein, a stockbroker with Loeb Rhoades, and they were married in 1953.
In 1973, she married Wilbur H. Ferry, a foundation employee who wrote books on the problems of a capitalist society.
After a first marriage ended in divorce, she married Mr. Gabel, who died in 1986.
Three of the sisters eventually married and had children, later divorcing.
In 1943 she married Harrison Tweed; he died in 1969.
In 1980 she married Holland Estill, a philanthropies executive, who died in 1987.
They were married the day after the play closed in 1935.
In 1960, Ms. Coca married King Donovan, an actor she had met on a summer theater tour.
After the war, when she had begun acting in films, she married a prominent director, Georgi Daneliya.
''
        She was married for six months in 1961 to Dana K. Bailey, a radio astronomer for the Los Alamos National Laboratory.
She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
In 1938 she married Jack Borgenicht, a dress manufacturer.
She married another pilot, Hans-Jürgen Uhse, who was killed in the war, as were her parents.
She married Mr. Kushi in 1954.
She was married and divorced three times.
Miss Welty never married.
In 1931, she married Harvey L. Horwich, who was later a technical consultant to the United States Air Force.
She married the chief of its graphics and exhibitions division, Francis Brennan, in 1946.
She and Mr. McGee, who were married in 1999, became part of a circle that included the artists Chris Johanson, Phil Frost, Ed Templeton and Thomas Campbell.
Sanger and Race married in 1956.
''
        One early composer who took an immediate liking to the ondes martenot was Olivier Messiaen, who married Jeanne's sister Yvonne Loriod; she became a renowned pianist.
Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career.
They met again in 1996 and were married in August 1997 between her chemotherapy sessions.
She married Edward Lasker in 1947, the same year she made ''Out of the Past'' and ''They Won't Believe Me,'' with Robert Young and Susan Hayward; they were later divorced.
Among her other movies were ''I Married a Communist'' (1949) with Paul Lukas and Robert Ryan; ''Somebody Loves Me'' (1952), ''Down Among the Sheltering Palms'' (1952) and ''Run for the Sun'' (1956) with Richard Widmark and Trevor Howard, all made at MGM.
They married a  year later, in 1956.
She recalled a news release at the time that said Mr. Reagan and his wife Nancy, whom he married in 1952, had had two children, Patti and Ronnie, and did not mention her or her brother Michael.
She married a gas station owner and they had six sons.
'' In 1944, after a five-month courtship, she married Scull, who had dropped out of high school during the Depression and had an up-and-down career as a freelance illustrator and industrial designer.
In 1965, she married Kenneth M. Wheeler, a professional horse trainer.
Married and divorced three times, she supported herself and her daughter, Gina James, by writing advertising copy, clerking in a bookstore and working as a cook, a seamstress and a textbook writer.
In 1965 she married Mr. Trillin and began to appear as the voice of occasionally deflating reason in his autobiographical writings, particularly his three books about food called ''The Tummy Trilogy'' -- ''American Fried,'' ''Alice, Let's Eat'' and ''Third Helpings'' -- as well as in ''Travels With Alice'' and ''Family Man.
The Olsons, who were married four years ago, complemented each other in style.
They were married in 1973, in Wellfleet, Mass., in a ceremony characterized by the informality (the barefoot bride wore a granny dress and carried wildflowers) that seemed to characterize much of their marriage.
Miss McGuire was married to John Swope, a photographer and producer who died in 1979.
In 1953, she married Werner Dannheisser, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an owner of a successful engraving company who dabbled in collecting.
Her husband, Dr. Irwin H. Kaiser, whom she married in 1938, died in 1999.
After she and Mr. Goetz were married in 1931, they began writing plays together.
The couple married a month later.
There, she met another George Washington student, John V. Waits Jr., whom she married in 1944.
She never married and left no immediate survivors.
At the age of 7, an older brother and sister having already left home, she began cooking and caring for her father, an invalid who had been in a sanatorium with tuberculosis for three years
        She was married at 17.
She married Mr. Capa in 1940 and for 30 years accompanied him around the world on his assignments for Life magazine and the Magnum photo agency.
She was married at 17.
She was married briefly, but divorced in 1950.
She married Charles E. Locke in 1952; they divorced in 1975.
At 21, she married Morris Shapiro, a future civil rights lawyer.
She married Harry Wexner during the Depression and eventually they founded a women's apparel store.
In 1946 she married her boss, Alastair Dunnett, and the couple moved to Glasgow, where Mrs. Dunnett was employed by the Board of Trade and continued her studies in singing and painting.
In 1952, she married Charles Brown, a government scientist who had once worked as a gardener for King Farouk of Egypt.
In 1969 she married Mr. Campanelli.
She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.
She trained as an art teacher, and in 1940 married Ernest Whitehouse, an engineer, who died last year.
Léger introduced her to Herbert Matter, the Swiss graphic designer and photographer, whom she married in 1939.
''
        When Faith and John Hubley married in 1955 and began making films together, they had only two marriage vows, according to Ms. Hubley.
In 1939 she married Richard W. Johnston, who was also a war correspondent and who eventually became the executive editor of Sports Illustrated.
Ms. Johnston later married Charles C. Woolley, who died in 1986.
''
        Miss Boyd, who never married and has no survivors, never caught a fish.
