Mrs. Adloff, who wrote under her maiden name, was married to Richard Adloff in 1943.
Before her marriage to Mr. Nebel, Miss Jones was married to Harry S. Conover, a model agency chief.
''
        Miss Stanwyck was married twice, to the comedian Frank Fay from 1928 to 1935, and to the actor Robert Taylor from 1939 to 1951.
''
        Miss Stanwyck was married twice, to the comedian Frank Fay from 1928 to 1935, and to the actor Robert Taylor from 1939 to 1951.
She moved north and, after she married, settled in Brooklyn.
She was married for 54 years to the late Merritt A. Hedgeman, an interpreter of black folk music and opera.
She was known both for her own accomplishments and those of her husband and children, particularly her daughter, the actress Grace Kelly, who later married Prince Rainier of Monaco.
Mrs. Straube, who was rescued and brought to New York, later moved to Chicago, where she married and had three daughters.
'' There she married Edward Fenton, a screenwriter.
They were married on Aug. 12, 1899; he died in 1951.
With her husband, Webster Plass, to whom she was married for 35 years until his death in 1952, she maintained a collection of African art that was said to be one of the finest assembled in this century.
She met and married Mr. Plass, a naval officer and later a consulting engineer whose work took them to many parts of the world.
In 1938 she met the author Henry Roth at Yaddo, the artists' colony near Saratoga Springs, N.Y. A year later they married and moved to Maine.

       Jean Wallace, a screen actress who had feature parts in a dozen Hollywood productions and was married to two stars, Franchot Tone and Cornel Wilde, died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage Wednesday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 66 years old.
Jean Wallace, a screen actress who had feature parts in a dozen Hollywood productions and was married to two stars, Franchot Tone and Cornel Wilde, died of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage Wednesday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 66 years old.
'' By then she had become a protegee of Franchot Tone, who at 36 was twice her age, and in October 1941 she and the actor eloped to Yuma, Ariz., and were married.
Early in 1950 she was married to James Randall, a soldier she had met while on a hospital tour.
She married Cornel Wilde in 1951 and appeared in several movies made by Theodora Productions, a company she and Mr. Wilde created.
They were married at her parents' home in New York on Nov. 17, 1917, while Mr. Sulzberger was on a 10-day leave.
She married Dominick Ferraro, who was born in Italy, and they operated a family restaurant and a five-and-ten-cent store.
The daughter, who is married to John A. Zaccaro, has said she kept her maiden name in honor of her mother's struggle to educate her children.
In ''Bronx Primitive,'' she recalled vividly and unsentimentally her early years, her father, a tyrannical shoemaker, and her mother, who believed deeply in learning and in earning her own living before she married.
''
        She had been married to Dr. Stanley Goldman, who died in 1942.
Miss Simon was also married to Robert Simon, a publisher, until their divorce in 1960.
She received her architectural and building experience when she drew plans for and built four large stone houses and several small ones in Mount Kisco, N.Y.
        Married to Claude P. Greneker, who was for many years publicity director for the Shubert theater interests, she became interested in mannequins when her husband wanted to use some in a theater stunt.
She earned a bachelor's degree in music from Northwestern University in Evanston, Ill. After graduating, she moved to New York and later married William Golub, a lawyer.
In 1937 she married Dr. Bancroft Walker Sitterly, whom she met there.
''
        The audience of about 300 also saw a quarter-century's photographs by Hans Namuth of Mrs. de Kooning in her studio in East Hampton, L.I., and with Mr. de Kooning, whom she married in 1943.
After two tours of North America with the Royal Shakespeare Company, Miss Drake married Maxwell Turner, a lawyer, in 1938 and retired for a time.
She was married to Geoffrey Grigson, a poet and critic, who died in 1985.
Married 2 Future Lords
        She met her first husband, Walter Runciman, who was later to become Lord Runciman, at Cambridge University.
They married in 1923 and were divorced in 1928.
Later in 1928, she married Wogan Philipps, the eldest son of the first Lord Milford, the shipping magnate.
She also made recordings with the violinist Max Rosen, whom she married in 1928 and divorced in 1930.
The two were married in 1944.
She married Grant G. Cannon, editor in chief of the Farm Quarterly, in 1942.
She attended the Brown Business College and the American Institute of Banking and worked as a secretary for Barclay's Bank in Manhattan until she met and married Mr. Hogan in 1936.
The couple lived in an apartment on Riverside Drive for most of their married lives.
In the 1940's, Ms. Hoke, whose first marriage, to John Hoke, had ended in divorce, married Franklin Watts, founder the New York publishing company that bears his name.
She was married to L. Martin Krautter, an advertising executive, who died in 1984.
''
        Dr. Szladits was married to Charles Szladits, a professor of law at Columbia University, who died in 1986.
Speculations About Her Escorts
        Her presumed love affairs - she was never known to have married - were the subject of voluminous gossip and speculation.
There she met and married George Pons, technical director of the Chauve Souris, a theater company organized by Soviet emigres.
She was born March 30, 1897, to Mr. Carnegie and Louise Whitfield, whom Mr. Carnegie married when he was 51.
There, she met and married Aaron G. Hill, a soldier who shortly after the end of World War I was stationed at Fort Wood, an Army post at the foot of the Statue of Liberty on what was then called Bedloes Island in New York Harbor.
She was briefly married to Edgar W. James, a lumber industrialist, and soon sought fame in Hollywood.
The Spewacks were married in 1922 and, after spending several years together as correspondents in Moscow, they launched a writing collaboration that eventually spanned four decades.
First Husband Was Her Manager
        During an extended engagement at Cafe Society Downtown in New York City, Miss Vaughan met George Treadwell, a trumpet player, whom she married.
In 1981, she married Frank M. Squiccimarro.
Married Hawks and Hayward
        A native of Salinas, Calif., she acquired her title from her third husband, Lord Kenneth Keith, a British merchant banker, whom she married in 1962.
Married Hawks and Hayward
        A native of Salinas, Calif., she acquired her title from her third husband, Lord Kenneth Keith, a British merchant banker, whom she married in 1962.
In her early 20's she became a regular guest at San Simeon, the Hearst estate, and in 1941 Gary Cooper gave her away when she married Howard Hawks, the director and producer.
Two days after she and Mr. Hawks were divorced in 1949, she married Leland Hayward, the movie and theatrical producer, at the Manhasset, L.I., estate of William S. Paley.
She and Mr. Hayward divorced in 1959 and three years later she married Kenneth Keith.
''I was married to each for about 10 years,'' she said at the time.
She and Mr. Salvatori were married in 1937.
Her first marriage, to Jack Broderick, ended in divorce, and she married Howard Gee and moved with him to the Panama Canal Zone in 1945.
Miss Frederick was married to Charles Robbins, a former reporter and managing editor at The Wall Street Journal, who died in August.
'' She and Mr. McCallum were divorced in 1967 and a year later she married Charles Bronson.
Mrs. Roberts, a transplanted Englishwoman married to a member of one of the city's leading families, became the cultural leader of Birmingham after World War II.
In 1918, she married Mr. Church and moved to Evanston, where she was active in welfare and social service organizations.
She married Harold Boston, then an officer in the Royal Flying Corps.
They were married in 1922 and divorced in 1928.
''
        She was married three times and had a daughter, Allison, with her second husband, Alan Murray.
Mrs. Willens's former husband was general manager of radio station WOAK-FM in suburban Oak Park when the couple met and married in 1950.
In 1967, she married David Willens, an advertising executive, who died in 1986.
In 1976 she married Mr. Cavaco and formed a partnership, Keeble Cavaco Inc.
        Ms. Keeble's early association with photographers like Bruce Weber and Steven Meisel resulted in innovative advertising campaigns for such clients as Christian Dior, Geoffrey Beene and Calvin Klein.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
Miss Turner never married and left no immediate survivors.
      
She later married Prince Zalstem-Zalessky, a nobleman of Russian descent who died in 1965.
In 1975 she married Charles Merrill.
In 1976 she married Mr. Cavaco and formed a partnership, Keeble Cavaco Inc.
        Ms. Keeble's early association with photographers like Bruce Weber and Steven Meisel resulted in innovative advertising campaigns for such clients as Christian Dior, Geoffrey Beene and Calvin Klein.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
In 1969, Mrs. Tisch married S. Harry Busch.
In 1969 Mrs. Tisch married S. Harry
        Busch, who survives.
      
She married Julian Royle, a businessman, in 1966.
Mrs. French's husband, John, whom she married in 1950, died in 1984.
She married Mr. Spitalny in 1945.
Her mother disapproved of her first love, Rupert Leon, a London commodities clerk, and they married in secret.
Laura and Fritz Perls met as students in Frankfurt and were married in 1930.
She was married in the 1920's to Capt.
In 1953, she married Sir Leigh Ashton, then director of the Victoria and Albert Museum; they were divorced in 1962.
She was married to Roby Harrington Jr., a director of Johnson & Higgins, insurance brokers in Manhattan, who died in 1975.
'' They married in 1930, and the next year they appeared together on Broadway with Noel Coward and Gertrude Lawrence in Coward's ''Private Lives.
Mrs. Loomis, who was born in Litchfield, Conn., graduated from Barnard College and married Alfred F. Loomis in 1922.
In 1971, she married Richard Young, an international lawyer, and moved to Van Hornesville, near Cooperstown, where she revitalized the nonprofit community corporation.
She was married to the illustrator James Ruttencutter, who died in 1986.
'' They were married two years later.
She was twice married and divorced.
She was an early adherent to his Popular Democratic Party and married him in 1940.
''
        Miss Bailey's husband, the jazz drummer Louis Bellson, to whom she was married for 38 years and who went with her to the hospital on Friday, said simply, ''I've lost my best friend.
In 1938, a year after her return to the United States, she married Mr. Stern, a former chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York who had inherited through an earlier marriage part of the fortune of Julius Rosenwald, the Chicago philanthropist.
Mrs. Moses's philanthropic interests largely reflected the activities of her husband, Henry L. Moses, whom she married in 1914.
As Tamara Lebenhaft, she was secretary to an expatriate organization of Polish journalists in London when she and Mr. Deutscher were married in 1947.
Miss Dunne was married for 37 years to Dr. Francis D. Griffin, a dentist and later a businessman; he died in 1965.
She was married for 37 years to Dr. Francis D. Griffin, a dentist and later a businessman; he died in 1965.
Married Housing Specialist
        At her death Mrs. Ascoli was an honorary vice president of the committee.
Mrs. Ascoli, a native of Chicago, attended Wellesley College for a year before she married Alfred K. Stern, a housing specialist who later became chairman of the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York.
She married Dr. Ascoli in 1940.
Mrs. Sigmund was a graduate of Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. She married Paul E. Sigmund, a professor of political science at Princeton, in 1964.
They were married in Barcelona and their daughter, Eugenia, the model and television personality known as Jinx, was born there.
After the death of her first husband, she married LeRoy Wagstaff, a retired chief engineer for American Home Products.
Mrs. Cave was in her 20's when she married Henry Benjamin Cave, then a 75-year-old veteran of the South Carolina Cavalry's Third Regiment.
''
        She was born in Chicago and came to New York to stay in 1909, when she married Mr. Hirsch.
At 22, she married Mr. De Francisci, also an Italian immigrant.
At 22, she married Mr. De Francisci, also an Italian immigrant.
Mrs. Wittenberg's husband, Philip, to whom she was married in 1919, died three years ago.
In 1947, she divorced her first husband and married a Manhattan financier, Fred Schoeffer.
In 1922, she married Crown Prince Mohammed Hassan, whose father was deposed in 1925 by Shah Riza Pahlevi.
At 16, she married Benjamin Hagman, a Weatherford accountant and later a lawyer.
She met and married Richard Halliday, a story editor at Paramount.
"
        Miss French was twice married and twice divorced.
She had married the first of her two husbands when she was 18 and raised three children before turning seriously to writing.
Miss Seton was twice married and divorced.
Kamala Nehru, Mrs. Gandhi's mother, came from a middle-class Kashmiri Brahmin family and married into the rich, aristocratic Nehru family.
In 1938, two years before they were married, he made "Algiers," a major hit that introduced Hedy Lamarr to American audiences.
She won praise in two 1940 melodramas -- "The House Across the Bay" and "The Man I Married" -- and came into her own in three film noir thrillers directed by Fritz Lang: as a Cockney prostitute in "Man Hunt" (1941), a mysterious model in "The Woman in the Window" (1944) and a vulgar blackmailer in "Scarlet Street" (1946).
At the age of 16, she married John Marion Fox, whom she later described as a playboy and drunkard.
"
        Miss Bennett is survived by her fourth husband, David Wilde, a former critic and publisher whom she married in 1973; four daughters, Diana Anderson of Los Angeles and Melinda Bena of Chappaqua, N.Y., from her second marriage to Gene Markey, a film writer-producer whom she married in 1932 and divorced in 1937, and Stephanie Guest and Shelley Wanger, both of Manhattan, from her marriage to Mr. Wanger, and 13 grandchildren.
      
"
        Miss Bennett is survived by her fourth husband, David Wilde, a former critic and publisher whom she married in 1973; four daughters, Diana Anderson of Los Angeles and Melinda Bena of Chappaqua, N.Y., from her second marriage to Gene Markey, a film writer-producer whom she married in 1932 and divorced in 1937, and Stephanie Guest and Shelley Wanger, both of Manhattan, from her marriage to Mr. Wanger, and 13 grandchildren.
      
" She married Henri G. Doll, an industrialist, inventor and director of research and development at Schlumberger Ltd. Their house on East 78th Street became a second home for musicians and dancers from all over the world, particularly Russian emigres, who were befriended and helped by the Dolls.
In 1924, she married a real estate investor, Edward Graham.
Born in Anamosa, Iowa, she grew up in Cedar Rapids and married Edward Graham, a real estate investor.
Mrs. Terasaki, a native of Johnson City, Tenn., married Hidenari Terasaki in 1931.
The Appels were married in 1947.They raised pigs, cattle and chickens and cultivated corn and small grains on Mr. Appel's 176-acre farm just outside Elmer.
A week after graduation she married the editor of her college newspaper, Leonard Chusmir, and soon became a mother and homemaker.
In 1915 she married Nathan Straus Jr.
Miss Hoffa assisted Allen when he was a juggler in vaudeville, and by the time Allen began his half-hour comedy broadcast in 1932, the two were married.
After Allen's death in 1956, Miss Hoffa married Joseph W. Rines, a band leader and advertising executive.
Married in 1937, the Cousteaus for many years spent most of their time aboard the Calypso, sailing the world to study marine biology, conduct underwater explorations, make films and promote conservation.
