Her father, Leo Herbert Heckart, took her younger brother to live with him, she said, but she remained with her mother, Esther, who was married five times.
After graduation, she married her college sweetheart, John Harrison Yankee Jr., who became an insurance broker.
'' The two had been married for 53 years.
She was married to Bruce Bliven Jr., a writer and historian, who died on Jan. 2.
Miss Lee was married five times, but her great love, she acknowledged, was her first husband and collaborator, Mr. Barbour.
They were married in 1943 and she said in a 1982 interview that he asked her for a divorce in 1951, ''because he didn't want his daughter to see him with his problem.
'') In 1931 she married a co-worker, Sture Lindgren.
The marriage soon broke up; Ms. Morath married Mr. Miller in 1962, and they had one child, Rebecca, who lives in Manhattan.
She married Michael Phillips, a Dartmouth graduate, shortly after their graduations.
She and Rubinstein were married in London in 1932; the marriage lasted until his death in 1982.
She married Mr. Kempner in 1920.
After Ms. Kajiwara and Mr. Naharin married in 1978, she appeared with him in a series of concerts.
Ms. Knef was married three times and divorced twice.
She later married David Anthony Palastranga, an actor and director, with whom she had a daughter, Christina.
Ms. Patchett was among a handful of photographic models who dominated that era, a sorority that included Dovima, Dorian Leigh, Suzy Parker, Evelyn Tripp and Lisa Fonssagrives, who was married to Mr. Penn.
They married in 1951.
Ms. Hamilton, known privately by her married name, Virginia Hamilton Adoff, wrote more than 35 books in many genres that spanned picture books and folk stories, mysteries and science fiction, realistic novels and biography.
There, while studying writing at the New School for Social Research, she met the poet Arnold Adoff, whom she married in 1960.
She married Melville Jacoby, a Time magazine correspondent she had first met when they were both Stanford undergraduates.
They were married in 1950, and had two children.
''
        In 1935 she married Paul Smith, a mathematics student at Harvard who had an interest in recorders and early music.
In May 1960 she married Anthony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer who was himself the child of divorced parents.
After Elizabeth married Prince Philip of Greece in November 1947, Princess Margaret became one of the most eligible single women in the world, and her name was coupled with various fashionable young men.
Indeed, King George was godfather to one of his two sons by his wife, Rosemary Pawle, whom he married in 1941 and divorced in 1952 on the ground of adultery.
''
        In 1959 the group captain married Marie Luce Jamagne, a 20-year-old Belgian.
The next year, on May 6, 1960, Princess Margaret married Mr. Armstrong-Jones, also a commoner, who was given the title Earl of Snowdon.
That December, a month after her return to Britain, Lord Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay-Hogg, who had been married to a film director.
That December, a month after her return to Britain, Lord Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay-Hogg, who had been married to a film director.
Two of the queen's three sons -- Charles, the Prince of Wales, and Andrew, the Duke of York -- married and divorced under the glare of relentless publicity.
Mark Philips, and in 1992 married a royal equerry.
She married Lazar Radley, a Russian immigrant and a tailor, because, she said, ''I was young, my mother worried about me, he wanted to marry me and so I did.
''I'm engaged, married and completely devoted to this house,'' she once said.
She married Lazar Radley, a Russian immigrant and a tailor, because, she said, ''I was young, my mother worried about me, he wanted to marry me and so I did.
''I'm engaged, married and completely devoted to this house,'' she once said.
(W. H. Auden became her brother-in-law when the poet married her sister Erika to provide her with a British passport.
In 1939, Elisabeth married Giuseppe A. Borgese, a professor 36 years her senior who had fled Fascist Italy; he died in 1952.
Shortly after they were married, she had a baby girl named Isadora, who died two months later.
''
        Ms. Stuart was married twice before.
'' They were married on Valentine's Day 1942.
In her groups with the saxophonists Eddie  Davis, known as Lockjaw, and Stanley Turrentine, to whom she was married for a number of years, Ms. Scott produced some of the most influential recordings in the smoother, more pop-oriented soul-jazz style.
''
        In 1960 she married Turrentine and made a number of albums with him over the next decade, including ''Soul Shoutin','' ''Blue Flames'' and ''Hip Soul.
She then married Egbert Brown, who owned a fleet of cabs; he died after 26 years of marriage.
After two years in New York, she returned to Australia as a television researcher and married Mr. Connolly, a director of documentaries and profiles of rural life for public television.
In 1934 Ms. Rinser married Horst Günther Schnell, an orchestra conductor, and they had two sons, Christoph and Stephan.
''
        In 1946 she married a New York police officer, Robert Reagan.
They were married early in 1941 after a courtship of four months.
''
        Edward and Mrs. Simpson
        The coziness of their early years was abruptly shattered in 1936, when King Edward VIII, as Bertie's older brother styled himself on ascending the throne, announced that he had fallen inconveniently in love with the very married Wallis Simpson, an American whose earlier divorce from her first husband had already ruled her out as a possible royal bride.
Mrs. Simpson got a divorce in 1937, and the two eventually married, adopted a flotilla of small dogs, and spent the rest of their lives in glamorous if bitter exile as the Duke and Duchess of Windsor.
It is unclear what role her mother played in the queen's decision to inform Margaret that she would have to give up her royal status and leave the country if she married Mr. Townsend, but the lessons of Edward's abdication were surely not lost to her now.
The princess gave up her beau, married the photographer Anthony Armstrong-Jones five years later, and ended up divorcing him 15 years after that.
'' They were married on Valentine's Day 1942.
She met Mr. Mydans, a Life photographer, and they were married in 1938.
In a moment of panic, she said to him, ''Oh, John, just imagine you and I suddenly got married.
The countess, who never married, left no immediate survivors.
After the Germans were driven from Poland by Soviet troops, Ms. Belchatowska and Mr. Spiegel moved to Sweden, where they married and where their son Chil, or Julius, was born.
The couple married in 1968 after meeting in Europe.
She later married Larry Marchiano.
There she met W. Dale Harrison, whom she married.
In 1945 she divorced her first husband, Clarence D. Gurewitz, and married Mr. Sobell.
In 1930, she married Jan Strakaty, commercial attaché to the Czechoslovak Consulate in Bombay.
In 1953, she married Dr. Siegrid Knauer, who preferred preventive medicine to antibiotics.
She married four times, divorcing her first husband, a cosmetics salesman, and her second, Agustín Lara, who was Mexico's greatest songwriter.
In 1943 she married Mr. Lara, Mexico's national musician-poet, a sensational union that drove newspapers wild, especially after Mr. Lara wrote Ms. Félix a song, ''María Bonita,'' or ''Pretty Maria,'' which became fabulously popular.
In 1946, she married Joachim Gaehde, and the couple settled in Munich, where she worked as a conservationist and became a friend of Max Schweidler, a legendary German paper conservator.
Ms. Coates married twice.
She is survived by her husband, Herbert E. Hillman, whom she married in 1940; two sons, David, of Manhattan and Donald, of Chestnut Hill, Mass.
The Abramses began collecting shortly after they married, in 1960.
She married Dr. Max N. Matzkin in 1934; he died before her.
They were married two years later, and shortly after Igor Cassini, who wrote the Cholly Knickerbocker gossip column, described her as the city's ''bird of paradise.
They were married in 1971 and she collaborated with him on many projects.
She graduated from nursing school, became a midwife in 1933, and married Joseph Spaisman in 1938.
She was first married to Clarence Dauphinot, founder of Deltec International, then to Ralph D. Paine Jr., publisher of Fortune magazine, and then George K. Thompson, her high school sweetheart.
Mr. Wirt died in 1947, and three years later she married George Benson, editor of The Toledo Times, who died in 1959.
She married Philip Benjamin, a novelist and a reporter for The Times, in 1955.
''
        In 1967 Ms. Gould married the psychiatrist Robert E. Gould.
Soon afterward she met Ted Castle, a political journalist, and married him in 1944.

        Edna Mae Robinson, the Cotton Club star who was once married to the boxing champion Sugar Ray Robinson, died in her home in Manhattan on Thursday.
They were married in 1943.
There, in 1945, she married Sydney Gruson, a correspondent in The Times's London bureau.
She was married to the art historian Harry Bober; they divorced in 1973, and he died in 1988.
She graduated from the University of Chicago in 1937, married Roland Bailey the same year and had three children.
In 1964 she married Alec Sutherland, a Scot who was then director of broadcasting at the University of Chicago.
The couple married and had a son, Christopher, who lives in Montana.
In 1950 she married the author Selden Rodman, who helped her publish her first book, ''Market Day for Ti André,'' (1952).
She was deeply invested in being married, so much so that she had the words ''Jules's Wife'' stitched into the linings of her fur coats.
She was deeply invested in being married, so much so that she had the words ''Jules's Wife'' stitched into the linings of her fur coats.
There, in 1945, she married Sydney Gruson, a correspondent in The Times's London bureau.
At his death they were married, not divorced.
      
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
She married Mr. Ferrer in 1953 and made more movies, including ''White Christmas'' in 1954 with Bing Crosby, Danny Kaye and Vera-Ellen.
She is survived by her children: the actor Miguel Ferrer; Maria, a designer; Gabriel, a painter married to Debby Boone; Monsita Teresa; Rafael, a voice-over actor, and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, a dancer.
Her lung cancer was diagnosed in mid-April, and on May 11 she married Mark Morelli.
She studied economics in college and married Paul L. Wattis, who was the head of the construction company that built the Hoover Dam.
Mrs. Greitzer was married to Sol Greitzer, who for many years was the principal violist of the New York Philharmonic.
She soon met and married Mr. Solomon, a Yale graduate working for his wealthy father, a hairnet and bobby-pin manufacturer.
And yet Ms. Clooney never completely lost her admiration for Mr. Ferrer, the father of her five children, whom she married and divorced twice, not even after she learned of his womanizing during their marriage that led her to conclude that he was breaking her heart ''in small increments.
In the early 1960's she and Mr. Ferrer became estranged, she had an affair with the arranger Nelson Riddle that went nowhere (he was married and the father of six children) and she slowly became addicted to sleeping pills.
Unexpectedly she ran into Mr. DiPaolo, who moved in with her and became her road manager, and in 1996 she married him in the church in Maysville where she had been baptized.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
''
        Ms. Slobodkina married Mr. Bolotowsky, a fellow artist, in 1933.
She married William Urquhart in 1960.
They married and moved to Cambridge.
In 1942, she married Mr. Soria, an Italian who had fled the Nazis.
She married Leonard Stegman, who was in the costume jewelry business.
At the University of Michigan, she met Hubert Skidmore, whom she married.
The next year, Ms. Wolff married Mr. Stegman, who survives her, as does their son, Hugh, of Los Angeles.
In 1975, she married Clayton Willis Fritchey, a newspaper columnist, who died last year.
It was founded with a donation from her husband, Max Stern, whom she married in 1950.
Ghity Amiel was born in Lithuania and married Nathan Lindenbaum in 1928.
She graduated from Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn., and married Frederick T. Merrill, a Foreign Service officer in 1935.
In 1987, she married Mr. Bancroft, a former diplomat and lawyer who, as vice chairman of The Times Company, helped shape the decision to publish the Pentagon Papers in 1971.
Ms. Pasternak is married to Michael Starn, an arts photographer who collaborates with his identical twin brother.
Mrs. Olmedo was married and divorced three times.
''
        But she gave up her acting career in 1931, when she married John Randolph Fell.
In 1976, she married John M. Schiff, a partner in Kuhn Loeb & Company.
At 19, she married Sol Goldman, who had bought his first building at 17 and whom she urged to leave his family grocery business in Brooklyn and plunge full time into the world of New York real estate.
In 1953, she married Allen Walker Read, a linguist who is now professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, and moved the institute to New York.
Ms. Hawkins never married and is survived only by nieces and nephews.
Keith Robinson said he had always heard it was love at first sight, though the two were not married until 1937.
She married him in Reno in 1941, hours after her divorce from Mr. Bull.
)
        Mr. Hellman left her for another woman, and in 1961, she married Hsio-Wen Shih, a Chinese-American architect and writer, who left their home one day in 1965 and disappeared, breaking her heart, friends said.
She married Lennie Lipton, a campus activist and co-writer of the song ''Puff the Magic Dragon.
In 1980, she married Mr. Armstrong, whom she had met at a union meeting for rehabilitation workers.
In 1941 she married the industrialist and sportsman Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney.
''
        She was married to a Houston oilman and banker, Leonard F. McCollum, from 1975 until he died in 1993.
She was married in October 1951 to Ralph Kiner, the Pittsburgh Pirates' slugger and future Hall of Famer, and retired from most tournament play after winning the 1952 indoor title, devoting herself to rearing a family.
In addition to Whitaker, whom she married in 1991, she is survived by three children from her marriage to Kiner, the longtime Mets broadcaster; sons Michael and Scott Kiner, and a daughter, Kathryn Freeman, all of Palm Desert, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      
Ms. Pamela married several times, the last time to Billy Angelo, a professional prizefighter, who died in 1987.
She married an advertising executive, Jack Abrahms, and moved to Florida; he died a few years later.
She had moved back to New York after the death of her husband and married again in 1966, a man she referred to only as Lou in interviews.
In 1964 she married William H. Whyte, the author of ''The Organization Man'' (1956).
''
        Though she never married Gerry Raffles, Theater Workshop's general manager, he became her partner and the most significant person in her life.
Ms. Reinhart and her husband, who married in 1977, were indefatigable in seeking out new choreographers from abroad.
She was married to and divorced from Eddie Bragno, a wine merchant who is now dead; Albert Bostwick, of the polo family; and Mr. Wilmot, a fashion publicity agent.
That same year, she married John F. Mink, a doctoral student in geology.
She worked in a sugar factory, cleaned houses and married young.
From 1963 to 1973 she was married to Grant Johannesen, an American concert pianist, with whom she toured.
Her father died before she was a year old, and her mother married John Gallagher.
She dropped out of school at 13, and at 20 she married Thomas Connelly, a truck driver.
They married in 1942.
''
        In 1960 she married Robert Simpson, a banker and teacher, and accompanied him to Paris.
''
        After Mr. Simpson's death, she married Francis X. Baine in 1989.
In 1983 she married Mr. Borusiewicz, who was in hiding, in a secret ceremony.
Miss Zwick dropped out of school and married Dave Tiger when she was 15.
The previous year, she had married Kurt Neumann, a political scientist.
In 1931 she married Cecil R. Reed in Ontario, Ore.
She attended Simmons College, and in 1930 married Albert A.
Ms. Kismaric was married to Charles Mikolaycak, a children' book illustrator.
Her brief marriage ended in divorce, and she met and married Robert C. Travis, a principal organizer of the bloody 44-day sit-down strike in Flint, Mich., of 1936-37, which forced General Motors to accept the United Automobile Workers as the strikers' bargaining agent.
Mr. Covan was friendly with the Globetrotters' players and in 1941 Ms. Brooks married another basketball player, Earl Morrison.
For more than 60 years she was married to George M. Billings, who died in 1988.
They married in 1930, and she left college.
She graduated from Bard College in New York in 1948, but instead of fulfilling her dream of studying medicine, she married William Straus, a German Jewish immigrant 12 years her senior, who had come to study agriculture at the University of California.
They were married in 1940 in Berlin, where he was first secretary at the embassy.
Married by then, Mrs. Fremantle settled in the United States in 1942, working in the British Embassy before she moved to New York and became a United States citizen in 1947.
Mrs. Hancock, born Margaret Morris in Washington and trained as a teacher, married a black minister and became a dedicated ''voluntary Negro.
There was, for instance, the great-grandmother who voyaged from Ireland to escape the potato famine and married a half-black slave.
Young Margaret attended Miner's Teachers' College in Washington and, in 1933, married the Rev.
In 1987 she married Graham Hancock of New Haven, who died in 1993.
She married Norman Matson in 1934.
She is survived by her husband, the New Yorker writer Philip Hamburger, whom she married in 1968; a son, Peter Matson; 10 grandchildren; and 14 great-grandchildren.
      
She married for the first time on a lark to experience the Palace of Weddings in Moscow, only to discover that the immediate divorce she and her husband had planned was a bit trickier.
On Oct. 13, 1926, she married Daniel J. Mahoney, a Cox newspaper executive who became publisher of The Miami Daily News.
Dawn never married, saying that her music was her husband and children.
