Miss Adams married the dancer Hugh Laing in 1947; they were divorced in 1953.
In 1954, she married the actor Mel Ferrer (with whom she later co-starred in "War and Peace.
In 1969 she married Andrea Dotti, an Italian psychiatrist, from whom she was later divorced.
"
        Miss Carpenter was married four times.
She was also briefly married to Eric Berry, an actor, and twice married and divorced James Kennedy, a songwriter, who wrote "Red Sails in the Sunset.
She was also briefly married to Eric Berry, an actor, and twice married and divorced James Kennedy, a songwriter, who wrote "Red Sails in the Sunset.
In 1948 she married Maurice Sauve, a businessman who also served as a minister to Mr. Trudeau; he died last year.
She was director of light music at the 1939 World's Fair, the same year she married Faye Hubbard, a rodeo cowboy.
Later that year she married Harold McClinton, an advertising executive, who died in 1977.
She was married for 35 years to Bernhard Knollenberg, a lawyer, Revolutionary War historian and librarian of Yale's Sterling Memorial Library.
She resigned in 1947 when she married E. Jan Nadelman, a career Foreign Service officer.
Married Amid Royalty
        When the Germans overran Greece in World War II, Alexandra and her mother, the former Aspasia Manos, the daughter of a royal equerry, again traveled to London.
She and Peter married on March 20, 1944, at the Yugoslav Legation in London, in the presence of three other monarchs in exile -- King George II of Greece, King Haakon of Norway and Queen Wilhemina of the Netherlands -- as well as King George VI of England, who was best man, and Queen Elizabeth, who is now the Queen Mother.
Dr. Szwajger later married Wladyslaw Swidowski, who died several years ago.
She was married four times, twice to William M. Adams, her first and last husband, who died two years ago.
She was married for 58 years to Irving Kobrin, a business executive, who died in 1990.
Miss Gish, who never married and who leaves no survivors, finally rejected Mr. Nathan's long series of marriage proposals, and said that a primary reason was his "seeming resentment" of her devotion to her family.
There she met Al Jolson, whom she married in 1928.
The next year, she married John Homer Lowe, a real estate broker in Pasadena, Calif., and retired.
In a celebrated moment during the Columbia University protests in 1968, she and Richard Eagan were unofficially married in a seized building.
" They were later legally married by that same chaplain.
She married Frank Bishop, an American concert pianist, and moved to the United States.
")
        The complex courtship that ensued -- Mr. MacArthur was married at the time -- came to a suspenseful culmination on the summer night in 1928 when his raffish play of newspaper life, "The Front Page," opened in New York.
Miss Carey, who never married, continued acting on the stage right through her 80's, appearing with Peter O'Toole in Shaw's "Man and Superman" and "Pygmalion.
"
        She was married for 59 years to Frederick Carothers, a sales executive, who died in 1990.
She was married to Rabbi Abram Vossen Goodman, now rabbi emeritus of Temple Sinai of Long Island.
Miss Peardon was married three times: to Peter Kalischer, a broadcast journalist; to Peter Brandt Harmon, a writer, and to Richard Horner, a producer.
A native of Canandaigua, N.Y., she married Mr. Lambert in 1936 after her first marriage, to John Mull, ended in divorce.
She married August Leisner in 1929.
"We met in Moscow, we were married in 1923, and that was the last of my legal marriages," she said of Mr. Ratoff in an interview in 1972.
After attending Sweetbriar College, she married Ricard R. Ohrstrom, a financier and industrialist.
Miss Anderson married Orpheus H. Fisher, an architect, in 1943; he died in 1986.
Through Lloyd Gentry, whom she later married, she joined the Gilpin Players, one of the first acting companies at the Karamu Playhouse, in Cleveland, where she was a featured performer in dramatic, musical and operatic roles for 30 years.
"
        She married an army pilot captain, Viktor Sokoloff, and they had a son, Valerik.
      
In 1958 she married Mr. Rader.
In 1947, when she was 54, she married Stewart Perowne, a diplomat and historian.
In 1911 she married Stuart Holmes Clement of Buffalo and moved to New Haven, where she served with numerous civic organizations, including the Red Cross, the United Way, the Women's Auxiliary of New Haven Hospital and the New Haven Tuberculosis Association.
In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State.
After the death of her first husband in 1971, Dr. Berle in 1975 married Dr. Andre F. Cournand, a physican who was awarded the Nobel Prize for medicine in 1956.
She was a designer of children's furniture and murals when she met and married George Neumann.
In 1921, she married John Campbell White, a career diplomat, and accompanied him to postings around the world, including ambassadorships in Haiti and Peru.
Married in Riverside
        They were married June 21, 1940, in a Quaker ceremony in Riverside, Calif.
Married in Riverside
        They were married June 21, 1940, in a Quaker ceremony in Riverside, Calif.
In 1927, she married Jack Hausman, whose family fortune derived from the textile business.
In 1928, she married one of her former high school classmates, Barney Tobey, a cartoonist whose work would appear regularly in The New Yorker for the next five decades, until his death in 1989.
She was married to Frederick Warburg, an investment banker, sportsman and philanthropist.
Miss Smith was married for 49 years to Craig Stevens, the actor who played the title role in the television series "Peter Gunn" in the late 1950's and early 60's.
She was married to Leroy Wise, who is dead.
Mrs. Cohen was married for 25 years to Raymond Frisch and then divorced.
She met and married Joseph Besch, a United States Army captain and former newspaperman.
In 1934, she married Rodzinski and went with him to Cleveland, where he was music director of the Cleveland Orchestra.
During World War II, she married Albert Ford, an entrepreneur in New York City, and learned about antiques by visiting galleries.
She was married to Robert A. Simon, a music critic for The New Yorker, who died in 1981.
In 1921, she married Reginald Robert Jacobs, a Philadelphia banker.
For 59 years she was married to Hans Klagsbrunn, a lawyer, who died on June 23.
They later married.
She attended Miss Spence's School but left before her graduation in 1918 to be trained as a radio operator 1st class, and served in that capacity until the end of World War I. Eisenhowers Were Clients
        Soon after the war, she married Seth Low, a banker.
In 1935, she married Dr. George Draper, an internist and specialist in psychosomatic medicine.
She was married for 30 years to Stanley Yagoda, who was president of the Hot Dogger clothing company.
In 1941 she married Stanley Martineau, a sculptor whose works included a bust of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
She married William F. R. Ballard in 1930; they were divorced in 1938.
In 1951, she married Howard Dietz, who wrote the lyrics for more than 500 songs, and they lived for many years in Sands Point, L.I.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1949, Miss Smithson is survived by a son and two daughters.
      
In 1950, Dr. Koller married William Diez, professor of political science at Rochester.
"
        She was married to Charles W. Hotchkiss, who died in 1963.
Mrs. Shwayder was married for 62 years to Benjamin Shwayder, who with his four brothers founded the Samsonite Corporation.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter, but she retained her original married name.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter, but she retained her original married name.
Mrs. Shwayder was married for 62 years to Benjamin Shwayder, who with his four brothers founded the Samsonite Corporation, which became the world's largest maker of hard-sided luggage.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter.
She retained her original married name.
"
        Miss Ide was married to Victor M. Ratner, who died in 1974.
She was married to Alexander L. Eolis and, after his death, married Mortimer M. Kassell.
She was married to Alexander L. Eolis and, after his death, married Mortimer M. Kassell.
She was married for nearly 40 years to Edward H. Fleischman, a lawyer in Manhattan and former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
She was married for nearly 40 years to Edward H. Fleischman, a lawyer in Manhattan and former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
In 1929, Dr. Biber was married to Dr. Oscar Bodansky, chief of clinical biochemistry at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Miss de la Torre was married for 52 years to George McCue, an English professor at Colorado College who died in 1984.
"
        She married the actor Raymond Massey in 1929; they were divorced in 1939.
Later that year, she married William Dwight Whitney, a New York lawyer.
Miss de la Torre was married for 52 years to George McCue, an English professor at Colorado College who died in 1984.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1984, she is survived by their daughter, Megan Elizabeth Gelstein; her mother, Kathryn Johnson of Brooklyn; and a sister, Janet Grimminger of Townsend, Del.
      
In 1930 she married Joseph Fuchs, the violinist, who was then with the Cleveland Orchestra.
Miss Berberova was the partner of Khodasevich until the 1930's, but they were never married.
She married Nikolai Makeyev, a journalist, in 1937; and in the 1950's, George Kochevitsky, a musician who died last month.
After Mr. Stark died in 1968, Mrs. Stark married Dr. David Anderman, an eye surgeon.
Mrs. Stark then married Theodore Silbert, chairman of the board of Sterling National Bank, who died last year.
Miss Ray became the Countess of Midleton in 1975, when she married the Earl of Midleton.
She met her future husband, whom she married in 1943, when they were both students in New Orleans, and they attended the Yale School of Drama together.
Mrs. Bozyk began acting in the Yiddish theater in Poland at the age of 5 or 6, performing first with her parents and then with Max Bozyk, the Yiddish actor whom she later married.
Indian officials began proceedings to deport Ms. Menon from Calcutta because of her violation of the travel ban, but she was allowed to remain after she married Bhaskar P. Menon, then a columnist for The Calcutta Statesman.
Tobacco Queen As Married Woman
        Soon after turning 21, Miss Duke began being seen in the company of a dashing, strong-jawed older man.
And then, with little advance notice, the couple were married in a civil ceremony on Feb. 13, 1935, in the 78th Street house.
Visiting Agra, the Indian city that is the site of the Taj Mahal, the bride told a a questioner happily, "I'm a married woman now," and remarked that she did not like it when people called her "the world's richest girl" and "the tobacco queen.
The harmony beween Mr. Rubirosa and Miss Duke proved so compelling that they were married on Sept. 1, 1947, in a civil ceremony at the Dominican Consulate in Paris, where she had gone to work for Harper's Bazaar magazine.
Mrs. Bracker was a women's-news reporter for The Washington Post who used the byline Virginia Lee Warren when she married Milton Bracker of The Times in 1936.
Miss de Mille was married to Walter Prude, a concert-artists' manager, from 1943 until his death in 1988.
In March, while the cancer was in a brief remission, Farr was married to Goran Lingmerth, a former kicker for the Cleveland Browns.
Ms. Madero said that Miss McNeil was married when she was 18 to a man who died in World War II, and that her second marriage ended in divorce after two years.
      
She was married to Hal Mohr, a cinematographer, who died in 1974.
She is survived by her husband, Robert F. Callahan, whom she married last year; five sons, Peter D. 3d, of Harrison, N.Y., John S., of Pelham, N.Y., Gregory F., of Chappaqua, N.Y., Dr. Michael J., of Manhattan, and Stephen P. G., of Charlotte, Vt.; two daughters, Dr. Mary Carroll Kiernan of Arlington, Va., and Ann Madeleine Lewis of Loudonville, N.Y.; three sisters, Joan Malone of St. Petersburg, Fla., Macy Ann Beha of Rye, and Madeleine Halpin Bailey of Manhattan, and a brother, Myles Gilson Reilly of New Canaan, Conn.
      
A friend, William Hughes, an actor, said yesterday that her first marriage, to a Russian-born film director, Fedor Ozep, ended in divorce, and that her second husband, Eugene Frenke, a film director and producer to whom she was married in the 1930's, died about five years ago.
      
" She was under contract to Federico Fellini when she met and married Mr. Mitchell in 1960.
While there she met and married a fellow student at the Sorbonne, Julien Feydy, who became a political scientist and university professor.
She later married Jerzy Sapieyevski, a composer and conductor she met in Europe and with whom she moved to Washington.
She moved to Vermont in 1987, and the next year she married Mr. Perrin, a writer and professor of environmental studies at Dartmouth College.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer-screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer and screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
In 1950 she married Samuel Goldwyn Jr., a film producer.
They were divorced in 1966, and in 1971 she married John E. Coleman, a painter, who died before her.
Miss Ronell married the producer Lester Cowan in 1937.
She and her husband married in 1943 after meeting on an expedition in Mexico.
      
Joseph Alexander, whom she married in 1927, joined her in the agency.
      
10 Years as a Missionary
        Margaret Dorothea Mortensen was born in 1903 in Somers, Wis., and grew up in Evanston, Ill. A 1925 graduate of Wheaton College in Illinois, she married Kenneth Landon, a seminary student whom she met on campus, in 1926.
Miss Tully, who never married, was a tall, slender, regal woman with a friendly smile, a wry sense of humor, and a comprehensive knowledge of musical literature and the world of performers.
