She married in 1932 and reared three children.
Mrs. Fryer published a second book in 1994, ''Till Death Do Us Part,'' on life with her husband, Dr. Douglas Fryer, a pioneer in industrial psychology and a prolific author, whom she married in 1934.
'' They married, and she joined him in reporting the Chinese civil war and the Japanese invasion.
The job evaporated during the Depression, but in 1931, she married her boss, Gervas Huxley, chief of the publicity department.
When her daughter, Mary Jane, married Horace Taft, the son of Senator Robert A. Taft of Ohio, the wedding pictures were published in Life, -- ''a present from Luce,'' Mrs. Taft said.
They soon returned to South Africa, where five years later Edith married Fred Haisman, a shipbuilder's engineering draftsman from London.
Married for 60 years, the couple lived in South Africa, Australia and Southampton, where Mr. Haisman worked in the boatyard.
The two married in 1937 and settled at Fawley Bottom, a flint-and-brick farmhouse that quickly became the regular meeting place of a circle of artists, musicians, architects and poets, including Alexander Calder, Kenneth Clark and John Betjeman.
In 1939, she married James L. Dixon, who went on to be president of James L. Dixon & Company Realtors in Washington.
They met in New York City while continuing their education at Bank Street College, and married in 1939.
They married in 1942.
She was married to William E. Taylor in 1940 and divorced in 1944.
She was also married to Sydney Shepard, from 1949 to 1951.
They were married in 1931, embarking on an intellectual and emotional collaboration marked by animated debates that continued until her husband's death in 1971.
She was married to Mynor Payne, an electrical engineer, for two decades.
Later, she married Charles Davis.
Her first husband, Dr. Eric J. Hewitt, whom she married in 1949, died in 1976.
In 1983, she married James Blair of Venice, who survives her.
She also became a confidante of the Soong sisters, one of whom married Sun Yat-sen, another Chiang Kai-shek, and in 1941 published ''The Soong Sisters,'' a biography.
He was already married, but they began an affair.
Ms. Hahn married him in 1945, and they had a second child, Amanda.
She married Clifford Makins, former sports editor of The Observer, in 1977.
In 1966, Ms. Kogelnik married George Schwarz, a radiation oncologist at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
She was 19 when she married Randolph Churchill.
Later she moved on to America, where she charmed, and married, Leland Hayward, the renowned Broadway agent and producer.
After Hayward's death Averell Harriman reappeared, and after a brief courtship they married and became the couple that helped reinvigorate the Democratic Party.
I mean, you got married and there was kind of no alternative.
They were married on Oct. 4, 1939.
Because he was married to one of the most well-liked women in Paris society, Mrs. Churchill made enemies.
''
        She insisted that she was not looking for a rich husband, saying of her biographers and detractors: ''The one thing that they've all missed is the fact that having once been married I said to myself, 'I don't have to get married again.
''
        She insisted that she was not looking for a rich husband, saying of her biographers and detractors: ''The one thing that they've all missed is the fact that having once been married I said to myself, 'I don't have to get married again.
A month later Pamela Digby Churchill Hayward, 51, married the 79-year-old former Governor of New York, Ambassador to the Soviet Union, and Harry Truman's choice to be President of the United States.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
She was married four times and widowed three times.
Dr. Fosdick, who never married, mainly, her sister suggested, because she never found a man her equal, later confided to friends that she did not think Stevenson had the gumption to be President.
By the time they were married in 1931, Mrs. Gibson had obtained a master's degree from Columbia, but her husband was still a captain, a circumstance his wife set out to rectify in posts in the Philippines and the United States.
Later that year, she married Mr. Morris.
In 1942, she married Charles Wertenbaker, Time's foreign editor.
In 1970, she married Bramwell Fletcher, a stage, film and television actor, and they settled in Keene in 1985.
In 1946 she married Grady Lambert, a salesman at Abercrombie & Fitch, who died in 1975.
In 1946 she married Grady Lambert, a salesman at Abercrombie & Fitch, who died in 1975.
The following year, she married Joseph Clark, who later became the foreign editor of The Daily Worker.
''Jim Dandy,'' released in 1957, sold a million copies; other rhythm-and-blues hits included ''Bop Ting-a-Ling,'' ''Play It Fair,'' ''Jim Dandy Got Married'' and ''Voodoo Voodoo.
Ms. Marchowsky was married twice, to Milton Robertson, from whom she was divorced, and to Dr. Harry Swartz.
Never comfortable in the limelight, Ms. Nyro married and retreated from the music business to lead a secluded life for the next three years in a fishing village in Massachusetts.
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, the son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, a son of a founder of Sears Roebuck.
Despite her own failed marriage, she counseled married couples on how to achieve personal and sexual fulfillment within their marriages.
Drawing on hundreds of letters from women who sought her advice and hundreds of interviews conducted over a three-year-period, Ms. Botwin found that 40 percent of married women were going outside their marriages for emotional and physical attention that they were not receiving at home.
The book was a sequel to ''Men Who Can't Be Faithful,'' which sparked heated debate on the talk show circuit after it was reported that 60 to 75 percent of American men cheated at least once in their married lives.
She married Edward Botwin, a real estate broker.
A native of Manhattan, she was attending the Columbia University School of Journalism in 1923 when she married Jesse Sharp, an up-and-coming developer and expert in real estate finance.
''
        Miss Frooks, who was married in 1986, is survived by her husband, Jay P. Vanderbilt.
      
She attended Vassar College and, in 1934, married Mr. Rockefeller, the fourth of the six children of John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and a grandson of John D. Rockefeller, the founder of the Standard Oil Company.
In 1938, she married Bertram Claster, then managing a beauty supply sales company.
Her life began to change in 1938 when she married George Petry, a Louisiana-born resident of Harlem she had met while both were visiting friends in Hartford.
''
        Both women married young, bore children, traveled, entertained, served on the boards of charities and collected antique English furniture, Chinese porcelain, American folk paintings and modern art.
In 1921, she married Herman Shulman, who became a prominent corporate lawyer and, like her, a strong supporter of Zionist causes.
Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany.
''
        Ms. Carpenter, who left no immediate family survivors, was an only child and never married.
''Yes, I've never married, though you might say,'' she said in 1970, ''that I've done lots of heavy rooming and light housekeeping in my time.
In 1938, the year they were married, they joined Leonide Massine's Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo.
The Masons were married in New York in 1952; in 1956 they went to Yugoslavia where they spent four years.
She married Edward V. McKeown in 1946, but they had no children and he died in 1951.
''
        Miss Goldfrank did most of her field work from 1920 to 1922, the year she married Walter S. Goldfrank, a Manhattan businessman and widower with three young sons.
She never got past the seventh grade, married at 15, divorced at 25 and worked on dirt farms.
There, she married Frank Warner.
After graduation in 1930, she went to work on Wall Street, where she met and married her husband, who became a successful investor and founded the investment management firm of Neuberger & Berman in 1939.
They were married in 1940, when she was 30.
There she met the American archeologist Hugh O'Neill Hencken; they married in 1935, and she returned with him to Boston.
She married Robert Standfield Foster in 1941.
Although they are not a racial minority but an occupational one, and they look the same as any other Japanese, the burakumin have faced enormous difficulties getting married, getting jobs, and moving out of their own communities.
Later that year she married H. Ernest Lafontant, and he died in 1976.
After her divorce from Mr. Delaney, she married the sculptor David Hare in 1962, and the Hare household became a favorite haunt of still other artists.
They were married in 1963 only months after the Duke divorced his third wife, Margaret, in one of Scotland's most celebrated divorce cases.
She returned to Europe in 1945 and married Clemens Heller, who had founded the Seminar of American Studies, a summer school in Salzburg, Austria.
She married Frederick Clay Bartlett, a Chicago-born artist, architect and patron of the arts, in 1931.
Instead, she sang in music halls and nightclubs until 1960, when she met and married Pierre Etaix, the person she credited with making her take her talent for clowning seriously.
She worked as an economist during World War II in the Office of Price Administration in Washington and was married to John V. Frank, the president of a travel service.
She ended her career in 1939 and married a Brooklyn lawyer, Juvenal P. Marchisio.
She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
They were married in Annapolis, Md., on June 7, 1923, the day he graduated from the  academy and was commissioned an ensign.
She was married in 1933 to Francis Adams Truslow, who became the first full-time president of the New York Curb Exchange, now the American Stock Exchange.
Until 1931, she and Balanchine lived together as husband and wife, although they were never married.
Balanchine was still officially married to another dancer, Tamara Geva, and he told Miss Danilova that because his marriage papers had been left behind in Russia, he feared it might be difficult to arrange a legal separation.
Miss Danilova, who became an American citizen in 1946, was twice married, to Giuseppe Massera in 1934 and to Casimir Kokitch in 1941.
''
        She married a cousin, Fernand Nicolas Calment, in 1896.
''
        Assuring her father that ''I'd rather be an old man's darlin' than a young man's slave,'' she married Mr. Stillwell in 1918.
Her husband, Dr. Elmer Milton Smith, whom she married in 1934, died in 1980.
Mrs. Henson, who married after the war and supported a family as a worker at a cigarette factory, embarked in her 60's on a new life as a symbolic representative of as many as 200,000 women who had been forced to work in Japanese Army brothels.
Ms. Adler, who never married, played golf and tennis and was an extensive traveler.
By 1986 the first press stories about cracks in the marriage appeared, at a time, a biography of the Princess has said, when Charles had resumed his relationship with his married friend Camilla Parker Bowles.
In 1956, she married Alexis Thompson.
She married Mr. Winship in 1967.
She was married in 1945 to Stepan Nalbantian, a fellow violinist and an electrical engineer, who died in 1984.
A native of New York, she married Herman Lopata in 1942.
She and Mr. Pohl were married in 1949 and divorced in 1953.
In 1950, she married Marc Jarblum, a French journalist.
Miss Blane was married to Norman Foster, an actor and director, who directed her in ''Charlie Chan at Treasure Island.
A native of Philadelphia, she graduated from New York University in 1940 and the following year married David Jablow.
They were divorced in 1961 and in 1989 she married Curtis Michel.
Her husband, Malcolm H. Oettinger, whom she married in 1930, died in 1963.
It was an indication of her place in the capital's social firmament that when she married Mr. Dickerson in 1962, a party was given in her honor, hosted by President Lyndon B. Johnson, Justice Arthur Goldberg of the Supreme Court and Senator Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut.
She married C. Wyatt Dickerson,  in 1962.
In 1989, she married John C. Whitehead, chairman of AEA Investors, an investment concern in New York, and chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank in New York.
Correction:  October 20, 1997, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Nancy Dickerson referred incorrectly to Lyndon B. Johnson, who was a host at a party for her when she was married in 1962.
She graduated from New York University in 1921 and married Benjamin Gottesman, a banker and investment manager, the same year.
''
        In 1946, she married Josef Rosensaft, who was chairman of the Jewish Committee of Bergen-Belsen, which oversaw the day-to-day administration of the displaced-persons camp for Bergen-Belsen survivors from 1945 to 1950.
''With them was a handsome American girl, Mary Jayne Gold, who gave them vast sums of money for their noble work in which she also took a hand,'' Peggy Guggenheim wrote in her memoirs, ''Out of This Century,'' recalling that she visited the chateau as part of her own plan to finance the escape of several artists, including Max Ernst, whom she later married.
She never married and had no children.
      
Just out of high school, she married a Mexican bullfighter, Jose Ramirez, known as Gaonita.
After they divorced, she moved to New York City, where she married Frank Diaz, a chief engineer for the United Fruit Company.
In 1960, she married Moreton Binn, now chairman of the board of Atwood Richards Inc., an international trading company.
''
        In 1937, Wethered married a baronet, Sir John Heathcoat Amory.
She was a native of Scranton, Pa., graduated from Smith College in 1930 and was married two years later.
Barbara never married and left no survivors.
      
In 1941, she married Allan MacDougall, the president of the National Distillers' import division.
She married after graduation and took up writing professionally soon after.
They were married the following year.
''
        Aside from her father and aunt, Miss Katzenbogen, who never married, is survived only by her cats, all of whom, her animal adoption friends vowed, would be placed in loving homes, although none perhaps as loving and certainly not as luxurious as the one they have been accustomed to.
      
Beginning in 1933, Ms. Goode wrote fiction and nonfiction under her maiden name, Seinfel; her married name, Goode; a pseudonym, Julia Rainer, and anonymously.
In 1924 she was married to L. Stanley Kahn, a publisher in the Annenberg communications empire.
The following year, she married Joseph A. Neff of Lincoln, Neb., who had been in the clothing business in the West and later was involved in the sale of the Cleveland Plain Dealer to S.I.
Correction:  December 19, 1997, Friday  An obituary of the philanthropist Janet Annenberg Hooker on Tuesday misstated the ownership of The Philadelphia Inquirer in 1974, when Ms. Hooker married James Stewart Hooker, an executive there.
Following her graduation from Hunter College in 1928, she married Edward L. Kelly, a lawyer active in Democratic politics who was a justice in the city court system.
Mrs. Disney, who met Mr. Disney in the 1920's while working at a low-level job at his fledgling studio, was married to the mogul for 41 years.
She married Walt Disney on July 13, 1925, in Lewiston, Idaho.
She was born Sadie Kitchenberg in Jamaica, N.Y., and was married at 17.
Ms. Hubert and Mr. Allison, who married in 1984, needed to raise $10,000 for a new camera, and they hit on the idea of inviting their friends to buy weekend meals in their three-story house in Cobble Hill.
Having married Mr. Roven in 1985, she was in the hospital after the birth of her only child, Rebecca, in March 1987, when she learned that Frank Mancuso, chairman of Paramount, and Mr. Tanen, chairman of the Motion Picture Group, had ousted her.
After the war she married Mitchell Goodman, an American writer, and for several years they lived in France near Mr. Creeley, who was a friend of Mr. Goodman.
Mrs. Chubb married into the family in 1932, when she became the wife of Percy Chubb 2d, a former chairman of the Chubb insurance underwriters group.

        Marion Bell, who created the leading role of Fiona MacLaren in the original Broadway production of the Alan Jay Lerner-Frederick Loewe musical ''Brigadoon'' in 1947 and then married Mr. Lerner, died on Dec. 14 at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 78 and lived in Culver City.
She married Mr. Lerner in 1947 and they were divorced two years later.
A typical Geng piece was a crazed amalgam of stock phrases, as in an imaginary wedding announcement reprinted in her 1984 collection, ''Partners'': ''The bride, married at the Presbyterian Church and Trust, is an alumna of the Royal Doulton School and Loot University.
She was  educated at Marlboro College in Marlboro, Vt., and was married in June 1993 to Daniel L. Warrington, a race horse trainer.
'' She relished the title of First Lady and the power it conferred, and was said by associates to deeply resent having to relinquish that role after Jean-Claude Duvalier married Michele Bennett in a lavish wedding ceremony in 1981.
But Simone Ovide's light skin, good looks, unusual height and haughty demeanor were apparently enough to overcome any social handicaps, and the couple married just after Christmas in 1939.
She married for good in 1941, toured Africa and the Pacific with the U.S.O.
She met Winthrop Rockefeller while working with teen-age drug addicts and mentally ill children in New York, and they married in 1956.
Miss Geva's parents were not officially married until she was 6.
They were married in 1923.
In 1956, she married Albert G. Mosler, a businessman from Philadelphia who was blinded by retinitis pigmentosa.
