Pressed by the military police to report on her foreign clients, she instead married a young diplomat, Shintaro Ota, and moved with him to his post in Calcutta.
They returned to Japan during the war and later divorced, and she eventually married a photographer, Masaya Nakamura.
In 1946 she married a millionaire, Reese Llewellyn Milner.
Earlier in her life, Dr. Ladyzhenskaya was briefly married.
In 1940, Koen married her coach, Jan Blankers, 12 years her senior, and by the time the 1948 London Olympics arrived, they were raising a son, Jan, and a daughter, Fanny.
In 1997 she married Harold Stone.
Dr. Marx later married Eric Reiss, a radiological technician whom she had met in Germany, said Dr. Goldiner.
They married in 1945 and had two children, John S. Brown and Elizabeth D. Charlaff, who survive her, along with Ms. Aiken's sister, Jane A. Hodge, and two grandchildren.
Several months later they were married.
Having divorced Ferrer, she married Berghof and the two dedicated themselves to teaching actors in their HB Studio, on Bank Street in Greenwich Village.
She had married Art Jarrett, a bandleader, singer and fellow graduate of Erasmus Hall High School in Brooklyn, in September 1933.
I was married.
When Holm married Billy Rose, who was Jewish, she had it copied in gold and then placed a Star of David set in diamonds inside it.
After her divorce from Jarrett in 1939, Holm married Rose, who had obtained a divorce from the comedian Fannie Brice.
She later married Tom Whalen, a retired oil executive, and settled in the Miami area.
She married a man who became a minister of music, and followed him to churches in Delaware, Pennsylvania and Iowa, where she developed women's programs at Drake University.
It's having the same rights that you would get if you were married.
In 1940, she married Henry Fleck, a physician who had fled Europe in 1932.
His eldest sister, Estelle Stewart, who had married Everett Axton in 1941, became Mr. Stewart's partner in 1958 when she took out a second mortgage on her home to buy recording equipment.
In the midst of being treated for breast cancer, in 1998, she married Mr. Benabib, a television producer, whom she had met on a blind date in 1995.
In 1944, she married Joseph P. Lash, a journalist and confidant of Eleanor Roosevelt, who played matchmaker to the couple.
When Ralph Partridge and Frances Marshall fell in love in 1923, Ralph was married to Dora Carrington, who was in love with Strachey, an eminent biographer and critic.
Frances and Ralph married in 1933, a year after Strachey died.
And while Ms. Wood attended Smith College, her sorority mentor was Anne Morrow, the writer who later married Charles A. Lindbergh, her stepson said.
In the 1940's, she married Robert Wood, a fellow activist, who later opened a business importing cigars.
Mrs. Goodhue was married for 42 years to Francis A. Goodhue Jr., who died in 1990.
Vogue reported that ''at 16 or so, black-eyed, confident and competent beyond her years,'' she married Fritz Mannheimer, a Dutch banker and, like Mr. Engelhard, thought to be one of the world's richest men.
After five years there, she married Mr. Engelhard, whose portfolio (ranging from gold, platinum, diamonds and timber to racehorses like Nijinsky II, a winner of the English Triple Crown) was once referred to as ''a consortium of conglomerates.
She worked as an editor for Harper & Brothers and Alfred A. Knopf, and in 1946 married Brooks Beck, one of the first lawyers to represent authors in their negotiations with publishers.
' ''
        She married Charles Schott, a member of a wealthy Cincinnati family, in 1952, and gained notice for the parties she held for friends and charities at her mansion in the suburb of Indian Hill.
They were married in June 1949 and moved into a $63-a-month apartment in Stuyvesant Town in Manhattan, according to Diplomat magazine.
She was married to the painter Nanno De Groot in 1949 and divorced in 1957.
A year later she married Mr. Kunitz, whom she had met through painter friends.
In 1960 she married Ted Mills, a film producer and writer, whom she first met when he interviewed for a film he was making, ''Maurice Chevalier's Paris.
They married in 1959 at St. Patrick's Cathedral, and in 1960 had two sons, Lorenzo in February and Marco in December.
But in school or out, she remained fascinated with his beauty aids and was still promoting them in 1930 when she married Joseph Lauter, whom she had been dating for about three years.
Ms. Selway was married to the actor Norman Rodway, who died in 2001.
In 1936, she married another Amalgamated organizer, Homer Newman Jeffrey.
There, Ms. Riese married a Spanish anarchist she had met on the voyage.
Through a Life magazine photographer, she met Roy Lester, who eventually took over management of the agency and whom she married in 1944.
She then wrote a powerfully spare account of his funeral:
        ''His old friend, Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who married him, baptized his children and prayed over him in the icy air of his inaugural, said a Low Mass.
In 1936, Winson Gates married Cleo Hudson, whose family owned 500 acres in Harmony, a center of black property owners since Reconstruction.
''Weekend Special,'' her complaint that she would not be a married man's part-time girlfriend, topped the charts before she was 20 and remained a staple.
Besides her sister, of Fort Lauderdale, who married Gleason in 1975, Ms. Taylor is survived by a nephew, Craig Horwich of Chicago.
She never married.
In 1964 Ms. Manning married Maxwell White Hunter II, a rocket engineer and space-flight manager, with whom she lived in San Carlos until his death, in 2001.
Born to a poor farming family in Watonga, Okla., Ms. Cunningham graduated from what was then called Southwestern State College in Weatherford, Okla., and married Mr. Friesen, another Oklahoman, in 1941.
In 1992, Ms. Breslin married Anthony Dunne, an independent builder of movie sets who later became a producer of documentary films.
Emma Buck never married and leaves no survivors.
Ms. Dowling was married three times.
In 1960 she married Leonard B. Kaufman, a television producer, who also survives her.
Karol was married in 1953, settled in Seattle with her husband, Robert Kucher, and operated a clothing store.
In 1937 she married Robert J. Schwartz, a lawyer, who died in 1997.
In 1964, she married David Gorsuch, whom she divorced in 1982.
The next year, she married Robert Burford, a rancher who was then head of the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management.
The first-prize winner was Renato Grimaldi, an Italian tenor whom she married and who survives her.
Within a year, she moved to the United States; married Dr. Emanuel K. Ross, an American neuropathologist she had met at the university; began her internship at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y.; and become a research fellow at Manhattan State Hospital.
In 1965, she married Mr. Copley; eight years later, he died of brain cancer.
''
        Born in New York City to William B. Emerson and Ruth Shaw Emerson in 1929, she began her career in The Times's women's news department in 1957, describing herself on her application as a widow, giving her married name as Znamiecki.
Ms. Grey, who was involved romantically with Gable, never married.
'' She was just 19 when she married John Monk Saunders, a Rhodes scholar and screenwriter known for films like ''Wings.
In 1942 she married Robert Riskin, the Academy Award-winning screenwriter of ''It Happened One Night.
In 1971, she married Dr. Sanford Rothenberg, a neurosurgeon who had been one of Riskin's doctors.
In 1980 she married Mr. Carlson, a talent agent.
They married in 1946 and spent a year in Washington before Mr. Child was sent to Paris by the United States Information Agency.
She married William S. Patten, who, like her father, was a diplomat.
Mr. Patten died in 1960, and the next year, she married Mr. Alsop, who had been Mr. Patten's roommate at Harvard.
She is survived by her companion, Bernard Hanson, whom she married in 1960 but later divorced; the children of her first marriage, a daughter, Anne Blaine Garson, of Amherst, Mass.
After an early marriage that ended in divorce, she married Mr. Marton in 1943.
She never married and is survived most immediately by three nieces.
In 1936, she married Douglass Adair, who became a prominent historian.
In 1939, she married Marcel Leibovici, a pianist who wrote songs for Piaf.
They were divorced in the early 1960's, and Ms. Curtis soon married Robert Brandt.
She received her Ph.D. in 1943, and married Mr. Lehmann, the excavation's director, the next year.
In 1966, while still married to her husband, she wrote a thinly veiled account of his infidelity in ''Mate in Three.
Born Jane Bernstein in 1924, she grew up in Baltimore and graduated from Goucher College in 1945, the same year she married Mr. Meyerhoff.
After a marriage that ended in divorce, she married Mr. Halperin in 1991.
They were married at Marlboro; the pianist Eugene Istomin was the best man.
In 1938 she married a surgeon, Arthur Dintenfass, and had three children; after World War II they settled in Atlantic City, where she ran her husband's medical office for several years.
In 1976 she married James M. Reed, a career diplomat who also worked for the American Friends Service Committee.
She has been married for 15 years to Peter Rudge, an English-born music entrepreneur who managed the Rolling Stones and the Who, among others, in the 1970's.
She married, but her husband died two years later after he was bitten by a snake.
She then married a gambler who ran up big debts.
They were married in 1942.
They were married in 1942.
'' In 1944, she married Robert Burnstine; the couple were divorced in 1954.
After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960.
''
        She was so sure of her vocation, and its incompatibility with married life, that she broke her engagement to a young mining engineer.
She never married, and left no immediate survivors.
She never married.
Her father, Teobaldo Tebaldi, was a wounded soldier from the First World War when he met and married Giuseppina Barbieri, a gifted singer who had wanted a musical career but became a nurse.
She never married and had no children.
'' In 1944 she married a screenwriter, Ben Maddow, and returned to Los Angeles, where she performed in films.
The couple were married -- Susan took her stepfather's name -- and the family moved to Los Angeles.
''
        She would get her wish -- Ms. Sontag burst onto the scene with ''Notes on Camp,'' which was published in Partisan Review -- but not before she earned a bachelor's and two master's degrees from prestigious American universities; studied at Oxford on a fellowship; and married, became a mother and divorced eight years later, all by the time she turned 26.
He was, she would say, the first person with whom she could really talk; they were married 10 days later.
Word swept around campus that Dr. Rieff had married a 14-year-old American Indian.
She married him in 1939 and retired from the stage the next year.
In 1943 she married Jarvis A. Thurston, whom she met in a writing class and who became a professor of English; he survives her.
They married shortly before Mr. Shahn's death, in 1969.
She married Mr. Backus in 1943 and became his caretaker 35 years later, after he developed Parkinson's disease.
