After the couple married and came to the United States in 1884, it didn't take many years of nagging before Lady Violet, as she preferred to be known, had persuaded her husband to seek thespian adventure, initially, as it turned out, in a horse-drawn traveling medicine show in which Dr. Sam, as he was known, would hawk a cure-all mixture of gasoline and red pepper on the first night in a town, then stage a tent show on the second.
By then, Captain Billy had married the floating troupe's piano and calliope player, Josephine Costello, who gave birth to Betty four years later.
' ''
        At 20 she married a fellow showboat actor, Jat Herod, a jazz violinist who joined the Army and was soon entertaining troops, as he and his wife continued to do after the war.
She met Mr. Mott, who had been widowed twice, in 1932, and they married in 1934.
Married for 54 years and the mother of seven children, she was asked on her 90th birthday if she had any regrets.
In 1916 she married Gilbert Richard (Dick) Mitchison, a lawyer who was a Labor member of Parliament from 1945 to 1964, when he joined the House of Lords.
''It must be fairly obvious to everyone who considers it that there is something profoundly wrong with the sexual life of people in general and particularly perhaps of married people,'' she said.
They married in 1930 and settled in Rochester, N.Y., where Mr. Godowsky helped invent Kodachrome, the acclaimed slide film.
They were married in the mid-1940's and became a team in their Holocaust pursuits when he started representing the victims, especially children, before the courts and found that many of them had only vague memories of their ordeals.
She also met her future husband, Herbert Engel, who worked there as a soda jerk; they were married in 1952.
As Ms. Kallen recalled, she and her colleagues didn't simply write ''Your Show of Shows,'' they lived it, working seven days a week, 39 weeks a year at the program's offices in midtown Manhattan, producing a series of now-classic sketches, including movie parodies (''From Here to Obscurity''), opera sendups (''Galipacci'') and the weekly travails of the married couple Charles and Doris Hickenlooper for the live broadcast on Saturday night.
In 1927, she married Milton B. Freund, a financier active in Jewish communal and religious affairs, who died in 1968.
She married Harry Rosenthal, a businessman in St. Paul in 1974.
In 1940, she married Marcus A. Heyman, who died in 1970.
''
        Ms. Elion never married.
In 1915, Bessie married and moved with her husband, Lewis Cohen, to New London, Conn., where her son and daughter were born.
The Durrs were married in 1926.
After graduating from Keele University in Staffordshire with a degree in politics, philosophy and economics, she married George Lobbenburg, an American who ran a successful clothing company in Britain.
But Mrs. Boyars, who by then had married her second husband, Arthur Boyars, fell out with her business partner.
After she married Bajpai, an Indian scientist and activist for Indian independence, she traveled to India to study dance in 1930.
Indrani married Habib Rahman, who was named India's chief architect and who died in 1995.
'' They were married in 1956; he is her only close survivor.
''Radical privacy, sealing compartments of her life off from each other, was always a condition of Iris Murdoch's selfhood, and anyone who married her had to deal with that.
She and the baritone Giuseppe Danise were married in 1947, and he gave up his career to manage hers.
The couple, who eventually married, became an artistic team, he handling the plaster and she the painting for frescoes all over the country, including her most acclaimed work, ''The Evolution of Music,'' at George Washington High School in upper Manhattan.
She was married four times but left no immediate survivors.
In the war years, she was married to Dr. Charles West, a physician.
Ms. Rogers, who was married to the Canadian artist Hubert Reginald Rogers, was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., and attended St. Lawrence University and Columbia University.
On New Year's Eve 1919, she met the young Luce through one of his Yale classmates, Thornton Wilder; they were married in 1923.
In 1939, she married Sewell Tappan Tyng, a lawyer, author, head of a mining company and assistant to the New York City District Attorney, Thomas E. Dewey.
After the Russian Revolution she and her mother made a harrowing escape, eventually landing in Czechoslovakia, where Miss Tolstoy got a job as translator for a wealthy lumber merchant, Odo Bakovsky, and then married him in an Islamic ceremony, giving birth to a son, Serge, in 1922.
She also wrote of her consuming romance with Max Schroeder, a surrealist poet, editor and antifascist whom she married and followed from his wartime exile in New York back to Soviet-controlled East Germany in 1947.
In 1928, she married Chu Shih-ming, an army officer and an official in the Nationalist Government who at one time was an interpreter and aide-de-camp to Chiang Kai-shek.
Bowman directed a ballet school in New York from 1957 until 1977, when she married Albert Kaye and moved to Las Vegas, where she served as a consultant to local dance groups.
''I wasn't interested in getting married,'' she recalled.
During a business trip to France he telephoned and told her he was sending a ticket and that they would get married in Paris.
They sailed back to the United States on the Leviathan and were married by the captain.
In 1950 she married Leonard Ainsworth, a graduate student in psychology.
A day after graduating from Bates College, she married Herbert A. Carroll and started writing for children's magazines before  quickly producing three novels, ''As the Earth Turns,'' ''A Few Foolish Ones'' and ''Neighbor to the Sky.
She settled in San Francisco in World War II, briefly married and had a daughter who died in a car accident.
She never married.
      
She married Anthony Sewell in 1930 and the couple were divorced in 1945.
Later that year she married J. G. Links, an art expert known as Joe, who died in 1997.
She married the songwriter Jimmy Van Heusen in 1969.
In 1939, she married Richard S. Schwartz, who owned an upholstery firm.
She was by then married to Hans Erismann, with whom she had two sons.
''
        She went to Radcliffe College, where she graduated at the age of 19 and soon married a fellow Harvard student, Mark Linenthal.
She married Howard L. Katzander, also a reporter, just as the war in Europe started.
She married Matthew Carter in 1939, and the couple became sharecroppers, raising 25 acres of cotton and sharing the income with the landowners, on Pemble Plantation, near Drew.
After college, she married Robert Lee and in her early 20's was the poetry editor of The Ladies' Home Journal.
In 1934 she married a fellow singer, Lucas Soto Martin, known professionally as Luquitas de Marchena.
She met and married David (Sonny) Werblin, an agent with the Music Corporation of America.
She was awarded a scholarship to Northwestern University, where she met Daniel Whitney, a journalism student; they married shortly after her 21st birthday.
'' She was later allowed to return to London, where she met John Lawrence, whom she married in 1943.
The next year, she married Ogden D. Miller, a Yale University administrator.
In 1938 she married Ronald Batty, a childhood friend and executive at Foyle's.
Mrs. St. Louis was married briefly to Roy St. Louis in the 1950's.
About seven or eight years ago, after Colonel O'Brien had married, retired and become a widower, he came across a biography of Ms. Zipprodt in a copy of Playbill in Washington.
Ms. Zipprodt and the colonel were married on June 5, 1993.
She married John Berriault and settled in the San Francisco Bay Area, writing stories and magazine articles while raising a daughter.
''
        Her other novels include ''The Son'' (1966), about an incestuous relationship between a mother and her son; ''The Lights of Earth'' (1984), about a woman and her married lover.
She married Mr. Cullman in 1935.
She married Waldo Pizarro in 1962 and settled into a life as a working-class wife and, later, mother of three children.
Ms. Forrest's relationship with James, which was romantic as well as professional, disintegrated when he met Betty Grable, whom he later married, while making the movie ''Springtime in the Rockies.
''
        Married and divorced three times, Ms. Forrest is survived by a son, Forrest Feinman.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.
The year after Mr. Eagle's death in 1974, she married Bishop Moore, who had officiated at her second wedding and had himself recently been widowed.
Her rise there -- from saleswoman in Boston to director of publicity for Mr. Klein's flagship line -- had been fast, but her achievements were quickly overshadowed by her relationship with Mr. Kennedy, whom she married in 1996.
Ms. Fleming never married, and left no immediate family.
Her sister June married Mr. Cash in 1968 after the family helped bring him back to stability after a period of drug abuse.
In 1934 she married Daniel Saidenberg, then first cellist of the Chicago Symphony and later also a conductor.
Ms. Guild married the actor Charles Russell, with whom she had a daughter, Elizabeth.
They divorced in 1950 and she married Ernest H. Martin, who produced Broadway hits like ''Guys and Dolls.
'' Divorced from Mr. Martin in 1975, she married John Bryson, a photojournalist, in 1978.
''
        Later, he said, his wife quipped, ''We're married, and he forgot my name.
In ''Reader, I Married Him'' (1975), a study of the female characters of Charlotte Bronte, Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell and George Eliot, Ms. Beer ''demonstrates with wit, wide knowledge and a bare minimum of footnotes that even the greatest of women novelists were enthralled by the need of preserving the superior position of men,'' wrote Carolyn G. Heilbrun in The New York Times Book Review.
In 1964, she married John Damien Parsons, an architect, who survives her.
      
Ms. Rountree married Oliver M. Presbrey in 1952.
They married three months later.
Louise Thompson entered Harlem Renaissance circles through a friendship with the painter Aaron Douglas and his wife, Alta, and she married the writer Wallace Thurman.
In 1940, having moved to Chicago, Louise Thompson married William Patterson, a figure in the American Communist Party.
In 1945 she married Albert William Levi Jr., her second husband and a social scientist who was invited that year to join the faculty of the experimental Black Mountain College, near Asheville, N.C. Black Mountain was a short-lived laboratory for innovative teaching and art whose faculty and students included Josef and Anni Albers, John Cage, Merce Cunningham, David Tudor, Robert Rauschenberg and Charles Olson.
''
        After an intense courtship, the two penniless students were married in 1953, the year of Stalin's death.
The stuff of legend, she married 14 different husbands and once slapped King Farouk when he threw an ice cube down her dress.
''
        Of course, Miss Carioca married many interesting men, among them an American army officer whom she met during World War II, an actor and a prominent playwright.
There she met and married a fellow winner, Stephen Greene, an artist.
She married a professional golfer, Dan Exner, in the mid-1970's and moved to Orange County.
At 15 she married the pianist Earl Webster, and around that time the guitarist and singer Ashton Savoy tookMs.
And in 1950 she married Mortimer Hall, a Los Angeles television executive.
In 1940, the year she graduated from Wheaton College, she married Paul M. Hirschland, who became a Manhattan investment banker.
Miss Cullberg started life in a secure, wealthy home, but she had a volatile relationship with Anders Ek, one of Sweden's leading actors, whom she married in 1942.
Frances Knight Parrish, who used her maiden name of Knight while working at the State Department rather than her married name, lived at the Carriage Hill Bethesda nursing home in Bethesda, Md., for the last three years.
She married Launder the next year; he died in 1997.
In 1944, she married Casimiro Valiente, a refugee from the Spanish Civil War who went on to fight with the Free French.
Soon fluent in German and English as well as French and Russian, she  studied law and literature at the Sorbonne and Oxford University before joining a Paris law firm in 1925, the same year that she married a fellow lawyer, Raymond Sarraute.
In his memoir ''Paris in the Fifties,'' the American journalist and author Stanley Karnow, who was briefly married to Mrs. Sarraute's eldest daughter, Claude, paints a portrait of the writer as ''a lean, severe-looking woman with a hawk nose, piercing black eyes and combed-back ebony hair.
In 1937 she married Charles Dimont, a Reuters correspondent with whom she lived in Vienna and observed the German annexation of Austria.
Divorced in 1949, she married John Mortimer, the author, the same year.
They were married in 1953.
After a courtship, the two married and settled in Little Rock.
She married J. Daniel Weitzman, an investor and art collector, who made headlines in the 1970's when more than $400,000 of his artworks were stolen from his home by three gunmen who left him bound and gagged.
She married a fellow Oxford student, Yang Xianyi, and the couple returned to China, where she taught for a while in Chongqing, China's wartime capital.
She was first married at the age of 11 to her cousin Syed Nehal Hossain, then a law student.
Five years later, Ms. Kamal married Kamaluddin Ahmed.
In 1936 she married Charles E. Slatkin, a New York schoolteacher, and moved to Manhattan.
There she met Jacques Martin, a local official, whom she married in 1943.
There she met Jacques Martin, a local official, whom she married in 1943.
The two began giving performances of duo piano works together, and they married in 1921.
Nine years later, she married Jack Resnick, who had started a small real estate business in 1928.
In 1943, Gloria Caruso married Ensign Michael Hunt Murray, who had left Harvard to become a naval aviator in World War II.
When she was 19, she married a sculptor, Claude Begbie-Clench, and they had a daughter, Julie.
Soon after, she married Jeffrey Dell, a scriptwriter for the movie producer Alexander Korda, and they wrote a play called ''The Judge,'' which was staged in London in 1938.
They finally married in 1949, she once said, to assuage the concerns of Mr.
''He would be in exactly the same position he is in today had he not been married to me, except he wouldn't have had such a nice house,'' she said.
      
Mr. Togliatti was married, and divorce was then illegal in Italy.
After her ouster in 1986, Ms. Bird, who never married, retreated into semi-seclusion.
She married young and got interested in the field when her two sons were toddlers.
They were married in 1954.
They married in England, immigrated to New York and moved several times before settling in Wisconsin.
