Mrs. Lees was married four times, most recently to Jesse Lees, who died in 1975.
In 1930, at the age of 32, she married Clyde H. Smith, who was 22 years her senior and co-owner of the local newspaper.
In 1966, she formed Jean Muir Ltd. in partnership with her husband, Harry Lueckert, a former German actor she had married in 1955.
Dr. Whipple was the first married woman admitted to Johns Hopkins Medical School ("They objected on those grounds but finally took me in," she recalled in an interview decades later) and an early advocate of rearing children by using liberal amounts of cuddling and common sense.
"
        Happy to be called "Mrs. Clague" by some friends and neighbors, Dr. Whipple, who grew up in New York City, did not change her name when she married Mr. Clague in 1923, after her graduation from the University of Wisconsin, where she had been a speed skater.
She was married to Mr. Kaplan for 62 years, until his death in 1987.
She studied the piano and in 1929 married Hyman Ratner.
In 1951, she married Tom Sterling, a writer.
Miss Turner was married to and divorced from Artie Shaw, the band leader; Stephen Crane, a restaurateur (they were married and divorced twice); Bob Topping, a sportsman; Lex Barker, an actor whose roles included Tarzan; Fred May, a businessman and rancher; Robert P. Eaton, a businessman, and Ronald Dante, a nightclub hypnotist.
Miss Turner was married to and divorced from Artie Shaw, the band leader; Stephen Crane, a restaurateur (they were married and divorced twice); Bob Topping, a sportsman; Lex Barker, an actor whose roles included Tarzan; Fred May, a businessman and rancher; Robert P. Eaton, a businessman, and Ronald Dante, a nightclub hypnotist.
She was married and had five children.
      
She married Roy Harris in 1937, and it was his idea to change her first name to Johana, in tribute to Johann Sebastian Bach.
They married in 1961, moved to the University of Nevada in 1963, and in 1966 began trying to teach Washoe, a 10-month-old female ape, to use signals from Ameslan, the American Sign Language.
Miss Turner was married to and divorced from Artie Shaw, the band leader; Stephen Crane, a restaurateur (they were married and divorced twice); Bob Topping, a sportsman; Lex Barker, an actor whose roles included Tarzan; Fred May, a businessman and rancher; Robert P. Eaton, a businessman, and Ronald Dante, a nightclub hypnotist.
Miss Turner was married to and divorced from Artie Shaw, the band leader; Stephen Crane, a restaurateur (they were married and divorced twice); Bob Topping, a sportsman; Lex Barker, an actor whose roles included Tarzan; Fred May, a businessman and rancher; Robert P. Eaton, a businessman, and Ronald Dante, a nightclub hypnotist.
She married Dr. Scharrer in 1934, and they remained a team at Einstein until his accidental drowning in 1965.
"
        Mrs. Logan, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Roosevelt Logan; a son, Johnnine Watkins of Moss Point, Miss; a sister, Louise Blackman of Pensacola, Fla.; six grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren.
      
In 1931, when she was 26 and he 53, they were married.
Even after she married the Austrian prince and became a celebrated international hostess, she was known as Princess Honeychile.
In 1927, she married Wesley Simpson, a textile executive.
They were married in 1960.
Ms. Hadley, a wiry, energetic woman who never married, and the older, plumper Mrs. Irwin, the mother of four children, were a study in contrasts when they took their collaboration on the road with a series of tag-team speeches to education and publishing conferences.
Miss Brooks, who was engaged at one time to Cary Grant, married Torbert H. Macdonald, a wealthy former college football star and hero of World War II, in 1945.
She was married to the film director William Keighley, who died in 1984.
In 1957 and 1958 she produced "Mr. Adams and Eve," a situation comedy about married film stars, in which her co-star was Howard Duff, her third husband.
She was married to (and divorced from) the actor Louis Hayward (1938 to 1945) as well as Mr. Young (1948 to 1951).
She and Howard Duff were married in 1951 and divorced in 1983.
Several months after she was married, Cole Porter asked her to be Bianca in "Kiss Me Kate," but she was pregnant by then with the first of her four sons.
"
        Miss Brophy, who spoke freely in her early years about her bisexuality and often referred to marriage as "an immoral institution," nonetheless married in 1954.
Shortly thereafter, the columnist Walter Winchell introduced her to the Hollywood director and choreographer Busby Berkeley, whom she married.
Ms. Venuta was married and divorced three times.
She married Quentin Roosevelt in England in April 1944, two months before her husband, an Army captain, participated in the D-Day invasion.
Born on June 16, 1912, in the central Russian city of Tambov, she had been married twice and was considered a great beauty when she met Pasternak in 1946.
Nearing, who was born in Ridgewood, N.J., graduated from Ridgewood High School, then traveled extensively aboard, studying the violin, which she gave up for gardening when she married Mr.
In 1938, she married Randolph Appleton Kidder, a member of the Foreign Service.
She is survived by her second husband, Mr. Ramsay, a scientist and writer whom she married in 1988; a daughter, Ann Luskey Weir, and a son, Randolph Kidder Luskey, both of Washington; her father and a brother, Michael Randolph Kidder of Spofford, N.H.
      
Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children.
When asked in a 1993 interview if she could account for her and her sister's longevity, Dr. Delany replied, "Honey, we never married; we never had husbands to worry us to death.
She was married to Barrett Welch, a marketing and advertising executive, from 1943 until his death in 1981.
In the meantime, at age 22, she married Norbert Simmons, a lawyer and businessman.
"
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
She was a partner of Raphael & Dorman with her husband, Benjamin R. Raphael, a Brooklyn Law School classmate whom she married in 1939.
In 1936, she married Joseph H. Hazen, a lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist at a double ceremony in which Mrs. Hazen's sister, Enid, was married to the investment banker Ira Haupt.
In 1936, she married Joseph H. Hazen, a lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist at a double ceremony in which Mrs. Hazen's sister, Enid, was married to the investment banker Ira Haupt.
She married John Parks, another dancer, and collaborated with him on a number of concerts.
In 1923 she married Morris Silverman, who died in 1949.
")
        In later years, as the contest grew into a major annual event, Mrs. Cahill, who in 1925 married Vincent Cahill, a real estate broker, sought to distance herself from her role in the pageant, especially the beauty queen label.
Like-minded artists included Eva Hesse, Chuck Close, Bruce Nauman and Richard Serra, to whom Ms. Graves was married from 1965 to 1970.
Like-minded artists included Eva Hesse, Chuck Close, Bruce Nauman and Richard Serra, to whom Ms. Graves was married from 1965 to 1970.
She was the widow of Claude Gallimard, a member of a distinguished French publishing family whom she married in 1939.
Miss Lindfors married and divorced four times.
By then she had married George M. Clark, her manager.
Instead, she was married in 1920 to Harry Nassau; they were divorced in the late 1930's.
In 1922, she married Wallace Bennett, who served four terms in the United States Senate and retired in 1974.
Ms. Hill was married to Thurston Davies, who died in 1961.
Mrs. Beame was married to the former New York Mayor, who served from 1974 to  1978, for almost 68 years.
They married in 1928, and Mr. and Mrs. Beame lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, for more than four decades, until he became Mayor.
In 1966, she married Charles Henri Gombault, the editor in chief of the newspaper France-Soir.
Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again.
Miss Morini was married to Felice Siracusano, a jeweler.
Mrs. Haggard, who had had a brief teen-age marriage that ended in divorce, was only 34, but she never married again.
A former Republican campaign worker who had translated her political skills into a job peddling songs for a local songwriters, Mrs. Greenberg, who had been  married to an accountant, had already become a familiar figure on Tin Pan Alley, hobnobbing with music-industry hopefuls at the old Turf restaurant on Broadway at 51st Street.
Ms. Blaine was married three times.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Peter Zapp, an actor whom she married on her  deathbed; by her parents, Judy and Jack LaMott, and three brothers and three sisters.
      
She married Charles Harris Wesley, an authority on black history and former professor and dean at Howard, in 1979.
In December 1929 she married the son of Henri Matisse, Pierre, who was to become a distinguished art dealer on Madison Avenue.
After a divorce from Pierre Matisse in 1949, she married Duchamp in 1954.
They soon married.
They soon married.
In 1931 she married Artur Holde, a music critic and author.
She was 16 when she married him in 1924; Chaplin was 35 and near the height of his fame.
"
        Chaplin was married to Mildred Harris in 1918, to Paulette Goddard in 1933 and to Oona O'Neill in 1943.
They were neighbors of George and Louise Jefferson (Sherman Hemsley and Isabel Sanford), and the Willises' daughter eventually married the Jeffersons' son, Lionel.

        Mildred Lahr, who was married to the comedian Bert Lahr from 1940 until his death in 1967, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
She married Carlisle H. Johnson, an architect, in 1938 and divorced him in 1945.
While married to Mr. Maxwell, she had started to model on Seventh Avenue and developed an interest in making clothes.
She was married at 24 to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the son of a saloon keeper, and a dynamo who amassed holdings in banking, real estate, liquor, films and Wall Street that grew to an estimated $500 million.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
She was married at 24 to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., the son of a saloon keeper, and a dynamo who amassed holdings in banking, real estate, liquor, films and Wall Street that grew to an estimated $500 million.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
"
        When she was in her 20's, she met and married John Barry Ryan, who was working as a reporter for The Newark Ledger.
"
        Kahn added, in a letter mailed after she had been married for a year, at a time when she and Ryan were vacationing in Palm Beach, "I should love to be with you in the pink palazzo by the southern sea, but there is really no sense your being in this relentless city, because during the day the evil spell of the office claims me.
Ms. Leen was married for many years to Serge Balkin, a fashion photographer.
But it was "The Life of Kenneth Tynan" (1987), an unflinching portrait of the influential English drama critic to whom she was married for 13 years, that was the high point of Mrs. Tynan's literary career.
In 1987, she married Mr. Cates, a producer of Broadway shows and television programs.
They were married in 1940.
In 1940, after teaching in South Carolina, she married Dr. Taylor, whom she had met at the Mount Zion Baptist Church in Oberlin while he was a student at the Oberlin Graduate School of Theology.
Mrs. Masson attended Chevy Chase College in Washington and married Frederick M. Mitchell, who owned wholesale leather businesses, Mitchell & Pierson Manufacturing and Mitchell & Fletcher Company in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Masson later married Dr. James C. Masson, a surgeon at the Mayo Clinic.
She married the following year and moved to England with her husband where she did research on the biochemistry of diabetes at the University College Medical School in London.
Mrs. Joshi went on to become a Communist, and in 1943 she married Puran Chand Joshi, who was a Communist leader at the time.
      
"
        Ms. Highsmith's tales often involved people whose lives intersect briefly and who become involved in apparently harmless games that lead to violence: a man who buys and furnishes a house for a woman happily married to another man, a loner in New York City who finds a man's wallet on the street and invades the man's life.
"
        Ms. Highsmith's tales often involved people whose lives intersect briefly and who become involved in apparently harmless games that lead to violence: a man who buys and furnishes a house for a woman happily married to another man, a loner in New York City who finds a man's wallet on the street and invades the man's life.
She then married Arthur Green, who died 10 years ago, and worked as a consultant to the rainwear industry.
They were married in 1941 and together they traveled as cultural ambassadors for the State Department, collecting music from around the world.
She graduated from Smith in 1935, and married Aubrey Niel Morgan in 1937.
She was previously married to Benjamin Golder, a Pennsylvania member of the House of Representatives for 12 years who also headed the national bridge organization; Mr. Golder died in 1946.
She was married to Chris Perez, the lead guitarist in her band, Selena y los Dinos.
She was married to George Mitchell, an actor, who died in 1972.
In 1931, she and Barry Bingham were married.
She and the writer James Stern were married in Paris in 1935.
Miss Kuhn, who could also be somewhat unconventional in her private life, attributed the fact that she had never married to "sheer luck.
The actress was married five times: to Edward Culpepper, a dancer and actor known in vaudeville as Jack Pepper (1928 to 1931); the actor Lew Ayres (1934 to 1940); Jack Briggs, another actor (1943 to 1949); Jacques Bergerac, a French actor and businessman (1953 to 1957), and William Marshall, a director and producer (1961-1967).
"It'd be fun to have a chum around, but it's very had to have a chum unless you're married to him," she said.
"
        Mrs. Harp was born in Buffalo and studied design at North Texas State University, where she met and married Mr. Harp, an English instructor.
In 1935 she married the musicologist and conductor Aladar Toth, who died in 1971.
