She was married in 1965 to Mr. Rose, the chief executive officer of the Georgetown Group, a privately held real estate and financial service group.
In 1947 she married the poet William Jay Smith, and the couple lived for a time in England and Italy.
She was married three times, and became a baroness by marrying her second husband, Donald von Hirsch.
Her third husband, Alfred Romney, whom she married  in 1948, died in 1977.
She was 16 when they became engaged -- Stalin hand-delivered her first love letter to Bukharin -- and 20 when they married.
She taught at rural Wisconsin schools, married Gilbert Manz, a steelworker, in 1929 and later moved to Milwaukee, where she became a housewife.
Miss Douglas was married in 1968 to Andrew Hay, an importer.
She was married and widowed four times.
      
Mrs. Weil was married in 1958 to Ira Weil.
On a trip to Paris shortly after leaving school, she met and married Count Francois de Nicolay.
The Rothschilds were married in 1957 in a civil ceremony in New York -- "to allow the tempest we had  stirred up by a double divorce to subside a little," the Baroness once recalled.
In 1933, she married Christopher Hawkes, a professor of archeology, and they had a son, Nicolas.
She divorced Mr. Hawkes, and in 1953 married Mr. Priestley.
She met her future husband in the early 1930's and they were married in 1940 in Bedford, N.Y.
In 1969 she married Michael McDonald Scott, a former Roman Catholic priest, who died in 1990.
She married Deane F. Johnson, a prominent Los Angeles lawyer, in 1968 and the couple moved to New York in 1980.
She met Mr. Ford while returning from a European trip in 1936, and they were married in 1940 in what was a major event of the Southampton social season.
Mr. Ford and Mrs.  Austin were married in 1965.
In 1939, Miss Duras married the writer Robert Antelme, who was arrested and deported to Germany during the war.
When Miss Pearl was 34, she married Henry Cannon, a pilot who managed her career and flew her and her co-workers to their many shows.
When Miss Pearl was 34, she married Henry Cannon, a pilot who managed her career and flew her and her co-workers to their many shows.
When they were married in 1948, she retired from the movies.
When they were married in 1948, she retired from the movies.
She became a reporter there after graduating from the  University of Dayton with a bachelor of arts degree in 1949, the same year she married William Bombeck, a sportswriter who became a high school principal.
"
        Miss Travers, who never married, is survived by an adopted son, Camillus Travers of London, and three grandchildren.
      
The Suhartos were married in 1947.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
In 1949, she married E. E. (Buddy) Fogelson, an oil  developer and industrialist.
She had been cutting and splicing since she was a teen-ager working in the film lab that her  father, Charles Pollut, operated near the family's home in Palisades Park, N.J.
        After she married Gordon McLean, a projectionist, the couple went to Hollywood in 1924.
Miss McLean, whose early marriage ended in divorce, married the director Robert Webb in 1951 after working with him on the movie "David and Bathsheba.
In 1939 she married Angelo Lanza di Trabia, a Sicilian, and afterward she used the surname Lanza in her personal life, although not in her work.
" She married John Smith, a television actor, in 1960; they  were divorced four years later.
      
That year, she married Warren Smith, a geologist.
In 1926 she and John Loeb were married in the Park Avenue apartment of her grandfather Adolph Lewisohn.
That same year, she married the film's producer and  screen writer, Casey Robinson; the marriage ended in divorce.
Ms. Wallenda, who was 17 and an utter novice on the high wire in 1985 when she married into the Wallenda family, famous for its aerialists and acrobats, gave her final performance on March 4, 1990, at Mansfield University.
Not long after they were married in New York City in August 1985, Ms. Wallenda began her training, but not long after that, she began spitting up blood and noticed a painful lump on her ankle, where she had suffered an injury  when she was 11.
In 1919, she married Arnold Louis van Ameringen, a founder and later chairman of what has grown into a billion-dollar company, International Flavors and Fragrances, based in Manhattan.
She was in San Juan, P.R., in 1978 when Karl Wallenda, whom she married in 1935, fell 10 stories to his death while trying to walk a wire strung between two hotels.
In 1956, she married Douglas Auchincloss, a writer at Newsweek.
Ms. Van Fleet was married to William Bales, a dancer and choreographer who died in 1990.
Mrs. Randolph -- whose first marriage, to the Massachusetts-born New York investment banker Robert Winthrop, ended in divorce -- married well twice and was born better.
During this period, she married Benjamin Kornegay, a shipyard worker and petty thief with a criminal record.
They were married in December 1947, set up housekeeping in East Elmhurst, Queens, and adopted the son of Miss  Fitzgerald's half-sister, Frances.
In 1957, there were reports in the Scandinavian press that she had secretly married Thor Einar Larsen, a Norwegian impresario.
She became a reporter for the precursor of The International Herald Tribune her first day in the city, but within a year she had married and divorced a fellow reporter, John Ashenhurst, and was back in the United States with an infant son.
She, on the other hand, had already been married to one newspaperman, thank you, and was in no hurry to marry another.
After "Just Plain Bill" hit the daytime airwaves in 1933, housewives arranged their work so  they would never miss an episode of the small-town barber who married above himself.
In 1943, she married Robert E. Treuhaft, a lawyer from Brooklyn, and the couple moved to Oakland, Calif.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1936 and who retired from the Supreme Court in 1986, Mrs. Powell is survived by three daughters, Pendleton Bowen of Whidbey Island, Wash., Josephine Smith of Houston and Molly Sumner of Salt Lake City; a son, Lewis F. 3d, of Richmond, and eight grandchildren.
      
Ms. Christine, who began her career in films, was best known as Mrs. Olson,  a smiling, likable Swedish woman who was always ready to bring happiness to young married couples by brewing them a cup of "mountain-grown" Folger's.
In 1940, she married Fritz Feld, an actor,  who died in 1993.
In 1929, she married Harvey W. Zorbaugh, a university faculty member who became chairman of the department of educational sociology.
In the 1960's, she married her leading man, Dimitris Papamichail.
She was married three times and had taken the surname of her last husband, Prof. Walter Werner, while keeping her pen name.
Her last artistically substantial movie role was as a married American woman  in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp in "Three Came Home" (1950).
In 1928, Miss Colbert married Norman Foster, an actor and director who was appearing with her in "The Barker.
" They were divorced in 1935, and in December  of that year she married Dr. Joel Pressman; he died in 1968, and she leaves no immediate family members.
She was 16 when she married Roy Kellino, a cinematographer.
" She fell in love with Mr. Mason and married him in 1940, after divorcing Mr. Kellino.
She married James Watson Gerard, a United States Army officer, the same year.
Dr. Corwin remained single until she was 74 years old, when she married Herman Brautigam, a friend and colleague she had first met 40 years earlier as a student at Yale.
Mrs. Livingston was married to Richard Roland Livingston, who died in 1990.
When she was 21, she married a 38-year-old artist and moved to Spain.
Surviving are her husband, whom she married in 1957; five daughters, Antoinette Greenberg, of Chicago; Adele, of Mexico City; Loret Jr., a former Peace Corps volunteer, of Davis, Calif.; Katherine, of Manhattan, and Mary, of Bethesda; five sisters, Clair Krause and Gail Wray, both of Mequon, Wis.; Kate, of Springfield, Ill.; Carlotta Johnson, of Britain, and Adele, of Brunswick, Me.
The couple married in 1931 and moved to Paris.
Mrs. Quarles, known as Nona, was born in New Orleans and worked as a newswoman in New York before she married Donald A. Quarles in 1939.
In 1918, she married Pierre de Lanux, a French writer and diplomat, who was visiting New York.
At 18, she married Phillip R. Phillips, a manufacturer of ready-to-wear clothing and in the early 1930's she opened a shop on the 12th floor of a Madison Avenue building.
For 39 years she was married to Merrill Shepard, a Chicago lawyer who died in 1986.
She was married three times.
There was a brief early marriage she never talked about, and in 1980, just after giving birth to their son, she married John McCook, an actor.
There was a brief early marriage she never talked about, and in 1980, just after giving birth to their son, she married John McCook, an actor.
She was married to General Johnson in 1943.
The couple were married in 1953, and Mrs. Noyce, who had dreamed of writing novels and short stories, became the most dutiful of corporate wives, bearing four children and following her husband from job to job, including a somewhat reluctant move to California for a woman who never felt comfortable away from her beloved New England.
''
        In 1939 she married Power.
Before she married, Masako Owada was the symbol of the new Japanese career woman, an attractive Harvard-educated diplomat in the Foreign Ministry, moving with professional ease in five foreign languages.
''She married into a position where her responsibility is to give birth to a boy, and I feel for her,'' said Naomi Yamaha, 33, a computer engineer.
In 1944, she married Theodore Lawrence, an engineer for the British Broadcasting Corporation.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
She married a French agronomist named Miron Zlatin, settling with him on a farm in northern France and becoming a French citizen.
Chiriaeff was married twice; both marriages ended in divorce.
Ms. Carlin, a native of Maywood, Neb., who graduated from the University of Nebraska and received a master's in social work there, married right after college and began raising a family, first in Atlanta and later in Houston.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
Born in Hoboken, N.J., in 1906, the former Martha Schneider was a 19-year-old saleswoman in a Bay Shore bakery in 1925 when she married her boss, William Entenmann Jr., whose father had founded the business in Brooklyn in 1898.
She began working the street at age 15, peddling lemons and avocados, and three years later, married another vendor: Salvador Sanchez Velazquez.
In 1956, when she was 43, Miss Welitsch caused a stir in Vienna when she married Karl Schmalvogel, a 29-year-old traffic policeman who had assisted her after an accident a year earlier.
She married Samuel Rosen, a Manhattan psychiatrist, in 1942.
After his death, she married Dr. Cecil Mantell, also a founder of the Jewish Foundation School -- an elementary school -- and of Skylight.
Mrs. Newlin, who was married and widowed four times, was known professionally as Mary Bass for most of her career.
In 1939 Miss LaCentra married the radio actor Paul Stewart, an original member of Orson Welles's ''Mercury Theater of the Air.
Ms. Lear was married for 28 years to Norman Lear, the highly successful television producer of series like ''All in the Family'' and ''Maude.
The memoir related her years of sexual abuse, beginning at age 12, by the man whom her adoptive mother married after Mr. Loeb committed suicide during the Depression.
She was 33 and a buyer for better active sportswear at Lord & Taylor when she married Mr. Lear, who was then a television writer, and moved to California.
''
        Ms. Lear is survived by her two daughters, Maggie Beth Lear and Kate Breckir Lear (who is married to Dr. LaPook), both of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      
Married and divorced twice, she lived in a cottage in Wraysbury, outside London.
For 36 years, she was married to Charles Payson Coleman, who was managing law parter of Davis Polk & Wardwell at his death in 1982.
She and Mr. Seitzer were married in 1926 and divorced in 1932, three months before Miss La Plante, who had been making a movie in London, married Irving Asher, a producer who had been running the Warner Brothers studio in London.
She and Mr. Seitzer were married in 1926 and divorced in 1932, three months before Miss La Plante, who had been making a movie in London, married Irving Asher, a producer who had been running the Warner Brothers studio in London.
The couple were married in 1971, and a few years later, while traveling in France, Ms. Green had another transcendent moment when at a church in Conques, in south-central France, she encountered the bones of Saint Foy, one of the last martyrs to Roman rule.
They were married in 1926.
Dr. Penrose married David Burton Denhardt in 1934; he died in 1938.
She married Mr. Penrose in 1944; he died in 1984.
When he was 28 and she was 21, they married, and Julia went to work in the store.
They were married in 1928, but not until she graduated from New York University.
The couple, cited by the Supreme Allied Commander, Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, for their resistance activities, were married in 1946 and settled in New York.
) And in 1929, they were married.
The encounter between Nisa and the author took place during Ms. Shostak's initial field work from 1968 to 1971, when she was 21 and had just married her Brooklyn College sweetheart.
The daughter of immigrant shopkeepers from Romania, Dr. Bernard, whose original name was Ravitch, was born in Minneapolis, attended the University of Minnesota, married her college sweetheart and followed her husband from job to job, serving variously as his assistant and collaborator while holding a series of lower-level jobs, and not beginning her own academic career in earnest until she was in her 40's, an age when a woman's children are generally old enough to fend for themselves.
For one thing, the college sweetheart she married was not a classmate, but one of her professors, Dr. Luther Lee Bernard, a founder of the modern study of sociology and a man more than twice her age when they met in a classroom and felt such a powerful mutual attraction that neither looked back.
A Norwegian immigrant's daughter who grew up on a North Dakota farm, graduated from Concordia College in 1934 and spent a year studying voice and piano at the Juilliard School before returning to North Dakota to teach school, she married in 1940 and settled in the little town of Oklee, Minn., just across the state line.
Then, in May 1958, when her party declined to formally endorse Mrs. Knutson for a third term, forcing her to run in a primary to seek re-election, Andy Knutson, the farmhand she had married 18 years earlier, dropped a bombshell.
In 1943, Ms. Blaine married Robert Bass, a musician; they were divorced in 1949.
According to family legend, she was chaperoned by her mother during her first year in New York, spent the second year on her own and in the third married her voice teacher, Charles W. Kitchell.
Miss Kitchell, whose first husband died in 1956, married Joseph Yoder, a retired chemical engineer, in 1965 and settled in Florida.
They were married in 1933, and she went on to retire briefly from movie making.
In 1964, she married a Spanish architect, Pedro Sanchez de Move llan, and spent much of the next 20 years living in Mexico City, where her husband worked for the firm of Luis Barragan.
In 1991 she married Bernard Wharton.
Seven years after the dental appointment, and many years after escorting not only disabled veterans but any wheelchair-bound fans to games, the two were married.
Then more help arrived, first in small bequests from patients' wills, then finally through Preston Robert Tisch, who owns 50 percent of the Giants and who married Joan Hyman, Dr. Hyman's daughter from his first marriage.
She married him anyway, in 1932.
After playing with semipro teams in St. Paul, Stone went to stay with a sister in San Francisco, married a man 40 years her senior and continued to play baseball, adopting the name Toni.
A doctor's daughter, Mrs. Gaiser was born in Ogdensburg, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1923, and taught school in Bronxville, N.Y. until she married Mr. Jewett in 1925.
She married Dr. David Wesley Gaiser, a surgeon, in 1961, and he died in 1985.
After she and Dr. Robbins were married in 1975, the couple worked as a team.
Born in Hamburg, Germany, Mrs. Rey met her husband as a girl and they married in 1935.
She and Mr. Shaw were married in 1939 and moved to Paris in 1950 after the publication of his novel ''The Young Lions.
She was a budding artist before she met and later married Mr. Leakey, when she turned to fossil hunting and archeology.
At the age of 20, Mary Nicol, a sometime illustrator of stone tools and occasional participant in archeological digs, met Louis Leakey, 10 years her senior, married and an established figure in African archeology with a position at Cambridge University.
The two were married in 1936 and set out for Africa, where he had grown up as the son of British missionaries.
In 1950, she married Howard Barclay Railey, a businessman who was attached to the American Embassy in Paris.
In 1950, she married Howard Barclay Railey, a businessman who was attached to the American Embassy in Paris.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.
Mrs. Bernstien was married for 63 years to Oscar Bernstien, a founder of the  law firm O'Dwyer & Bernstien, who died in 1974.
In 1936, Josephine married Jay Frederick Reeve, a Chicago lawyer she met while covering the courts.
In 1946, in Red Lodge, Mont., she married Ivan Albright, an artist of the Chicago school who was known for his realistic paintings.
"
        Her mother later married the violinist Efrem Zimbalist.
She never married, and filled her home with cats that she often used as models for her illustrations.
      
They married in 1964.
She married Dr. Fitzhugh Boggs, a fellow scientist, in 1941 and gave birth to their son, David, in 1945.
They married in 1944 and had a daughter, Anne-Francoise.
      
Mrs. Fisk was one of the heirs who sued Pamela C. Harriman, now the Ambassador to France, whom her father married in 1971.
She was married three times: to the literary critic Cyril Connolly from 1950 to 1956; to the publisher George Weidenfeld from 1956 to 1961, and briefly to Derek Jackson, a newspaper heir, in 1966.
She married M. P. Bronshtein, an eminent physicist who died in prison in 1938.
She was married in 1946 to Irving L. Schwartz, a scientist, educator and physician.
An early marriage ended in divorce and in 1934 she married Rabbi Eisenstein, the assistant rabbi at the Society for the Advancement of Judaism, the Manhattan synagogue that her father headed.

        Lady Caroline Blackwood, a writer of wry, macabre novels and essays, and a beguiling Anglo-Irish aristocrat who married the painter Lucian Freud and the poet Robert Lowell, died yesterday in the Mayfair Hotel in Manhattan, where she  stayed the last few weeks while she was ill. She was 64.
She next moved to New York and married Israel Citkowitz, an American composer and pianist, and a student of Aaron Copland, 20 years her senior.
They were divorced in 1972, when she married Lowell, but they remained close.
"
        Miss Hart, who never married, leaves no immediate family.
She attended Converse College in Spartanburg, S.C., and in 1944, married Arthur A. Houghton Jr., the chairman of Steuben Glass.
Two years later, she married Walker O. Cain, an architect.
"
        During a trip to Mexico in 1937 she became a translator for Trotsky and was married to one of his secretaries for a brief time.
