The middle one, Gorgeous, the group leader of the Beth El Sisterhood of Newton, Mass., is ostensibly a happily married mother of four who is trying to start a career as a radio talk-show host.
A refined, elegant woman who loved opera, collected art, spoke eight languages fluently, traveled the world with confident ease and made millions in the stock market, she was an intensely private person of such shadowy origins that the United States Chess Federation lists her birthplace simply as Europe, and until recently her best friend had no idea she had once been married.
They married in 1937 and moved to Connecticut, where he was on the faculty of Yale University and she conducted research, working on the effects of radiation on bacteria.
At Douglass, she introduced a multilingual course in world poetry run by the students, as well as a program of part-time study for married women.
In 1979, she married Dr. Clement A. Smith, a pediatrician and faculty member at Harvard.
''
        Ms. Sunn, who was married three times, is survived by her husband, Dave Parmenter; a daughter, Jan Carreira of Los Angeles; her parents, Elbert and Roen Sunn of Kailua-Kona, Hawaii; a brother Eric of Makaha, and three sisters, Val Fenwick of Kailua-Kona, Anella Dehr of Makawao, Hawaii, and Kula Sunn of Haiku, Hawaii.
      
She and Moody divorced in 1937, and she married Aidan Roark, a film writer and noted polo player, two years later.
Frequently photographed and written about during her glittering earlier marriages to John Randolph Hearst and William S. Paley, she married Walter Hirshon, a stockbroker, in 1953.
Mr. Hearst had not yet entered his first year at Oglethorpe University in Atlanta, but the couple were married in New York in December 1927.
In May 1932, she married Mr. Paley in Kingman, Ariz.
        ''Although seven years his junior, Dorothy was more worldly than he,'' Sally Bedell Smith wrote in ''In All His Glory,'' her 1990 biography of Mr. Paley.
Three years later, she married Robert Kenaston, a rancher, and retired from films.
After Mr. Kenaston died in 1973, she married John Miller, an architect.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Mrs. Haje, who grew up in Altoona, Pa., and married a local Lebanese-American businessman, seemed content with her role as an  American housewife and mother.
Ms. Van Horne was married to David Lowe, a documentary producer who died several years ago.
After receiving her degree in 1924, she married Wesley Cook, a divinity student who later became involved in union activities.
He had taken someone else to the party, but Mary Lou was the one he married.
Mr. Lollis died in 1949, and Mrs. Lollis never married again.
She married the author in 1940, becoming his third wife.
She said she just found married life too boring.
Her husband died in 1990, and the following year she married Jeremiah Milbank, a philanthropist whose family was involved in investment banking and founded the International Center for the Disabled.
She married Robert Jordan of Weston, Conn., and had a son, Nicholas, but the marriage failed.
In 1939, she married Andy Razaf, a lyricist who wrote songs for Fats Waller.
In 1950 she married John Hutson, a fellow employee at the Countee Cullen branch library.
While Ms. Fields, whose married name was Karp, concentrated on the television advertising, side of the business, others in her office also represented some of their clients for theatrical productions.
She married Oscar Karp, owner of Oscar's Salt of the Sea restaurant in Manhattan, in 1983.
They were married in 1945 and adopted two infant daughters, in 1946 and 1950.
Ms. Harmon was married three other times.
From 1934 to 1940, she was married to Sidney Harmon, a film and theatrical producer.
In 1960 she was married briefly to Henry Rothman, a framemaker.
In 1972 she married Milton Schachter, a real estate developer, who died in 1996.
In 1949, she married Count Anthony Szapary, a founder of the Hungarian National Sports Federation.
In the mid-1920's, she married George Lyman Paine Jr., an architect in New York City.
In the early 40's she married Dr. Giles Thomas, a psychologist in Manhattan, who died several years later.
She is survived by her husband, William Burge of New York, to whom she had been married for 40 years.
      
Her older sister, Mary (Minnie) Cushing, was married to Vincent Astor, the wealthy real estate owner, and after a divorce, to James Whitney Fosburgh, an artist.
Barbara (Babe) Cushing, the youngest, was married to Stanley Mortimer Jr., a grandson of one of the founders of Standard Oil, and after a divorce, to William S. Paley, the legendary founder and chairman of the Columbia Broadcasting System.
They married at St. Paul's Episcopal Church in Brookline, Mass., on June 5, 1930, two days before the bridegroom's graduation from Harvard.
As a young married woman, Betsey Cushing Roosevelt ''could be imperious,'' the fashion photographer Horst P. Horst later told Mr. Paley's biographer, Sally Bedell Smith.
''
        Not Exactly a Favorite Of Eleanor Roosevelt
        The young Roosevelts spent their early married life living with the Cushings, while the bridegroom studied law at the Boston University Law School.
She also introduced Minnie Cushing to Vincent Astor, and the two were married in 1940 after Mr. Astor divorced his first wife.
The couple were married in a small, informal ceremony on March 1, 1942, in her widowed mother's East 86th Street apartment.
In 1979, they, too, had a daughter, Coronda, but never married.
In the next year, the couple married and adopted Charles Graves, the son of a former boyfriend.
They had been married for 47 years.
Ms. Wood liked to say that she had loved seven men she didn't marry and married two men she didn't love,  saying that neither marriage was consummated.
In 1938, while living in Los Angeles, she married Steve Hoag, an engineer, after a house they owned together in North Hollywood was swept away in a flood, on the correct theory that married people were likely to get Red Cross relief more easily.
In 1938, while living in Los Angeles, she married Steve Hoag, an engineer, after a house they owned together in North Hollywood was swept away in a flood, on the correct theory that married people were likely to get Red Cross relief more easily.
They married in 1937.
She had married Martin Abzug in 1944.
She was married briefly as a teen-ager in 1948, but the marriage was dissolved and she never remarried.
After an early marriage and divorce, she married Edward J. Rakowicz, a recording engineer, had a son, Edward W., now 7, and became as devoted a mother as she had been a dedicated singer.
The daughter of a fisherman who operated a hotel, Mrs. Meilleur, whose maiden name was Levesque, was educated at a local convent, married a man named Leclerc and had four children before her husband died of pneumonia in the early years of the century.
In 1915 she married Hector Meilleur and moved to Rapide des Joachims, Quebec, where her husband worked as a forest ranger during the summer and as a lumberman during the winter, while Mrs. Meilleur had six more children, bringing her total to 10.
She later lived in Morgan City and New Orleans, where she met her husband, Joseph Ellis Cormier, who had six children when the couple were married.
During that time Ms. Maddox married and had a son.
As the wife of a musician who had long been a teen-age heartthrob and was the last Beatle to be married,  Ms. McCartney first attracted the ire of her husband's fans, and eventually the respect of many of them.
When the McCartneys were married in London on March 12, 1969, hundreds of crying girls packed the sidewalk outside the Marylebone Register Office.
Those songs include everything from ''Maybe I'm Amazed'' and ''The Lovely Linda'' on his first post-Beatles album, ''McCartney'' (1970), ''Long-Haired Lady'' on ''Ram'' (1971) and ''My Love'' on ''Red Rose Speedway'' (1973) to more recent songs like ''We Got Married'' and ''Figure of Eight'' on ''Flowers in the Dirt'' (1989) and ''Somedays'' on ''Flaming Pie'' (1997), his most recent studio album.
While a student in Arizona, she married and had a daughter, but the marriage ended in 1963.
In 1942 she married Anthony J. Lokot Jr., who died in 1991.
Ms. Twigg-Smith, who had been married to Thurston Twigg-Smith, former publisher of The Honolulu Advertiser, had lived since 1970 in Hawaii, where she and her husband had put together a substantial collection of contemporary art.
She was married in the 1930's to Theos C. Bernard, an anthropologist, who died in 1948, 10 years after their divorce.
      
She was drawn to music and learned to play guitar before she became a teen-ager, when she joined her mother in Birmingham, Ala.
        A month before her high school graduation in 1959, she was married for the first time, to Euple Byrd.
She married a second time, to Don Chapel, a singer, but the marriage lasted only a year.
As the song moved from country radio stations to the pop Top 20, she married George Jones, the country singer who had been her idol.
'' In 1976, she married and divorced Michael Tomlin.
Two years later, she married George Richey, with whom she wrote the song '' 'Til I Can Make It on My Own.
She was drawn to music, and learned to play guitar before her teen-age years, when she joined her mother in Birmingham, Ala.
        A month before her high school graduation in 1959, she was married for the first time, to Euple Byrd.
''
        She had married the songwriter Don Chapel in 1967, but the partnership lasted only a year.
But Mr. Jones's lawyers discovered that Mr. Chapel and Ms. Wynette had married illegally, because she had married too soon after her previous divorce.
But Mr. Jones's lawyers discovered that Mr. Chapel and Ms. Wynette had married illegally, because she had married too soon after her previous divorce.
As ''Stand By Your Man'' moved from country radio stations to the pop Top 20, Ms. Wynette married Mr. Jones in 1969, and they began billing themselves as ''Mr.
Ms. Wynette married Michael Tomlin in 1976, then divorced him after 44 days.
Two years later, she married George Richey, with whom she wrote the song '' 'Til I Can Make It on My Own.
Two years later she married a newspaperman named Kenneth Douglas, but realizing her marriage was a mistake she went to Miami, where she became a reporter at her father's newspaper.
''
        Ms. Donegan was married three times, and is survived by two sons, John and Donovan.
Dr. Zeller never married.
''
        In 1929, Ms. MacIver married Lloyd Frankenberg, a poet, and they maintained a close professional relationship all their lives.
For a woman who was the toast of Paris in the 1920's, dancing ballet with the Opera, dallying with a raft of admirers and posing nude for artists, Mrs. Maxwell made an abrupt change in her life: After a 12-year marriage to an Air Force officer ended in 1945 (''I married a lieutenant and divorced a brigadier general''), she headed to South America to visit friends in Bolivia, later saying that since she had never been attracted to Latin men, she hoped to avoid distracting entanglements.
After the Gelmans were married in 1941, they were able to live well and entertain lavishly.
Off screen she had an unlikely but happy marriage to the brash band leader Phil Harris, whom she married in 1941.
Off screen she had an unlikely but happy marriage to the brash band leader Phil Harris, whom she married in 1941.
After receiving a master's in sociology from Columbia in 1940, she worked as a Government researcher in Washington and met and married a young economist named John Lansing.
She married Mr. Kormendi in 1953; he died in 1985.
She married Professor Corbett in 1972.
In the 1930's, long before Montana became a popular hideaway for show business stars, Miss Nolan and her husband, John McIntire, an actor whom she married in 1935, maintained a log cabin in the Rockies 3 miles from the Canadian border and 14 miles from the nearest mail drop.
She married Frank Bancroft in 1935, and they were both active in left-wing causes.
Dr. Boulton married John Wallace in 1962; the marriage ended in divorce.
Dr. Boulton married Schroeder Boulton in 1965, and their home in Greenwich Village became a gathering spot for people in civil rights and antiwar work, Mr. Bancroft said.
After attending the University of Georgia she married Ben Scott Whaley, who became a prominent Charleston lawyer, served a term in the state legislature, was United States Attorney for Charleston in the Truman Administration and played a crucial role in creating his wife's garden.
In 1975, she married Dr. John Bookman, a nutrition and diabetes specialist at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
They were married in 1927.
Her later films included ''Peggy Sue Got Married,'' Francis Coppola's 1986 fantasy in which her granddaughter (played by Kathleen Turner) visits her from the future.
In 1983, she was married a second time, to James Cushing, a construction company executive.
They married in 1925.
She married Paul Kennedy, the author and Yale historian, in 1967.
Later, on gaining acceptance to St. Anne's College, Oxford, she cut a stylish, aristocratic figure, someone who went riding with the Aga Khan and married a Grenadier Guard, James Nicholas Milne Cheetham.
Mrs. Rennie and her husband, William Roxburgh Rennie, a manufacturers representative, were married in 1940.
''Galina got married quite often.
In 1951 she married Howard Singer.
''
        In 1940, she married Mike Frankovich, a Columbia studio executive and former football star at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Dr. Timoner was there, too, and, well, it's an old story, and by the time she began giving it her own personal twist, Ms. Timoner had been married at 18, had had two children by the time she graduated and had endured a grin-and-bear-it decade as a distinctly restless housewife and mother.
In 1949, she married Thomas Francis Delaney, a building contractor, who helped her start the Little Hill Foundation and Alina Lodge.
Although Miss Caccialanza danced with pioneering American companies and was married to Lew Christensen, an important American choreographer, her early training was Italian.
When the American Ballet was not performing, its members appeared with Ballet Caravan, a touring group founded in 1936 that encouraged American choreographers, among them Mr. Christensen, whom Miss Caccialanza married in 1941.
She married Karl Leubsdorf, an investment counselor, in 1934.
She attended Columbia University  and in the 1950's was married briefly to Stan Lewis.
She married Mr. Tarcher in 1958.
In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.
Mrs. Blumkin was 20 when she married Isadore Blumkin, a shoe salesman, soon before he fled to the United States to avoid being drafted into the Russian Army.
A petite woman with a wry smile and quick wit, she married Mr. Harrington in 1935.
''
        By then she was Muriel Humphrey Brown, having married Max Brown, a widowed Nebraska businessman who had been a classmate in Huron.
Bob Kersee, who was Griffith Joyner's coach and who is married to Jackie Joyner-Kersee, said yesterday that there had been no diagnosis of the 1996 incident.
They married in 1936, and Mrs. Humphrey worked as a bookkeeper at a utility company to put her husband through college.
''
        By then she was Muriel Humphrey Brown, having married Max Brown, a widowed Nebraska businessman who had been one of her classmates when she graduated from high school in 1930.
The couple were divorced after the war, and she promptly married an old flame, Sam Rosenberg, a gynecologist who became a psychiatrist in New York.
She graduated from American University here and lived in Arlington, Va., with her husband, William J. Weller, whom she married in 1990.
''
        During the war, Ms. Long married Raymond Daniell, the London bureau chief for The New York Times, and joined The Times as a reporter in February 1942.
''She was one of the breed of women that came out of the wartime era,'' said Ms. Jennings, ''most of whom were happily married and supportive of their husbands but in and of themselves were very strong-willed and independent.
Mrs. Hamerstrom and her husband, Frederick, met and married on the East Coast and then both attended the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Hamerstrom, always proud that she had flunked out of Smith College, received a bachelor's degree in 1935.
In the early 1990's, after 30 years of a common-law marriage, Ms. Julien and Mr. Godin were formally married.
The couple was married in 1941.
Mrs. Judd maintained that she shot the women in self-defense when they attacked her during an argument, but prosecutors said that she entered the residence while the two  slept, then shot them in the head out of jealousy over attentions paid to them by her married boyfriend.
Ms. Sabin was married to Leopold Mannes, a musician and one of the inventors of Kodachrome, who died in 1964.
She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1942 married Warren Goff, a law student who became a lighting consultant.
They married in 1963 and in 1965 moved to Bridgehampton where they opened an art gallery in their home, a Victorian gingerbread on Route 27.
Mr. Benson died in 1971, and in 1974 Mrs. Benson married Joseph Kaufman, a historian and bibliographer who died in 1995.
'' Finally bowing to her father's wishes, she returned to Havana at the end of 1934 and married a few months later.
After her first husband, the playboy son of a wealthy rancher, discovered he couldn't keep her down on the finca after she'd seen Paree, Miss Parla obtained a divorce and later married Guillermo Amuchastegui, a celebrated jai alai player who took her all over the world, and she hobnobbed with the likes of Orson Welles and Esther Williams (when she wasn't in Cuba hobnobbing with Ernest Hemingway).
When Fidel Castro seized power in 1959, Miss Parla, by then married to a Batista government official, fled to the United States and settled in Miami.
They married and immigrated to the United States in 1923.
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
Mrs. Pillsbury was born in New York City in 1905 and married Mr. Pillsbury in 1930.
''
        Miss Nijinsky's stage career began fading after she married the conductor Igor Markevitch in 1936; the marriage ended in divorce and Markevitch, who died in 1983, raised their son, Vaslav Nijinsky Markevitch.
Mrs. Pillsbury was born in New York City in 1905, and married Mr. Pillsbury in 1930.
She grew up in privileged Anglo-Argentine society, attending finishing school in England before returning to her home, where she married James Main, a British engineer, in 1927.
In 1922, she married Louis Kissinger.
In 1954 she married Mr. Profumo, a Conservative member of Parliament.
Miss Dalrymple was married in 1951 to Maj. Gen. Philip de Witt Ginder, who died in 1968.
After attending Barnard College for one year, she married Mr. Cahn, a lawyer and later a constitutional law professor at New York University, who died in 1964.
In 1978, she married Albert Zola, a dentist, who died in 1997.
In 1928 she began attending the Paris Conservatory of Dramatic Arts, and two years later she married a fellow student, Pierre Feuillere, although the marriage soon floundered because of his drug problems.
Ms. Blau, who was married to the late Lazar Platt, is survived by two sisters, Jeannette Silverman of New York and Gladys Saltzman of Tampa, Fla.
      
She attended Sarah Lawrence College, and at 18 married Lieut.
The next year, Peggy Lehman married Richard Korn, a symphony conductor who died in 1981.
But he lost $12 million in the Depression, and his daughter Helen was forced to drop out of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.
        After studying advertising in San Francisco, she was offered a job at the Frederick & Nelson department store in Seattle, where she met and married Marion Parker Malsed, who sold men's clothing in the store.
She considered a career as a choreographer, but in 1934 she married Laurence Sinclair Foster, a charming stockbroker and gambler  whom she later described as a philistine ''who thought Omar Khayyam was a curry.
In London, in 1949, she married James Haynes-Dixon, a civil servant.
In her 40's when she married Harold G. Henderson, a Columbia professor of Japanese art who had served on General MacArthur's staff and composed Emperor Hirohito's renunciation of divinity, Miss Benjamin soon drew her husband into her scholarly detective work.
Dr. Nyswander was married for more than 20 years to George T. Palmer, former director of research for the American Child Health Association in New York.
She had been married to a man named Stradtner for three years, maybe 40 years ago.
Although she was engaged for a few years beginning at the age of 19, Miss Fujikawa never married.
Described over the years as demure and trim, with hazel eyes and a weakness for hats, the woman who invented kissable lipstick never married.
Mrs. Baker and Mr. Holzhauer were divorced in 1940, and seven years later she married Jacob Baker, a business executive, and they moved into the Chelsea Hotel.
They married in 1934.
