While in the Women's Army Corps in 1943 she gained attention for her depictions of military life, including air evacuation of the wounded in the Pacific.
At a time when a segregated military provided few opportunities for blacks, Charity Adams was one of only two to hold a wartime rank in the Wacs as high as major.
A subsequent promotion made her a lieutenant colonel briefly before she left military service in 1946.
From her first day in the corps, though, she had to bear the humiliations of a segregated military.
After her military service, she received a master's degree in vocational psychology from Ohio State, then became a dean at Tennessee A&I  College and Georgia State College.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
Her husband, Stephen, said she  died of pneumonia in Accra Military Hospital.
She next got a contract to supply juice to the military, but lacked the necessary funds to produce it.
Most of East Prussia was incorporated into the Soviet Union and made a prohibited military zone.
She's used to questions about her husband, Charles, a filmmaker and journalist whose execution in Chile during a 1973 military coup was dramatized in the Oscar-winning movie ''Missing.
''
        Polish Communists reacted to the uprising in their country by reinstating Wladyslaw Gomulka as party chief, defying threats of military intervention from Moscow.
''
        Polish Communists reacted to the uprising in their country by reinstating Wladyslaw Gomulka as party chief, defying threats of military intervention from Moscow.
The organization that Miss Lynn led, now called the Army Entertainment Program, is also separate from the service clubs where military personnel go to relax and play checkers or Ping-Pong.
She supervised a far-flung network of 200 full-time civilian directors in performing arts centers at military bases.
The only intrusions she permitted were tourist helicopter flights overhead and secret military activities, which were kept away from both endangered wildlife and residents.
For 13 days, they sailed on a battered military transport ship, where training was a nightmare.
In the eyes of most Americans, the military services had no more heroes, merely baby-killers, misfits and fools.
