A symbolic trial, it found Emperor Hirohito ultimately responsible for the policy by which the Japanese military forced Asian women into sexual slavery during World War II.
They set up changing categories within which to compete; these sometimes included Town & Country types, military personnel, corporate executives, schoolgirls and schoolboys and fashion models.
''
        After graduating from high school, the News Journal reported, she was a nurse in the military, where she met Phillip E. Stamps.
But they presented challenges to military tradition.
Over the next decades, Ms. Laybourne helped identify thousands of birds involved in collisions with commercial and military aircraft.
And a mysterious figure identified as Count Carlo Marullo di Condojanni of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta somehow got himself into the official photo of world leaders.
At a party where she sang for wartime sailors, she met Robert Shuttleworth, a military bandleader, who later hired her to perform with his hotel orchestra.
And in an October 2001 interview with The Times of India, she succinctly laid out her government's stance on the Middle East, insisting that Israel remove settlements on the West Bank, withdraw military forces from the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang Kai-shek in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun Yat-sen.
        Madame Chiang became a true political partner to her husband, traveling with him, advising him on military and political matters, turning her charm on allies and foes alike.
The Nationalists received considerable American aid, but as John Service, a longtime Foreign Service officer in China, warned in a memorandum about General Chiang: ''He has achieved and maintained his position in China by his supreme skill in balancing man against man and group against group, and his adroitness as a military politician rather than as a military commander, and by reliance on a gangster secret police.
The Nationalists received considerable American aid, but as John Service, a longtime Foreign Service officer in China, warned in a memorandum about General Chiang: ''He has achieved and maintained his position in China by his supreme skill in balancing man against man and group against group, and his adroitness as a military politician rather than as a military commander, and by reliance on a gangster secret police.
''
        Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
Many Nationalist soldiers were reduced to begging for food because they went unpaid, yet American diplomats discovered that military supplies sent from the United States to China sometimes appeared on the black market soon after arrival.
Chiang Kai-shek, a severe-looking military aide to Sun who established a school for officers in southern China, may have been as attracted to the Soongs' financial and political connections as he was to their youngest daughter.
