Innovative Exhibitions
        In 1943, she was hired by Daniel Catton Rich, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, to run the museum's public-relations office while its regular director served in the military.

        Dorothy H. Davis, one of the elite group of female pilots who won their wings and the respect of their male colleagues flying military aircraft during World War II, died on Wednesday at her home in San Francisco.
But in the late 1970's, Miss Davis led a campaign that began in San Francisco to have the Federal Government officially recognize the women as military veterans.
Improvement Act in 1977, which led to official recognition of the Wasps as having been in active military service during World War II.
In 1942 Dr. Judd, a Republican, was elected to Congress from Minnesota and rose to prominence as a crusader against Japanese military expansionism and Chinese Communism; he retired from Congress in the 1960's.
One of her books, "Employment Expansion and Population Growth: The California Experience, 1900-1950," published in 1954, was among the first analyses to arrive at the conclusion that California, more than any other state, depended on military spending.
Mrs. Bryant was born in New York, graduated from the Spence School, and in 1941 was a vice chairman of the committee that formed the United Service Organizations, the coalition of groups assisting American military personnel.
After joining the geological survey in 1951, she concentrated on the military aspects of geology.
She analyzed strategic sites in more than 30 countries for ground water, suitability for road building, airfield construction and other factors important to the military.
She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.

        Mildred McAfee Horton, who helped revolutionize the role of women in the military as the first director of the WAVES, died on Friday at the St. Vincent DePaul Nursing Home in Berlin, N.H. She was 94.
After the war, Mrs. Horton continued to be an outspoken advocate for improving the position of women in the military.
