Pressed by the military police to report on her foreign clients, she instead married a young diplomat, Shintaro Ota, and moved with him to his post in Calcutta.
For many years, Mrs. Fisher was deeply involved in charitable work alongside her husband, a leading New York builder, especially to benefit the country's military, its veterans and their families.
More recently, the Fishers provided financial support for families of military personnel lost in the line of duty.
They began the Fisher House Foundation in 1990 to build ''homes away from home'' for families of hospitalized members of the military and the Fisher Armed Forces Scholarship Foundation to help active and former military personnel and their families.
They began the Fisher House Foundation in 1990 to build ''homes away from home'' for families of hospitalized members of the military and the Fisher Armed Forces Scholarship Foundation to help active and former military personnel and their families.
But the greater upset to her reign occurred in 1976, when the government disclosed that Prince Bernard was involved in a bribery scandal and had accepted ''dishonorable offers and favors'' from the Lockheed Corp., which was eager to sell aircraft to the Dutch military.
Fearing a constitutional crisis and a public outcry, the government merely stripped the prince of his military, charitable and diplomatic tasks.
Emerson requested that she be sent to Vietnam because she had been in that country in 1956 and wanted to go back to write about the Vietnamese people and the immense unhappy changes in their lives, not a subject widely covered by the huge press corps who were preoccupied with covering the military story.
They were tried and convicted by a secret Hungarian military court but freed the following year, in time to cover the anti-Communist uprising and its suppression by Soviet forces.
Until her retirement at 79, she supervised the Bluebells' every performance (two shows a day, seven days a week) with military precision, while ferociously guarding their virtue from a stream of stage-door Lotharios.
