They had met two years previously when he was a fellow passenger on the S.S. President Hoover, en route to the Philippines to assume his duties as military adviser to the government there.
Later, when the military situation on Corregidor rapidly deteriorated, the general informed her that President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines had offered her and their young son, Arthur, passage to Australia.
A vivacious woman with meticulous manners, Mrs. MacArthur took seriously the social duties connected with her husband's position, both in the military and later in private life.
''At a time when Chinese women were trying to find new modes of identity in the 20th century after having shed the shackles of traditional Chinese feminine identity, there were many different, alternative identities available to them,'' Dr. Laughlin said, ''and I think she was the first to create this very military one.
Before she was 20, she enrolled in the Wuchang Central Political and Military School.
The academy trained young women to be uniformed propagandists attached to the regular military.
After her relatively brief military service Miss Hsieh returned to her village and an arranged marriage.
The government was not initially interested in their device, but a refined version of it was used by the American military in the 1960's -- after the patent had expired.

        Jacqueline Auriol, the glamorous French flier who set several speed records as one of the world's leading military test pilots in the 1950's and 60's, died Saturday at her Paris home.
Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had lived in Alexandria, Va., since 1980, said her husband, Everett Jones, a retired Army major.
The battalion had been formed after civil rights organizations and black newspapers complained that the military was not using African-American women in meaningful jobs.
''To move the mail with them was a really tough job,'' said Judith Bellafaire, curator of the Women in Military Service for America Memorial in Washington.
After three years at Howard University, where she later received a bachelor's degree, Margaret Barnes joined the military in 1943, a time when it was racially segregated and there were few places for women.
At the time, African-Americans were limited to 10 percent of the overall troops, said the Army Center of Military History.
Explaining once how she had managed to keep the house running smoothly, Mrs. Beardsley said, ''I think the military background helped.
after that was in 1969, when she was invited to a ceremony to receive her second Red Banner, the highest Soviet military decoration.
Naval Reserve,'' Mrs. Hardin provided the emotional high point at the ceremony, held in October 1997 at Arlington National Cemetery to dedicate the Women in Military Service for America Memorial, honoring almost  two million women who had served.
''To those women now in military service, I say, 'Carry on.
' To those  young women who may be thinking about a career in the military service, I say, 'Go for it.
She is survived by four children from her marriage to Mr. Kirsten: Captain Kirsten, of Lodi, Roy Kirsten of Stockton and Warren Kirsten of Sacramento, all military veterans, and Mary Botto of Stockton; 12 grandchildren; 25 great-grandchildren; and 29 great-great-grandchildren.
In speaking at the memorial dedication, Mrs. Hardin said that ''a world of opportunity'' awaited women in the military.
They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service.
