She was the visiting expert on labor education with the Office of Military Government in postwar Germany in the late 1940's, and chief of the Adult Education Section of the United States High Commission in Germany from 1950 to 1952.
Ms. Gellhorn had little use for most war reporting after the Vietnam War, saying that the press' role in ending that conflict had taught military leaders a lesson.
In 1977, during its crackdown on leftists, the military dictatorship that ran Argentina at the time abducted her three adult children, Luis, Lila, and Claudio, and presumably killed them.
A Government commission found in the mid-1980's that at least 9,000 people had been killed or disappeared during the right-wing military Government's crackdown on political opponents.
Mrs. Epelbaum, who once taught literature, was a fearless, outspoken critic of the military Government.
She also is credited with bringing worldwide attention to the atrocities of Argentina's military regime, which reliquinshed power in 1983.
' ''
        Mrs. Epelbaum was greatly troubled by President Carlos Saul Menem's decision in 1989 to pardon senior military officers accused of human rights abuses.
Alfredo Bravo, an opposition Congressman whose party has proposed a bill to rescind the military amnesty, said of Mrs. Epelbaum, who leaves no immediate survivors, ''It hurts me deeply that as a Congressman, I have not been able to repair her pain, at least in part, with the abolition of these amnesty decrees.

        Ruth Forbes Young, who founded the International Peace Academy, an organization that trains negotiators, diplomats and military personnel in peacekeeping and provides meeting grounds for diplomats involved in efforts to prevent hostilities, died on March 5 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 94.
''
        U Thant recommended that she enlist the aid of Maj. Gen. Indar Jit Rikhye, who had been military adviser to U Thant and Dag Hammarskjold.
''The academy has helped in the career development of hundreds of diplomats and military commanders,'' General Rikhye said from his home in Charlottesville, Va. ''Its pioneering efforts in training future peacekeepers and trainers have had a global impact.
Her uncle Cameron Forbes was the first Governor-General of the Philippines and often entertained government and military officials, including President William Howard Taft and Gen. John J. Pershing.
With the country at war, her articles typically dealt with women in Congress, on the assembly line and in the armed forces, military nurses and the wives left behind when their husbands were sent to war.
To those who had assumed that women followed men's voting patterns, her most surprising finding was that the greatest sex difference was not on home-and-hearth issues like the economy and education but in foreign affairs, particularly military issues, with women being distinctly less hawkish than men.
For Ms. Timoner, a New Haven native whose father was a railroad carpenter, religion, the military and pushing limits were all family traditions.
On the day in 1993 that she began her first assignment, at Fort Bragg, N.C., her husband recalled yesterday, President Clinton announced his ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy on homosexuals in the military, prompting Rabbi Timoner to make an announcement of her own: she would gladly provide a full range of counseling for gay soldiers.
In 1945, she was sent to Europe as a member of the American Military Government's Monuments, Fine Arts and Archives Section, the group that preserved, restored and returned art plundered during the war to its rightful owners.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
Mrs. Blumkin's own nominee for the nation's greatest businessman was her son, Louis, who became her major ally in running the Furniture Mart after returning from military service in World War II.
In one scene, for example, the young women escape through a back window of a military hospital in Lwow, where they had been working, as the police are coming in the front door (they had been betrayed by one of Dr. Rosenbloom's former college classmates who had spotted her in a bookshop).
But women went to war, too, going into factories, into desk jobs and into the military.
She first volunteered to join a military hospital unit but ended up as a civilian flier of military planes.
She first volunteered to join a military hospital unit but ended up as a civilian flier of military planes.
She made a pitch to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and to General of the Army Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, chief of the Army Air Forces, to get women involved in military flying to free men for combat air duty.
It gave the female fliers civil service status for what was really a military job -- ferrying planes around the country from factories to air bases and from one base to another.
Like the men, they went through close-order drill every morning to make them march like a military group.
But they were civilians under military jurisdiction.
Mrs. Kornblum said that at the time her desire to learn to fly intensified and that she asked to be relieved of her enlistment in a military nursing group.
In 1977, through the intercession of Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona, the WASP's were recognized for wartime military service and awarded honorable discharges, given medals and veterans' benefits.
With the advent of World War II, refrigerator production virtually ended as industry retooled for military needs.
He stepped down in disgrace as Secretary of State for War in 1963 after it had become known that he was having an affair with a British call girl, Christine Keeler, who was also involved with a Soviet military attache.
At 16, when the Russian empire was in the throes of collapse, she escaped military patrols by hiding in a hay cart and made her way to Moscow, where she studied drama under Stanislavsky and others.
She also served on a British-American crisis team that worked to enhance relations between British civilians and American military personnel stationed in Britain.
