She was best known for her nationalist anthems, popular with the Israeli military, and was deeply associated with the generation of the 1948-49 war.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
Though in later years, some feminists dismissed Ms. Friedan's work as outmoded, a great many aspects of modern life that seem routine today -- from unisex Help Wanted ads to women in politics, medicine, the clergy and the military -- are the direct result of the hard-won advances she helped women attain.
Guest married Trumbull Higgins, a military historian; their marriage ended with his death in 1990.
Ms. Jacobs moved to Toronto in 1968 out of opposition to the Vietnam War and to shield her two draft-age sons from military duty, and quickly enlisted in Toronto's urban battles.
Her father, John Yarde-Buller, the third Baron Churston, was a military officer who served in the Boer War.
Never married, she fell in love with one of her subjects, the Greek poet and activist Alekos Panagoulis, who was convicted of trying to assassinate Greece's military ruler, George Papadapoulos, in 1967.
Hélène Deschamps came from a military family, was a tomboy and hated the thought of the Nazis' taking over her country.
In 1942, she obtained a job with Japan's Domei news agency, monitoring American military broadcasts, and late in 1943 she became an announcer and disc jockey for Radio Tokyo's propaganda broadcasts, playing American musical recordings on the ''Zero Hour'' program beamed to American servicemen.
As an outgrowth of the publicity, Mrs. D'Aquino was arrested and questioned by American military occupation authorities and the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Her eldest son, Lt. Gen. Liu Yuan, was appointed a political commissar of the Academy of Military Sciences, a rank equivalent to a cabinet minister, according to Reuters.

        Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the Reagan administration's first United Nations ambassador and a beacon of neoconservative thought who helped guide American military, diplomatic and covert action from 1981 to 1985, died Thursday at her home in Bethesda, Md.
