She was present when the military forced Chiang to ally himself with the Communists against the Japanese, and she then risked her life to visit Yanan for four months to gather information from that Communist base.
By far her most important work was with Hans Bernd Gisevius, a top officer of German military intelligence, who was not only a key figure in a vast plot to kill Hitler and set up a civilian democracy but who, well in advance of what turned out to be a bungled assassination attempt on July 20, 1944, had supplied a manuscript detailing the conspiracy.
Along the way, she consistently took such a hard line against the Soviet Union and was such a passionate and articulate advocate of military might that her colleagues sometimes had to remind themselves that she was, in fact, the daughter of the Rev.
'' and ''Common Sense and World Affairs,'' finally found her niche in 1954 as chief foreign policy adviser to Senator Jackson, the Washington State Democrat known for his expertise in military affairs.
Sharing both his passion for liberal social causes and his commitment to a strong military, Dr. Fosdick became the Senator's alter ego.
)
        Whatever her age, by then she had a national reputation as ''the infant prodigy,'' ''the baby orator,'' and the girl who had made speeches for women's suffrage from Union Square to Hyde Park before turning her attention to military recruitment and Liberty Bonds.
She was even more impressive as an unofficial military recruiter, and after she had talked an estimated 30,000 men into signing up, primarily for the Navy, President Wilson not only presented her with a medal but recruited her for the Navy.

        Roberta Gorsuch Burke, one of America's best known military wives who was affectionately known as ''the first lady of the United States Navy,'' died on Friday at her home in Fairfax, Va. She was 98.
Even in the latter days of the Burkes' duty in the capital, as the wife of one of the military's senior officers, she threw open the doors of Admiral's House, a large Victorian structure in Washington that is now the official residence of the Vice President, and she befriended many junior officers' wives.
Long after her military life ended, she received callers every year, including Japanese diplomats, who visited annually, and Queen Frederika of Greece, who almost always ended state visits to the United States by spending time with the Burkes.
Her husband, 46 when World War I broke out, was too old for military service.
Dr. Rees was trained in pure algebra, but she was gifted with common sense and a knack for the practical, which stood her in good stead in dealing with the military.
In 1945, Dr. Rosensaft was an important witness for the prosecution at a war crimes trial before a British military court in Luneburg, Germany, of former commandants and staff members of the Nazis' Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen concentration camps, where she had spent a total of 20 months.
She was using her maiden surname, Bimko, when she testified in 1945 before the British military court in Luneburg.
Her father, Nat, was a zipper salesman to the military who had a nervous breakdown when she was a child; her mother, Lillian, was a formidable businesswoman compelled to work to support the family.
''
        And recently, the Federal Court of Appeals overturned another decision, in which she found unconstitutional a law allowing the Government to ban the sale of sexually explicit magazines on military bases.
