Miss Gaver helped develop national school library standards in 1960 and headed a $1.1 million campaign promoting their adoption nationwide and creating eight model libraries.
She donated $3 million to the center.
The group earned $1 million in five years but dissolved when two sisters dropped out to get married and a fourth, who was the group's manager, also departed.
The group earned $1 million in five years but dissolved when two sisters dropped out to get married and a fourth, who was the group's manager, also departed.
As the widow of Thomas A. Yawkey, the multimillionaire sportsman who bought the Red Sox for $1 million in 1933 and lost an estimated $10 million trying to build championship teams over the next 44 seasons, Mrs. Yawkey saw it as her duty to live up to his free-spending ways after his death in 1976.
As the widow of Thomas A. Yawkey, the multimillionaire sportsman who bought the Red Sox for $1 million in 1933 and lost an estimated $10 million trying to build championship teams over the next 44 seasons, Mrs. Yawkey saw it as her duty to live up to his free-spending ways after his death in 1976.
At the time of the transaction, the club was valued at $20 million.
The couple, who had married in 1925, six years after Mr. Yawkey had inherited $20 million at the age of 16, divorced in November 1944, and Mr. Yawkey remarried the next month.
Houston is a public university with 33,000 students that performs $45 million a year in scientific research.
She also played a key role in raising more than $150 million for her institution, including a donation of more than $50 million from an alumnus, John Moores, one of the largest gifts ever made to a publicly financed university.
She also played a key role in raising more than $150 million for her institution, including a donation of more than $50 million from an alumnus, John Moores, one of the largest gifts ever made to a publicly financed university.
'The Quicker Picker-Upper'
        She was also the face that launched a million rolls of paper towels in television commercials beginning in the 1970's, saying: "Bounty.
'The Quicker Picker-Upper'
        She was also the face that launched a million rolls of paper towels in television commercials beginning in the 1970's, saying: "Bounty.
Their $1 million dollar gift in 1989 endowed a Herbert and Florence Tenzer University Fellows Program to benefit outstanding students at Yeshiva's graduate schools.
She administered $21 million in grants for scholarships, fellowships and professorships for women in science, to help remedy their under-representation in that field.
She made anti-Nazi broadcasts in German, took part in many war-bond drives and, in three years, entertained half a million Allied troops and war prisoners across North Africa and Western Europe.
She helped bring film and television productions worth more than $800 million to the state.
She was also an adviser in trials that won $20 million in judgments against the Ku Klux Klan, the White Aryan Resistance Group and skinheads.
She was also an adviser in trials that won $20 million in judgments against the Ku Klux Klan, the White Aryan Resistance Group and skinheads.
Mrs. Ley and her husband, Wolfgang Ley, founded Escada in 1979 and built it into an international company that had sales topping $800 million last year.
In no time, she had her name on the door, and then, in partnership with a man she met in school and later married, built a dress business that in its best years grossed $10 million.
Sowing Urban Green
        Through the Mollie Parnis Livingston Foundation of New York, Miss Parnis gave away at least a million and a half dollars.
It sells flowers and teddy bears among other things and has raised more than $1 million for the hospital.
Well into her 90's, she played an active part in its disbursements, which at last count, in 1990, came to 222 grants totaling $5.3 million.
Mrs. Douglas raised more than $100 million for the Metropolitan Opera and a few times more than that for all her other causes, said John O'Keefe, a longtime friend who worked with her for Lincoln Center.
Friends of the Gertz family founded Concerned Parents for AIDS Research and have raised more than $1 million, and Ms. Gertz's friends hope to carry out her idea for an AIDS care program named Love Heals.
She modeled briefly for Harper's Bazaar, then worked as a writer and editor at Vogue magazine and compiled "Vogue's Book of Etiquette" (Simon & Schuster, 1948), which sold a million copies.
Mrs. Rockefeller, who upheld the sale, which brought in $17 million, was asked whether resorting to marketing techniques could be accomplished without jeopardizing the museum's standards.
Its budget last year was $3.5 million, and Hale House has been championed over the years by celebrities like Lena Horne, John Lennon and Tony Bennett.
