At the height of her popularity she earned a million dollars a year from films and she was also an author, writing ''Silent Star,'' her autobiography and ''How Women Can Make Money in the Stock Market.
At the height of her popularity she earned $1 million a year from films.
She also bought the reprint rights to ''Life After Death'' by Dr. Raymond A. Moody Jr., a book of case studies of near-death experiences that has sold more than a million copies in paperback.
During her tenure as its leader, the organization had four million members.
That year she starred opposite Randolph Scott in the wartime thriller ''Corvette K-255'' and became the only actress under contract to a new $1 million production company founded by Howard Hawks and Charles Boyer.
Ellin Mackay was born March 22, 1903, on her father's $6 million estate in Roslyn, L.I.
When she took over, losses were more than $215 million a year.
'' Her books have been translated into 33 languages and sold more than 20 million copies.
The book went on to sell nearly 2 million copies in paperback.
Since those early days, Alcoholics Anonymous has grown to an international membership of more than 1.5 million.
Mr. Onassis died in 1975 in France and his daughter and only surviving child was left in charge of the Onassis Group, with assets then variously estimated at $500 million to $1 billion, most of it in shipping.
Forbes magazine, citing a worldwide slump in that industry, reported in 1987 that the figure probably had shrunk to $250 million or less.
Friends in Athens said Mr. Onassis was thinking of divorcing the former Mrs. Kennedy at the time of his death and had intended to limit a divorce settlement to $3 million rather than the $250,000 a year provided in his will.

       Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books that have sold more than 7 million copies, died of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm on Friday at Clarendon Memorial Hospital in Manning, S.C. She was 61 years old.
Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books that have sold more than 7 million copies, died of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm on Friday at Clarendon Memorial Hospital in Manning, S.C. She was 61 years old.
The foundation, with assets of some $6 million derived from the sale of Mr. Gottlieb's works, gives 10 grants a year and maintains an emergency assistance program.
After his death, she became president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, which gave about $6 million a year to local organizations devoted to the arts, community service, health and education.
''
        In 1969, four masked men broke into her mansion, bound and gagged Mrs. Cafritz and others, and escaped with more than $1 million in furs and jewelry.
      
As president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, she oversaw annual contributions of about $6 million to local community and arts organizations.
