Miss Donaghue was one of the state's wealthiest women, having amassed an estate valued in 1978 at $35 million from an inheritance and her earnings.
The building, called the Adele Lehman Hall-Wollman Library, cost $2.15 million and was dedicated in 1960.
Over the last three decades, Miss Crandall staged 186 productions with audiences totaling more than 1.5 million people.
Garbo's movies earned her more than $3 million, a record at a time of low income taxes, and her frugality and astute investments, particularly in Manhattan real estate, increased her wealth.
She was wealthy, both from her Hollywood salaries and her husbands, but in later years she sold many costly artworks at auction, including her collection of Impressionist art, which was sold in 1979 for $2.9 million.
In the last 12 years, she awarded more than $3 million in scholarships to 300 theater and film students at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.
Since Mrs. Hyde was found to have cancer five years ago, she worked ardently to call attention to the disease, raising nearly $2 million for Georgetown University Medical Center, which established the Nina Hyde Center for Breast Cancer Research last year.
The $34 million center, with three auditoriums, was built between 1962 and 1967.
Five years later, after the death of her father, Mrs. Richards and her brothers and sisters went to Surrogates Court in Manhattan to challenge his last will, which disinherited five of his six children and left the vast bulk of his $350 million estate to his third wife, Barbara Piasecka Johnson of Princeton.
Miss Christy's first recording with the Kenton band, ''Tampico,'' was released in May 1945 and sold a million copies.
''
        Miss Dunne was cast for several years in such tragic and lachrymose roles as a hanidcapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a hugely popular tearjerker; a troubled wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she challenged a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.
She was then cast in tragic roles like a handicapped woman in ''Symphony of Six Million''; a banker's self-sacrificing mistress in ''Back Street,'' a harried wife in ''The Silver Cord,'' in which she battled a possessive mother-in-law, and a blinded widow in ''The Magnificent Obsession.
The men in service numbered 12 million.
"
        This year, Mrs. Doll gave a total of $3 million to American Ballet Theater, the New York City Ballet, the School of American Ballet and the American Friends of the Paris Opera and Ballet.
