In addition to many magazine articles, she was the author of "A Million Homes a Year," (Harcourt Brace, 1945) and, with her husband, Samuel I. Rosenman, an adviser to Presidents Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman, she wrote "Some Giants and a Pygmy in the White House," (Harper & Row, 1976).
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
Mrs. Leiferman was a major contributor to Yeshiva University, and last year, she and her husband, Irwin, gave $1 million to endow the main gallery at the Yeshiva University Museum.
In 1972 the Carnegie Corporation donated the mansion, and over the next four years Mrs. Taylor and her staff managed to obtain more than $6 million from private individuals, corporations and foundations.
In 1972 the Carnegie Corporation donated the mansion, and over the next four years Mrs. Taylor and her staff managed to obtain more than $6 million from private individuals, corporations and foundations.
She sued Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer for more than $1 million, claiming that the studio had failed to safeguard her health in Africa while the movie was being made.
Miss Porter, who wrote more than a score of books on investment, taxes and other economic subjects, also reached 40 million readers through her column on personal finance.
" It sold more than a million copies.
Starting with 20 cows milked by hand, the business grew to employ 350 people and include a fleet of 300 trucks, processing more than a million gallons of milk a week and selling the milk and other dairy products and juices to supermarkets and small stores from Maine to Virginia.
Through her business, the Donnelly Garment Company, a $3.5 million business with 1,000 employees in 1935, she helped turn Kansas City into a thriving ready-to-wear manufacturing center.
Through her business, the Donnelly Garment Company, a $3.5 million business with 1,000 employees in 1935, she helped turn Kansas City into a thriving ready-to-wear manufacturing center.
Later, doing the updated "How to Marry a Billionaire" (Delacorte, 1984), she said: "A million dollars isn't much money these days.

        Gladys Krieble Delmas, a philanthropist and writer who gave more than $20 million to cultural and educational institutions, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
Over more than two decades, she contributed more than $4 million to the New York Public Library.
Last spring, a gift of $1 million enabled the library to remain open five days a week instead of four.
