In 1943, Miss Lee left Goodman to marry Dave Barbour, the band's guitarist, with whom she collaborated on a number of hits, including ''I Don't Know Enough About You,'' ''It's a Good Day,'' and ''Mañana,'' a 1948 blockbuster that sold more than two million records and began her long association with Latin-flavored music.
In 1992, after a four-year court battle, she was awarded $2.3 million.
In February 2000 a Philadelphia jury awarded her $8 million.
Her works sold more than five million copies in 24 languages.
Bolstered by a large staff, a number of houses at her disposal, and an allowance of more than $1 million a year from Parliament, the queen mother kept up a busy schedule that began to ease up only when she was in her 80's.
Large lending institutions give microlending institutions, like Women's World Banking, big loans of, say, $5 million.
Nancy Barry, president of Women's World Banking, said that 25 million people, three-quarters of them women, had received microloans in more than 40 less-developed countries.
The 62-minute film, released in 1972, made money so fast that its producers joked they had to weigh their receipts each day; by many estimates it earned more than $600 million.
Today there are 82 Ruth's Chris Steak Houses in the United States and abroad, with annual sales of $328 million.
The organization sent out more than seven million forms for living wills to groups and individuals all over the country.
The 110 drawings they gave to the Fogg were estimated at $20 million, and they still had hundreds of drawings and paintings left.
Ms. Monsky's activities generated more than $14 million for research and helped expand understanding of the disease.
In one typical gesture several years before the World Trade Center terrorist attack, she gave the Police Department $1 million.
''
        After Sept. 11, she gave another $1 million to the families of police officers and firefighters, he said.
In 1964, she helped draw up a request by the Puerto Rican Forum for $12.5 million from the city's antipoverty council to establish bilingual prekindergarten classes, after-school programs for struggling students, parental guidance and adult education courses, and other programs.
Nancy Drew, seldom just Nancy, inspired readers, many of them envious girls, to scoop up more than 80 million copies of the books in the series.
Mr. Herwitz, owner of a leather company, died in 1999, and a year later Mrs. Herwitz donated some 850 works by 20th-century Indian artists from their collection -- valued at $6 million -- to the Peabody Essex Museum in Salem, Mass.
The gift also included a library, an archive of related papers, and $1 million.
She encouraged his natty style and shared his penchant for flash as they spent and gave away Mr. Robinson's $4 million in winnings.
At the time of Mrs. Lederer's death, her column was carried in more than 1,200 newspapers around the world, with a readership of 90 million, according to Creators Syndicate, her distributor.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.
At the time of Mrs. Lederer's death, her column was carried in more than 1,200 newspapers around the world, with a readership of 90 million, according to Creators Syndicate, her distributor.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.

        Phyllis Wattis, a philanthropist and art collector who contributed more than $150 million to cultural institutions in California, and who was instrumental in financing a stellar collection for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the 1990's, died on Wednesday in San Francisco, where she lived.
Although she made many large contributions to institutions, including $20 million to the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, she was also known for giving personal gifts, as when she bought an English horn for a teenager in the San Francisco Youth Orchestra.
In the late 1940's a million customers paid $1.50 to watch 10 teams play.
She was fond of relating how, for the Warhol portrait (a nine-panel work sold at auction by Christie's last year for $2 million), she took $25 in quarters into a photo booth and spent hours snapping herself doing facial exercises learned as a budding actress.
''
        The original ''Caps for Sale'' has sold more than two million copies since it was first published, according to Ms. Slobodkina's publisher, HarperCollins.
'' At that time, it staged more than 25,000 performances annually with a global audience of more than 2.5 million people.
Josephine Louise Laimbeer was born in Manhattan and attended the Spence School and the Formatta School in Aiken, S.C. She became an actress and appeared in the 1929 Broadway production of a Cole Porter musical, ''Fifty Million Frenchmen.
In 1992, Mrs. Goldman gave Yale University Law School what Guido Calabresi, then its dean, called ''probably the biggest gift in the history of American legal education'' -- more than $20 million, principally for the reconstruction and expansion of its library, which was renamed the Lillian Goldman Law Library.
A meeting with Rita Hayworth, the film actress, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease, led to a gift of about $1 million last year to the Alzheimer's Association, for medical research.
In 1998, she made a $5 million gift to the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan for the family center there, and a few weeks before her death, she gave $1 million for renovation of the Kane Street Synagogue in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
In 1998, she made a $5 million gift to the 92nd Street Y in Manhattan for the family center there, and a few weeks before her death, she gave $1 million for renovation of the Kane Street Synagogue in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
Her divorce from Mr. Whitney in 1958 resulted in a settlement estimated at more than $3 million.
The cause was an aneurysm, said Kevin Williams, her editor at Oasis Newsfeatures, which distributed her column to 105 newspapers, with more than two million readers.
Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned a wine- and spirits-importing company, donated $1 million earlier this year to endow the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program in the Center for Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.
A $39 million expansion will double the museum's interior space to 102,000 square feet when it is completed in 2006.
The museum has raised all but $7 million of the reconstruction cost, which will include $25.2 million from New York City.
The museum has raised all but $7 million of the reconstruction cost, which will include $25.2 million from New York City.
