After a bidding war, Warner Books won the rights to publish the novel for $4.94 million.
Four years after Mrs. Fisher's Alzheimer's disease was diagnosed, the Fisher Medical Foundation joined David Rockefeller in providing $5 million for the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Research on Alzheimer's Disease at Rockefeller University.
Her company's revenues exceeded $20 million in 1988, when it was sold to the Pyle Group, a financial services and investment firm.
Take Our Daughters to Work Day now has the participation of about 15 million adults annually.
The foundation now has a budget of $11 million and 40 employees.
Last year it gave $13 million.
With six million items, the archive is now one of the largest collections of theater memorabilia in the country.
In October 1999, Mrs. Schott turned over control of the team to a group headed by Carl Lindner, one of the limited partners, in a $67 million deal.
She became a limited partner in the Reds' ownership in 1981 and was named the general partner on Dec. 21, 1984, when she purchased the controlling interest held by the brothers James and William Williams and shares held by two other limited partners, reportedly for $11 million.
'' She said she was concerned that the Williams brothers might sell the franchise, which reported $4 million in losses in 1984, to an out-of-city group.
Although Mrs. Bradshaw spent $2 million on the legal defense of Marc Schreuder and his mother, Marc Schreuder was convicted of second-degree murder in 1982 and served 12 years in prison.
By the late 1980's, with personal assets of $233 million and a listing in Forbes's gallery of the 400 richest Americans, it was clear that she had made her prediction come true.
Some said Mrs. Lauder had never adequately compensated John Schotz, who died in the 1960's in modest circumstances at a time when Estée Lauder Inc. was grossing around $14 million a year.
To raise $3.1 million for Connecticut College, she crossed the country, meeting with executives who questioned the need to finance women's education.
Before Ms. Courtenay-Latimer's discovery, the coelacanth was thought to have been extinct for at least 70 million years.
The strike finally came to an end in October 1994, when Mrs. Seril agreed to sell the building to investors for $15 million, or about $66,000 an apartment.
The magazine, which had a circulation of 6.9 million, agreed to let the women publish a special section.
Mrs. Copley, whose worth was estimated to be $960 million by Forbes magazine last year, gave millions to the San Diego Symphony and the San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art.
Hence that furrow in the brow of the otherwise self-possessed president of the New-York Historical Society, who is inaugurating her tenure with a $5 million blockbuster exhibition on Alexander Hamilton, a founding father hitherto best known for decorating $10 bills with his somber visage.
''
        Next up after Hamilton, she's mounting another blockbuster, ''From Bondage to Freedom,'' a $2 million overhauled version of the society's original $50,000 exhibition on slavery, which did not, in her opinion, make enough of an impression.
Sure, she wants their documents at her institution, especially after $1 million was spent on a vault for them.
But the entire board, she says, endorsed the Hamilton exhibit: the proof is the $5 million raised for it since her arrival in June.
By early 1958, the book had sold 810,000 copies in France and more than a million in the United States and had been translated into 20 languages.
The foundation, financed entirely by Mr. and Mrs. Stone's contributions, has donated more than $200 million, said Sandra Treacy, its executive director.
In 1987 they announced they would donate their collection, which experts say is worth well over $300 million, to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, becoming the gallery's largest single-gift donor after Andrew W. Mellon and the gallery's founding benefactors.
According to Dr. Walker's book, ''Contributions rose from less than $300,000 in 1977 to over $3 million in 1988.
She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
        Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported.
''
        ''The Rape of Nanking'' spent 10 weeks on the New York Times best-seller list, and close to half a million copies have been sold, Ms. Rabiner said.
Worldwide sales of Ms. Rowling's books totaled 250 million in 2003, according to the reference series ''Contemporary Authors.
