In 1984, the two enjoyed a burst of fame when Ms. Costa-Greenspon won $1.7 million in the New York State Lotto game.
Decades of her hard work were rewarded in June 2005 when the houses of Weeksville were opened to the public after a $3 million renovation.
One of its goals was the enforcement of standards for the city school system, with 1.1 million students, most of them living in poverty.
Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
Published by W. W. Norton & Company, the book had sold more than three million copies by the year 2000 and has been translated into many languages.
Translated into 10 languages, her books have sold more than a million copies altogether, Ms. Heifetz said.
She had a million different ways to do one thing and was never satisfied until she had tried them all.
A complete renovation would have cost only $13 million, Ms. Caldwell estimated.
The festival was budgeted at $2.4 million.
It has been translated into 14 languages and has sold more than 35 million copies worldwide, according to the company's Web site.
The program has awarded $8 million to nonprofit organizations that help people with disabilities, Ms. Goldberg said.
Five years later, in August 2005, she was part of a team of three lawyers that won a verdict of $253.5 million against Merck in a state court in Texas, one of the largest damage awards ever to a single plaintiff.
More than 20 million people had taken Vioxx before Merck took it off the market in September 2004, and the company is facing 11,500 lawsuits in behalf of 23,000 plaintiffs.
In May 2004, the contents of the museum were sold at auction for about $1.4 million.
She later taught economics at Wellesley, where she was Dean of the College
        During Ms. Ilchman's tenure at Sarah Lawrence, the college's endowment grew from $3 million to $30 million.
She later taught economics at Wellesley, where she was Dean of the College
        During Ms. Ilchman's tenure at Sarah Lawrence, the college's endowment grew from $3 million to $30 million.
''
        Published originally by Dodd, Mead & Company and most recently in 2002 by Simon & Schuster, ''Seventeenth Summer'' has sold more than a million copies worldwide, according to the reference book Authors and Artists for Young Adults.
(The museum is constructing a new $35 million building on the Lower East Side, which is expected to open late next year.
Once in the United States, as televised images made the magnitude of the tragedy apparent -- perhaps 800,000 dead, two million exiled, two million more in refuge camps in Rwanda -- she made a decision.
Once in the United States, as televised images made the magnitude of the tragedy apparent -- perhaps 800,000 dead, two million exiled, two million more in refuge camps in Rwanda -- she made a decision.
Since its founding, the Ploughshares Fund has given more than $40 million to research scientists, academics and civic groups for projects to improve the monitoring of underground nuclear tests, prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, reorient Russian nuclear weapons facilities and increase international cooperation.
Atlantic also contributed nearly $2 million to start the Rhythm and Blues Foundation, which pushed other labels toward royalty reform and distributed millions of dollars directly to musicians in need, although it has struggled to sustain itself in recent years.
By 1983, when Häagen-Dazs was acquired by Pillsbury for $70 million, the company had a strong presence in supermarkets, a coast-to-coast string of franchise ice cream shops and sales of about $115 million a year.
By 1983, when Häagen-Dazs was acquired by Pillsbury for $70 million, the company had a strong presence in supermarkets, a coast-to-coast string of franchise ice cream shops and sales of about $115 million a year.
In private, she supported American efforts to sustain the contras, the rebel group that tried to overthrow the Sandinistas with help from the Central Intelligence Agency She was a crucial participant in a March 1981 National Security Planning Group meeting that produced a $19 million covert action plan to make the contras a fighting force.
Ms. Gibbs recorded three singles that sold more than a million copies each: ''Kiss of Fire,'' which reached No.
