She also presided over a $10 million fund-raising campaign.
John D. Rockefeller Jr., who rarely contributed to development funds, agreed to give Barnard $1 million, he told Mrs. McIntosh, ''because of my confidence in the exceptional vision and leadership you are bringing to the college.
Tanya J. Glazebrook, president and chief executive of the foundation, said that MedicAlert had grown to more than four million bracelet-wearing members and that at least 80,000 lives were believed to have been saved by its efforts.
In 1953, she established the Cancer Research Institute, which now has an annual budget of $14 million and provides support for scientists around the world.
Without extensive advertising, demand grew by what the authors called ''word of mother,'' with sales now totaling 9.6 million copies in 31 languages.
Their thesis was sharply disputed at the time, but the book sold nine million copies and was translated into 28 languages.
They now total $100 million a year, the society said.
In the book's first 20 years in print, more than five million copies were sold in hard-cover and paperback editions.
When Ms. Sothern quarreled with the show's other producer over her right to take on movie roles, she left the series and sold her 104 episodes for well over $1 million.
Produced by Donald Wilson to coincide with the centenary of Galsworthy's birth, the 26-part ''Forsyte Saga,'' which recounted the lives and loves of an upper-middle-class merchant family in London from 1879 to 1926, was first broadcast in 1967 and went on to attract more than 100 million viewers in 26 countries.
With Mr. Bernstein's death from leukemia in 1970 at 51, the foundation received $6 million of his wealth.
The Canadian ''Little Women'' brought an estimated $500 million to Ontario over the nearly 20 years they lived there.
'' In 1998, they sued the government for the separation from their parents and won $4 million.
She was often out of work until her television career began, and then it was rags to riches: $10,000 a week, a $1 million contract.
From 1949, when they began tickling television audiences in the ''Admiral Broadway Revue,'' the forerunner of ''Your Show of Shows,'' to 1954, when they split up, Ms. Coca and Mr. Caesar were one of television's most hilarious and successful combinations, reaching peak audiences of more than 25 million people that swamped the competition.
After ''Your Show of Shows'' ended in 1954, NBC gave Ms. Coca her own half-hour show and a 10-year, $1 million contract.
''
        The Saturday markets for Indian crafts eventually became a daily event, and today they draw more than two million people a year, spending millions on pottery, jewelry and other items made by Indians.
When Katharine was 16, no one thought to tell her that her father had bid $825,000 at public auction to buy the bankrupt Washington Post, a paper with a circulation of 50,000 that was losing a million dollars a year, the fifth newspaper in a five-newspaper town.
At her death she headed the supervisory board of Beate Uhse A.G., which had reported $100 million in annual revenues at the approach of 2000.
It was so popular that after six weeks, NBC picked up the program, and soon it was seen in at least 36 cities, with viewership reaching three million.
It sold a million copies and included two Top 10 singles, ''Back and Forth'' and ''At Your Best (You Are Love).
She also attended Detroit High School for the Fine and Performing Arts, majoring in dance, and she released her second album, ''One in a Million,'' as she began her senior year in 1996.
'' The album sold two million copies.
Mrs. Newhouse has donated $1 million to establish a permanent home and created a scholarship fund that has given away more than $1 million.
Mrs. Newhouse has donated $1 million to establish a permanent home and created a scholarship fund that has given away more than $1 million.
National People's Action combined with other neighborhood groups to persuade three large Chicago banks to commit themselves to making $173 million in low-interest loans for housing and industrial development in poor neighborhoods.
In 1985 a State Supreme Court justice finally awarded her a 35 percent share in Scull's art holdings, including $2.5 million worth of paintings and more than $1 million in cash from paintings sold since 1973.
In 1985 a State Supreme Court justice finally awarded her a 35 percent share in Scull's art holdings, including $2.5 million worth of paintings and more than $1 million in cash from paintings sold since 1973.
'' Later that year she sold it at auction for $3.63 million, then the highest amount paid for a work by a living artist.
But in 1973, when they auctioned 50 works by up-and-coming artists for $2.2 million, at the time a record for contemporary American art, they were castigated by some artists and critics, among them Robert Rauschenberg, because they had acquired the art so cheaply.
A spokeswoman for the Museum of Modern Art said yesterday that Mrs. Dannheisser bequeathed additional works by Willem de Kooning, Richard Prince, Cady Noland and Ashley Bickerton to the Modern, along with a cash gift of $2 million.
Within two years, the company's wholesale sales had reached almost $1 million.
She drove a pink Cadillac and, for some years, lived in a $5 million, 30-room pink palace with 28-foot high ceilings, a Grecian pool, crystal chandeliers and 11 bathrooms, one of which duplicated that of her friend, Liberace.
In later years, the annual awards amounted to about $6 million -- dream vacations, jewels, furs and pink Cadillacs (winners received a pink Mercedes in Germany and a pink top-of-the line Toyota in Taiwan).
By 1994, 7,000 cars, valued at more than $100 million, had been given to sales representatives.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
Within two years, the company's wholesale sales had reached almost $1 million.
She drove a pink Cadillac and, for some years, lived in a $5 million, 30-room pink palace with 28-foot ceilings, a Grecian pool, crystal chandeliers and 11 bathrooms, one of which duplicated that of her friend, Liberace.
In later years, the annual awards amounted to about $6 million -- dream vacations, jewels, furs and pink Cadillacs (winners received a pink Mercedes in Germany and a pink, top-of-the-line Toyota in Taiwan).
By 1994, 7,000 cars, valued at more than $100 million, had been given to sales representatives.
In 1985, the company returned to private family ownership through a $450 million leveraged buyout.
Today, that arrangement is a $250 million business.
The county was just a few days and decimal points from a budget takeover by a state-appointed board, and instead of finding a solution to a $45 million deficit, from her vantage point, its legislators were behaving like kindergartners.
According to her, without the 15 percent tax increase, Nassau, the black sheep of the state's counties for receiving a $45 million bailout to protect its bonds from junk bond status (''Embarrassing!
