''I made $7 million and yet I was on relief and they gave me all of $48 a week.
By 1990, her gifts totaled more than $6 million, which made her the school's biggest benefactor at the time.
She toured the United States in 1988 as Sire Records released her album ''Shaday,'' which sold a million copies worldwide.
''I was broken into a million pieces,'' she said.
Groundbreaking for a library costing $2 million will be next month.
The women moved three million pieces of mail in three months, much of it letters sent to soldiers who had been transferred, had died, or been scattered after the D-Day assault in France.
The 118th had been, unknown to her, a compulsive gambler who vanished not far from Monte Carlo while carrying three million francs of secret service money.
She always shuddered at Hoess's reaction to her suggestion that 1.5 million people had been killed in Auschwitz.
It doesn't have to be someone who gets $4 million to work two hours a day.
While she was president, she ''led the organization to its highest membership, of over 3.9 million members,'' Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. said in announcing her death.
'' Within a few years, the Kliban cats began appearing on calendars, greeting cards and other products, becoming a $50 million industry in the mid-1980's.
Workman says more than a million copies of it have been sold.
In 1939, when she rejected a five-year, $2 million contract with 20th Century Fox to try working as a freelance actress, she was blackballed by the studios.
Naval Reserve,'' Mrs. Hardin provided the emotional high point at the ceremony, held in October 1997 at Arlington National Cemetery to dedicate the Women in Military Service for America Memorial, honoring almost  two million women who had served.
Today Amnesty International has 1.1 million members, 290,000 in the United States.
The book sold more than one million paperback copies and was translated into six languages.
''
        The Davises' first gift, $1.2 million, to the school, which began as an experimental program, was given anonymously in 1972.
She and her husband gave the school another $2 million for an endowed scholarship fund in their names.
In that period Mr. Hall also befriended the painter Isabel Whitney, who left him $2 million at her death in 1962, he said.
The series, which she created with Richard Hefter, a writer and illustrator, and Ruth Lerner Perle, based on a menagerie of alphabetical animals with gentle foibles, sold more than 50 million copies.
It also secured her a substantial fortune as the books and marketing tie-ins went on to generate more than $200 million in worldwide sales.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
'' More than three million copies of the album and single were sold.
The prosecution cost Los Angeles County at least $15 million.
