The 1,000 or so hot meals it serves each weekday in the old priests' dining hall make it the largest of the 1,000 emergency food kitchens and pantries that distribute about 60 million meals a year to New York City's poor.
''
        They were divorced in 1947, and she received some paintings, furniture, silver and $1.5 million.
Her recording of ''On the Good Ship Lollipop,'' in Betty Boop's voice, sold more than two million copies in the 1930's.
Mrs. Haje did not know every one of the estimated three million Arab-Americans in the United States.
In the pages of Elle Decor, where she was the special projects editor from 1992 until her death, Mrs. Rayner was forever exhorting readers to delight more in $2 water glasses than in $2 million chandeliers.
In 1981, the new $3.7 million center finally opened, five stories tall, built of red brick and glass, climate-controlled, with an art gallery.
Today, the Schomburg Collection holds some 150,000 volumes, 3.5 million manuscripts, the largest assemblage of photographs in the world documenting black life, and precious artifacts including a 16th-century manuscript, ''Ad Catholicum,'' by Juan Latino, believed to be the first book written by a black man.
      
The mansion, which, with furnishings costing $7 million, was one of the Gilded Age estates referred to by their owners at the time as cottages.
In 1990, Forbes magazine estimated her wealth at $700 million.
The Modern received eight major paintings, by artists like Utrillo, Picasso and Seurat, from Mr. Whitney's estate, and Yale received six paintings, valued at $5 million at that time.
New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center received a $15 million gift.
After her husband's death in 1982, Mrs. Whitney gave $8 million to the Yale Medical School, then the largest gift in the school's history.
The trust also gave $2 million for acquisitions, and Mrs. Whitney chose a Toulouse-Lautrec painting from her husband's collection, ''Marcelle Lender Dancing the Bolero in 'Chilperic,' '' to give the gallery in his memory.
'' It brought $78.1 million, then a record auction price for Impressionist art and the second-highest price for any artwork sold at auction.
Both have been wildly popular among the 100 million far-flung Ukrainian expatriates and in Ukraine, where the woman who worked in the backwaters of American show business was regarded as a leading performer and is very much a household name.
      
In her 25-year career, Ms. Wynette recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings.
''Stand By Your Man,'' written by Ms. Wynette and Mr. Sherrill, sold more than two million copies.
She recorded more than 50 albums and sold more than 30 million recordings.
''Stand By Your Man'' sold more than two million copies.
Operating a store that is as much museum as emporium, its walls lined floor to ceiling with small gray boxes holding more than a million ancient, antique and modern buttons in a profusion of materials, shapes and sizes with designs ranging from miniature fine art to cut-down kitsch, seemed to stimulate Ms. Epstein's artistic talents.
In 1996, President Clinton endorsed a project to protect the Everglades by spending several hundred million dollars to buy farmland, take it out of production and try to restore the kind of natural water flow that Mrs. Douglas warned the state it was in danger of losing.
At a time when more than 25,000 American marriage counselors treat some 2 million troubled marriages a year, it might seem a shade surprising that in 1933, when Mrs. Mudd helped form the Philadelphia Marriage Council, the field was so new there were only two other such organizations in the country.
In the end she bequeathed the trove of European art to the museum, in a gift valued at more than $300 million.
She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994.
She was 91 and the author of more than 90 novels with a combined distribution of more than 100 million copies.
Or that a woman whose adult tribulations would include the pain of four pregnancies ending in miscarriage and stillbirth and a devastating nervous breakdown would make an emotional breakthrough at 40, find salvation through writing and end up as Britain's 17th richest woman, with a fortune estimated at $23 million?

        Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris.

        Louise M. Davies, the San Francisco benefactor who gave the city she loved a $5 million concert hall in 1980, died on Monday at a retirement home in Portola Valley, Calif. She was 98.
After the hall opened, she gave another $3 million as a fund to attract leading guest conductors.
In one case last year that drew international attention, she prosecuted three people accused in the theft and attempted sale of more than $10 million worth of valuable drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Albrecht Durer.
The Governor was persuaded and,  with others, gained passage of a bill to provide special funding for her project that included daily patient costs that were substantially less than full hospitalization and $3 million to renovate an old factory in New Haven.
Biocraft, which Mr. Snyder said became the first generic pharmaceutical company to be listed on the New York Stock Exchange in 1985, had annual sales of $150 million when it was bought by Teva Pharmaceutical Industries in 1996.
Attracted by the slogan and its reassuring tag line, ''Hair color so natural only her hairdresser knows for sure,'' within a decade nearly half of all American women were regularly coloring their hair, and sales of dyes, tints and rinses had soared from $25 million to $200 million a year, with Clairol accounting for more than half the total (as it does today with industry sales of more than $1 billion).
Attracted by the slogan and its reassuring tag line, ''Hair color so natural only her hairdresser knows for sure,'' within a decade nearly half of all American women were regularly coloring their hair, and sales of dyes, tints and rinses had soared from $25 million to $200 million a year, with Clairol accounting for more than half the total (as it does today with industry sales of more than $1 billion).
Betty Harragan's book ''Games Mother Never Taught You: Corporate Gamesmanship for Women'' was published in 1977 by Rawson Associates; since then, more than one million copies have been published in paperback by Warner Books.
After all, when Elie Wiesel once addressed a large Jewish gathering at Yale and made an impassioned reference to ''the six million,'' Rabbi Timoner, who was sitting on the first row, had felt compelled to stand and chide him for not including the other oppressed groups who died in the gas chambers.
'' Mrs. Carnegie took control of company operations after Mr. Carnegie's death in 1955 and developed the business into a multinational one with offices in 70 countries, 5 million graduates and $187 million in annual sales.
'' Mrs. Carnegie took control of company operations after Mr. Carnegie's death in 1955 and developed the business into a multinational one with offices in 70 countries, 5 million graduates and $187 million in annual sales.
In 1980, Mrs. Harrington made a  gift of $20 million to the Metropolitan Opera endowment fund campaign.
Marilyn Shapiro, the executive director for external affairs at the Met, estimated that Mrs. Harrington's donations to the Met totaled more than  $30 million.
Candomble is the strongest of Brazil's syncretist religions, mixing the nature-based beliefs some four million slaves brought from Africa with the Catholicism of the Portuguese colonists.
She called it Camp Venture, and if at first it was more venture than camp, when it comes to taking care of children, one thing tends to lead to another, and almost before Mrs. Lukens knew it, David had grown up and she had built Camp Venture into a sprawling multiservice organization with an $18 million, largely Medicaid-financed, annual budget that now operates 15 supervised group homes, 4 day service centers and  other programs that serve about 1,000 Rockland County adults and children with an array of developmental disorders, including autism, Down syndrome and cerebral palsy.
At college, she majored in English literature, a parallel interest that had no doubt been sharpened when her father and uncle produced a little book, ''How to Operate a Lathe,'' in 1930 that sold 1.5 million copies in 78 countries.
By the time her patents came through in 1951, she had sold their rights for $1 million and moved on to her next brainstorm: replacing cloth diapers with disposable absorbent paper.
Invented in 1944 by Richard James, an engineer who worked at a Philadelphia shipyard, where he observed a torsion spring fall from a table, the toy was named by his wife, Betty, and the following year the sinuous Slinky was on its way to sales of an estimated 250 million.
But he lost $12 million in the Depression, and his daughter Helen was forced to drop out of Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash.
        After studying advertising in San Francisco, she was offered a job at the Frederick & Nelson department store in Seattle, where she met and married Marion Parker Malsed, who sold men's clothing in the store.
Earlier this year, she raised about $300 million for Lucent by issuing 30-year bonds that paid the lowest effective interest rate on such bonds issued by a company with Lucent's credit rating in almost 30 years, according to Securities Data, which tracks bond offerings.
In her 22 years as its senior salaried executive, its annual operating budget grew to $13.5 million from $1 million or less, Mr. Racioppi said.
In her 22 years as its senior salaried executive, its annual operating budget grew to $13.5 million from $1 million or less, Mr. Racioppi said.
In its heyday it drew an average audience of 2 million who tuned in five days a week to watch Miss Graham interview the most celebrated women of the day, including Olivia de Havilland, Pearl S. Buck, Gloria Swanson, Louise Rainer, Ilka Chase, Cornelia Otis Skinner, Marian Javits, Hermione Gingold, Barbara Walters, Phyllis Diller and Joan Rivers.
The first two books she both wrote and illustrated, ''Babies'' and ''Baby Animals,'' have sold a combined 1.3 million copies and are still in print.
In settling her lawsuit, she left the company in 1954, when its sales exceeded $10 million a year.
The exhaustive $60 million renovation of the hall in 1986 happened on her watch, as well as the seasonlong and highly festive centennial celebration of 1990-91.
In partnership with the Hall's president, the violinist Isaac Stern, and its chairman, Sanford Weill, Ms. Arron began an endowment campaign in 1995 and had raised $87 million to date.
