She also appeared in films, among them "The Night is Young" (1934), "Evensong" (1934), "Make Mine a Million" (1959), "Theater of Death" (1966), "Say Hello to Yesterday" (1970) and "Second Star to the Right" (1980).
Over the past five years the fund has contributed some $25 million in grants to cultural and environmental causes.
Mrs. Goldman, a San Francisco native and graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was a vice president and past president of the San Francisco Symphony and chairwoman of her city's Memorial to the Six Million Victims of the Holocaust.
In 1977 she raised more than $2 million to build a new facility for the school,  which originally served 20 children and now has more than 1,000 students.
When Mrs. Manz wrote TOPS's articles of incorporation in 1952, she committed it to finding a cure for obesity, and TOPS says it has contributed more than $4.5 million to obesity research.
programs in her jurisdiction of 30 million people.
The restoration of the original 1915 garden designed by Beatrix Jones Farrand was supported by a $1 million gift from Mr. Rockefeller.
The book sold more than two million copies and was made into a well-received film in 1992 by Jean-Jacques Annaud.
"
        Even at the pinnacle of success, earning $500,000 to $1 million a year, Mrs.  Bombeck made cleaning house, grocery shopping and cooking dinner a part of her weekly routine.
In 1988, after her previous five books had sold more than 15 million copies,  she signed a three-book contract with Harper & Row valued by publishing experts  at $12 million.
In 1988, after her previous five books had sold more than 15 million copies,  she signed a three-book contract with Harper & Row valued by publishing experts  at $12 million.
She continued to support the performing arts, giving $10 million to Southern Methodist University in Dallas for the Greer Garson Theater, which opened in September 1992.
"One thing I had in my mind," Mrs. Loeb said in 1990 when she announced a $7.5 million gift to Vassar College for construction of an art center, "I'm never going to be the richest person in the cemetery.
In 1990, the Loebs pledged $70.5 million to finance new faculty positions and scholarships to Harvard College, as well as programs and positions in the schools of design and public health.
But then again, how many acclaimed authors sell more than 40 million books in 18 languages?
She gave $5 million in 1991 to establish the Hedwig van Ameringen Guest Artist Endowment Fund, which helped engage scores of the world's leading soloists to play with the Philharmonic.
While in Sydney, a city of some three million, she happened to mention to an Australian sociology professor that she had never seen a live kangaroo.
"
        As director, she was responsible for the wildlife service's 7,000 employees and an annual budget for resource management of $501 million in the current fiscal year, down from $511 million the previous year.
"
        As director, she was responsible for the wildlife service's 7,000 employees and an annual budget for resource management of $501 million in the current fiscal year, down from $511 million the previous year.
She also began performing regularly with symphony orchestras, and in 1974 she teamed with Frank Sinatra and Count Basie for a two-week concert engagement at the Uris Theater in New York that grossed more than a million dollars.
It was a reflection of the grip the Hummerts had on their audience that their programs generated more than five million letters a year, and it was a measure of their commercial success that by 1939 Hummert programs accounted for more than half the advertising revenues generated by daytime radio.
"
        Later that year, she would garner what New Yorker magazine called, "the largest single advertising contract ever involving a female personality," when she signed a $1 million contract to become spokeswoman for Babe, a fragrance line developed by Faberge.
Mrs. Mason was represented by the well-known divorce attorney  Marvin Mitchelson, and one of the terms of her settlement was $1 million in community property.
" The $1 million contract made her the spokeswoman for Babe, a fragrance line developed by Faberge.
There were four Martha shops in the 1980's, when sales were said to be almost $40 million.
Mr. Wells, her lawyer, said, however, that after all her charitable donations, her estate was worth $100 million to $1 billion.
In a whirlwind of philanthropy that began almost as soon as she settled into her house on Muscongus Bay and continued the rest of her life, she systematically gave away some $75 million, primarily to Maine charities.
Oh, there would be the occasional out-of-state donation -- a million to Tufts here, a half-million to Harvard there -- but for the most part Mrs. Noyce, whose donations covered the gamut of public causes including education, medicine, the arts and the environment, concentrated her giving in Maine, responding to virtually any cause, charity or public institution in the state that needed money.
When the Cumberland County Civic Center was so pressed for cash that it was looking for a corporate sponsor that would give it money in exchange for the right to give the center its name, Mrs. Noyce came through with a $1.3 million donation that allowed the center to retain its identity.
But for all the acclaim Mrs. Noyce received for her direct philanthropy, including the $15 million in endowments for charitable trusts that make independent grants to Maine charities, Mrs. Noyce gained even more applause when she began pioneering what she called ''catalytic philanthropy,'' investments designed to bolster the state's economy.
In 1991, for example, when out-of-state financial institutions were picking off Maine's banks one by one and it appeared that Maine businesses and other borrowers would soon be at the mercy of distant lenders, Mrs. Noyce blithely created a brand new bank, the Maine Bank and Trust Company with an initial $7.7 million investment that eventually grew to some $14 million.
In 1991, for example, when out-of-state financial institutions were picking off Maine's banks one by one and it appeared that Maine businesses and other borrowers would soon be at the mercy of distant lenders, Mrs. Noyce blithely created a brand new bank, the Maine Bank and Trust Company with an initial $7.7 million investment that eventually grew to some $14 million.
She rose to celebrity when she starred in two films directed by Rene Clair: ''Le Million'' (1931), about hunting for a lost lottery ticket, and ''Quatorze Juillet,'' or ''July 14th'' (1933), about the adventures of a flower girl and a cab driver.
Other minor film parts followed, until she was chosen by Clair, regarded by the film world as an original stylist, for her roles in ''Le Million'' and ''Quatorze Juillet.
In tours around the country, she was credited with selling some $300 million of the bonds.
In tours around the country, she was credited with selling some $300 million of the bonds.
With a $5 million annual budget, the group seeks to effect change  across the spectrum of what Ms. Carlin described as a continuum of sanctioned abuse of women.
After all, as she was quick to point out, an estimated 3 million to 4 million women suffer some degree of physical abuse at the hands of men each year, and surveys indicate that women in two-thirds of American marriages are battered at least once by their husbands.
After all, as she was quick to point out, an estimated 3 million to 4 million women suffer some degree of physical abuse at the hands of men each year, and surveys indicate that women in two-thirds of American marriages are battered at least once by their husbands.
In 1978, Entenmann's was sold to Warner-Lambert, the pharmaceutical company, for $233 million, and in 1982 to General Foods for $315 million.
In 1978, Entenmann's was sold to Warner-Lambert, the pharmaceutical company, for $233 million, and in 1982 to General Foods for $315 million.
Last year, Entenmann's and three other Kraft brands were bought by CPC International for $865 million.
The Chamber of Commerce estimate in 1988 that Mrs. Rico and other union leaders collected about $1 million annually.

        Frances Lear, a mercurial figure in the media world who spent some $25 million she received in a divorce settlement to start a magazine named after herself, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
'' Her divorce settlement from Mr. Lear, an amount variously estimated to be between $100 million and $112 million, was one of the largest ever recorded.
'' Her divorce settlement from Mr. Lear, an amount variously estimated to be between $100 million and $112 million, was one of the largest ever recorded.
It had lost an estimated $25 million to $30 million in its six years of operation.
It had lost an estimated $25 million to $30 million in its six years of operation.
The darlings of New York's radicals in the 1930's were the half million Spanish loyalists who fought in vain against the forces of Francisco Franco, then made their way across the Pyrenees to refuge in southwestern France.
After more than 30 years of overseeing a foundation that has donated $175 million in New York City, to world-renowned cultural institutions and tiny neighborhood service programs, Mrs. Astor says she wants more time to travel and write poetry.
She has decided to close the Vincent Astor Foundation, and will give away its remaining $25 million by the end of next year.
Even her giving to the city's leading institutions, including $20 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an equivalent sum sum to the New York Public Library, has been characterized by a concern for individuals, those who know her say.
Mrs. Astor's efforts began in earnest in 1959, when her third husband, Vincent Astor, died, leaving the foundation assets of $67 million.
Of the $1.58 million the foundation gave away in 1995, 105 of the total of 111 grants were between $1,000 and $50,000.
More than 20 million Curious George books have been sold in 12 languages.
She discovered the skull of Proconsul africanus, an apelike ancestor of both apes and early humans that lived about 25 million years ago.
After further exploration, scientists determined that the tracks were made about 3.7 million years ago.
Two and possibly three individuals had walked this way 3.7 million years ago: the larger one, presumably a male; the smaller one, presumably female, and an even smaller individual, perhaps their child, whose prints are sometimes superimposed on the others.
The species lived between 3.9 million and 3 million years ago, and from the fossils paleontologists have determined that they were as capable of walking upright as modern humans.
The species lived between 3.9 million and 3 million years ago, and from the fossils paleontologists have determined that they were as capable of walking upright as modern humans.
A family foundation, it reported grants of more than $1.65 million in the 1992 fiscal year.
Mrs. Davenport wrote in her autobiography that her parents, whose marriage ended in divorce, "were part of the tidal wave of emigration from the Russian Pale and Eastern Europe which in a generation swept a million people, fleeing persecutions, pogroms and conscriptions, onto the shores of Manhattan Island.
Steadily replenished, the fund has grown to $1.9 million and ranks among the largest individially financed scholarship programs at Syracuse.
