Over the next decade, as planned, she oversaw the distribution of $220 million in about 700 donations, with more than $50 million earmarked for the fight against AIDS.
Over the next decade, as planned, she oversaw the distribution of $220 million in about 700 donations, with more than $50 million earmarked for the fight against AIDS.
Recent gifts include $1.2 million for Jazz at Lincoln Center's new home, now being built at the former Coliseum site, and large grants for the Dance Theater of Harlem, New York City Ballet and the New York Public Library.
She aided causes like gun control and AIDS programs in the public schools and gave $10 million to the Juilliard School for a program to attract gifted minority students and teachers.
By the late 1980's, the value of the account was estimated at $10 million.
The hall of fame opened in a $21 million building in Fort Worth last year.
Then a Hereford couple donated their 6,000-square-foot house to hold the collection, which had expanded from bandannas and a few pistols to treasures like the red, white and blue rhinestone hat owned by an early Western music star, Patsy Montana, a yodeler whose recording of ''I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart'' sold a million copies.
Eventually as many as 3 million copies were sold, published reports said.
By the time the Khmer Rouge won power in 1975 and undertook the revolution that led to the deaths of 1.7 million people, she was incapacitated by her illness.
Mrs. Roberts said her target market was secretaries, teachers and the wives of policemen, and she said she knew how to please them -- an assertion the $50 million collected each year from members seemed to support.
Think of it as organizing a party for a couple of million people, with 500 vendors selling everything from commemorative T-shirts to curried goat, and entertainment by two dozen bands and music groups riding flatbed trucks with speakers the size of refrigerators.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
Four years later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower designated eight million acres as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; President Jimmy Carter more than doubled the protected area in 1980.
''
        By the end of the war, the loyalty of Nationalist officials melted away as the government grew corrupt and fiscally traitorous, printing money so aggressively that the Chinese currency fell to an exchange rate of several million yuan to the dollar.
''They stole $750 million out of the billions that we sent to Chiang.
In 1998, Ms. Kroc gave $100 million to the Salvation Army to build and endow the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego and $25 million to the University of San Diego to establish its Institute for Peace and Justice.
In 1998, Ms. Kroc gave $100 million to the Salvation Army to build and endow the Ray and Joan Kroc Community Center in San Diego and $25 million to the University of San Diego to establish its Institute for Peace and Justice.
In the 1980's she gave $19 million to the University of Notre Dame to endow an institute for international peace studies.
In 1987, she became the first person to give the Democratic National Committee $1 million.
She was not prepared for the ticker-tape parade that New York gave her through its financial district on Aug. 27, 1926, in which an estimated two million people turned out and chanted, ''Trudy!
Three years ago, the Sebastiani family sold its Central Valley winemaking operations and six wine brands for $295 million.
With friends and family members, Ms. Estess set up Project A.L.S., and, calling on her experience as a producer, she raised more than $17 million and brought together scientists from different laboratories to cooperate in the search for a cure.
