She is survived by her husband; her mother, Sadie Murray, and her brother, Paul Murray, both of Newport Beach, Australia.
      
Ms. Ralston came out of retirement in 1961 to play the mother in a daytime soap opera on NBC, "Our Five Daughters.
"
        In addition to her brother William, of Memphis, she is survived by another brother, Charles M. Mathis Jr. of Salt Lake City, and her mother, Laura Mathis.
      
Ms. Molostwoff, whose original name was Natalie Merimanova, was a native of Baku, Azerbaijan, and emigrated to New York City with her mother when she was a girl.
She is survived by her mother, Florence Lawson of Florida; a brother, Thomas Lawson of Sandy Hook, Conn.; three children, Douglas Sloan of Manhattan, Kathryn Roth of Weston, Mass., and Gillis Bolton of Roxbury, Conn., and three grandchildren.
Correction:  February 3, 1994, Thursday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Emily Taft Douglas, a former Democratic Representive from Illinois, misstated the middle name of her mother, who died before her.
During the course of her career, she appeared in Hollywood films ("The Great Caruso," "The Search"), on Broadway (as an unscrupulous concert singer in the 1953 drama "Sherlock Holmes") and on television (as Kim Stanley's mother in a postwar drama set in France).
That same year, Miss Novotna appeared in Fred Zinnemann's film "The Search," as a mother seeking her lost son at the end of World War II.
She is survived by her mother, Lisa Sperber, and her brother, both of Manhattan.
      
Lady St. Just was born in Petrograd but was taken by her mother to London when she was an infant.
Mother Smith, as she was widely known, was one of the first singers to perform in the blues-influenced gospel style created by Thomas A. Dorsey in the 1920's and 30's.
In "Un-American Activities" she wrote, "My mother was a mere English eccentric, but my father was a Red and so in trouble all the time.
Her father was German and her mother was of Hungarian and Austrian parentage.
Their other team efforts included "Topkapi," a well-regarded 1964 museum-theft caper; "10:30 P.M. Summer," a 1966 story of a descent into alcoholism, and "Promise at Dawn" (1970), from a memoir by Romain Gary about his unconventional mother.
Miss Mercouri conquered Broadway in a 1967 musical adaptation of "Never on Sunday" titled "Illya Darling," prompting Walter Kerr of The New York Times to hail her as "a creature you'd be happy to take home to mother, if mother was out.
Miss Mercouri conquered Broadway in a 1967 musical adaptation of "Never on Sunday" titled "Illya Darling," prompting Walter Kerr of The New York Times to hail her as "a creature you'd be happy to take home to mother, if mother was out.
Mrs. Schwartz is survived by her husband of 30 years, Stanley; two daughters, Blair and Kim; her mother, Blanche Rosenzweig Levine of Bal Harbour, Fla.; a sister, Carol Nussbaum of Charleston, S.C., and a brother, Lawrence Rosenzweig of Manhattan and Bal Harbour.
      
She is survived by her mother, Janet Strain; a brother, Bob, and a sister, Terri Sullivan, all of Cliffside Park, N.J.
      
Her New Orleans accent unaltered despite half a century in New York, Mrs. Whedon was a bustling mother hen for thousands of children at the Whedon School of Art, which she and her husband, Daniel Whedon, a sculptor, operated.
She was married to Victor for 52 years and for a large part of that time was content to be a wife and mother to her two sons.
She is survived by her daughter, of Manhattan; her mother, Queen Esther Johnson of Oakland, Calif.; three brothers, Thomas W. Jr. of Manhattan, William of Oakland, and Ronald of Sacramento, Calif., and a sister, Rose Johnson of San Jose, Calif.
      
Sometimes called the den mother of Fluxus, Mrs. Brown possessed a natural openness to new art and counted among her friends such avant-gardists as Marcel Duchamp, John Cage and George Maciunas, the leader of the Fluxus movement.
There were babies in the White House for the first time in this century, and Jackie Kennedy, the vivacious young mother who showed little interest in the nuances of politics, busily transformed her new home into a place of elegance and culture.
Mr. Auchincloss had been substantially better able to weather the Great Depression; his mother and benefactor was the former Emma Brewster Jennings, daughter of Oliver Jennings, a founder of Standard Oil with John D. Rockefeller.
Her mother came to agree with him.
Ms. Gair is survived by a daughter, Patricia Sweeney of Kingston upon Thames, England; two sons, Judd Rose of Manhattan and Roger Rose of Los Angeles; her mother, Rose Gair of Chicago; a brother, Seymour Gair of suburban Chicago, and three grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Walter Gans; two sons, David of Scarsdale and Erik of Cambridge, Mass., and her mother, Mildred Goldhagen of Deerfield Beach, Fla.
      
; her mother, Amy Miller, and a brother, Donald Miller, both of New Port Richey, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      
She made her first cabaret appearance in New York at 16 as a member of the Happy Honeysuckles hired by Josephine Baker, Mr. Baker's foster mother, and was a chorus girl in the musical "Shuffle Along" in 1921.
She was active at the B. M. Oakley Memorial Church of God in Christ, in Philadelphia, as both a church mother and an occasional performer.
At the time, her mother said: "I would say 99 percent of what has happened to Christy is because of the sport.
Besides her daughter, Dr. Cserr is survived by her husband, Dr. Robert Cserr of North Dighton; her mother, Ruth FitzGerald of Missoula, Mont.
In addition to Ms. Miller and Mr. Edwards, Ms. Vance is survived by her mother, Laura Vance of Chicago, and a sister, Latrice Lee, of Markham.
      

        Rildia Bee O'Bryan Cliburn, the mother of Van Cliburn and his only piano teacher until he was 17, died yesterday at All Saints Episcopal Hospital in Fort Worth.
Mrs. Cliburn's mother was an actress and her father was a judge and adviser to state officials.
"
        She was born in Hamburg, Germany, the daughter of a German mother and an English father.
Also surviving are her mother, Helen, and a sister, Carol Martini of Philadelphia.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by their son, Max; a stepson, Lem Dobbs of Los Angeles; a stepdaughter, Dominie Kitaj of London; her father, Gene, of Tucson, Ariz.; her mother, Ethel, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a sister, Margaret, of Emeryville, Calif., and a stepgrandson, Joe Kitaj of Los Angeles.
      

        Sister Parish, the acclaimed and enduring American interior decorator who began her career when she was a young Depression-era mother and later came to redesign rooms of the White House during the Kennedy Administration, died on Thursday at her home in Dark Harbor, Maine.
Her father died when she was 12 and her mother took clerical and teaching jobs at night to supplement her regular income as headmistress of a school for retarded children.
In "Brando: Songs My Mother Taught Me," the actor wrote: "I think Jessica and I were both miscast, and between us we threw the play out of balance.
Her father and mother, Pete Reed and the former Peggy Hooper, were Irish immigrants whose song-and-dance routine, under the name Reed and Hooper, took them to carnivals and vaudeville houses around the United States.
"
        Her mother taught her to read and write while the family, which also included her sister and brother, crisscrossed the country.
In addition to her son, Ms. Fedicheva is survived by her mother in St. Petersburg, Russia.
      
She appeared as a prostitute in "The Long Voyage Home," a doomed mother in "The Three Godfathers," a hard-bitten Army wife in "She Wore a Yellow Ribbon" and a sly widow in "The Quiet Man.
Ms. Montes is survived by a daughter, Rebecca Albury of Atlanta; her mother, Greta Hyde Montes of Tampa, Fla.; two sisters, Greta Montes of Wayne, Pa., and Jacqueline Zaborski of West Palm Beach, Fla., and three brothers, Robert, of Clearwater, Fla., and Ronald and Hiram, both of Tampa.
      
Ms. Carmen is survived by her mother, Mina Carmen of Freehold, N.J., and two sisters, Andrea Carmen of Freehold, and Jewel DeRoy of Los Angeles.
      
Her mother, Blanche, was a domestic.
The illnesses left her left leg paralyzed, and once a week, on her mother's day off, the mother made a 90-mile round trip with her to Nashville for heat and water treatment on the leg.
The illnesses left her left leg paralyzed, and once a week, on her mother's day off, the mother made a 90-mile round trip with her to Nashville for heat and water treatment on the leg.
One day, when she was 11, her mother found her playing basketball in her bare feet.
Her father died in 1961 and her mother died in May.
When World War II broke out, she was working in the Netherlands, dancing in a cabaret in The Hague, according to Jean-Claude Baker's book about his adoptive mother, "Josephine: The Hungry Heart.
" Mr. Sills said his mother wanted "to help players hit their intuition" and become more spontaneous.
When Mr. Sills joined David Shepherd in creating the Compass improvisational theater, his mother's games became part of the work process.
Her daughter, Anne Gres (the name is pronounced greh), provided the fashion industry newspaper with a response she said her mother had dictated on Oct. 9.
In a front-page story in the French newspaper Le Monde, Anne Gres said she had disguised the death of her mother for the last 13 months for two reasons.
She added that she did not yet have the money to buy the sort of tomb that would dignify her mother's memory.
One of the reasons for the deception may have been the resentment that Anne Gres indicated to Le Monde over the way the French fashion industry had reacted in 1987, when her mother's couture house was liquidated after rent on her atelier went unpaid for two years.

        Lilia Skala, a stage and screen actress best known for her portrayal of the headstrong Mother Superior in the 1963 film "Lilies of the Field," died on Sunday at her home in Bay Shore, L.I.
"
        She arrived in the state in 1967 fresh from a course in poverty law at the University of Pennsylvania -- 57 years old and a white-haired mother of five grown children.
When "The Glass Menagerie" opened on Broadway in 1945, it immediately established Tennessee Williams's reputation and represented an important return to the theater for Laurette Taylor, who played Amanda Wingfield, a fictional representation of the playwright's mother.
For 10 years she was actress in residence at the College of St. Teresa in Winona, Minn.
        She played the mother in revivals of "The Glass Menagerie," and in 1980, still petite with a cameo face, she returned to the New York theater to do the role off Broadway, opposite Ms. Angelin as the daughter.
The foundation, working out of a donated room with 14 desks and 12 employees, has raised more than $30 million for pediatric education and research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus.
The foundation, working out of a donated room with 14 desks and 12 employees, has raised more than $30 million for pediatric education and research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus.
The cause was cancer, said her mother, Elaine Oppenheim.
In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      
