She was the mother of three sons: William Siepmann, from her second marriage, and Roger and Toby Eady, from her first.
Besides her father, of Hillsborough, Calif., Ms. Pettit is survived by her mother, Jane Pettit of Washington, and two brothers, Benjamin Pettit of Washington and Baer Pettit of London.
      
Her biggest success after ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' was the sitcom ''Gimme a Break!,'' in which she played Miss Nellie Ruth ''Nell'' Harper, the housekeeper and surrogate mother for a widowed California police chief and his three children.
While growing up, she absorbed her mother's recordings of Dinah Washington and B.
She was a single, working mother when that was rare, and on the day of her first Washington assignment she had to plead with a baby sitter to stay overtime.
In addition to Ms. Zeig, who lives in Tucson and Manhattan, Ms. Wittig is survived by her mother, Maria Wittig, and her sister, Gilberte, both of Paris.
Her mother showed promise as a concert pianist before her marriage.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosen is survived by three children, Sylve, Gustin and Vera, all of Manhattan; her mother, Claire Gelb of Tucson; and two sisters, Lisa, of Eugene, Ore., and Judy, of Estes Park, Colo.
      
'' She was Janice Rule's anxious mother in William Inge's ''Picnic'' (1953), which also starred Ralph Meeker, Eileen Heckart, Kim Stanley and Paul Newman.
Her mother died when Miss Conklin was 12, he said, and she was left in the care of two aunts.
; two younger brothers, Storm and Bob Carlson, both in Costa Rica; and her mother, Veronica Carlson, of Shrewsbury.
      
Her father, Dr. James Davis, who was piloting the plane, a Cessna 177 Cardinal, and her mother, Francie Davis, both of Setauket, N.Y., were also killed.
Her mother, 59, was an assistant professor and the chief librarian at Dowling College in Oakdale, N.Y.
        Ms. Davis was born in Durham, N.C., her family's longtime hometown.

        Anita Borg, a computer scientist who devoted much of her career to the advancement of women in computer science, died on Sunday at her mother's home in Sonoma, Calif. She was 54.
Her first interest was in mathematics, said her mother, Beverly Naffz.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Wilcke, of Los Altos Hills, Calif.; her mother, Ms. Naffz, of Sonoma.
Her mother, a Norwegian, and her father, a German, were both professional singers.
In 1954 she got a job playing piano at a bar and grill in Atlantic City, where she assumed her stage name -- because, she later explained, she did not want her mother to find out what she was doing.
Ms. Torrey is survived by her mother, Ella Russell Torrey of Philadelphia; a sister, Elizabeth L. Torrey of Washington; and a brother, L. Russell Torrey of Villanova, Pa.
A woman who answered the telephone at her mother's home but who would not identify herself said the cause of death was a heart attack.
She loved to point out that she had played Charlton Heston's mother twice in films, in ''The Ten Commandments'' (1957) and ''Ben-Hur'' (1959) and his wife twice onstage: in ''Design for a Stained Glass Window'' (1950) and ''The Tumbler'' (1960).
Among her many television roles were Sue Ellen Ewing's mother on ''Dallas'' and a mysterious grandmother on ''General Hospital.
Her father, Grover Jones, a well-known screenwriter, and her mother, Susan Avery, a former ballerina, wasted no time introducing her to the sport.
Her father died at about that time, and her mother later married Richard Talmadge, a motion-picture stuntman and actor.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Dr. Sarah Baden, who added that her mother lived in Westport, Conn., and had come to New York for Mother's Day.
The cause was cancer, said her daughter Dr. Sarah Baden, who added that her mother lived in Westport, Conn., and had come to New York for Mother's Day.
Her mother, Beatrice Densen, who had kept her own name, was an heiress of the Densen paper-box fortune.
Her mother was Mother Maybelle Carter, who sang and played guitar on songs like ''Single Girl, Married Girl'' and ''I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes,'' some of the most important recordings of early commercial country music in the late 1920's.
Her mother was Mother Maybelle Carter, who sang and played guitar on songs like ''Single Girl, Married Girl'' and ''I'm Thinking Tonight of My Blue Eyes,'' some of the most important recordings of early commercial country music in the late 1920's.
At its largest, the group included Ms. Cash, her sisters Helen and Anita, her cousin Janette, her mother, and her mother's cousins Sara and A. P. Carter.
At its largest, the group included Ms. Cash, her sisters Helen and Anita, her cousin Janette, her mother, and her mother's cousins Sara and A. P. Carter.
Ms. Cash, her sisters and her mother began touring and recording as Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters.
Ms. Cash, her sisters and her mother began touring and recording as Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters.
By 1950 Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters were regulars at Nashville's Grand Ole Opry.
She acted little after her marriage to Mr. Cash, but appeared in Robert Duvall's film ''The Apostle'' in 1997, playing the mother of Mr. Duvall's character.
She played an obsessive mother in ''Sons and Lovers'' (1960), a steadfast wife in ''A Man for All Seasons'' (1966), a fussy Russian princess in ''Murder on the Orient Express'' (1974) and a compassionate nurse in ''The Elephant Man'' (1980).
Her father, Frank Watkin Hiller, a cotton-cloth manufacturer, and her mother, the former Marie Elizabeth Stone, also had three sons, René, Michael and John.
Her mother, Katharine Houghton, was a suffragist and a strong advocate of birth control.
''I wanted to be a mother, a teacher and a housewife,'' she told The New York Times.
She once described herself as ''the mother who typed.
She was named after her mother, who was Scottish and spelled her name in the Scottish fashion.
Ms. Welch's decision to remain in Europe and make London her home may have resulted from a combination of her success there, her mother's Scottish and Irish ancestry and a visceral sense of belonging.
Carol Grace Marcus Matthau was born in Manhattan and never knew her father; she grew up in foster homes until she was 8, when her mother married Charles Marcus, an executive with the Bendix Aircraft Corporation, who adopted her.
Her mother died when she was 10 and her only sibling, a sister, when she was 17.
The nickname Jinx was given by her mother.
'' At 18, she became engaged after a few weeks' acquaintance to the brewing heir Bryan Guinness, a match that seemed objectionable only to her mother -- he was ''so frightfully rich,'' Lady Redesdale said.
Her father was a lawyer, and her mother was so genteel that she refused to go to the grocer's without gloves and a hat.
Her father, a doctor who played the violin, and her mother, who sang and played the organ, encouraged her musical talent.
After the war she spent 20 years in relative isolation, living in her mother's apartment in Munich.
Her mother encouraged her artistic flair, and although her father, a businessman, was opposed to her working on the stage, she began dancing in an Isadora Duncan-like free style at age 16 and soon found work -- and considerable recognition -- in Berlin theaters.
She was later called ''the mother of the voting rights movement'' by its local organizers.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
Her mother then sneaked away and took her children to Selma.
The film was heralded as a searing look at race relations in the 1950's and 60's, and drew praise for its emotional rawness and the bravery of both mother and daughter.
Other reviews suggested that the documentary's power came from a mother's willingness to reject her daughter and then rationalize it.
As June matured and her complexion darkened, she and her mother encountered racist reactions, including a petition from residents of their Manhattan building demanding that they leave.
Her mother moved from place to place, married seven times or so, and from time to time vanished completely.
He is now a professor at the University of Minnesota and helped persuade his mother to participate in the documentary.
''
        But Ms. Cross said she came to appreciate the decision her mother had made when she was a little girl.
In one scene in the documentary, she laughs nervously when her mother says she would have aborted her if she had had enough money.
Her mother, Dorothy Alice Warwick, was a schoolteacher and the first woman to serve on her local governing council.
Toward the end of the war, she met John Donaldson, a lieutenant colonel in the army, through his mother, whom Miss Warwick cared for in the hospital.
When Chiang renewed his interest in Soong Mei-ling in 1927, she told him that she would consent to marry only if he could win the approval of her mother, who had reservations about a man who was neither Christian nor single.
In addition to Mr. Ellington, of San Francisco, and Jeffrey Marx, who lives in Washington, D.C., she is survived by her mother, Peggy Marx of Lake Worth, Fla.; her father, Richard, of Bedford, N.Y., and another brother, James, of White Plains, N.Y.
      
Her first notable essay was ''The Character of Hamlet's Mother,'' a 1957 article in Shakespeare Quarterly.
It portrayed Gertrude as clever, not shallow, lucid rather than silly: ideas that were forerunners of feminism at the time, but hardly startling when the essay was reprinted in 1990 as part of ''Hamlet's Mother and Other Women.
Her father, a plumber, and her mother were elegant ballroom dancers and had a player piano in the house with rolls by the likes of Waller.
Her mother died when Mrs. Hicks was 14, and she was especially close to her father, a lawyer, judge and businessman, whom she cited as her inspiration to become a lawyer.
The cause was complications of AIDS, her mother, Dr. Cydelle Berlin, said.
She was the fifth woman in the group, her mother said.
Her mother, Dr. Berlin, was involved in AIDS education, but Ms. Ruderman did not tell her that she was H.I.V.
In 1996, PBS showed a documentary by the producer Roger Weisberg about her mother's group, called the Star Theater.
''
        Ms. Ruderman retired as an electrician 11 years ago with a full pension from her union, her mother said.
Ms. Ruderman is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan; her father, Robert, of Manhattan; her stepmother, Vicki Fian of Manhattan; her sister, Leigh Roumila of Ridgewood, N.J.; and her brothers, Jamie, of Maplewood, N.J., and Adam, of Manhattan.

        Patricia Broderick, a writer and painter who was the mother of the actor Matthew Broderick, died on Tuesday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She grew up in Cleveland and in New York, where her mother worked at the Museum of Modern Art and as an editor at Lincoln Kirstein's magazine Dance Index.
Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      
She went equipped with what her mother believed were the essentials: ''several evening dresses, the silk shoes that matched, silk dresses, a suit and my calling card.
Ms. Loudon was born in Boston on Sept. 17, 1933, the daughter of James and Dorothy Shaw Loudon, and showed an early interest in performing, learning some 1,500 songs from her mother, who played piano in a Boston department store.
Ms. Loudon was born in Boston on Sept. 17, 1933, the daughter of James and Dorothy Shaw Loudon, and showed an early interest in performing, learning some 1,500 songs from her mother, who played piano in a Boston department store.
Lieselotte Heymansohn was born to a well-to-do father in Cologne -- her mother died when she was a child -- and studied modern dance with Mary Wigman in Cologne, against her father's wishes.
In addition to her sister Valerie, who lives in Manhattan, Ms. Estess is survived by her mother, Marilyn R. Estess, of Rye, N.Y.; her other sisters, Alison Estess of Manhattan and Meredith Hulbert of Harrison; and her brother, Noah, of San Diego.
      
''
        Ms. Lange was born in November 1933 in Connecticut to show business parents -- her father was a composer and arranger, and her mother was an actress.
The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own.
Her mother opened a restaurant, and Ms. Lange worked as a waitress.
Born in Minneapolis on Nov. 25, 1929, Ms. Gustafson grew up enjoying afternoon tea in the sunroom of her red brick house with her mother and grandmother.
She and her two sisters took their mother's name.
'' She was picked up each night by her mother and taken home on the subway.
