Top Hat and Tails
        At 15, Miss Lillie ended what had been at best a mere pass at a formal education, and sailed for England, where her mother had taken Muriel to study music.

       Norma Varden, whose acting career in films, television and on the state included such roles as Jack Benny's mother and the housekeeper in ''The Sound of Music,'' has died at age 90.
Norma Varden, whose acting career in films, television and on the state included such roles as Jack Benny's mother and the housekeeper in ''The Sound of Music,'' has died at age 90.
Turning to television, Miss Varden was Mr. Benny's mother on ''The Jack Benny Show'' in the 1950's.
She was introduced to art at an early age by her mother, who covered the walls of their Brooklyn home with reproductions of famous paintings.
Miss Enters was born in New York City of an Austrian father and French mother, and spent her childhood in Milwaukee and traveling through Europe.
Her prizes include the Robert Boardman award of the Painters and Sculptors Society of New Jersey, the American Institute of Graphic Arts Exhibition award and the Outstanding Children's Book Illustration award for ''Little Girl and Her Mother'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regnier.
The early death of her mother increased her misery, especially when her stepmother expressed her frustrations with poverty in the harshness she showed the children.
Surviving is her mother, Ermina, of the Bronx.
      
Ms. Klein is survived by her husband, Erwin Fleissner; two daughters, Jennifer and Katherine; her brother, Victor; and her mother, Sadie, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her husband, Willliam; her mother, Sheila Brodie of Manchester, Vt.; a son, Andrew Hultkrans of Manhattan, a brother, Franklin Driggs of Brooklyn, and a sister, Jean Pfister of San Jose, Calif.
      
She is survived by her mother, Annie M. Williams of Yonkers; two brothers, George and Milton, both of Yonkers, and 13 nieces and nephews.
      
Her mother, the late Dorothy Hailes Guimaraes, was a collector of 19th- and 20th-century decorative objects who donated extensively to the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn and the costumes division of the National Museum of American History of the Smithsonian Institution.
Her mother, Rosalia, was a concert pianist.

       Dorothy Ruth Pirone, whose father was Babe Ruth but who did not learn the identity of her natural mother until she was 59 years old, died yesterday at her home in Durham, Conn. She was 68 years old.
Dorothy Ruth Pirone, whose father was Babe Ruth but who did not learn the identity of her natural mother until she was 59 years old, died yesterday at her home in Durham, Conn. She was 68 years old.
For most of her life, Mrs. Pirone was led to believe that her mother was the baseball star's first wife, Helen.
It was not until 1980 that Mrs. Pirone learned her real mother was Juanita Jennings, a woman she had grown up knowing and loving as a close family friend.
Survivors include her mother and a son from a marriage while she was Kenneth Ulane.
      
She is survived by her husband, C. Hooker,; a son, Douglas, of Darien; two stepsons, Niall and Oisin, both of Manhattan, and her mother, Dorothy Black of Darien.
      
She is survived by her husband, Allen Solomon; a daughter, Laurie Rudach of Kyoto, Japan; her mother, Dina Heiblum of Brooklyn, and a sister, Claire Kotchmar of Thiells, N.Y.
      
Mrs. Waldman is survived by her husband, Walter, and her mother, Frieda S. Berg, also of Riverdale.
      
Mrs. Waldman is survived by her husband, Walter, and her mother, Frieda S. Berg, also of Riverdale.
      
She is survived by her husband, Edward; five daughters, Angela Weisl and Cassandra, both of Brooklyn, Elizabeth, of Manhattan, Lindsay, of Santa Barbara, Calif., and Brooke, of Vienna; a sister, Elinor Hurwitz, and her mother, Gertrude Lander, both of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      
She was 81 years old and lived in Van Nuys, Calif.
        To a generation of children in the late 1940's and the 50's, Miss Allison was the girlfriend, mother and gentle conscience of the Kuklapolitan Players, the puppet troupe created by Burr Tillstrom.
Her mother was a Communist, her father a Zionist and anarchist.
She is survived by her mother, Rhoda, of Bal Harbor, Fla.; two daughters, Aimee Garn of Manhattan and Liz Garn of West Bloomfield, Mich.; a sister, Muriel Lloyd of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      

       Janet Lee Auchincloss Morris, a leading member of society in Newport, R.I., and Washington, D.C., and the mother of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Lee Radziwill Ross, died Saturday after a long illness at her home on Hammersmith Farm in Newport.
Janet Lee Auchincloss Morris, a leading member of society in Newport, R.I., and Washington, D.C., and the mother of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and Lee Radziwill Ross, died Saturday after a long illness at her home on Hammersmith Farm in Newport.
She was born in Antwerp, Belgium, in 1895, and studied the piano with her mother, Vera Tretyakova, who had been a student of Rimsky-Korsakov, and her father, who had been a student of Liszt.
'' Other Stage Roles
        Off Broadway, her favorite roles included Mrs. Peachum in the long-running ''Three Penny Opera,'' Julie in Jerome Kern's ''Show Boat,'' Mother Grieg in ''Song of Norway,'' Aunt Eller in ''Oklahoma!
Surviving are her husband, R. L. Ireland 3d; her mother, Julia Armstrong Kaufman of New Orleans; two sons, Thomas and Robert of Manhattan; two daughters, Julia of Manhattan and Nancy Stahl of Millbrook; a brother, Zeb Mayhew of Atlanta, and four granddaughters.
      
She is survived by her mother, Catharine Schenck Macandrew; a sister, Bonnie Rosenblatt of Baltimore, and a brother, Peter F. Macandrew of Garden City.
      
She is survived by her mother, Helen Blau of Providence.
      
She is survived by her husband, Tom Ewell; two daughters, Carly and Courtney; her mother, Mary Shickert of Wilmington, N.C.; a sister, Denise Simpson of Durham, N.C., and a brother, Ken Simpson, of Washington.
      
Surviving are her husband; the two children of her first marriage, Mark West of Rochester and Francesca Watson of the Philippines ; her mother, Eleanor Ruetz of Portland, Ore., and a sister, Vera McKenna of Portland.
Their first product was a lacy garter belt she had learned to make from her mother.
She is survived by her husband, David Farrell; her mother, Susan Paduano of Queens, and two sisters, Susan DeLuca of Bethpage, L.I., and Teresa Gentile of Queens.
      
Her mother was the former Ruth Favor; her father, Harlow Morrell Davis, a Harvard Law School graduate who became a Government patent attorney.
Her father divorced her mother when Miss Davis was 7 and her sister, Barbara, was 5, leaving her mother to rear the children alone.
Her father divorced her mother when Miss Davis was 7 and her sister, Barbara, was 5, leaving her mother to rear the children alone.
In later years Miss Davis said many times that she saw the divorce as her father's abandonment of his family, and that it left her barren of love for him and preternaturally devoted to her doting mother.
A friend of her mother's who was reading Balzac's ''La Cousine Bette'' suggested the name-spelling change, telling her that it would ''set you apart, my dear.
''
        In her teens, Miss Davis returned to New England, living in several towns there while her mother worked as a portrait photographer.
Miss Davis decided in her teens that she wanted to become an actress, and her mother took her to New York in 1928, where she arranged for her to read for Eva Le Gallienne, whose Civic Repertory Theater was then one of the most popular touring companies.
She was given a $300-a-week contract by Universal Pictures, and Miss Davis and her mother went to Los Angeles in 1930.
By the end of 1932, Miss Davis, discouraged after having appeared in six lackluster movies and finally without a contract, prepared to return with her mother to New York.
''
        ''For three years I was solely a wife and mother and Gary fell out of love with me,'' Miss Davis was to say years later.
In ''My Mother's Keeper,'' B. D. Hyman portrayed Miss Davis as an abusive, domineering and hateful mother and as a grotesque alcoholic who was largely responsible for her own mistreatment by certain of her husbands.
In ''My Mother's Keeper,'' B. D. Hyman portrayed Miss Davis as an abusive, domineering and hateful mother and as a grotesque alcoholic who was largely responsible for her own mistreatment by certain of her husbands.
''
        She is survived by her mother, Grace, of Black Mountain, N.C., and two brothers, John, of Vero Beach, Fla., and Robert E., of Black Mountain.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Letra Rice of Daytona Beach, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Danica Ridgeway of Summit, and eight grandchildren.
      
Surviving are two daughters, Alexandra Washburn of Palm Beach, Fla., and Pamela Washburn of Manhattan; her mother, Louise Melhado of Palm Beach, and her brother, Frederick Melhado of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Elizabeth Firestone of Akron and Newport, R.I.; a daughter, Elizabeth Leatherman of Boston, and two sisters, Martha Ford of Detroit and Anne Ball of Greenwich, Conn.
      
Her mother, Fannie Meresman, of Manhattan, died two weeks ago.
      
She is survived by her mother, Leota Bronson of Yorktown Heights, N.Y.; two daughters, Melody, of Detroit, and Jennifer Marks of Seattle; a brother, John Bronson of Brewster, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Marvin; a daughter, a son, her mother, three sisters, seven brothers and six grandchildren.
      
In addition, the heroines in Miss McCarthy's fiction form a sort of continuing portrait of the author: Meg in ''The Company She Keeps'' (1942), the clever Vassar girl, ''a princess among the trolls''; Martha, ''the bohemian lady'' in ''A Charmed Life'' (1955), whose need to ''tell the truth'' continually gets her into trouble; Kay, the skeptical iconoclast in ''The Group'' (1963), and Rosamund, the esthetic mother figure in ''Birds of America'' (1971).
She is survived by her husband, Richard Larson; her mother, Eva Schmir of Passaic, N.J.; three sons, Bruce of Washington and Philip and Gordon of Oak Park; and two brothers, Gaston Schmir of Hamden, Conn., and Dr. Maurice Schmir of York, Me.
      
She is survived by her husband, Jay Talbott, of Shaker Heights; her son, Jeffrey Farrar, of Kitty Hawk, N.C., and her mother, Alice Farrar, of Nashua, N.H.
      
Her mother, Adele Lewisohn, was the daughter of Adolph Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products.
She was a donor of Adele Lehman Hall at Barnard College, named for her mother, and was a former trustee of Connecticut College and a former board member of the Columbia University School of Social Work and the Dalton School.

       Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the child be in a glass cage in school classes, died of the disease on Monday.
Eliana Martinez, an AIDS patient whose mother successfully fought a court ruling that the child be in a glass cage in school classes, died of the disease on Monday.
Her mother, Rosa Martinez, a licensed practical nurse, adopted her as an abandoned 11-month-old in a Puerto Rico hospital.
When her mother Gussie, who had been running the factory, died in 1974, Mrs. Kahn operated it until 1982, when she sold it and retired.
She is survived by two daughters, Christina White and Alexandra Faggi, both of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Xanthos of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Xanthos of Akron, Ohio, and one grandchild.
      
She is survived by her husband, Peter, head of the Peter Tishman Real Estate Company; three stepchildren, Linda, Anita and Steven Tishman, all of Manhattan; her mother, Evelyn Rothenberg, also of Manhattan, and a brother, Donald Rothenberg of Babylon, L.I.
      
Miss Anchutina is survived by her mother, Dosi Sorokin; two sons, Dr. Andre Jr., of Fredericksburg, Va., and Paul, of Shirley, L.I.
Miss Burr was committed in January of 1936 on the recommendation of her mother and her family doctor, a cousin.
A statement from the Joslin Diabetes Center in Boston said Dr. White found that a fetus of a diabetic mother would often be healthy a month before delivery but would die if allowed to go to full term.
Mrs. Wood is survived by her mother, Mildred Butler of Lewiston; three daughters by a previous marriage, Dr. Alison Estabrook of Englewood, N.J.; Polly Estabrook of Berkeley, Calif., and Elizabeth Estabrook of Brooklyn.
      
A major film role was as Natalie Wood's smothering mother in ''Splendor in the Grass'' (1961).

       Daisy Fuller Young, mother of Mayor Andrew Young, died Friday night.
Daisy Fuller Young, mother of Mayor Andrew Young, died Friday night.
She is survived by her mother, Clara Kaplan of Hudson, Fla.; three daughters, Wendy Curts of Hillsdale, N.J., Corrine Gould of New Rochelle, and Victoria Kaiser of Huntington, N.Y.; a brother, Louis Kaplan of Holmes Beach, Fla.; a sister, Lillian Albrecht of Rye, N.Y., and eight grandchildren.
