Dr. Thompson is survived by her husband, James E.; a daughter, Heather R. Cavalli of Miami; a son, James E., also of Manhattan; her mother, Virginia W. Morosani of Litchfield; two sisters, Virginia Smith of Mill Neck, L.I., and Roopa Morosani of Menlo Park, Calif., and three brothers, George Morosani of Ashville, N.C., Reto Morosani of Litchfield and John Morosani of Manhattan.
      
He only learned who his father  was in 1956, when he was allowed to visit his mother in exile.
Her mother, Peggy Zinsser Douglas, was a descendant of the family that founded the Zinsser Chemical Company.
Her customers included Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, who bought a sweater during a visit to New York, Alice Roosevelt Longworth, Doris Duke, the Duchess of Windsor and Greta Garbo.
The daughter of Baron Egmont van Zuylen de Nyevelt de Haar, a Dutch diplomat, and an Egyptian mother, the Baroness was educated at Marymount College in New York.
Known as the mother of modern nursing, she was 98.
Miss Henderson was born in Kansas City, Mo., named for her mother's native state and later educated there at a boys' school run by her grandfather.
Her mother, a housewife who liked to sing around the house, exposed her daughter both to the hits of the day and older standards.
But in 1953, with her mother, Maria de los Angeles Ruiz,  in tow as her chaperone, Ms. Beltran moved to Mexico City with hopes of entering show business.
Her stories explore and reflect the patterns of her life: the return of the little girl from America to the strange, puritanical society of her mother's people" in Western Ireland.
One story, "Happiness," begins with "Mother had a lot to say" and ends: "Mother made the last effort of her life and grasped at Bea's meaning.
One story, "Happiness," begins with "Mother had a lot to say" and ends: "Mother made the last effort of her life and grasped at Bea's meaning.
"She could knit in her sleep," her daughter, Helen McDonald, said yesterday,  estimating that her mother had knitted at least 4,000 pairs of mittens over the  last 47 years, and probably a lot more.
She was only a child when her father died, and her first memories were of economic hardship, above all after her mother invested the family's savings in a disastrous rice-farming venture.
Her mother, known as Aunt Fannie Collie,  played the organ in a local church.
"
        When her father died, Miss Pearl settled in Centerville to take care of her ailing mother.
Her mother, known as Aunt Fannie Collie,  played the organ in a local church.
"
        When her father died, Miss Pearl settled in Centerville to take care of her ailing mother.

        Erma Bombeck, who mined the everyday lives of housewives and parents for the  mother lode of humor that transformed her into one of the country's most popular newspaper columnists and a best-selling author, died yesterday at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center.
At various times, she wrote a monthly column for Good Housekeeping, contributed to magazines like Reader's Digest, Family Circle, Redbook and McCall's; lectured; created, wrote and produced the short-lived 1981 ABC television series "Maggie" and saw "The Grass Is Always Greener" turned into a 1978 prime-time CBS television movie starring Carol Burnett as a concerned mother who was Mrs. Bombeck's alter ego and Charles Grodin as her husband.
Mrs. Bombeck was a housewife and mother, living outside Dayton in Centerville, Ohio, and advancing toward 40 when she determined to change her life.
In addition to her husband, who lives in Paradise Valley, and her mother, Erma Harris, of Sun City, Ariz., Mrs. Bombeck is survived by her three children: Betsy and Andrew, of Phoenix and Matthew, of Los Angeles.
      
Growing up in a grand home in County Wexford, where her Protestant English father was a noted fox hunter and her Irish mother was a lapsed poet and Italian literary scholar who wrote occasional reviews, was not entirely pleasant for Mrs. Kean.
("Good Behavior" begins as the main character is genteely murdering her own mother.
Miss Travers's Irish father and her mother, an Australian of Scottish and Irish  descent, infused the household with the mystery and melancholy of the literary traditions of the British Isles.
She moved with her mother and sisters to New South Wales to live with a great-aunt, who years later would become the title character in Miss Travers's 1941 book, "Aunt Sass.
Her father, George Garson, a businessman, died soon after, and she and her mother, Nina, moved to London.
The name Greer was a contraction  of MacGregor, her mother's ancestral name.
Miss Allen is survived by her mother, Shirley Adsit, and her sister, Louisa Brownell.
      
"
        With her husband, John L. Loeb, an investment banker, and other family members, Mrs. Loeb was a benefactor of Barnard College (where Adele Lehman Hall  was named for her mother), of Central Park (the Loeb Boathouse and the Children's Zoo), Lewisohn Stadium (which bore her maternal grandfather's name),  the Loeb Student Center at New York University and the Frances Lehman Loeb Art Center at Vassar.
Her mother was Adele Lewisohn, the daughter of Adolph  Lewisohn, who made his fortune shipping mining products.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Bettina Gray of Rancho Santa Fe, Calif.; a daughter, Elisabeth Goth of Del Mar, Calif.; three brothers, Christopher Bancroft of Denton, Tex., Hugh Bancroft 3d of Aspen, Colo., and William P. Liscomb 3d of Carlsbad, Calif., and a sister, Kathryn Kavadas of Waban, Mass.
Her mother, the musical-comedy star Dorothy Dickson, died  last year at the age of 102.
As she toured the world, Miss Toumanova was accompanied by her mother, Eugenia, one of the most famous of the "ballet mothers" of the 1930's.
When, as a member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, Miss Toumanova was cast in the virtuosic Black Swan pas de deux from "Swan Lake," she and her mother would minutely inspect the stage to choose the spot at which the ballerina would perform a notoriously difficult series of whipping turns known as fouettes.
"My mother was not only the greatest aerialist in her field, she was a very dignified lady," said her daughter, Carla Wallenda Guzman.
"
        Ms. Guzman likes to tell the story about how her mother, at 72, helped her son-in-law, Mike Morgan, learn the wire act.
"She got hold of my husband's shoulders and started climbing up on his shoulders as he balanced on a low wire," said Ms. Guzman, who had been performing in New York until she learned of her mother's illness earlier this week.

        Beatrice Procter Frelinghuysen, the wife of one Congressman and mother of another, who was on the boards of nonprofit organizations in the fields of botany and ballet, died on Monday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J., where she lived.
In her New Yorker article about having ovarian cancer, a disease that killed  her mother, Ms.
She is survived by her mother, Rosemary Kirk of Red Bank; three brothers, Daniel and Kevin, of Middletown, N.J., and Brian, of Red Bank; two sisters, Jane Ann Coutu of Fair Haven, N.J., and Kathleen Yostpille of Shrewsbury, N.J., and her companion, Russ Dorn of Las Vegas, Nev.
      
She is survived by her husband, Rick Schwolsky of Grafton; her mother, Patricia Beattie of Ketchum, Idaho, and a sister, Jane Beattie, also of Ketchum.
      
Ms. Kerouac argued that the will of Mr. Kerouac's mother, Gabrielle Kerouac,  which left her son's effects to Stella Sampas, was a forgery.
She had been working on "Parrot Fever," about the death of her mother, Joan Haverty, in 1991.
Her mother, Hedwig Pfaltz van Ameringen, who died last month at the age of 95, was a major supporter of the New York Philharmonic.
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      
For her first screen appearance in 1955, she won an Academy Award as best supporting actress for playing James Dean's mother in Elia Kazan's film "East of Eden.
She was Anthony Perkins's mother in "Look Homeward, Angel" on Broadway; the original smothering mama, Madame Rosepettle, in Arthur Kopit's "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad," and Paul Newman's mother in the movie "Cool Hand Luke.
She was Anthony Perkins's mother in "Look Homeward, Angel" on Broadway; the original smothering mama, Madame Rosepettle, in Arthur Kopit's "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad," and Paul Newman's mother in the movie "Cool Hand Luke.
Then her mother, who had no such notions, sent her daughter's photograph to Lang's wife, the screenwriter, Thea von Harbou, and Ms.
The couple separated within a year of her birth, and with her mother and a Portuguese immigrant named Joseph Da Silva, she moved to Yonkers.
"My mother brought home one of her records, and I fell in love with it," she  recalled many years later.
Then in 1932, her mother  died suddenly, and she went to live with an aunt in Harlem.
"
        She is survived by her mother, Kay Ahern, and several sisters.
      

        Faithful followers of soap operas have learned over the years that after a brief and bitter first marriage a young single mother can find love, marriage and singular professional success with a much older man, but now the question is:
        Can a career woman who sacrificed her leisure to keep a nation of enthralled  housewives glued to their radios for the better part of two decades survive a heart-wrenching regimen of producing as many as 90 cliff-hanging episodes a week to live a full, rich and long life?
Alfred M. Landon of Kansas and the mother of Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, died on Sunday at her home in Topeka.
On Aug. 27, 1950, Ms. Muir was preparing to appear in the role of Mother Aldrich in the premiere episode of "The Aldrich Family," when the show was abruptly canceled by NBC and the General Foods Corporation, the sponsor of the series.
She is survived by a son, Yannis Papamichail; her mother and two brothers.
      
Her father died before the war, and she lost her mother, a sister, a brother  and two nephews in the Holocaust.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Rosenblum is survived by her mother, Fannie Koppelman of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth, of Ashland, Mass., and a brother, Frank, of Queens.
Phyllis Isobel Gross was born in 1906, the daughter of an Irish-Italian mother and a Hungarian mapmaker.
When she returned home, she said once in an interview, the door was answered by the fully  decked-out Maharajah of Patiala, who was in the midst of having his portrait painted by Alfred Orr, Phyllis's mother's lover.
''Then mother said: 'Alfred has an artistic temperament and couldn't possibly have a little girl in the house.
She is survived by her husband of 46 years, John Dirk Nies; two sons, J. Dirk, of Rockville, Md., and Eric W., of New York City; a daughter, Nancy N. Sloan of Las Vegas, Nev.; her mother, Lida Wilson of Rockville; a brother, George E. Wilson, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her mother, Zaida De Unamuno of San Francisco; two children, Steve Coty of Stockton, Calif., and Lisa Hansen of Newark, Calif.; two sisters, Hedy Manthey of Delaware and Selma Hurtado of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      
Born in London in 1909, Miss Forbes came from a theatrical family: her mother, Mary Forbes, was an actress and her brother Ralph Forbes was an actor.
As a teen-ager, she left England to join her mother in Hollywood and did seven plays at the Vine Street Theater.
When her father died, she moved to New York with her mother and found work as a model for the Powers agency while still a teen-ager, changing her last name from LaCock to Marshall.
She died of cancer, said her mother, Gracie Guess.
Guess was born in Kansas City, Mo., and is survived by her mother, who lives there.
      
Ms. Besch, a daughter of the actress Gusti Huber and the mother of the actress Samantha Mathis, appeared on such television series as ''Northern Exposure,'' ''E.R.,'' ''L.A.
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte; a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
''
        Miss Prowse is survived by her son, Seth McCook, of Los Angeles; her mother, Phylis Polte, and a brother, Dr. Clive Prowse, both of Vanderbijl Park, South Africa, and her companion, B. J. Allen.
      
Her mother, who soon divorced her father, worked as a waitress.
The family finances were so desperate that when she was 15, she forged her mother's name to a document that authorized her to drop out of school.
After she won the 1931 Miss New Orleans beauty contest, she and her mother moved to Chicago, where  Miss Lamour earned $17 a week as an elevator operator for the Marshall Field department store on State Street.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
Her mother, who soon divorced her father, worked as a waitress.
The family finances were so desperate that when she was 15, she forged her mother's name to a document that authorized her to drop out of school.
She won the 1931 Miss New Orleans beauty contest, and she and her mother moved to Chicago, where  Miss Lamour earned $17 a week as an elevator operator for the Marshall Field department store on State Street.
In fact, the name was close to one in the family; Miss Lamour adapted it herself from Lambour, which was the last name of her stepfather, Clarence, to whom her mother was briefly married.
Born in Riga, Latvia, of a Russian father and a Polish mother, Mme.
''
        Ms. Carlin is survived by her husband, John; two daughters, Suzanne Rianhard of San Francisco and Elizabeth Carlin of New York; her mother, Arlene Hough of Atlanta, and a sister, Janet Allen of Dallas.
      
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Entenmann, who married the son of the bakery's founder and was the mother of three sons who operated Entenmann's for decades, took an active role in the company, keeping the books, managing the office and, after her husband died in 1951, sharing managerial decisions with her sons until her retirement 15 years ago.
Ms. Lear was born on July 14, 1923, at the Vanderheusen Home for Wayward Girls in Hudson, N.Y., the child of an unwed mother and an unknown father.
The memoir related her years of sexual abuse, beginning at age 12, by the man whom her adoptive mother married after Mr. Loeb committed suicide during the Depression.
She told, too, of being sent to a psychiatrist, to whom she revealed her stepfather's abuse, and of the psychiatrist's betrayal in repeating her confidences to her mother and stepfather.
'' Her mother ''turned and left the room, went into her bedroom, closed the door and protected her economic hide.
'' On her mother's death, her stepfather was left 90 percent of the $100,000 remaining from Mr. Loeb's insurance, Ms. Lear said.
''
        At a time when movie acting was not regarded as entirely respectable, Miss La Plante, who came to Hollywood with her schoolteacher mother after her parents' divorce, got her first job on a lark, winning a role as an extra at the age of 15.
Indeed, he said, when his mother, who was ill in bed at the time and eventually had to be carried to safety out a window, was told by a maid that ''the thatch is alight, Mum,'' she shrugged off the news, thinking merely that a cozy fire had been started in the fireplace.
Although her open-hearted welcome to the Jewish woman who knocked on her door one snowy night in 1940 has been considered the beginning of the Chambon movement, Mrs. Trocme's daughter, Nelly Hewitt of Minneapolis, stressed yesterday that in an area where secrecy was a way of life and virtually every home eventually harbored one or more refugees, it is impossible to know whether her mother had been the first.
''Community living and sharing, that was my mother; intellectual pursuits, that was my father,'' Mrs. Farkas once said.
Accompanying her mother into tenements taught her about poverty, and Mrs. Farkas never forgot her mother's advice: ''No matter what your station in life, no matter what you grow up to be, always try to  contribute to those less fortunate than you.
Accompanying her mother into tenements taught her about poverty, and Mrs. Farkas never forgot her mother's advice: ''No matter what your station in life, no matter what you grow up to be, always try to  contribute to those less fortunate than you.
The couple's daughter, Liz Kahlenberg Bordow, said her mother had died of lung cancer and her father of complications of kidney failure.
She is survived by her son, James K. Reiter of Hollywood, Fla.; her mother, Edith Rosenwasser of Boca Raton, Fla., and her brother, Stan Rosenwasser of Rehobeth Beach, Del.
      
By the time she retired from Penn State and began writing about women's issues, Dr. Bernard knew what it meant to be both a wife and a single mother.
In her later years Dr. Bernard, who was known for her beaming smile and generosity in helping younger scholars, exerted a magnetic attraction at conferences and other gatherings, her colleagues at the center said, and was regarded by some scholars as a founding mother of sociology.
She is survived by her husband, Martin Gershon; a daughter, Leah, and two sons, Joel and Robert, all of Brooklyn Heights; a sister, Anne Lyons of Manhattan, and her mother, Gussie Moskowitz, also of Brooklyn.
      
According to family legend, she was chaperoned by her mother during her first year in New York, spent the second year on her own and in the third married her voice teacher, Charles W. Kitchell.
Her mother and stepfather, Marion Wharton and Alfred Le Sueur, were ardent socialists who imbued her with an idealism that never left her.
Largely self-taught, Miss Le Sueur teamed with kindred souls in literary communal relationships and, sent East by her mother, moved in with Goldman while attending the American Academy of Dramatic Arts.
Her highly praised children's books, in which she interwove history and regional lore in poetic prose, included ''Little Brother of the Wilderness: The Story of Johnny Appleseed,'' ''Nancy Hanks of Wilderness Road: A Story of Abraham Lincoln's Mother,'' ''Sparrow Hawk'' and ''Chanticleer of Wilderness Road: A Story of Davy Crockett.
In addition to her father, Ms. Lankton is survived by her mother, Lynn, also of Park Forest; a brother, Mark Alan, of Saugatuck, Mich., and a sister, Cathy, of Bellingham, Wash.
      
Mrs. Dulles, who was sometimes called ''the Mother of Berlin'' for her enthusiastic efforts to revitalize the economy and culture of that battered capital as it recovered from World War II, managed to carve for herself a formidable reputation even though her two brothers, John Foster Dulles and Allen Welsh Dulles, held much higher rank in the American Government.
It was cinema of a different sort that caused trouble for Dr. Ames in the mid-1980's, when she was criticized for suggesting in a newspaper interview that parents should not take young children to see the Disney film ''Bambi,'' in which the young deer's mother is killed by hunters.
''I think this is one of any child's greatest fears, that something will happen to his mother,'' Dr. Ames said in a later interview, defending her position.
Ms. Morales is survived by a daughter, Alexandra Morales of Brooklyn, and her mother, Nancy Salamo, and sister, Linda Salamo, both of El Cerrito, Calif.
''
        For his part, Mr. Russell said he supported his mother's decision, noting how difficult it would have been to take over an effort so strongly identified with her.
''I would hate to second-guess, 'Is this something that my mother would like to give to?
Correction:  December 21, 1996, Saturday
        An article on Wednesday about Brooke Astor's plans to close the Vincent Astor Foundation misidentified her son, who expressed support for his mother's decision against leaving it in his hands or someone else's.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Robbins is survived by a daughter, Debra Matteson of Ilion, N.Y.; her mother, Adalyn Matteson, and her siblings, Christine Phinney and David Matteson, all of Oswego.
      

        Anne Schwerner, a retired New York teacher and the mother of Michael H. Schwerner, a 24-year-old civil-rights worker killed by Ku Klux Klansmen near Philadelphia, Miss., in 1964, died on Friday at a nursing home in Kettering, Ohio.
After the war, she and her mother, grandmother and aunt fled  to France and then to Cuba before immigrating to the United States.
Dr. Denes is survived by her mother, Margit, and two sons, Gregory Radomisli and Timothy Radomisli, both of New York City.
Her mother, Cecilia Marion Frere, was a descendant of John Frere, a British prehistorian who in 1797 first recognized Stone Age flint implements as primitive tools and weapons.
Mrs. Grannis was the mother of the New York State Assemblyman Alexander B.
"
        Ms. Jordan is survived by her mother, Arylenne; two sisters, Bennie Creswell  and Rose Mary McGowan, and a brother-in-law, John McGowan, all of Houston.
      
Without telling their mother, the two young women hopscotched their way across the world, dancing every night.
Her mother, Alma Gluck, rose from humble origins to fame as a soprano.
"
        Her mother later married the violinist Efrem Zimbalist.
Miss Fini, whose father was Argentine and mother was Italian, was born in Buenos Aires on Aug. 30, 1908.
Born in Minsk, Belarus, Mrs. Machover came to the United States in 1910 with  her mother and four sisters.
Another novel, "The Fate of Mary Rose," was about an increasingly deranged mother's fatal obsession with her daughter's safety.
She was descended on her father's side from the great 18th-century dramatist Richard Brinsley Sheridan and was a Guinness on her mother's side.
"
        Her mother, Maureen, the Marchioness of Dufferin and Ava, is a flamboyant figure in London who, according to one newspaper account, gave a black eye to Sir Oswald Mosley, the English Fascist, after he made a pass at her in Antibes.
"
        In addition to her daughter Ivana, of Manhattan, she is survived by her mother, of London; a sister, Lady Perdita Blackwood, of Ulster; another daughter, Evgenia Citkowitz of Los Angeles, and a son, Sheridan Lowell of Manhattan.
      
Later that night, wide awake and clinging to her mother in a lifeboat, the little girl watched as the Titanic rose straight up on her bow and plunged to the bottom of  the sea, carrying her father and more than 1,500 other passengers and crew members to their deaths in the North Atlantic.
The White Star Line had proclaimed the Titanic the "unsinkable ship," a claim that caused Miss Hart's mother such apprehension that even as they walked up the gangplank, her daughter later recalled, she renewed her warning that calling a ship unsinkable was "flying in the face of God.
Returning to England, where her mother remarried, Miss Hart was plagued with  nightmares until, after her mother's death when she was 23, she confronted her fears head on, returning to sea and locking herself in a cabin for four days until the nightmares went away.
Returning to England, where her mother remarried, Miss Hart was plagued with  nightmares until, after her mother's death when she was 23, she confronted her fears head on, returning to sea and locking herself in a cabin for four days until the nightmares went away.
Her father was a mining engineer, and she seems to have inherited her  literary and scholarly bent from her mother, a Vassar graduate steeped in comparative literature.
