Her mother was the former Clara Birdwell, whose mother was a Cherokee.
Her mother was the former Clara Birdwell, whose mother was a Cherokee.
The Colliers soon moved to Houston, where her mother saw to it that she studied piano and violin but mostly dancing, partly to build up legs affected by rickets, a condition caused by a vitamin D deficiency that can lead to softening of the bones and deformity.
When Ms. Miller was about 10 her parents' marriage fell apart and her mother took her to California.
''But I was a good mother.
When she was 64, her son said in The Times: ''I remember when I was growing up, there were always so many people greeting my mother on the street that I was embarrassed.
Mother still goes everywhere in a hurry.
Her mother, who once worked as a maid in the home of the New Zealand writer Katherine Mansfield, wrote poems that she sold door to door.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
''
        In addition to her mother and sister, Ms. Goldsmith's survivors include another sister, Kate Goldfield.
Ms. Diaz is survived by her partner, Tom Ferguson; her mother, Bertha Diaz of Pottstown; two brothers, Dr. Philip Diaz of Columbus, Ohio, and Dr. Joseph Diaz of Barrington, R.I.; and two sisters, Teresa Diaz of Reading, Pa., and Bernadette Diaz of Oak Park, Ill.
      
Troy sang the role of her mother, Geraldine, from early 1984 until 1998, toured with it throughout the country and took it to London and Japan.
Besides her husband, Ms. Spindler is survived by her mother, Sally Spindler of Tampa, Fla., and a sister, Bonnie, of San Francisco.
      
Her subjects ranged beyond the Kennedy Center and National Endowment for the Arts to include a cookbook by Ralph Nader's mother and how men and women communicate.
She is survived by her husband; a son, Daniel; a daughter, Emily; her mother, Linda Hall of Jefferson, N.Y.; and a sister, Debra Hall of New York City.
      
Her mother, the former Margaret Anna Lloyd, was a suffragist who took the 6-year-old Frances to a protest.
In 2001 another critic, Adam Nicolson, provided something of an explanation, writing that Ms. Partridge, who in her later years was sometimes compared to the Queen Mother as an English institution, lived ''her life in complete sentences.
The New York Times in 1996 asked her about a 12-year-old arrested on charges of gang rape and murder and who was turned in by his mother.
Of the mother's dilemma, Dr. McCord said, ''It's almost impossible to imagine a good thing to do with a gun-toting 12-year-old.
She is survived by her mother, Grace, of Manhattan; her husband, Paul Fishleder, an editor at The New York Times; and her daughter, Lily.
      
Mr. Balkenende, the prime minister, described her as a mother figure for the nation.
''Today our country in a sense has lost its mother.
She was 39 when her mother, who had been queen for 50 years, abdicated in her favor and passed the throne to her on Sept. 4, 1948.
She and her husband, Prince Bernard, a German, and their two oldest daughters, then infants, were forced to flee in a truck, then by ship, to England when the Nazi army invaded The Netherlands in 1940, when her mother was still queen.
She declined the title of queen mother and chose to be called princess instead because she wanted to stress that she was taking a step backward.
Born in Paris on Oct. 10, 1924, of a Georgian father and a French mother, Monika Tchemerzine, as Ms. Tcherina was baptized, began dancing as a child.
As the wife of Charles Engelhard, owner of a vast international business empire, she helped Jacqueline Kennedy restore the White House, regularly made best-dressed lists and was such a fixture of New York society, its own magazines recounted, that socialites affectionately called her ''Our Mother Superior.
''He used to ring a bell when he wanted my mother.
Her mother, the former Mary Hawes, was president of the Garden Club of America.
One was ''My Mother's Request: A True Story of Money, Murder and Betrayal'' (Atheneum) by Jonathan Coleman; the other was ''Nutcracker: Money, Madness, Murder: A Family Album'' (Doubleday) by Shana Alexander.
Marc F. Schreuder, the grandson who shot Mr. Bradshaw in the back and head with a .357 Magnum, testified at his mother's trial that she had told him : ''Look, Marc, it is not really killing.
Mr. Coleman, the author, said in an interview that Frances Schreuder was skilled at manipulating her mother to get money, even as her father tired of supporting her extravagant life in New York.
At the time, news reports said she made contributions to the ballet and other New York causes, but Ms. Reagan said in an interview yesterday that Mrs. Schreuder's mother, Berenice Bradshaw, actually made most of them.
Although Mrs. Bradshaw spent $2 million on the legal defense of Marc Schreuder and his mother, Marc Schreuder was convicted of second-degree murder in 1982 and served 12 years in prison.
Marc Schreuder testified against his mother, saying she must be stopped, according to Mr. Coleman's book.
She inherited a comfortable income from her mother, despite family members' efforts to invoke a statute barring convicted killers from inheriting anything from their victims.
It is ''At Mother's Request: A True Story of Money, Murder and Betrayal,'' not ''My Mother's Request.
It is ''At Mother's Request: A True Story of Money, Murder and Betrayal,'' not ''My Mother's Request.
Dr. Mattei is survived by her husband of 31 years, Michael Mattei; her mother, Bulisa Akyuz of Izmir; two brothers, Yusef Akyuz of Sudbury, Mass., and Hayim Akyuz of Izmir; and two sisters, Kadem Senkal of Istanbul and Beki Notrika of Tel Aviv.
In her 1985 autobiography, ''Estée, A Success Story,'' Mrs. Lauder recalled her mother as ''a Hungarian beauty whose mother was a French Catholic and whose father was a Hungarian Jew.
In her 1985 autobiography, ''Estée, A Success Story,'' Mrs. Lauder recalled her mother as ''a Hungarian beauty whose mother was a French Catholic and whose father was a Hungarian Jew.
Dr. Park, as she was known professionally, came from a family of academics: her mother was a teacher, her father and brother were also college presidents.
When she was 7, her mother signed her up in a juvenile vaudeville troupe called Kid's Cabaret.
'' Her mother and Miss Temple's went together to get working papers for their daughters.
She chose a touching song about a mother.
Her mother, who was the first woman to become a registered pharmacist in Iowa, in 1908, raised seven children on her own after her husband left the family.
Patricia Derian, who fought for integrated schools in Mississippi as a young mother and was an assistant secretary of state in the Carter administration, said in an interview, ''When she walked in a room, it was a little bit like having a battleship arrive.
Mrs. Hudson was 8 when her mother died, and she and her siblings were raised by her father on a 105-acre farm until the land was seized by a white doctor to whom the family owed money.
In the 1972 film ''Lady Sings the Blues,'' she played the mother to Diana Ross's Billie Holiday, and she was also in ''Trouble Man'' and ''The Lost Man.
Other accounts said she went in an agent's car with her mother's permission.
''With that action, Courtenay-Latimer became the point person and den mother for all who were to study the fish,'' said Dr. Keith S. Thomson, professor emeritus of natural history at Oxford University and author of the book ''Living Fossil: The Story of the Coelacanth'' (1991).
Their father, Michael, a dentist, helped oversee their training, and their mother, Clarice, designed their costumes.
As a teenager, she dreamed of becoming an actress, earning raves at an amateur night at the Apollo Theater before her mother's death quashed her aspirations, leaving Ms. Sanford to take over her job as a cleaning woman.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her sons, J.J. Gorsuch of Denver and Neil Gorsuch of Vienna, Va.; her mother, Dorothy McGill of Denver; her sisters, Mary Edwards of Severna Park, Md., Theresa Peace of Lincoln, Neb., Dorothy McGill of El Paso, Tex., Veronica Urban of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Rosie Binger of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, Joe McGill of Plano, Tex.
In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her heavy makeup made her a symbolic image in Turkish culture, she was known internationally for her paintings, which often depicted a little girl, a personification of herself
        She was born in 1910 in Istanbul, where her father was an accountant who wrote poetry and her mother was a painter.
After a stint in the Waves in the 1940's and a brief marriage, she moved to San Diego with her mother in 1951.
She is survived by her mother, Kathleen, who lived with her in East Quogue; two brothers, Mark and Billy, both of Manhattan; and a sister, Susan, of Connecticut.
      
Fay's mother sent her to Los Angeles to live with a friend and pursue a movie career.
She grew up in Great Neck, on Long Island, where her father was an internist and her mother a historian and educator.
On her mother's advice, she opted for a medieval history course, then switched academic gears.
Her father was a wealthy farm consultant and investor; her mother was a housewife with a cook and maid who could make not much more than baking powder biscuits, codfish balls and Welsh rarebit.
Julia was the oldest of three siblings, each so tall that their mother boasted that she had ''given birth to 18 feet of children.
''
        The introduction showed Mrs. Child at her most direct: ''This is a book for the servantless American cook who can be unconcerned on occasion with budgets, waistlines, time schedules, children's meals, the parent-chauffeur-den mother syndrome or anything else which might interfere with the enjoyment of producing something wonderful to eat.
They include her mother, Suad Munir Abbas; a brother, Abbad, of Abu Dhabi and Toronto, and her sister, Selma, a renowned archaeologist who has done extensive work on preserving historic buildings in Yemen.
''
        Last year, weeks after Mr. Hussein was overthrown, Ms. Radi went back to Baghdad to spend several weeks with her mother, who had refused to leave, comparing herself to Scarlett O'Hara after having survived so many wars in Iraq.
To generations of showgirls -- she is said to have trained 14,000 -- Miss Kelly was talent scout, taskmaster, chaperon, mother confessor and dispenser of tea.
Much to the dismay of her parents -- her father was a furniture maker, while her mother made costume jewelry -- she stayed in Europe to pursue a modeling career.
Mr. Cohen said his mother ''was the intellect, and Dad was the bravado'' in their Tony work.
Until her retirement last year, Ms. Manulis was president and chief executive of Martha Inc., the chain of boutiques founded by her mother, Martha Phillips.
The flagship store, Martha, was on Park Avenue near 58th Street in Manhattan; there were also stores in Trump Tower and in Palm Beach and Bal Harbour, Fla.
        Ms. Manulis (MAN-you-liss), whom almost everyone called Miss Lynn, and her mother, known as Miss Martha, were for decades ''the doyennes of haute couture in America,'' The New York Times wrote in 1992.
While her mother dressed a constellation of boldface names in evening gowns by Halston, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigère and Oscar de la Renta, Ms. Manulis sought to attract younger clients.
After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960.
But the stock market crash of 1987 and the recession that followed put an end to the demand for the kind of goods that made the names of Ms. Manulis and her mother.
''
        In 1995, mother and daughter opened Martha Phillips, which sold less-expensive clothing, in Palm Beach.
Sharifa Ahmad was born on June 6, 1946, to a Yemeni father and a Czech mother.
''
        Iris Shun-Ru Chang was born on March 28, 1968, in Princeton, N.J. She grew up in Champaign-Urbana, Ill., where her father, a physicist, and her mother, a microbiologist, taught at the University of Illinois.
She graduated from Goucher College when she was 19 and became an English teacher like her mother, also named Nancy Larrick.
During this time she and her mother bonded tightly.
When Miss Tebaldi's career began, her mother traveled with her constantly, essentially continuing until, at 68, she died in New York in 1957, a loss that devastated Miss Tebaldi.
'' But she added, ''How could I have been a wife, a mother and a singer?
Short, dated entries written in graceful, lucid prose describe her processes and her spiritual ups and downs in the studio, her effort to balance being an artist and being a wife and mother and her struggles to make ends meet after her divorce from James Truitt, a Washington journalist.
Her father was a fur trader in China, and her mother joined him there for long periods, leaving Susan and her younger sister in the care of relatives.
Seeking relief for Susan's asthma, her mother moved the family to Tucson, spending the next several years there.
In Arizona, Susan's mother met Capt.
''
        She would get her wish -- Ms. Sontag burst onto the scene with ''Notes on Camp,'' which was published in Partisan Review -- but not before she earned a bachelor's and two master's degrees from prestigious American universities; studied at Oxford on a fellowship; and married, became a mother and divorced eight years later, all by the time she turned 26.
Mr. Rieff lives in Manhattan and was for many years his mother's editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux.
She worried that she was being typecast as a Jewish mother, a part she played in ''Golda'' on Broadway with Anne Bancroft, in James Lapine's Off Broadway ''Table Settings,'' and in three separate productions of Clifford Odets's ''Awake and Sing.
Her father, a wheat farmer, died when she was 2; her mother supported the family by selling real estate.
