When she was 9, her mother died.
''
        In the play's bittersweet final scene, Heidi has become a single mother to a new infant -- a path Ms. Wasserstein would herself pursue many years later, ultimately at great physical cost, when she gave birth, at age 48, to her daughter, Lucy Jane, in 1999.
Her father was a textile manufacturer, her mother an amateur dancer.
In addition to her daughter, Ms. Wasserstein is survived by her mother, Lola Wasserstein; her brothers, Abner and Bruce, the chairman of the investment banking giant Lazard and the owner of New York magazine; and her sister Georgette Levis of Vermont.
Her mother, evidently a talented singer, began Ms. Nilsson's musical education at 3, buying her a toy piano.
''I've always tried to remember what my mother used to tell me,'' she said.
She won again for best supporting actress as the vicious mother of a blind girl in ''A Patch of Blue'' (1965).
Her stage name came from the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley and from her mother, Rose Winter, an amateur soprano who had once won a Municipal Opera contest in St. Louis.
Her mother, a first-generation American, was born in St. Louis.
In addition to her Oscar-winning roles, she played the mother of a murderer in ''The Young Savages'' (1961); a middle-age woman who throws away a happy marriage for a handsome young man in ''The Chapman Report'' (1962); Michael Caine's voracious bedmate in ''Alfie'' (1966), and an ex-movie star who has made a bad choice in husbands in ''Harper'' (1966).
'' (1971); the perfect Jewish mother in ''Next Stop, Greenwich Village'' (1976); the mother of a fat boy in ''Heavy'' (1995); and Nicole Kidman's selfish aunt in Jane Campion's ''Portrait of a Lady'' (1996).
'' (1971); the perfect Jewish mother in ''Next Stop, Greenwich Village'' (1976); the mother of a fat boy in ''Heavy'' (1995); and Nicole Kidman's selfish aunt in Jane Campion's ''Portrait of a Lady'' (1996).
Her father, John Cooper, a ventriloquist, and mother, the former Julia St. Bernard, told her stories about the oppression of blacks.
Andrea Brett Morrison, known as Andy, was born in London on May 30, 1945, the daughter of an American mother, Doris, and a Scottish father, Hyam, who ran a women's clothing business.
She never knew her father; her mother, an esteemed rural midwife, sometimes took in local prostitutes as boarders to make ends meet.
In 1965, a suspicious fire broke out in her family's home, killing her mother.
Dr. Paulos said his mother possessed a clear-headed sense of equality and fairness.
''
        After early training in Trinidad, Ms. Dai and her two sisters had been taken by their mother to London in 1931 to study ballet with Anton Dolin.
She is survived by her husband; her mother; her son, Sam, 23, and her daughter, Charley, 21.
Her mother and father were separated, and after her father died, when she was 10, she lived with her mother in Italy.
Her mother and father were separated, and after her father died, when she was 10, she lived with her mother in Italy.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.
Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children.
Only years later, when she was writing ''The Feminine Mystique,'' did Ms. Friedan come to see her mother's cold, critical demeanor as masking a deep bitterness at giving up the work she loved.
Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that timeshe had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
When she wrote ''The Feminine Mystique,'' she was a suburban housewife and mother who supplemented her husband's income by writing freelance articles for women's magazines.
''I sensed it first as a question mark in my own life, as a wife and mother of three small children, half-guiltily, and therefore half-heartedly, almost in spite of myself, using my abilities and education in work that took me away from home.
Her gifted, imperious mother, Miriam, had been the editor of the women's page of the local newspaper before giving up her job for marriage and children.
Only years later, when she was writing ''The Feminine Mystique,'' did Ms. Friedan come to see her mother's cold, critical demeanor as masking a deep bitterness at giving up the work she loved.
Betty received her bachelor's degree in 1942 -- by that time she had dropped the final ''e,'' which she considered an affectation of her mother's -- and accepted a fellowship to the University of California, Berkeley, for graduate work in psychology.
Frequently assigned in black-studies courses, the book was rooted in the experience of the author's mother, who worked as a maid.
''If my mother hadn't put up with all those humiliations, I wouldn't have eaten very well or lived very comfortably.
(This may have derived from ''Junior'': her mother was also named Octavia.
) Her father, a shoeshine man, died when she was very young, and her mother reared her alone.
During her childhood, she and her brother frequently lived with relatives while her mother, Margaret, was off pursuing graduate studies in music.
When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
For many years Ms. Caldwell lived with her mother in Weston, a Boston suburb.
There she lived in a modest three-bedroom house with her mother, Oree, and rose at dawn, made herself black coffee and went upstairs to write.
Each year for decades, she and her mother would set up shop in an apartment in Nashville for five months or so to market songs.
They would sweeten deals by inviting music industry people by for a plate or two of her mother's delectable Southern cooking.
She, her mother, sister and a nanny escaped to Finland.
Lois Maureen Stapleton was born on June 21, 1925, in Troy, N.Y. She remembered her father, John, as ''a prodigious drinker'' who had endless battles with her mother, Irene, until they separated when Maureen was a child.
Her film credits also included ''Cocoon'' (1985) and its sequel, as one of a group of Florida retirees rejuvenated by extraterrestrials, and ''Nuts'' (1987), in which she played the mother of a high-priced call girl (Barbra Streisand).
Her father was a physician and her mother a schoolteacher.
Her father, Charles Hobbs, was later elected Kansas insurance commissioner, and her mother, Emma Swisher, taught piano.
Her father was descended from early New York settlers; her mother, from colonizers of Martha's Vineyard and Newport, R.I. One of her grandfathers became a parks commissioner in New York; another held a patent on the term ''tomatoketchup.
Spark, who embraced Judaism about the same time his mother converted to Roman Catholicism, insisted that her mother had been Jewish, which by matrilineal inheritance would make him Jewish by birth; Ms.
Spark, who embraced Judaism about the same time his mother converted to Roman Catholicism, insisted that her mother had been Jewish, which by matrilineal inheritance would make him Jewish by birth; Ms.
Spark, who considered herself only half-Jewish, maintained that though her father was Jewish, her mother was not.
She later inherited the 6,000-acre farm owned by her mother's family, but lost it in the 1970's when the area was rezoned for white ownership only.
Her French Canadian mother, Fanny June Taylor, died when Miss Dunham was young.
Her father, a lawyer, was obese, her mother slender.
As a child Ms. Moore was shuttled between her mother and her maternal grandmother, both of whom beat her, she said.
''
        Ms. Lewis starting investigating Vioxx after a friend of her mother's said she had become ill after taking the drug and soon lost her job, according to Shelly Sanford, one of her law partners.
Ms. Lewis wrote two letters to Merck seeking to negotiate a settlement in behalf of her mother's friend, Ms. Sanford said, but both offers were rejected.
Besides her husband, Ms. Lewis is survived by two daughters, Carla and Christy; her mother, Alene Rhodes of Houston; and her brother, Tim Rhodes of South Shores, N.C.
      
The movie, in which Barbara Hershey plays the mother, is about an expatriate family in Paris and its difficulties after the adoption of a French boy.
He added that his mother, whose cancer was diagnosed in September 2005, was in her office as recently as two and a half weeks ago.
Her father sold textiles and her mother was a homemaker.
Normally Mrs. Truscott would watch her mother play, but if her father was pouring some drinks, she would bid and play his hand.
She studied biology at Wiley College in Marshall, Tex., and planned to go into medicine, but when her mother died, she accepted the invitation of a wealthy uncle to live with him in Los Angeles.
Her father died when she was 4, and her mother raised the family.
Her name, chosen by her mother, refers to an Amazon in one of Sappho's poems.
After graduating from Michigan State at 16, she settled with her mother in Los Angeles so that she could attend the University of California at Los Angeles and study with Schoenberg, who taught there.
Her father died when she was young, and she was reared mostly by her mother.
In her 1982 autobiography, ''June Allyson,'' written with Frances Spatz Leighton, Miss Allyson said she and her mother were forced to move countless times.
The best months were when her mother had a job in a restaurant, she wrote, ''because sometimes she could bring home food.
She added that her mother had had a variety of accidents in recent years, was often depressed and had discussed suicide matter-of-factly.
Attracting pupils from throughout the country (Mr. McKenzie's mother brought him from Vermont), Ms. Day became a nationally recognized teacher.
The cause was cancer, said her son Lawrence R. Bailey Jr., a lawyer, who practiced with his mother for many years.
When she was an adolescent, her parents separated, leaving her, her mother and her siblings dependent on public assistance.
Her mother, the former Elisabeth Frohling, was an efficient homemaker who took charge of her adored only child's education and budding musical career.
Her mother, Jessie Smither, was one of Edwardian London's most alluring musical comedy stars, performing under the stage name Denise Orme.
Her mother was a designer of clothing and typefaces, and her father was an industrial chemist with a keen interest in Goethe's theory of color.
In 1920 Ms. Ruellan's father was killed in an airfield accident, and she began selling her work to support herself and her mother, Lucette.
For much of the 1920's, she and her mother lived in Paris.
Ms. Delanghe is survived by her mother, Lenore Delanghe of Clinton Township, Mich.
      
And it made her, a mother of four, an admired champion of feminism.
Of the five Kennedy sisters, she was considered the most beautiful and sophisticated, with the aristocratic air of her mother.
''
        Much like her older sister, Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to raise their childen as Catholics.
Mrs. Boegner's mother died in 1957, and her father died in 1958.
Of the five Kennedy sisters, she was considered the most beautiful and sophisticated, with the aristocratic air of her mother.
''
        But Mrs. Lawford's son, Christopher Lawford, wrote in his best-selling memoir, ''Symptoms of Withdrawal,'' published last year, that his mother had been resentful of her father for ''not being allowed fully to live up to her potential.
Much like her older sister Kathleen, who made her mother furious by marrying outside her church, Patricia disappointed her parents by marrying Mr. Lawford, a nominal Episcopalian who agreed to rear their children as Catholics.
Mrs. Levine once said: ''My mother always thought a fine pair of shoes was a necessity.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Karyn Anick Monget, who noted that her mother had a variety of maladies, including pneumonia.
Mrs. Deschamps Adams's daughter said her mother never got the pension that she said had been promised by someone in the Office of Strategic Services, the wartime spy agency that was the C.I.A.
Their daughter said neither knew much of the other's language, but shared what her mother called ''the language of love.
Karyn, a baby at the time of her father's death, said her mother told her she never met a man as good as the one she lost.
At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
In a story she loved to tell in later life, Ms. Varnay said her mother used the bottom drawer of a dressing table backstage as a makeshift crib for her infant daughter during a performance of Verdi's ''Ballo in Maschera.
Her mother married an Italian tenor, and the family settled in Jersey City, where Ms. Varnay was brought up.
In the summer of 1941, she visited an ailing aunt in Tokyo at the request of her mother.

        Ernestine Bayer, who founded a pioneering women's rowing club in 1938 on the Schuylkill in Philadelphia, rowed competitively into her 90's and became known as the mother of women's rowing, died Sept. 10 in Exeter, N.H. She was 97.
A native of Philadelphia and, as she recalled, a onetime tomboy, to the consternation of her ladylike mother, Bayer endured a decade of frustrated ambitions before embarking on her rowing career.
Her father, George Holmes, worked in public relations; her mother, Emma Auer Holmes, was a voice coach.
''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said, bringing the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory to the national political stage in a way that transformed the mother of four into an revered icon of feminist activism.
Her father, Prince Boris Galitzine, was an official of the imperial guard, and her mother was Princess Nina Lazareff.
She was cast as a courageous nurse in ''Canadian Pacific'' (1949); as the faithful, supportive wife of a naval airman (Gary Cooper) in ''Task Force'' (1949); and as a happily married (to David Wayne) mother of five in ''My Blue Heaven'' (1950).
Her father was an investment banker, her mother a writer for Commonweal and other publications.
One of her more offbeat television parts was that of Amanda, the human mother of Mr. Spock, the pointy-eared Vulcan member of the ''Star Trek'' crew of space voyagers in the late 1960's.
''I decided to make the best-looking bucket anybody ever saw,'' Ms. Cabot said, according to an interview several years ago with Ms. Kline's mother, Polly Kline.
''One of the few regrets in my life is that I never had children of my own,'' she wrote, three years after the arrival of the first orphan, a boy named Gahungu, whose mother had dropped dead in front of him.
Her father was a government minister and a diplomat; her mother was an educator.
Her father, Leo, was a lawyer, her mother, Rebecca, a teacher.
She appeared onstage in 1983 in a rare dramatic role in Wendy Wasserstein's ''Isn't It Romantic,'' playing the mother of a footloose girl waiting for Mr.
She attended New York's High School of Music and Art but did not start working as an artist until 1964, after 10 years as a full-time wife and mother of four.
''My mother was an incredibly gifted hostess, wonderful at putting people together,'' Jonathan Cerf said.
''My mother was an incredibly gifted hostess, wonderful at putting people together,'' Jonathan Cerf said.
Bebe spent each school year in Philadelphia with her mother, grandmother and aunt -- strong, upright women she collectively called ''the Bosoms'' -- who set her on a course of study, discipline and staunch middle-class respectability.
She is survived by her husband, Ellis Gordon Jr., whom she married in 1984; her mother, Doris Moore of Los Angeles; a daughter from her first marriage, Maia Campbell of Los Angeles; a stepson, Ellis Gordon III of Mitchellville, Md.
The patient, a married mother of three, had contracted German measles early in her fourth pregnancy.
''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' which became a best seller when it was published in 1948, beguiled readers with the autobiographical details of the Gilbreths, a family in the 1920's dominated by Dad but discreetly monitored by Mother.
An outing in their Pierce-Arrow, with Dad at the wheel and babies tucked in the front seat near Mother in the days before seat belts, felt ''like a back somersault off the high diving board.
''
        Hollywood wasted little time, spiriting ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' into a movie by 1950, starring Myrna Loy as Mother and Clifton Webb as Dad.
Her own mother eventually lived with Mrs. Carey, after a long career of mothering, teaching, writing and consulting.
Mrs. Carey also gathered her mother's extensive papers and photographs to donate them to Smith College.
By the mid-1920's, Mr. Mattus and his widowed mother were making ice cream on Southern Boulevard in the South Bronx; he delivered it to neighborhood stores by horse-drawn wagon.
Her mother, who ran a kennel in Pound Ridge, N.Y., started a successful dog department at Abercrombie & Fitch, then opened a grooming service in Manhattan called Dogs Inc.
Turning down a scholarship to the veterinary school at Cornell, Anne Rogers joined her mother's business after high school, then took to the show ring as a handler.
) One of 15 children, she picked cotton and helped her mother make quilts for the family.
It is known that Ms. Tompkins was married and divorced twice; survivors include her mother; several children and stepchildren; and many siblings, grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
