Growing up in the cotton mill town of Schoolfield, Va., she accompanied her mother, a teacher, as she went door-to-door collecting $100 to start a school library.
She spent eight years at the National, playing leading roles in Bertolt Brecht's "Mother," Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" and others.
Her mother was a physicist; her father, Eugene, worked for the Socony Oil Company, and the family followed him around the world to England, Egypt, Mexico, New Zealand, Texas, Europe and Morocco.
When she appeared in a 1936 production of "Hamlet" at the Empire Theater, Brooks Atkinson wrote that in her performance as Hamlet's mother, the queen, she had "abandoned the matronly stuffiness that usually plagues that part and given us a woman of strong and bewildered feeling.
She recently completed a film script, "My Mother's Lover," about her life in Europe during World War II.
She is also survived by her mother, Lillian B. Fraser of the Bronx, and her brother, Earl W. Fraser Jr. of Manhattan.
      
Her best-known film roles were the mother of Knute Rockne (played by Pat O'Brien) in "Knute Rockne: All American" (1940), and Louis Calhern's invalid wife in "The Asphalt Jungle" (1950).
Surviving are her husband, Ray Manley; two daughters, Rebecca Chenitz of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Kim Manley of Greenbrae; a sister, Lucille Allison of Greenbrae, and her mother, Yvette Allison of Summerfield, Fla.
      
In 1979, the New Jersey State Supreme Court ruled that doctors could be sued for "wrongful birth" if their negligence deprived a mother of her right to an abortion and a child was born with defects.
; a son, Jonathan, of Tempe, Ariz.; her mother, Minnie Segal of Montreal, and two brothers, Bernard and Henry Segal, both of Montreal.
      
Their father, a cotton broker, played the piano and their mother sang.
Their father, a cotton broker, played the piano and their mother sang.
Dr. Barnett is survived by Mr. King; her daughter by a previous marriage, Amy Barnett, of New York City, and her mother, Mary Eubanks, of Houston.
      
Surviving are her husband, David J. Hopwood; a daughter, Kari E. Kaplan of Manhattan; a son, Kenneth N. Kaplan of Queens; her mother, Claire Nossiter of Manhattan; a brother, Robert Singer of Mount Kisco, N.Y., and three stepchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Juliana Koo of Manhattan, who is the widow of V. K. Wellington Koo, a Nationalist Chinese diplomat who was an ambassador to Washington and a member of the International Court of Justice at the Hague; three daughters, Tracy Tang Limpe, Dana and Kristin, all of Manhattan; a son, Kevin, of Manhattan, and two sisters, Genevieve Young of Manhattan and Shirley Young of Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Manhattan.
      
From day one, a mother treats a boy baby differently from a girl baby.
Her mother made clothes and encouraged Lisa to study art and ballet.
Miss Sherman also played den mother and sergeant major to the 46 precision dancers in the troupe, any 36 of whom kicked off four times daily in a wheeling straight line nearly a city block long.

        Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died yesterday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old.
When Miss Walker was 3 weeks old, her mother went back on the vaudeville circuit herself, and Miss Walker slept backstage.
"
        On "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," she played Rhoda Morgenstern's overbearing mother, and went on to a regular role when Valerie Harper, as Rhoda, got a series of her own.
But as Rhoda's mother, Ida Morgenstern, Miss Walker was determined to have a slightly more elaborate ceremony in her Bronx apartment.

        Nancy Walker, who played Rhoda's mother, McMillan and wife's housekeeper and a paper-towel-promoting waitress in television commercials, along with a string of brassy, loudmouthed cutups on Broadway, died on Wednesday at her home in Studio City, Calif. She was 69 years old.
When Miss Walker was 3 weeks old, her mother went back on the vaudeville circuit herself, and Miss Walker slept backstage.
"
        On "The Mary Tyler Moore Show," she played Rhoda Morgenstern's overbearing mother, and went on to a regular role when Valerie Harper, as Rhoda, got a series of her own.
But as Rhoda's mother, Ida Morgenstern, Miss Walker was determined to have a slightly more elaborate ceremony in her Bronx apartment.
She was the den mother for the top beauties in America.
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Mandell J. Ourisman; two sons by a previous marriage, Daniel L. Korengold, of Washington, and Thomas E. Korengold, of Chevy Chase; three stepsons, David J. Ourisman of Eatontown, N.J., John M. Ourisman of Bethesda, Md., and Robert B. Ourisman of Washington; her mother, Hannah Haydnet of Minneapolis; a sister, Patricia Chanin of New York City, and 12 grandchildren.
      
Her first appearance on Broadway was in 1920 in "The Ouija Board"; her other credits included "Saturday's Children" with Ruth Gordon and "The Good Fairy" with Helen Hayes, as well as "Winterset," "The Women" and "Life With Mother.
Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today.
Her family lived in Schroeder House, a landmark De Stilj house designed in 1924 by the architect Gerrit Rietveld, with whom Ms. Schroeder later worked, in collaboration with her mother, Truss Schroeder-Schraeder, an interior designer.
Topping Jr., a private investor; her mother, Helen Eades Stutsman of St. Louis; a sister, Nancy Lamb of Cambridge, Mass.
Her mother recognized her talent and encouraged her, and young Molly started singing for 50 cents a night.
Surviving are her husband of eight years; their daughter, Catherine Eisenmann; her mother, Barbara Brewster of Ossining; and three sisters, Deborah Ferrenz of Silver Spring, Md., Abigail McGahey of Tyngsboro, Mass., and Alison Henderson of North Andover, Mass.
      
Buried Near Her Mother
        Miss Dietrich died in Paris on May 6 at the age of 90.
She said in her will that she made the choice because she wanted to lie near her mother, in Friedenau Cemetery in the Schoneberg section of the western part of Berlin.
Among the Broadway shows she sent around the world were "Man of La Mancha," "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," "Same Time, Next Year," "Agnes of God" and the Pulitzer Prize-winning " 'Night, Mother.
Alice Waters, who is often described as the mother of modern American cooking, said Mrs. David was her greatest inspiration.
She is survived by her mother, Alma Lewis of Gloucestershire, England, and a brother, Frank Barr of Victoria, British Columbia.
      
Her mother was Wilhelmina Elisabeth Josephine Felsing, the daughter of a well-to-do watch merchant, who soon after being widowed, married Edouard von Losch, a cavalry lieutenant.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
She is survived by her mother, Gertrude Feldenkreis of Atlantic City; a daughter, Eleanor Smith, and a son, David A., both of Santa Monica; a sister, Nancy Wurman of Philadelphia, and a brother, Howard Feldenkreis of Leominster, Mass.
      
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Ms. Wornum followed Mrs. Fisher for four years, she said, because the single mother and writer "is the most poetic voice of the working woman in the 20th century.
I leapt forth only a few minutes before midnight, in a supreme effort from my mother, whose husband had assured her that I would be named Independencia if I arrived on the Fourth.
She described herself, a well-loved little girl, by depicting a meal that her mother once served: "deep rich, floating puddles of hot cocoa for supper, with buttered toast sogging deliciously in them.
She was known as Mother Mary Peter during her long career as a Roman Catholic college administrator.
Ms. Wornum followed Mrs. Fisher for four years, she said, because the single mother and writer "is the most poetic voice of the working woman in the 20th century.
I leapt forth only a few minutes before midnight, in a supreme effort from my mother, whose husband had assured her that I would be named Independencia if I arrived on the Fourth.
She described herself, a well-loved little girl, by depicting a meal that her mother once served: "deep rich, floating puddles of hot cocoa for supper, with buttered toast sogging deliciously in them.
After graduating from the Dalton School in New York, she moved to California with her mother and often accompanied her on stage tours.
A beau had invited her to a football game, and she badgered her mother to buy her a new outfit.
But she was wearing the only dress she had, so she took a scissors, cut the neckline, took a lace collar from a blouse of her mother's and added an artificial flower.
" Even Lenya Was Pleased
        From jazz, she turned to acting, appearing on British television in "Mother Courage and Her Children" and, in 1955, in "The Threepenny Opera," by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht, in London.
Her mother cofounded a national chain of fashion stores, Tennis Lady.
The sisters' interest in supporting medical research stemmed from the ear infections that Mary Lasker endured and from both their mother and father's suffering from hypertension.
A Nun's Encouragement
        Born in Flint, Mich., Ms. Nelson grew up on the vaudeville circuit with her mother, Eva Mudge, a noted quick-change artist.
Although her mother had discouraged Ms. Nelson from a show business career, a nun saw her potential and nudged her to Broadway.
A Nun's Encouragement
        Born in Saginaw, Mich., Ms. Nelson grew up on the vaudeville circuit with her mother, Eva Mudge, a noted quick-change artist.
Although her mother had discouraged Ms. Nelson from a show business career, a nun saw her potential and nudged her to Broadway.
When Mrs. Fenwick was 5, her mother, the former Mary Stevens, drowned when a German submarine sank the liner Lusitania.
Survivors include her mother, Blanche, of North Conway, N.H., and a brother, Joseph E. Hollingworth Jr., of Carlisle, Mass.
      
Miss Manderson is survived by her mother, Margaret Freeman, of Atlanta.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her father, Jeremy Swan, and stepmother, Rona Swan, both of Beverly Hills, Calif.; her mother, Pamela Swan of Long Beach, Calif.; four sisters, Elizabeth Condit of Gainesville, Fla., Caroline Swan of Los Angeles and Eleanor Donohue and Geraldine Swan, both of Long Beach; two brothers, Jeremy Swan of Studio City, Calif., and Gordon Swan of Los Angeles.
      

        Sayedah Khadijah Faisal, a founder of Brooklyn's first mosque who was known to hundreds of Muslims as Mother Khadijah, died Saturday at her home at the mosque in Brooklyn Heights.
Mother Khadijah founded the mosque in 1939 with her husband, Sheik Daoud Ahmed Faisal, who served as its imam, or spiritual leader, until his death in 1980.
"All of these children and their parents grew up with Mother Khadijah being known to them as a focal point of Islam.
"
        In addition to being a founder of the mosque, Mother Khadijah served as its secretary and treasurer and led its Muslim Ladies Cultural Society.
Mother Khadijah, who was born in Bermuda, is survived by her second husband, Imam Omar Bey, and by several nieces and nephews in Bermuda.
      
She is also survived by her mother, Estelle Snellenberg, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Leslie Friedman, of Philadelphia.
      
She is also survived by her mother, Estelle Snellenberg, of Philadelphia, and a sister, Leslie Friedman, of Philadelphia.
      
Denied Monet Influenced Her
        After the death of her mother in 1967, Miss Mitchell inherited enough money to buy a two-acre estate above Vetheuil, a little town on the Seine that is best known for the residence there of Claude Monet.
It was Dr. Comer's recounting of his mother's life in "Maggie's American Dream: The Life and Times of a Black Family," published by New American Library in 1988, that brought her to the nation's attention.
Her mother was an organist and music teacher.
Mrs. Lynn is survived by her husband, Lawrence R.; her mother and stepfather, Sylvia and Ralph Lippman of Manhattan; a brother, Keith Stanger of Ypsilanti, Mich., and four stepbrothers, David Lippman of Eureka, Calif., Dr. Jay Lippman of Manhattan, Jonathan Lippman of Rye, N.Y., and Dr. Leonard Lippman of West Hartford, Conn.
      
She attended private schools, including the Birch Wathen School in Manhattan, acquired fluency in French from her governesses and traveled extensively when her mother showed horses.
She created the dual roles of Madame Branislowski and Mother Burnside in the 1966 Broadway production of "Mame," starring Angela Lansbury; played the Wall Street widow, Mrs. Millhauser, in the 1967 Broadway musical comedy "How Now, Dow Jones," and acted with Katharine Hepburn on Broadway in 1976 in "A Matter of Gravity.
Mrs. Smith wrote an article for The New York Times Magazine and a book, both titled "Another Name for Madness" (Houghton Mifflin, 1985), about her mother's ordeal.
Ms. Yard is survived by a son, Michael Saito, and three daughters, Michelle, Mikiko and Mary Catherine Saito, and her mother, Dorothy, all of Sea Girt; two sisters, Elizabeth Rasmussen, of Chico, Calif., and Victoria Steiner, of Seattle; four brothers, William, of Modesto, Calif., Carl Jr., of Wall Township, N.J., Richard, of Jackson Township, N.J., and Stephen, of Oroville, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her daughters, Leah Cohen Chatinover of South Windsor, Conn.; Sara Cohen of Kibbutz Ketura, Israel, and Rebecca Cohen Stewart of Bridgewater, N.J.; her mother and stepfather, Florence and Ed Nash of Bridgewater; a brother, Louis Kauder of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Susan Schwirck of Rahway, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
      
"
        Born in New York City on Oct. 2, 1909, Mrs. Rockefeller was heiress to the Ferry seed fortune through her mother.
Ms. McMurray is survived by her mother, Daisy Fulen, and two sisters, Caroline Johnson and Narvine Fulen, all of Philadelphia.
      
Mother Hale, as she was known, was a pioneer in self-help efforts in poor neighborhoods and came to symbolize the untapped potential of disadvantaged groups taking care of their own.
In the early days, the babies slept in cribs next to Mother Hale's bed.
Some children remained exceptionally close to Mother Hale, who considered them part of her own family.
Her father was murdered when she was a child, and her mother took in boarders and ran a lunchroom for longshoremen.
Mrs. Hale credited her mother -- who died when she was just 16 -- with instilling the values on which Hale House is based.
The next morning, they later recalled, Mother Hale telephoned Lorraine to say, "There's a junkie at my door, and she says you sent her.
Surviving are her husband of 39 years, Dr. Lawrence Bergner, a physician; her mother, Clara Neufeld of Brooklyn; two sons, Daniel of Manhattan, and Robert of Montreal, and a granddaughter.
      
To think of your own mother's death each time you want to cry onstage is schizophrenic and sick.
Her later stage roles included a fiery lion tamer in a 1946 revival of the drama "He Who Gets Slapped" and, in London, an eccentric mother in a 1961 black comedy, "Oh Dad, Poor Dad, Mama's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad.
She is survived by her husband, Kevin; a son, Matthew; three daughters, Anna, Katherine and Margaret, all of Bedford Hills; her mother, Anna Bondhus; her brother, Nelson, of Farmington, Conn., and a sister, Diana Bortolin, of Scarsdale, N.Y.
      
Mother Hale, as she was widely known, died last Friday of complications from a stroke.
Mother, may you rest in peace.
"In this season, when much is spoken of angels sent from God, Mother Hale was an angel," she said.
She is survived by her companion, Susan Hajjar; her mother, Sarah Donovan of Winter Park, Fla., and a sister, Janette Harriott of Edmond, Okla.
      

        Jennie Resnick Bernstein, the mother of Leonard Bernstein, who contributed lyrics for a segment of his last musical work, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston.
She is survived by her husband, to whom she was wed in 1959; her mother, May Davies Hopkins Martenet, of Virginia Beach, and her two sons, William Van Orden Gnichtel Jr., of Montebello, N.Y., and Edwin Gnichtel, a student at Drew University in Madison.
      
She died of breast cancer, according to her son Kelly Candaele, whose 1988 documentary about his mother's career, "A League of Their Own," inspired last summer's movie of the same name.
