The middle one, Gorgeous, the group leader of the Beth El Sisterhood of Newton, Mass., is ostensibly a happily married mother of four who is trying to start a career as a radio talk-show host.
Her mother was also  a member of the New York City Board of Higher Education who helped plan the creation of the City University.
She majored in physics at Vassar College, her mother's alma mater.

        Mae Questel, a rubber-voiced veteran of stage, screen and vaudeville who played Woody Allen's mother in ''New York Stories'' and was the cartoon voice of Betty Boop and Olive Oyl, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Mrs. Haje, who grew up in Altoona, Pa., and married a local Lebanese-American businessman, seemed content with her role as an  American housewife and mother.
; her mother, Gladys Baltzell Jennings of Clinton, Ark.
''
        Speaking at a 1993 showing of ''Never Done: The Working Life of Alice H. Cook,'' a documentary film on her career, Professor Cook described her mother and grandmother as turn-of-the-century suffragists who had brought her up to believe that ''girls deserved education as much as boys.
She attended  Northwestern University, her mother's alma mater, where she was a co-founder of the student Liberal League to promote socialism, civil liberties and labor unions, and was involved in the Student League for Industrial Democracy.
She loved to listen to her mother and grandmother tell stories about the old days.
When she was not listening to her mother and grandmother tell stories about the old days, Mary Lou would play with her sister and her friends.
Ms. Gellhorn's father was a doctor in St. Louis with progressive notions and her mother, whom she adored, was a suffragist and social reformer who sometimes took her daughter  with her to rallies and protests.
Her father pulled her out of a convent school when he discovered the nuns were teaching female anatomy with a textbook that had its pictures covered and transferred the girl to a progressive coeducational school of which her mother was a co-founder.
Her star quotient increased exponentially in 1963, after her mother remarried, becoming the wife of Iva S. V. Patcevitch, the chairman of Conde Nast.
She is survived by her mother, Chesbrough Patcevitch; a half-brother, Charles Minot Amory 3d, and a nephew, Charles Minot Amory 4th, all of Palm Beach, Fla.
        She and Mica Ertegun, the wife of Ahmet Ertegun, the president of Atlantic Records, toyed with opening a restaurant.
''
        Dr. Howell also contributed to Working Mother magazine and to ''Our Bodies, Ourselves: A Book by and for Women'' from the Boston Women's Book Collective, whose 25th anniversary update was published by Touchstone in 1996.
Her mother, Sarah Myers  Blackwell, was an elementary school teacher.
When she was 4, she and her mother moved to Baltimore while her father remained in Florida to run his business, commuting back and forth to Baltimore to visit his family.
Her father, Jack Trepel, a Rockefeller Center florist, was an accomplished magician with the gift of patter, and to hear Mrs. Kampen tell it, her mother, Mary, always had something funny to say and never held her tongue.
A child of her era, she wanted to be a conventional housewife and mother, and for a while she got her wish.
It wasn't easy being a divorced mother in a tiny New England town in the 1950's.
Mrs. Kampen took in another struggling divorced mother to help make ends meet.
The book came out just as Lucille Ball, whose divorce from Desi Arnaz had undercut the premise of her famous ''I Love Lucy'' television series, was casting around for a new format as a working mother.
When she and her boyfriend wanted to go skiing, for example, her mother insisted on going along, not simply as a chaperone but because she wanted to take notes.
Similarly, her daughter's wedding became ''Here Comes the Bride, There Goes the Mother'' (1967), and while Mrs. Kampen did not accompany the couple on their honeymoon, she was right there when they went to graduate school at the University of Wisconsin, turning out ''Due to Lack of Interest, Tomorrow Has Been Canceled,'' the story of a 45-year-old divorced woman who returns to college in the hippie era.
Her subjects tended to be relatives or art-world friends: her grandmother; the painter Helen Frankenthaler; Mimi Gross, the daughter of the sculptor Chaim Gross; and the mother of her first husband, Philip Graham Harden, shown in a work from 1931 titled ''My Nude Mother-in-Law.
Her mother was the daughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt 2d, who built the Breakers as the family's summer home.
She was taught there by her mother -- who also danced professionally -- before entering the famous ballet school there.
Her mother was Katherine Crowell Cushing, of a socially prominent family in Cleveland.
'' The social skills that she learned at Miss May's, a private day school in Boston, and at the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn., were burnished by her mother, who made certain that her daughters excelled in the arts of entertaining and running a household as prerequisites for the advantageous marriages she was determined they would have.
The couple were married in a small, informal ceremony on March 1, 1942, in her widowed mother's East 86th Street apartment.
Mrs. Whitney renewed her friendship with the Queen Mother, whom she had met on the 1939 visit to America.
''
        Ms. Rysanek was born in Vienna on Nov. 14, 1926, one of six children of a Czech father, a stonecutter, later a chauffeur, and an Austrian mother.
Most of the details she related over the years came from her mother, Alice, but Mrs. Shuman insisted she recalled the screams and the sight from a great height of a sea of hands reaching up for her from a lifeboat below.
She, her mother and her 4-year-old brother, Harold, had gone to Finland to visit her mother's dying father and other relatives and were on their way back to the United States when they stopped over in England and discovered that their passage on another ship had been canceled because of a coal miners' strike.
She, her mother and her 4-year-old brother, Harold, had gone to Finland to visit her mother's dying father and other relatives and were on their way back to the United States when they stopped over in England and discovered that their passage on another ship had been canceled because of a coal miners' strike.
Drawing on her mother's account, Mrs. Shuman recalled that at first the disaster had provided a moment of recreation for the third-class passengers.
As her mother, the Swedish girls and others playfully kicked the ice around, an officer shooed them back into their cabins, saying the ship would get underway shortly.
Her mother, carrying her daughter in her arms, was helped into a lifeboat, and little Harold, who had been carried to the deck by one of the Swedish girls, was dropped down into the boat after them.
She once said that she was 23 before she got free of her mother and her lady's maid, but she was allowed to go, chaperoned, to Paris when she was 18, where she studied painting at the Academie Julien and acting at the Comedie Francaise.
'' ''They call me Battling Bella, Mother Courage and a Jewish mother with more complaints than Portnoy.
'' ''They call me Battling Bella, Mother Courage and a Jewish mother with more complaints than Portnoy.
Her mother, Esther, had been a machinist in a textile factory in East London who, as a teen-ager, became a shop steward for the garment workers' union; her father, Charles, a journalist and actor, was a leading member of the Canadian Socialist Party and later, when the family returned to England, of the Socialist Party of Great Britain.
After an early marriage and divorce, she married Edward J. Rakowicz, a recording engineer, had a son, Edward W., now 7, and became as devoted a mother as she had been a dedicated singer.
In addition to four children, Gabriel Vaugh of Barrie, Olive Therrien of Peterborough, Rita Coote of Deep River and Ernie Meilleur, who lives in the same nursing home his mother lived in, Mrs. Meilleur is survived by 85 grandchildren, 80 great-grandchildren, 57 great-great-grandchildren and 4 great-great-great-grandchildren.
She was 12 when the band, managed by their mother, Lula Maddox, began its career, performing over KTRB, in Modesto, Calif., and at local rodeos and fairs.
Driven by hunger and a hectoring stage mother to entertain at all costs, they whooped, laughed, joked and yelled their way through performances.
After the group split up in 1956, Ms. Maddox moved to Oregon with two of her brothers and her mother.
A single mother long before the term was coined, Mrs. Spelce often held two jobs, but still had so much trouble making ends meet she sometimes could not afford a babysitter for the night shift, so while living in California she put her two sons to bed in a car outside the Berkeley hospital rather than leave them home alone.
She described growing up in artistic and materialistic surroundings, with a status-conscious mother and a father whose friends and clients included the artist Willem de Kooning and the songwriters Hoagy Carmichael and Harold Arlen.
Dr. Lukomnik is survived by her husband, Len Rodberg; two children, Simon and Josie Rodberg of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Lukomnik of the Bronx, and her brothers, David and Jon Lukomnik, both of Manhattan.
      
In addition to her son Drew, of Brooklyn, she is survived by her husband, Donald; two other sons, Douglas, of Brooklyn and Steven, of Glen Ridge, N.J.; her mother, Eunice Burton of Austin, Minn.; a sister, Victoria Swedish of Madison, Wis.; a brother, Robert, of Indianapolis and four grandchildren.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Grandy is survived by her mother, Frances Grandy of Manhattan; two daughters, Allegra Fitch of Brooklyn and Lydia Silverman of Riverdale, the Bronx, and three grandchildren, Zachary Fitch and Julia and Evan Silverman.
      
She was drawn to music and learned to play guitar before she became a teen-ager, when she joined her mother in Birmingham, Ala.
        A month before her high school graduation in 1959, she was married for the first time, to Euple Byrd.
She was drawn to music, and learned to play guitar before her teen-age years, when she joined her mother in Birmingham, Ala.
        A month before her high school graduation in 1959, she was married for the first time, to Euple Byrd.
She is survived by her mother and two sisters.
      
Ms. Torok's vision of psychoanalysis was liberated from the Freudian framework, including the Oedipus complex -- in which a male child may see the father as a rival for the mother's love.
Besides Mr. Pringle, she is survived by her father, William Wolsky of Brooklyn; her mother and stepfather, Joyce and Lloyd Greenidge of Brant Lake, N.Y.; a brother, William Jr., of Spring Hill, Fla., and a sister, Leanne Wolsky of Queens.
      
Her father was a judge who became the first editor of the paper that eventually became The Miami Herald; her mother was a concert violinist.
Born in Chicago, Ms. Donegan was  encouraged from an early age by her mother to become a professional musician.
Then, too, Mrs. Mudd was the only wife and mother among the academics and social work specialists who met at the Mudds' home to plan the marriage council.
Miss Connolly was born in Swansea, Wales, on January 24, 1921, the  daughter of an insurance man originally from Waterford, Ireland, and a half-Welsh, half-English mother.
After her father's death, while she was still a teen-ager, she and her mother went  to Ireland, where her only formal education was two years in a convent school.
In 1962 Ms. Faye returned to 20th Century Fox as Pat Boone's mother in a poorly received remake of ''State Fair.
In 1962 Ms. Faye returned to 20th Century Fox as Pat Boone's mother in a poorly received remake of ''State Fair.
There's not much to be said for growing up coal poor in Tyneside, the industrial banks of the Tyne in northeastern England, even less for being shamed by an alcoholic mother and never knowing your father.
Who, after all, would believe that a woman whose childhood humiliations included frequenting pawn shops, collecting driftwood from the Tyne, being sexually molested at 7 by her mother's boyfriend, and making daily runs to the pub to fetch her mother and tyrannical grandfather pails of beer would become a successful novelist?
Who, after all, would believe that a woman whose childhood humiliations included frequenting pawn shops, collecting driftwood from the Tyne, being sexually molested at 7 by her mother's boyfriend, and making daily runs to the pub to fetch her mother and tyrannical grandfather pails of beer would become a successful novelist?
It was a belief, she said, that was fired when an aunt mentioned that her father, a topic she could never discuss with her imperious mother, had been a gentleman.
Her mother was a beautician, her father a building superintendent who became a lawyer.

        Jeanette Nolan, who began her film career 50 years ago as Lady Macbeth opposite Orson Welles and is now being seen as the mother of the character played by Robert Redford in ''The Horse Whisperer,'' died on June 5 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
The daughter of a country doctor, Mrs. Whaley was born Emily Kershaw in Pinopolis, a village about 40 miles west of Charleston, and spent part of her childhood at her mother's family's Belvidere Plantation, helping her mother tend a 13-acre garden even as her mother had helped her mother garden.
Beginning in 1974, she starred in ''That's My Mama,'' an ABC situation comedy set in a Washington barbershop where a widowed mother knows best what her hapless son (played by Clifton Davis) should do.
''
        Ms. Merritt was born in Emporia, Va., but moved to Philadelphia while a toddler to be reared by an aunt and uncle after her mother died.

        Dorothy Stickney, who created the role of the mother in ''Life with Father'' and also appeared in many other Broadway hits during a career that spanned more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
' ''
        At the heart of the play -- and of its tenderness -- was Miss Stickney's performance as the wise and patient mother, Vinnie, who was understanding without being overly sentimental.
The following year, they played the Days again, in the sequel, ''Life with Mother,'' and that play ran for a year.
Ms. O'Sullivan, who was the mother of the actress Mia Farrow, had homes in Phoenix and Grantham, N.H.
        One of the brightest of ingenues, the actress appeared in more than 60 films, from ''Tugboat Annie'' to ''Pride and Prejudice,'' starring with everyone from Robert Taylor to the Marx Brothers.
When her parents divorced, her mother moved with Louise and her three other daughters, eventually settling in Oakland, where Louise attended a Catholic boarding school.
Ms. Pfeffer is survived by her husband, Khalid Chahi of Manhattan, a son, Sami, and her mother, Shirley Pfeffer of Brooklyn.
      
In 1943 Sara quit singing for good, and Maybelle started a new band, Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, with her daughters as permanent members.
Helen was 12 when she was introduced to the world over the airwaves of XET in Monterrey, Mexico, and in her teen-age years became the most dependable musician of her mother's band, playing accordion, guitar and autoharp.
Her mother's family was instrumental in the founding of Churchill Downs in Louisville, Ky.
        Mrs. Rennie attended the Downer Seminary in Milwaukee and Collegiate School in Louisville and graduated from Vassar College in 1935.
For the Brooklyn-born middle daughter of Russian Jewish immigrants, especially one whose mother wanted her to be a boy, the triumph was hardly a fluke.
'' Petite, with golden-red hair framing her heart-shaped face, Ms. Hutchinson said her interpretation was inspired by her mother's ''cleanliness-is-next-to-godliness technique of dressing little girls.
Rona J. Shays, a close friend, recalled that Ms. Perles used to say that her own mother had not wanted her to go to law school and had said to her, ''No one will want to marry you if they think you're smarter than they are.
She often means well, and her mother neglects her.
Betty Harragan's book ''Games Mother Never Taught You: Corporate Gamesmanship for Women'' was published in 1977 by Rawson Associates; since then, more than one million copies have been published in paperback by Warner Books.
Her Russian-born maternal grandfather had been a rabbi in New Haven, and her mother had been so eager to fight the Nazis in World War II that she joined the Canadian Army in 1940, a year before the United States entered the war and she was able to transfer to the newly organized Women's Army Corps.
Dr. Timoner was there, too, and, well, it's an old story, and by the time she began giving it her own personal twist, Ms. Timoner had been married at 18, had had two children by the time she graduated and had endured a grin-and-bear-it decade as a distinctly restless housewife and mother.
When she refused to bend the rules to perform a bar mitzvah for a youth with a Jewish father and a gentile mother without the required religious circumcision ritual, she was forced to step down.
In addition to her husband, Rabbi Timoner is survived by her mother, Mary Surasky of Tampa, Fla.; a daughter, Aviva, of Paris; a son, Samson, of Germantown, Md.
When Miss Caccialanza and her mother arrived in Milan in 1925, they were astonished to find Cecchetti still alive.
''
        In addition to her husband, of Mill Neck, Mrs. Albert is survived by her mother, Florence Carman of Franklin Square, N.Y.; a stepson, Ross M. Albert of East Norwich, N.Y.; a stepdaughter, Ronda Kornfeld of Greensboro, N.C., and four stepgrandchildren.
      
Her mother, a generation younger, ''spirited, fearless, sassy and smart,'' brought many of her 18 siblings and their families to live with them.
My mother prepared us.
In this semiautobiographical tale, the strong-willed, light-skinned Cleo Judson -- modeled on Miss West's mother -- tries to remake her darker-skinned  daughter, and breaks up her own  marriage to a former slave who had made himself ''the Black Banana King.
Ms. Levin is survived by her husband, Dr. Lowell S. Levin; three daughters, Brooke A. Levin of Oakland, Calif., Jill S. Levin of Albuquerque, N.M., and Lori Levin Albert of New Haven; her mother, Estelle Greenberg of Warwick, R.I., and five grandchildren.
      
For someone born in the Victorian era, Miss Smith adapted well to 20th-century culture, much to the occasional dismay of her mother, a staid woman who had derived her Victorian outlook in situ, growing up in  England, and who was properly shocked when her daughter, who had not come of age in the Roaring Twenties for nothing, would go off for weekends with her young man of the moment.
With three of her four older brothers serving in the military in World War I, she was so eager to do her part that, ignoring her mother's objections, she dropped out of the University of Chicago to enlist in the Women's Land Army, a paramilitary organization that sought to fill the vacuum left by mobilized farm workers.
She might have grown up poor, but her parents were both teachers, and Judge Stout, who credited her mother with instilling her lifelong habit of hard work, learned to read at 3, entered the third grade at 6 and started college at 16, first at a black school in nearby Missouri and later at the University of Iowa before returning to Oklahoma as a music teacher.
When her parents divorced in 1919, she moved to Hollywood with her mother and began a career as an actress.
Her mother was an energetic woman who began teaching her daughter piano at the age of 2.
In the early 1940's, she was Dorothy Price Vanderpool, a divorced mother with a baby daughter to support because of what she called an ''unfortunate teen-aged marriage.
Dr. Karlin is survived by her daughter, Jessica Feierman of Philadelphia; a son, Joshua Feierman of New York City; and her mother, Rosa Karlin of Madison.
Her father was a rabbi, and her mother ran a grocery store to support the struggling family, which lived in a two-room log cabin and slept on straw mattresses.
She is survived by her mother, Mary Still Clements of Longview, Tex., and two sisters, Ann Rhew of Floresville, Tex., and Paula Conley of Fort Worth.
      
''My mother was very progressive and I was reared in an atmosphere that was, at that time, most unusual in my country,'' she once told The Christian Science Monitor in an interview.
She studied piano and organ, and ordered ballet shoes from a catalogue, persuading her mother to take her to Fort Worth for dance classes.
The books dealt with serious themes in such detail that it is little wonder that Mrs. Irwin's children, who appear in various guises throughout the series, would want the world to know that their mother did not draw on their experiences in exploring problems like teen-age suicide (''So Long at the Fair''), alcoholism (''Can't Hear You Listening'') or racism (''Kim/Kimi''), let alone incest, the breakthrough subject of the 1985 Hadley Irwin book, ''Abby, My Love.
When Ms. Hochberg learned of the cancer, her first reaction was to fight, said her mother, Audrey G. Hochberg, a Democratic Assemblywoman from Scarsdale, N.Y.
        ''We have to get out there and kick,'' Carol Hochberg said in a New York Times interview in 1995.
Besides her mother, Ms. Hochberg is survived by her father, Herbert Hochberg, and two sisters, Brenda Hochberg of Boston and Judith Hochberg of Los Alamos, N.M.
      
Her father was an electrical technician and her mother was a teacher.
I didn't even know how I'd be a mother.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
In addition to her husband, her mother and her brother, she is survived by a son, Diego, two daughters, Giulia and Maria, two other brothers, Leonardo and Massimo, a sister, Fulvia Visconti Ferragamo, all of Florence; and another sister, Giovanna Gentile Ferragamo, of Milan.
Ms. Topf is survived by her husband, Jon Gibson, a composer with whom she often collaborated, and a son, Jeremy, both of Manhattan; her mother, Celia Topf Straus of Lauderhill, Fla., and three sisters, Bobbi Straus of Port Washington, N.Y., Peggy Schwartz of Amherst, Mass., and Margie J. Topf of Boston.
      
Mrs. Barger, whose husband, Ernest, was a plumber who later operated a bowling alley managed by his wife, was the mother of two children when she joined a housewife's duckpin league in the late 1930's and discovered that she had a rare talent for a difficult game.
She had a long and distinguished stage career, veering several times from the roles in which she was typecast: she played a cruel, mentally unstable mother in Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke'' (1951), for instance, and the title role in Pinero's ''School Mistress'' (1954).
She was particularly praised for her role as a show-business fan in Emlyn Williams's ''Light of Heart'' (1940) and for her portrayal of the mother of a possible second messiah in a Welsh farming community during the Crimean War in another Emlyn Williams play, ''The Wind of Heaven'' (1945).
Known as Mother Cleusa, Mrs. Millet presided over the Candomble temple at Alto do Gantois in Salvador, Brazil's first capital, now home to a flourishing renaissance of Afro-Brazilian culture.
Mother Cleusa took over the Gantois terreiro, as the temple is known, from her mother, Maria Escolastica da Conceicao Nazare, known as Mother Menininha, after her mother's death 10 years ago.
Mother Cleusa took over the Gantois terreiro, as the temple is known, from her mother, Maria Escolastica da Conceicao Nazare, known as Mother Menininha, after her mother's death 10 years ago.
Mother Cleusa took over the Gantois terreiro, as the temple is known, from her mother, Maria Escolastica da Conceicao Nazare, known as Mother Menininha, after her mother's death 10 years ago.
Mother Cleusa took over the Gantois terreiro, as the temple is known, from her mother, Maria Escolastica da Conceicao Nazare, known as Mother Menininha, after her mother's death 10 years ago.
A towering figure in Afro-Brazilian culture, Mother Menininha helped transform Candomble from a belief whose rituals of animal sacrifice, possession, music and dance were persecuted as a form of devil worship to a religion accepted in the highest levels of society.
Though initially reluctant to give up her nursing career, Mother Cleusa tended her mother and the Gantois temple during her mother's final years of ailing health, eventually agreeing to succeed her, if that were to be her fate.
Though initially reluctant to give up her nursing career, Mother Cleusa tended her mother and the Gantois temple during her mother's final years of ailing health, eventually agreeing to succeed her, if that were to be her fate.
Though initially reluctant to give up her nursing career, Mother Cleusa tended her mother and the Gantois temple during her mother's final years of ailing health, eventually agreeing to succeed her, if that were to be her fate.
Mother Cleusa was not known for initiating any dramatic changes in Candomble, but dedicated herself to tending what her mother had built.
Mother Cleusa was not known for initiating any dramatic changes in Candomble, but dedicated herself to tending what her mother had built.
With the help of wealthy patrons, she renovated the temple and created a memorial to her mother that became a kind of museum of Candomble.
Several times, Mother Cleusa met with President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who once said that he was born ''with one foot in the kitchen,'' an expression suggesting he was part black.
'' Ms. Gattai's husband, Jorge Amado, the author, was also friends with Mother Cleusa.
''She was very much like her mother,'' said Walson Botelho, artistic director of the Bale Folclorico da Bahia, who is a senior figure in another Candomble temple in Salvador.
The natural successor to Mother Cleusa is her eldest daughter, Monica Millet.
Mother Cleusa is survived by three other children as well.
A percussionist for Mr. Gil and other top musicians, Monica Millet, 37, has said she does not intend to take her mother's place as the high priestess of Candomble.
But then again, her mother was once heard to say the same.
      
Her mother, Clara, was considered cold, and their relationship adversarial.
Not until nearly seven decades after the divorce was she able to bury the emotional hatchet that had estranged her from her mother.
Dr. Calderone's own experiences as a mother were also difficult.
She is survived by her companion, Theadora Martens, and her mother, Helen Murphy of Springfield.
      
She grew up in Tokyo, the daughter of a prominent Japanese statesman and a mother who was an American of Japanese descent.
A native of Havana, where her father was a prominent doctor, she attended a convent school in Key West, Fla., then moved to New York with her mother during a period of political instability in Cuba in the 1920's.
Not that her mother was not strict, too.
From the time she was 9, Miss Parla recalled, her mother warned her almost daily that if she did not remain a virgin she would never find a man to marry her.
She got her chance in 1931 after she began working as a 17-year-old cigarette girl at a Greenwich Village nightclub, a job she was able to take over her mother's objections only after promising never to let her father know, agreeing to let her mother serve as on-the-job chaperone and threatening suicide, something Miss Parla did with alarming regularity throughout her life.
She got her chance in 1931 after she began working as a 17-year-old cigarette girl at a Greenwich Village nightclub, a job she was able to take over her mother's objections only after promising never to let her father know, agreeing to let her mother serve as on-the-job chaperone and threatening suicide, something Miss Parla did with alarming regularity throughout her life.
After touring the United States with the Azpiazu orchestra (a musician's wife serving as her chaperone), then dancing with another orchestra at the Tavern on the Green in Central Park, Miss Parla (and her mother) joined Mr. Azpiazu for a European tour in 1932.
The next day Edward summoned Miss Parla to his villa to teach him the rumba, as she did (with her mother tagging along).
mom cum after-school chauffeur with the usual array of committee meetings and volunteer work, Mrs. Lukens, a labor organizer's daughter who was also active in the antinuclear and civil rights movements, did pretty much what any suburban mother of her era did.
Not surprisingly, perhaps, four of Mrs. Lukens's children grew up to go into some form of social work: her oldest son, Mark, is a minister in East Rockaway, N.Y.; Jonathan of Carmel, N.Y., and her daughter, Margaret Byrne, of Orangeburg, N.Y., are clinical social workers and Daniel, of Congers, N.Y., is his mother's successor as executive director of Camp Venture.
When the doctors explained that she wouldn't be able to think or speak, he replied, ''You don't know my mother.
Mr. Rosenberg, now 81, recalled: ''My mother was desperate.
When her mother died when she was 7, he offhandedly invented the take your-daughter-to-work movement.
As a result, it was a decade before a grandfather named Victor Mills completed her mother's work and perfected Pampers, the first mass-produced disposable diaper.
Mrs. Shaw is survived by her husband, Donald H. Shaw; her mother, Martha Henning of Westwood; two other stepdaughters, Victoria Louise Shaw-Williamson and Donaly Shaw, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Jean Cockcroft of Westwood.
      
Her mother's family, originally from Alsace, had moved back to France after Germany occupied the region in the 1870 Franco-Prussian war.
''
        ''My mother had always listened carefully to children,'' Mr. Malsed said, ''so she immediately got father to go to the basement, take the wheels off another toy and try to solder them on a Slinky spring.
Now it moves slowly, a buzzard drifting across the sky, over the carrion earth,
        or swoops, a hawk, to seize the heart of a newborn puppy dropped from his pain-crazy mother.
''The Battle of the Villa Fiorita'' (1963), a novel set in Italy about an adulterous affair seen through the eyes of two children who refuse to allow their mother to leave them and establish a new life, was also made into a film.
She trained in ballet first with her mother, who died when she was 10, and then with the noted Russian teachers Anatole Vilzak and Ludmila Shollar in New York City, where the family moved in 1940.
She was born in Boston, Mass., grew up in Montclair, N.J., and graduated from West Essex High School in North Caldwell, N.J.
        She received her basic training in acting from her mother, Phynjuar Thomas, a stage actress who remained her personal coach for the rest of her career.
Besides her mother and her father, Dennis Thomas, a saxophonist who is the musical director of the band Kool and the Gang, she is survived by her grandfather, Cecil Saunders, and a brother, David, all of Weehawken.
      
She was also the mother of Marie Nyswander Dole, a psychiatrist who pioneered the use of methadone to treat heroin addicts in New York and elsewhere in the early 1970's.
As the mother of two, Miss Lewis willingly put her work aside when her children were young and cheerfully accepted other duties as well.
After two years at a junior college, Miss Lewis completed her education at the University of Chicago, majoring in French while joining the famous Poetry Club and meeting Mr. Winters, who had spent time at a tuberculosis sanitarium in Santa Fe, N.M.
        After a brief stay in Paris after graduation in 1920, Miss Lewis returned to Chicago but soon contracted tuberculosis herself and spent five years at the same sanitarium, engaging in a passionate correspondence with Mr. Winters and eventually marrying him and following him to California, where she threw herself into a satisfying domestic life that included tending to her husband's registered Airedales, harvesting the fruit from the adjacent orchard and serving as a sort of serene den mother to an extended, animated family of her husband's awed acolytes.
She said she felt the obligation, in her courting years, to keep her widowed mother company at home.
