Survivors are her mother, Clarice Lee of La Jolla, Calif., and a sister, Lucille Driskell of Philadelphia.
      
''
        Mrs. Edwards, who was named for her mother and her grandmother, was born in Chicago and grew up in Nashville.

       Susan D. Hanson, a project director for AmeriCares, an international relief agency based in New Canaan, Conn., was killed on Monday along with her mother, Phoebe Dunn, a commercial photographer, and 19 other people in the crash of a Costa Rican airliner near San Jose, the capital city.
She was 49 years old and lived in New
        Susan D. Hanson, a project director for AmeriCares, an international relief agency based in New Canaan, Conn., was killed on Monday along with her mother, Phoebe Dunn, a commercial photographer, and 19 other people in the crash of a Costa Rican airliner near San Jose, the capital city.
She was a tough-talking but tender-souled mother in ''Stella Dallas'' (1937), a slang-slinging showgirl in ''Ball of Fire'' (1941), a lurid blonde who orchestrates her husband's murder in ''Double Indemnity'' (1944) and a bedridden neurotic who learns from telephone quirks that she is marked for murder in ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' (1948).
When she was 4 years old, her mother was killed when a drunken stranger pushed her off a moving streetcar.
She was a tough-talking but vulnerable mother in ''Stella Dallas'' (1937), a slang-slinging showgirl in ''Ball of Fire'' (1941), a lurid blonde who orchestrates her husband's murder in ''Double Indemnity'' (1944) and a bedridden neurotic who learns from telephone quirks that she is marked for murder in ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' (1948).
When she was 4 years old, her mother was killed when a drunken stranger pushed her off a moving streetcar.
She is survived by a daughter, Susan, of Manhattan; her mother, Rae Leventhal, of Pottstown; a brother, Harris, of Cherry Hill, N.J., and a sister, Elizabeth Feifer, of Long Island.
      
Her father died when she was 16, and her mother then managed a boardinghouse.
''
        On TV as Nero's Mother
        In 1958 Miss Gardner left M-G-M and became an independent actress, earning up to $400,000 a movie, most of them made in Europe.
She did not appear on television until 1985, portraying Agrippina, Nero's scheming mother, in ''A.D.,'' a lavish mini-series about the first Christian century, and reviewers hailed her as still very much a star.
For many years Miss Klein raised money for Kingsbrook as president of the Miriam Klein Research Foundation, which was founded by her mother in memory of a sister.
Her mother, Sadie, was an actress in the Yiddish theater, and her father, Isadore, a play producer.

       Margaret Kelly, the mother of the late Princess Grace of Monaco and the matriarch of the famed Kelly family of Philadelphia, died of pneumonia Saturday at a convalescent home here.
Margaret Kelly, the mother of the late Princess Grace of Monaco and the matriarch of the famed Kelly family of Philadelphia, died of pneumonia Saturday at a convalescent home here.
She is survived by her mother, Gloria Marsteller of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Elizabeth A. Gordon of San Francisco.
      
Her mother was the daughter of Isaac Mayer Wise, rabbi of the Plum Street Temple in Cincinnati and founder of American Reform Judaism.
Her mother also took her regularly to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the American Museum of Natural History, and to the theater.

       Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Representative and Vice-Presidential candidate, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the home of her daughter in Forest Hills, Queens.
Antonetta Ferraro, the mother of Geraldine A. Ferraro, the former Representative and Vice-Presidential candidate, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the home of her daughter in Forest Hills, Queens.
Her daughter recalled yesterday that her mother's earnings put her and her brother, Carl, through high school and college.
The daughter, who is married to John A. Zaccaro, has said she kept her maiden name in honor of her mother's struggle to educate her children.
In ''Bronx Primitive,'' she recalled vividly and unsentimentally her early years, her father, a tyrannical shoemaker, and her mother, who believed deeply in learning and in earning her own living before she married.
Her mother, Lillian Carter, had breast cancer that had spread to other organs, including her pancreas, when she died in 1983.
In 1977 she collected letters sent by her mother from India, where Lillian Carter served in the Peace Corps, for a book, ''Away From Home: Letters to My Family.
Mrs. Goldson is survived by two sons from an earlier marriage, Clarence and Bradley Funnye of Manhattan; her mother, Gladys Ensley of Birmingham; two brothers, John and Charles Ensley of Manhattan, and a sister, Jean Ensley, also of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Gugler was following in the steps of her mother, an artist, who acquired almost two dozen homes in the secluded hamlet around the turn of the century and sought out poets, actors and musicians as tenants.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two sons, Winthrop, of Novato, Calif., and Elliot, of Evanston, and her mother, Shirley Tauber of Bellbrook, Ohio.
      
She is survived by her husband, Max; her mother, Agnes Grace Taylor of Gaithersburg, Md.
Her parents separated in her childhood, and she later chose her mother's maiden name, Goddard.
Her film roles included Ryan O'Neal's elegantly cool mother in ''Love Story'' (1970) and appearances in ''America, America'' (1963), ''The Adventurers'' (1970) and ''Teachers'' (1984).
Her father was a carpenter and amateur guitarist and her mother a laundress and church vocalist.
She is survived by her mother, Ada, and a daughter, Deborah Vaughan, who uses the first name Paris for her acting career.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a stepson, Frank M., of Hastings-on-Hudson; her mother, Bridget Rice of Hastings-on-Hudson, and two sisters, Elizabeth Bradley of Ramsey, N.J., and Margaret Dooley of Troy, Mich.
      
She was Mary Raye Gross at her birth on July 15, 1916, but her mother changed her name to Nancy.
She is survived by her husband, Stanley M. Richman; two daughters, Nancy, of Port Washington, L.I., and Deborah, of Morristown, N.J.; and her mother, Belle Rosenberg of South Orange, N.J.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Jennifer, of Washington, and Andrea, of San Francisco; her mother, Ruth Solomon of New York; a brother, Howard Solomon of Bethesda, Md., and a sister, Marquise Sue de Brantes, of St. Armand Lepypre, France.
In addition to her mother, she is survived by a daughter, Marilyn, of Brooklyn, and by her stepfather, Nathan Woodward of Manhattan.
      
''As a child, I was a gangly, skinny thing and I had this ugly front tooth that I broke when I was playing dress-up in my mother's clothes.
''
        She is survived by her mother, Peggy Juba, and a brother, Stanley Juba, both of Fort Lauderdale.
      
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
Ms. Keeble is survived by her daughter, Cayli Cavaco of Manhattan; her mother, Barbara Mott of Bronxville, N.Y., and her sister, Lucy Keeble Wilkinson of Atlanta.
They bought a resort hotel, Laurel-in-the-Pines, at Lakewood, N.J., where their mother became the hostess.
It was the first of many hotels that the Tisch brothers acquired and that their mother helped to run.
Ms. Cason recently played the mother in the television series ''It's Garry Shandling's Show.
Her mother, a professional soprano, gave her singing lessons when she was a child, and she later studied at the Royal Manchester College of Music.
She is survived by her husband, Robert G. Furno; two sons, Courtney, of Brookline, Mass., and Erik, of Cos Cob; her mother, Jean Davis of Stamford, and a brother, Keith Davis of Seattle.
      
She also won critical praise as Sally Field's mother in the 1979 film ''Norma Rae'' and again in 1981 as a business executive in Wendy Wasserstein's play ''Isn't It Romantic.
''
        Miss Moran was born in Pittsburgh but, while still an infant, moved to Paris with her mother, a physician's widow.
Her mother disapproved of her first love, Rupert Leon, a London commodities clerk, and they married in secret.
Her mother refused ever to see her act, considering the stage unsuitable for a well-bred young woman.
; a brother, John Mann of Conesus, N.Y., and her mother, Edna Mann of New York City.
With her mother, Abigail, and other family members, she scoured campuses and the country for votes for the former Minnesota Democratic Senator.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Hyman Lichtenstein; two daughters, Carolyn and Diane; her mother; a sister, and two grandchildren.
      
Miss Bailey's parents were divorced when she was a child, and her mother remarried and moved to Philadelphia.
Miss Bailey's parents were divorced when she was a child, and her mother remarried and moved to Philadelphia.
''
        After the service, Miss Bailey was buried at Rolling Green Memorial Park in nearby West Chester, where her mother and brother are buried.
She is survived by two sons, Konstantine and Alexander, as well as her mother, Alice Papajohn.
      
She is survived by her mother, Frieda Pickard of Yonkers, and two daughters, Beth and Jamie Kushnick, of Manhattan.
      
''I've also been called Mother of the Park.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Robert; three sons, Robert of Seattle, James of Wellesley, Mass., and Jonathan of Williamstown; a daughter, Cary, of Williamstown; her mother, Ruth M. Chapman of Forsyth, Ga., and a sister, Ruth W. Hassler of Steinhatchee, Fla.
      
On the London stage, Miss Seyler played Rosalind in ''As You Like It'' in 1920, Hermia in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' in 1924 and 1933, the heroine's mother in ''Watch on the Rhine'' in 1942, the hero's sister in ''Harvey'' in 1949 and the nurse in ''Romeo and Juliet'' in 1952.
She is survived by her husband, Warren Bennia; her mother, Sylvia Carty of St. Paul, Minn., and two sisters, Celeste Carty of St. Paul, Minn., and Jacqueline Carty of New York City.
      
Her father was a supervisory steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, an accomplished pianist, was her first music teacher.
'' She was the indestructible Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's King in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian-American family in early 20th-century San Francisco in ''I Remember Mama.
) Her father was a steamship inspector for the Federal Government, and her mother, a pianist, was her first music teacher.
''
        A Mother and a Queen
        She also excelled in romantic dramas like ''Penny Serenade'' and ''Love Affair,'' her favorite of her 41 films, and received accolades for two wartime dramas, ''A Guy Named Joe,'' with Spencer Tracy, and ''The White Cliffs of Dover.
'' She was an indomitable Victorian governess to Rex Harrison's monarch in ''Anna and the King of Siam,'' expertly complemented William Powell as Mother in ''Life With Father,'' and was the matriarch of a Norwegian immigrant family in ''I Remember Mama.
In 1972, the plane carrying her father, then the House majority leader, was lost over Alaska, and her mother, Corinne Lindy Claiborne Boggs, succeeded him in Congress.
Mrs. Sigmund's mother's family, the Claibornes, traced its roots to colonial Jamestown in Virginia and is said to have included more members of Congress than any other American family.
In 1982, she decided to run for Congress, hoping she could join her mother on Capitol Hill.
Her mother announced in July that she would not run for re-election to Congress.
Besides her husband, her mother, her brother and her sister, Mrs. Sigmund is survived by three sons, Paul Jr., of Ann Arbor, Mich., David, of Detroit, and Stephen, of New Orleans.
Three decades later, at the suggestion of Robert Moses, then New York City Parks Commissioner, the Freemans, joined by other heirs of Mrs. Freeman's mother, Evalina Ball, gave the estate to the city.
At 4 years old, she sailed to this country with her mother in steerage class.
At 4 years old, she sailed to this country with her mother in steerage class.
She is survived by her mother, Elsie Stern of Manhattan; a daughter, Abigail Rebecca Sims, also of Manhattan; and a brother, John Stern of Cape Neddick, Me.
She was reared by her divorced mother and an aunt.
At 16, she said, "I was dumped by my mother and aunt at the Henry Duffy office in San Francisco and told to get a job acting, which I did.
In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Scott Grabo of Arlington, Va., and a daughter, Carrie Grabo of Woodbury, Vt.; her mother, Pearle Carroll of Las Vegas, and two grandchildren.
      
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Sam Silbergeld; three daughters, Sandra, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Janet Silbergeld and Dr. Nancy Jecker, both of Seattle; a son, Dr. Danie Silbergeld, of Seattle; her mother, Jennie Driscoll, of Beavercreek, Ohio; two sisters, Ruth Hallman, of Beavercreek and Julie Stockman, of Dayton, Ohio; two brothers, Dr. Glenn Driscoll, of Fresno, Calif., and Carl Driscoll, of Lathrup Village, Mich., and two grandchildren.
      
In "The Mother Lover," at the Booth Theater in 1969, she caused something of a sensation by appearing onstage nude with her back to the audience.
Miss French starred Off Broadway in Harold Pinter's "Tea Party" and "The Basement" in 1968, in a 1980 revival of Noel Coward's "Fallen Angels," and as the mother, Helen, in a production of "A Taste of Honey" in 1981.
Ms. Cox is survived by her mother, Olga Wagner, of Union, and two sisters, Sonia Wagner, of Brigantine, N.J., and Mrs. Schmidl, of Middletown, N.J.
      
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
Ambassador to Moscow
        Mrs. Gandhi and Mrs. Pandit were also cool to each other because of what Mrs. Gandhi viewed as her aunt's condescension toward her mother.
Kamala Nehru, Mrs. Gandhi's mother, came from a middle-class Kashmiri Brahmin family and married into the rich, aristocratic Nehru family.
The two-month trial was dominated by the nine days of testimony against her mother by Sukhreet Gabel, the prosecution's star witness, who also taped two telephone conversations with her mother without her knowledge and provided prosecutors with some of her mother's documents.
The two-month trial was dominated by the nine days of testimony against her mother by Sukhreet Gabel, the prosecution's star witness, who also taped two telephone conversations with her mother without her knowledge and provided prosecutors with some of her mother's documents.
The two-month trial was dominated by the nine days of testimony against her mother by Sukhreet Gabel, the prosecution's star witness, who also taped two telephone conversations with her mother without her knowledge and provided prosecutors with some of her mother's documents.
Then, easily shifting images again, she was an elegant, witty and nurturing mother in two classic film comedies directed by Vincente Minnelli: "Father of the Bride" (1950) and "Father's Little Dividend" (1951), co-starring Spencer Tracy and Elizabeth Taylor.
"
        She is survived by her mother, Barbara Detro, a brother and a sister.
      
The stately, spirited character actress won a 1945 Academy Award as the mother of Elizabeth Taylor in "National Velvet.
Miss Revere was also the understanding mother of John Garfield in "Body and Soul" (1947) and of Montgomery Clift in "A Place in the Sun" (1951).
"
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Selby-Wright is survived by her mother, Mary Chamberlain, and a sister, Claire Wright, both of England.
A week after graduation she married the editor of her college newspaper, Leonard Chusmir, and soon became a mother and homemaker.
Besides her brother, she is survived by her mother, Gussie Tuzzolo of Woodhaven; a sister, Carmela Reichert of Jamaica, Queens, and another brother, Anthony, of Mineola, L.I.
      
