Her mother, Edith Whittemore, was American, and her father, Jacques Le Clercq, was a French poet and writer.
Her mother fought for women's suffrage, racial equality and prison reform.
Many of her relatives were killed by the Bolsheviks in 1918, but she and her mother escaped to Sweden.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Ball is survived by her mother, Lillian Harwell Carter of Pulaski, Tenn.; a sister, Paige Carter Garner of Nashville; and a daughter, Jayne Denison Ball of the Marshall Islands.
      
''She and her mother conducted themselves in a dignified way at a time questions about this as a proper practice were beginning to be raised,'' Mr. Bogdan said in an interview.
Her brother William, her only survivor, said her condition resulted from a botched appendectomy on her pregnant mother, which severed her arms and legs while she was in the womb.
From the beginning, her mother insisted she do as much as possible for herself.
With her mother and sister accompanying her, as they did throughout her performing career, the 9-year-old girl joined a man who lifted weights with his eyelids and a 4-year-old girl with four legs and three arms in what Mr. Ripley had named his Odditorium.
''
        She repeated the five-minute show many times each hour through what was often a 16-hour day, with her mother hovering nearby.
''
        Then the mother and daughter returned home to Pennsylvania, but they soon received a call from the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus.
In the early 1960's, she, her mother, her sister and her brother-in-law decided to move to Orange County, Calif., where Mr. Pushnik had settled.
As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.
Mrs. Kenward later said of her mother, ''She was very pretty but very immoral.
From girlhood, when she repeatedly read Dr. Benjamin Spock's ''Baby and Child Care'' to qualify for a Girl Scout child care merit badge, to grandmotherhood, when she led the weekly new mothers' group at Ansche Chesed Temple on the Upper West Side, she seemed the perfect mother, but her mission was to tell mothers that they did not have to be perfect.
''She was my mother, but I lent her out a lot,'' said her daughter Heidi E. Murkoff.
''She was sort of foster mother to the world.
Without extensive advertising, demand grew by what the authors called ''word of mother,'' with sales now totaling 9.6 million copies in 31 languages.
''It used to be you could get all the good information about raising your kids from your mother,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1999.
The mother and daughter and another daughter, Sandee E. Hathaway, a nurse, teamed up to fill the void.
When Arlene was 16, her mother took her to an Eddie Fisher concert at the Paramount Theater.
Mrs. Eisenberg did not need a guidebook to be a different kind of mother.
; and Mrs. Murkoff, of Santa Barbara, Calif., Mrs. Eisenberg is survived by her mother, Mildred Scharaga of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a brother, Victor Scharaga of Washington; and six grandchildren.
Her mother, Nettie Cox Ransom, was a teacher.
She is survived by her mother, Ruth Jaffe, who married Rona Jaffe's father, and a sister, Susan Chapin of Washington.
      
When her teachers recommended further study in Paris, she left Bulgaria at age 11 with her mother.
She never saw her father again but was eventually reunited with her mother and sister.
With Mrs. Freedman's father devoting most of his time to Jewish studies, the business was run by her mother.
When she and her mother took a trip to their Austrian hometown to show Mrs. Freedman's grandparents that she was really alive, World War I had broken out, and the Russians had invaded Austria.
She was overjoyed at the great-granddaughter's birth, and always advised the child's mother, her granddaughter, Dana Walden, who is president of 20th Century Fox Television, not to get caught in grief when loved ones died.
Ms. Fisher described her mother, Ona, as ''a great lady who brought me up to know there's no such thing as 'I can't.
She is survived by her mother, Adiaha Essien, and two brothers, Ebakuwa and Sema Essien, all of Baltimore.
      
Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that her mother had suffered adverse effects from her advancing age and from strokes and was ''often confused in her mind, and in fragile health.
Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her book that years later her mother told her: ''If only he had listened to me.
Her mother was Elizabeth Reeve Cutter Morrow, an educator and poet who was Smith College's acting president in 1939 and 1940 and who publicly criticized her daughter and son-in-law for their America First views.
Reeve's baby was known as Jonny, and she wrote in her book: ''Jonny too died in the night, and I, like my mother before me, was apart from my son during his last moments.
''
        Jonny's death, while he and his mother were staying with Anne Morrow Lindbergh in Connecticut, was caused by ''a seizure related to infant encephalitis,'' his mother wrote.
''
        Jonny's death, while he and his mother were staying with Anne Morrow Lindbergh in Connecticut, was caused by ''a seizure related to infant encephalitis,'' his mother wrote.
Reeve recalled that she and her mother made the necessary emergency telephone calls, and ''Then, because she insisted upon it, my mother and I went and sat together with Jonny's body, in two chairs, next to the crib where he had gone to sleep the night before.
Reeve recalled that she and her mother made the necessary emergency telephone calls, and ''Then, because she insisted upon it, my mother and I went and sat together with Jonny's body, in two chairs, next to the crib where he had gone to sleep the night before.
She is survived by her husband; her mother, Phyllis Feigenbaum of East Norwich; and her brother, Richard Roth of Seattle.
And to interviewers, Mrs. Bevington professed delight with the censure of her book, which described how her mother divorced her father for carrying on with younger female parishioners.
''
        Ms. Rutherford was born in Texas to a black mother, Margaret Lee, and a white father, William McCann.
Although she stopped dancing in 1965, Ms. Akesson's role as a founding mother of Swedish modern dance was increasingly recognized in the last 30 years, and she was awarded the gold medal of the Swedish Academy in 1998.
Although she and Birgit Cullberg, who was considered the other founding mother of Swedish modern dance, had their roots in German Expressionist dance, Ms. Akesson did not share Ms. Cullberg's interest in ballet or dance-drama.
Mrs. Tafoya always prayed to Mother Clay before working.
''You can't go to Mother Clay without the cornmeal and ask her permission to touch her,'' the museum Web site quotes Mrs. Tafoya as saying.
''Talk to Mother Clay.
Her mother, Sara Fina Gutierrez Tafoya, or Autumn Leaf, was ''undoubtedly the outstanding Tewa potter of her time,'' Mary Ellen and Laurence Blair wrote in ''Margaret Tafoya: A Tewa Potter's Heritage and Legacy'' (Schiffer, 1986).
Five of the couple's eight children became excellent potters, driven and inspired by their perfectionist mother.
She and her siblings made their first pottery when their mother tossed them pieces of clay.
''
        Her mother allowed the young girl to sell her first piece of pottery to a Santa Fe dealer.
She enjoyed ballroom dance classes, and her mother, who invented Ninette de Valois as a stage name, considered her talented.
Ann Sothern was born Harriette Lake on Jan. 22, 1909, in Valley City, N.D., where her mother, a concert singer, was on tour.
Of Danish stock, she was raised in Minnesota by her mother and grandmother after her father, a meat salesman and womanizer, deserted the family when she was 5.
She spent a year at the University of Washington before joining her mother, who was a singing teacher in Hollywood.
In 1965 she played her most bizarre role, as the voice of the mother of Jerry Van Dyke reincarnated as a 1928 Porter automobile in the television series ''My Mother the Car.
In 1965 she played her most bizarre role, as the voice of the mother of Jerry Van Dyke reincarnated as a 1928 Porter automobile in the television series ''My Mother the Car.
A series of oil pastel paintings titled ''Breast Cancer Journal: Walking With the Ghosts of My Grandmothers'' (1992-1993) included historical information and statistical data on the disease, from which Ms. Sigler's mother and grandmother also suffered.
''
        When she was cast in the mime role of Giselle's mother in 1944, Mr. Martin wrote, ''Who should turn up but Maria Karnilova, of all people, playing delightfully and obviously having the time of her life.
Because she came from a wealthy  family, the Whitneys (her mother was Dorothy Payne Whitney), she never had to act for a living but was dedicated to the art of theater.
She attended the Lincoln School in New York and Dartington Hall Community in Devonshire, England, a school founded by her mother and stepfather, Leonard Elmhirst.
'' In 1986 she was in Mr. Lumet's film ''Power'' and in 1991 played Goldie Hawn's mother in ''Deceived.
Hunter, was a professor and her mother, Minna, taught in the local school system.

        Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Krakauer is survived by a son, the clarinetist David Krakauer; a daughter, Lisa Schultz, of San Jose, Calif.; a brother, Dr. Theodore Lieberman of New York; and her mother, Jean H. Lieberman of Florida.
      
She is survived by her mother, Margery McCorkle, of Oakland, Calif.; and two sisters, Margery Pinson, of Texas, and Kate McCorkle, of Santa Monica, Calif.
      
She is survived by her mother, Margery McCorkle, of Oakland, Calif.; and two sisters, Margery Pinson of Texas, and Kate McCorkle of Santa Monica, Calif.
Her mother was the office manager at Il Progresso, the Italian newspaper.
Her mother was a Jehovah's Witness who worked as a waitress, and her father, who died in 1999, was a factory worker.
Because the rights to their image had been sold, they said later, their parents were not allowed to photograph them and visits from Oliva and their mother, Elzier, were discouraged.
Makhaele's mother died years ago.
F. W. de Klerk visited her when he was president, and his predecessor, P. W. Botha, visited her mother.
She is survived by her husband, Scott Robertson, and her mother, Ilse Hilliard of Homer City.

        Lyubov Sokolova, a Russian actress whose roles in more than 300 movies in the years after World War II shaped the image of the Soviet wife and mother, died on June 6 at her home in Moscow.
Her mother sold fabrics in a store.
She is survived by her mother, Harriet Jones Findlay, and two brothers, David B. Findlay Jr. and H. Peter Findlay, both of whom have art galleries in Manhattan.
      
Ms. Wheelwright eventually deeded the ranch to Ms. Chabot, who sold it in the 1960's to move to Albuquerque to care for her elderly mother.
Mrs. Graham was one of the most powerful figures in American journalism and, for the last decades of her life, at the pinnacle of Washington's political and social establishments, a position this insecure wife and mother never imagined she would, or could, occupy.
''
        Mrs. Graham was a socialite mother of four when her husband, Philip L. Graham, committed suicide in 1963.
Her mother, the former Agnes Ernst, was a tall, self-absorbed woman of intellectual and artistic ambition.
Her father was often away working, her mother traveling and writing  letters home about her social conquests.
Donald Graham succeeded his mother as publisher in 1979 and chief executive of the company in 1991, a company which by then was valued at nearly $2 billion.
So she bicycled from village to village with mimeographed sheets telling what she had learned from books and from her mother, who was a doctor, about the rhythm method.
But she returned to Jackson during the 1950's, when her mother and brothers fell seriously ill. For almost 15 years, from the mid-50's to the late 60's, she published just a few short stories, some book reviews and a children's book, ''The Shoe Bird'' (1964).
After the deaths of her mother and brothers, she returned in the 70's with the novels ''Losing Battles'' and ''The Optimist's Daughter.
Miss Welty's mother, who had heard that Miller was a writer of obscene books, banned him from  their house.
She used inexpensive, familiar toys and interspersed her presentation with unobtrusive lessons:
        ''Ask your mother where to play with it,'' for a homemade musical instrument.
In addition to Mr. Keene, she is survived by her mother, Gladys Foreman of Los Angeles.
      
Her father, Viktor, was a sculptor, and her mother, Signe Hammarsten-Jansson, was a versatile designer.
When Mrs. Milstein was 10, she boarded a ship to New York with her mother and younger brother to escape Nazi persecution.
'' Then, cast as Georgette Thomas, a young mother whose husband has deserted her in Mr. Foote's 1954 drama ''The Traveling Lady,'' Ms. Stanley so dominated the stage that she was given star billing two days after the play's premiere.
Her parents were divorced when she was a young girl, and she and her three brothers were raised by her mother, an interior decorator who moved the family from New Mexico to Texas.
''
        As it turned out, she did neither, but she did return to films in 1982 in ''Frances,'' in which she played the ambitious, devouring mother of the actress Frances Farmer (Jessica Lange).
She is survived by her husband, of Bristol, R.I., her mother, a brother and a sister.
When ''Out of the Past'' was remade 37 years later as ''Against All Odds,'' she came out of semi-retirement to play the mother of the character she had originally played in 1947.
During World War II, when she was about 19, her mother, who worked for the War Department, saw to it that Jane was one of three young women selected to model uniforms for the new Women's Army Corps.
She was one of three children raised by her mother after her father, a military officer, was killed in World War I.
She says she inherited her spirit of giving from her mother.
She had a distant relationship with her father for decades after he and  her mother, the actress Jane Wyman, divorced in 1948.
In addition to her father, stepmother and siblings, she is also survived by her mother.
''
        In 1955, the year after her graduation from Radcliffe, she took off for Europe with an eye to ''blotting out,'' she later reported, her parents' unhappy marriage and her mother's suicidal depressions.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Virginia, of Chicago, and Kimberly, of Yonkers; a son, William, of Mahopac; and her mother, Elizabeth Roos of Yonkers.
      

        Gale Cincotta, a plainspoken mother of six who became a neighborhood activist and went on to help ignite the national debate over bank lending policies that discriminated against minority home buyers, died Wednesday at a hospital in Maywood, Ill. She was 72.
''She is mother, conscience, death, negation, tender care,'' he wrote, ''and she manages with great eloquence, to be both cruel and compassionate.
Ms. Perkins was educated in Switzerland, France and Italy, traveled widely and was introduced to the famous people in her mother's and grandmother's social world.
In addition to her sister, of New York, Ms. Perkins is survived by her sons, both of Los Angeles, and her mother, the Marchesa Cacciapuoti di Giugliano, of Paris.
While visiting New York in early July, she told friends she planned to see her sister and mother in Europe and then return to her Cape Cod cottage.
      
''
        Ms. Raines is survived by her husband, Stephen Push, a former vice president for corporate communications at Genzyme; her father, Arthur Raines of Lovettsville, Va.; her mother, Marilyn Raines of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas Raines, of Wayland, Mass.
      
Miss McGuire is perhaps best remembered for her portrayal of Katie Nolan, the mother in the 1945 film of Betty Smith's novel ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.
''
        Another signature role that showcased Miss McGuire's ability to project simplicity, warmth and forbearance was that of the wife of Jess Birdwell (Gary Cooper) and the mother of Josh Birdwell (Anthony Perkins) in ''Friendly Persuasion,'' William Wyler's 1956 film about a Quaker family living in southern Indiana during the Civil War.
''Claudia'' was a hit, and so was its sequel, ''Claudia and David,'' in which Claudia becomes a mother.
''
        Kay Waweehie Teer, whose mother was half-Cherokee and half-Comanche, was born on a farm near Granger, Tex., on Aug. 16, 1914.
Mrs. Crawford and her mother then squatted in a succession of vacant houses, stealing from gardens to eat.
In later decades, Ms. Foster took on a range of classical roles, including Titania and Hippolyta in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' Andromache in ''The Trojan Women'' and the mother in ''Blood Wedding.
The mother is the last to leave the stage, a moment that was tailor-made for Ms. Foster's quiet power.
Her father was a florist, and her mother was a painter who frequently took her daughter to museums.

        Lady Jean Rankin, who held an archaic job as a Woman of the Bedchamber to Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, for more than 40 years, died in Edinburgh on Oct. 3.
''
        Lady Jean, who was appointed a Woman of the Bedchamber in 1947, was only five years younger than the Queen Mother and was the last of her ladies-in-waiting to have been almost of the same generation.
Lady Jean called the Queen Mother ''an easy boss to work for'' and was by her side when she had surgery, as well as when such nasty details as money had to be addressed on shopping expeditions.
Until 1994, when she moved to a nursing home in Edinburgh, she continued to serve the Queen Mother from time to time, mainly accompanying her to private dinner parties.
Elizabeth Longford in ''The Queen Mother'' recorded her remark about the convenience of the Royal Yacht for a traveling queen, as well as telling of the time she and the queen were thrown to the floor of their touring car in Tasmania when the car stopped suddenly.
The New York Times reported in November 1954 that the Queen Mother, whose daughter's coronation had taken place a year earlier, stopped by a day-care center during a visit to New York.
A child of international origin -- she was born in Toronto to a Scottish mother and a Dutch father -- Ms. van der Vlis studied at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts in London and acted in Canada before moving to New York in the spring of 1956.
Mary Beth Waits related a technique her mother suggested she follow.
Her father died when she was 9, and she did not get along well with her mother.
''
        She is survived by her father, Francis Coleman; her mother, Ann Beach; and her sister, Lisa.
      
Her mother, who had trained as a nurse, worked as the manager of a restaurant.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
She also became a den mother to hundreds of photographers.
Her mother, who had trained as a nurse, worked as the manager of a restaurant.
I don't think God wanted a world in which a woman would have to work 14 hours a day to support her family, as my mother had done.
Her mother was a concert pianist, and Ms. Gurney soon found herself drawn to the arts, taking classes at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art and later gravitating to London's West End.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Eric Fischman of Boston; two daughters, Sharon Fischman of Bethesda, Md., and Amanda Fischman Henshon of Boston; a stepson, Marc Kleber of Manhattan; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Kleber of Philadelphia and Pamela Shad of Greenwich, N.Y.; her mother, Sarah Weinbaum of Philadelphia; a brother, George Weinbaum of Philadelphia; four grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
      
But Ms. Donovan's outgoing personality masked an ambivalent relationship with her mother, Margaret, and an isolated childhood spent with grandparents.
She and her sister, Joan Donovan, saw nothing of their father, who left the family early, and the girls did not live regularly with their mother until 1942, when the independent-minded Margaret was working for a war production factory in Brooklyn.
Her father was an electrician and her mother a catering manager.
In 1961, her husband and her mother died.
Her father was French, her mother English.
Her mother, Resia, was also an artist.
In addition to her husband and sister, she is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan.
Ms. Voorsanger is survived by her husband, Bartholomew Voorsanger, an architect who designed the renovation of the Asia Society and the expansion of the Morgan Library; her mother, Beatrice Slater, of San Rafael, Calif.; and her sister, Holly de Montmarin, of Paris.

        Mary Whitehouse, a British schoolteacher and mother of three who for more than 30 years campaigned vociferously against sex, violence and blasphemy on television, stage and screen, died on Nov. 23 in Colchester, England.
Her mother, Mercedes de Cordoba, was a model for Edward Steichen.
In ''Cockaboody'' (1973), Emily and Georgia played at being grown-up mothers and glancingly mulled the death of their own mother.
''Step by Step'' (1979) projects mother love against the impossibility of protecting children in a world of foul water and limited food.
