Her mother, Margaret Petherbridge Farrar, was the first crossword puzzle editor of The New York Times.
One of those ubiquitous actresses who always seemed to be working, Ms. Heckart was perhaps most widely known for her television appearances as Mary Richards's Aunt Flo on the Mary Tyler Moore show, for example, or more recently for her recurring role of the mother of the lawyer James Wyler in the ABC drama ''Murder One.
''
        Her best-remembered film roles include the mother of Rocky Graziano in ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' (1956) Marilyn Monroe's waitress friend in ''Bus Stop'' (also 1956) and the overbearing mother of the blind boy in ''Butterflies Are Free,'' for which she won the Academy Award as best supporting actress in 1972.
''
        Her best-remembered film roles include the mother of Rocky Graziano in ''Somebody Up There Likes Me'' (1956) Marilyn Monroe's waitress friend in ''Bus Stop'' (also 1956) and the overbearing mother of the blind boy in ''Butterflies Are Free,'' for which she won the Academy Award as best supporting actress in 1972.
She played her share of drinkers --  like the spinster teacher in ''Picnic'' in 1953 and the alcoholic mother whose son drowns in ''The Bad Seed'' in 1955, both on Broadway.
Her father, Leo Herbert Heckart, took her younger brother to live with him, she said, but she remained with her mother, Esther, who was married five times.
'' Then ''Butterflies are Free'' on Broadway with Keir Dullea and Blythe Danner, in which she played Mr. Dullea's mother.
In 1965, she created the role of the disapproving mother in the Broadway production of ''Barefoot in the Park,'' while also appearing in episodes of television series like ''Gunsmoke'' and ''The FBI.
The last of these was ''Annie McGuire,'' in 1988, in which Ms. Heckart played Mary Tyler Moore's mother.
''
        Correction:  January 4, 2002, Friday  An obituary of the actress Eileen Heckart on Wednesday referred incorrectly to her Broadway appearance as the mother (Mrs. Banks) in ''Barefoot in the Park.
Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942.
Her mother died when she was 4 and her father remarried.

        Edith Bouvier Beale, once a successful model and aspiring actress who later lived a gothic life in Grey Gardens, a dilapidated 28-room house in East Hampton, N.Y., with her mother and dozens of cats, raccoons and opossums, was found dead in her small apartment in Bal Harbour, Fla., on Jan. 14.
At one point in the film, Ms. Beale's mother, who had the same name (they were publicly known as Big Edie and Little Edie), laughs when a cat relieves itself behind a youthful portrait of her propped against a bedroom wall.
In it, the daughter has returned to care for her mother, and repeatedly suggests that life has passed her by as a result.
The mother's manner is forcefully controlling.
Edith, the mother, also incurred the wrath of her father, Major Bouvier, by showing up at the wedding of her son dressed like an opera star, just as the ceremony ended.
Whether on the verge of success or not, she was called home to Grey Gardens by her mother, who said she was ill and needed her.
''She had no mother and no father, and that was of course very nice because there was no one to tell her to go to bed just when she was having the most fun, and no one who could make her take cod liver oil when she much preferred caramel candy,'' the book begins.
Night after night she nagged her mother to tell her a story.
Her mother gamely complied.
Her mother was long dead; her sailor father had been lost at sea, though Pippi was confident he had come ashore on a South Sea island where ''he had become king of all the cannibals.
Her mother, Tanya, was, in Ms. Phillips's words, a difficult and depressive woman who drove her daughter to intellectual pursuits.
''Understand, I wasn't a pariah because I was a drug-addicted, alcoholic, rotten person and not a good mother,'' she said.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Louis Reiss; two sons, Dr. Prasad Jallepalli and Satish Jallepalli; two stepdaughters, Shauna and Stephanie Reiss; her mother, Radha Rampalli; and three sisters, Padma, Sita and Vijayanti Rampalli.
      
Her mother moved to Berlin to take up factory work.
''
        Correction:  February 15, 2002, Friday  Because of an editing error, a television review on Feb. 4 about ''Bertie and Elizabeth,'' a ''Masterpiece Theater'' presentation on the life of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, misstated the policy of the Church of England on divorce, a factor in the abdication of her brother-in-law King Edward VIII, who became the Duke of Windsor.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
She married Lazar Radley, a Russian immigrant and a tailor, because, she said, ''I was young, my mother worried about me, he wanted to marry me and so I did.
Her mother was a dressmaker and her father a tailor who had made military uniforms for Russian aristocrats.
She married Lazar Radley, a Russian immigrant and a tailor, because, she said, ''I was young, my mother worried about me, he wanted to marry me and so I did.
Her father was a textile manufacturer and her mother an accomplished pianist.
As a girl, she made several trips to Europe with her mother and was impressed by Expressionist painters like Edvard Munch.
In 1960, she was captured while trying to flee on foot over the Himalayas with her mother, aunt and aged grandmother.
Her mother, aunt and grandmother had died.
Within a few days his character was killed off in an accident, much to the horror of his mother and the viewers.
Her father was Hungarian and her mother Austrian.
At the age of 13, Theresa entered a convent to fulfill a promise her mother had made to an order of nuns.
She eventually left, promising her mother that she would ''do more good from outside the cloistered walls.
Her mother, Jean Schick Grossman, was a parent educator, and her father, Max Grossman, was a lawyer and president of the Ethical Culture Society of New York.

        Rosetta LeNoire, a theatrical producer and a pioneer of nontraditional casting who also played the sweet, all-knowing Mother Winslow on the television show ''Family Matters,'' died on Sunday in Teaneck, N.J. She was 90.
When she was a child, her mother died of pneumonia at the age of 27 after giving birth to her brother in a Harlem hospital corridor because segregated policies barred her from a room.
She played Nell Carter's mother, Mama, on NBC's ''Gimme a Break'' and was Mother Winslow on ABC's ''Family Matters'' for eight years.
She played Nell Carter's mother, Mama, on NBC's ''Gimme a Break'' and was Mother Winslow on ABC's ''Family Matters'' for eight years.
She later described the household as strict and religious and said that her mother briefly toured the country with Carry Nation, campaigning against alcohol.

        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23.
Lakshmi, a vibrant performer who was schooled in her mother's nuanced approach to gesture, was noted for her improvisation within Bharata Natyam's set forms.
Born in Madras on Oct. 30, 1943, Lakshmi grew up in a home filled with music and dance but studied political science at college before she asked her mother to give her formal lessons.

        Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, the enduringly popular grande dame of the British royal family and the country's most beloved symbol of courage and self-sacrifice during World War II, died in her sleep this afternoon at the Royal Lodge at Windsor Palace, a spokesman for her daughter, Queen Elizabeth II, announced.
In a life longer than the 20th century, the queen mother presided over a period of turbulence and change in Britain, helping to sustain the monarchy through the most serious crises to befall it in modern times.
''
        Many years later, through the traumas of the divorce and then the death of Diana, the Princess of Wales, her granddaughter-in-law, the queen mother proved to be the royal family's most resiliently popular member, providing the country with a rock-steady reason for remaining a monarchy.
]
        When King George died in 1952, she was thrust at the age of 51 into what would be the longest role of her life: that of the queen mother, necessarily taking a back seat to her daughter, Queen Elizabeth.
''She is the nation's favorite great-grandmother, seemingly known intimately to all of us for years,'' The Times of London declared in 1985, on the occasion of the queen mother's 85th birthday (she celebrated it by flying on the Concorde).
''
        Ben Pimlott, the historian and royal biographer, wrote in 1997 that the queen mother was ''the last survivor of the tiny club of center-stage actors of the Second World War.
Wanting to protect her mother from bad news, Elizabeth made sure to waylay the mailman every morning so that she could read the mail first.
''My mother does not approve of cocktails and thinks you should have a cup of tea,'' Roosevelt said.
''Neither does my mother,'' the king replied.
''
        In the past, widowed mothers of monarchs were known as queen dowagers, but Elizabeth rejected that title in favor of the more impressive one she held to her death: Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother.
As queen mother, she lost neither her formidability nor her ability to influence.
The new queen was just 25 when she ascended the throne, and relied heavily on the advice of her mother.
The operators at Clarence House, which became the queen mother's official residence, soon became used to putting through her daughter's daily telephone call: ''Your majesty?
''
        Another Divorce Crisis
        Soon afterward, another crisis befell the monarchy when Princess Margaret, the queen mother's younger daughter, fell in love with a divorced man, Peter Townsend, a hero of the Battle of Britain.
It is unclear what role her mother played in the queen's decision to inform Margaret that she would have to give up her royal status and leave the country if she married Mr. Townsend, but the lessons of Edward's abdication were surely not lost to her now.
Margaret died on Feb. 9, predeceasing her mother by less than two months.
Bolstered by a large staff, a number of houses at her disposal, and an allowance of more than $1 million a year from Parliament, the queen mother kept up a busy schedule that began to ease up only when she was in her 80's.
In recent years, there were niggling criticisms of the queen mother: that she was a bon vivant who spent far beyond her means; that she kept too many houses and employed too many servants and generally thought too much of her own comfort.
But the queen mother thought it delightful.
''
        Correction:  April 1, 2002, Monday  An obituary of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother yesterday misstated the name of the royal estate where she died.
Correction:  April 3, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother on Sunday misstated the date of Hitler's invasion of Poland in 1939, which prompted the cabinet to suggest that she take her daughters to Canada.
Her father was Hungarian and her mother Austrian.
At the age of 13, Theresa entered a convent to fulfill a promise her mother had made to an order of nuns.
She eventually left, promising her mother that she would ''do more good from outside the cloistered walls.
Her mother, with tears in her eyes, sent her off to Accra with just a sixpence.
Besides Ms. Goebert, she is survived by her mother, Sarah Hewett, of Lake Charles, La., and her brother, Barton Hewett, of Palm Springs, Calif.
      
''
        Mrs. Reagan called Mrs. Sawyer ''a dear friend'' who shared many joyful and sad moments, including the times when Mrs. Reagan learned she had breast cancer and when her mother died.
Her parents separated shortly afterward, and she was raised by her mother, who was an active Jewish socialist.
She inherited much of her mother's political philosophy, becoming a member of the Jewish Labor Bund, an organization founded in Czarist Russia to promote a brand of Marxist socialism that would provide cultural autonomy for Jews.
Her father was a police officer, and her mother held Tupperware parties.
''
        Ms. Harrison was converted to the Jehovah's Witnesses faith by her mother when she was 9; she went door to door carrying its message.
Her daughter said her mother returned to the religion of her early childhood, Roman Catholicism, in her 40's, partly as a result of interviewing Dorothy Day of the Catholic Worker movement and partly because she hoped to meet in heaven the high school English teacher who had first appreciated her writing.
      
Known to her followers as Mataji, which means mother, she was a student of Sri Tirumalai Krishnamacharya, the legendary guru who gained worldwide attention for stopping his heartbeat for two minutes.
Her father was a Swedish bank director, and her mother was a Russian noblewoman.
She attended drama school in Moscow as a girl, and escaped to Berlin with her mother when the Communists came to power in 1917.
Her mother, Josefina Guereña, bore 16 children, of which 12 survived.
Her mother drove an ambulance in France during World War I.
Martha Levinson said her mother was motivated by the vastly different experiences of two dying relatives: her brother died alone and miserable with hospital officials barring visits; while her mother died at home surrounded by loved ones.
Martha Levinson said her mother was motivated by the vastly different experiences of two dying relatives: her brother died alone and miserable with hospital officials barring visits; while her mother died at home surrounded by loved ones.
She is survived by her mother, Ramelle Monsky of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Max, and two daughters, Samantha and Montana, all of Santa Barbara; a sister, Robin Monsky of Chicago; and a brother, Henry Monsky of Omaha.
      
A review in Back Stage said that in her role as a mother, she ''proves that passing time cannot deter a real trouper.
In addition to her sister Tracy, of San Francisco, she is survived by her mother, Frances Brown, of Grand Junction, Colo.; a brother, William, of Leawood, Kan.; and another sister, Jesslyn Brown Stevens, of Sioux Falls, S.D.
      
In 1994, with a grant from the American Film Institute, she made a short film, ''To Catch a Tiger,'' inspired by her mother's work as a civil rights activist in the South.
The screenplay was written by Ms. Abady's husband, Michael Krawitz, and starred her sister as her mother.
And she had no mother to interfere with her adventures.
Most recently, Ms. Gould published a critically praised memoir, ''Mommy Dressing: A Love Story, After a Fashion'' (Anchor/Doubleday, 1998), a cleareyed recollection of life with her glamorous, remote mother, the fashion designer Jo Copeland.
Her mother, whose designs were prized by the social lights of New York, Hollywood and Europe, was consumed by her passion for her work and her distaste for her children.
In ''Such Good Friends,'' Julie Messinger, a young mother, uncovers a similar diary as her husband lies dying.
In an evocative passage about her mother, she recalled a bittersweet childhood ritual: watching Jo Copeland at her vanity table as she prepared for an evening out.
''Everything I knew about my mother, Jo Copeland, happened right there,'' Ms. Gould continued.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
Barbara Anne Betts was born on Oct. 10, 1910, in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, the daughter of a socialist tax inspector who taught himself ancient Greek and a strongly socialist mother, both of Quaker background.
Ms. Hogan is survived by her mother, Elta Hogan of Cherokee.
''
        Zena Karras was born in Winthrop, Mass., in 1915 and moved with her mother to Chicago after her parents divorced.
Ms. Jordan's mother was deeply depressed and eventually committed suicide.
Her association with the concerts began when she was in her 30's and started assisting her mother, Minnie Guggenheimer, who had founded and run the concerts.
After her mother's death in 1966, Mrs. Untermeyer took over.
By now Mrs. Lederer was an affluent housewife and the mother of a daughter.
By now Mrs. Lederer was an affluent housewife and the mother of a daughter.
Her mother took her to Hollywood, where, at 14, Dolores began performing in clubs.
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
; two grandchildren; a sister, Florence Roher of White Plains; and her mother, Shirley Rodkinson, also of White Plains.
      
She survived a disastrous marriage to the actor Jose Ferrer; she was scarred by the assassination of her friend Robert Kennedy, which she witnessed first hand; she abused drugs and had affairs that disappointed and wounded her; she had a childhood of uncertainty with an affably alcoholic father and a mother who eventually deserted the family.
Rosemary and her siblings were sent to live with her mother's family, the Guilfoyles.
During the Depression, she was short on money and worked in her mother's dress shop.
Her mother, the former Bessie Holmes, remarried and moved with her daughter to Riverside, Calif., and then Los Angeles.
She then gave up the beginning of a career in ballet to travel around the world with her mother, who had been widowed again.
Her mother, Lucy Wellburn Naish, was one of the first British women to become a doctor, and four of the Naish children became doctors as well.
Her father, who worked for the federal government in charge of Medicare and Medicaid in the Northeast, and her mother, an antiques dealer, hoped for the best: that she would perhaps snare a job as a secretary in an insurance office.
She accompanied her mother, a schoolteacher, to the Ministry of Education, where they had a chance exchange in an elevator with Rivera, then a renowned artist in his 40's working on murals in the building.
''He asked my mother if he could make some drawings of me,'' Mrs. Olmedo recalled.
Her father was a fruit wholesaler and her mother a columnist for a local newspaper, The Spokane Register.
Keith Robinson said his mother's influence lived on in the indigenous people who still speak Hawaiian and in the population of rare monk seals on the coastline.
Although she was an heiress with substantial means -- ''My mother had mucho money,'' she said in one interview -- she liked to count the money she earned when she began playing in the subway in the 1980's, sometimes carrying coins to a delicatessen near her house to trade them for bills.
''
        Ms. Hellman's daughter, Daisy Paradis, said that her mother, who sometimes smoked a pack of Salems a day, had slowed down only slightly over the last few years.
She claimed, for example, to be the first person ever on television and radio; that Ignace Paderewski told her mother she would be the finest pianist in the world; that she was kicked out of a German music conservatory for being overqualified.
Ms. Pamela was born in St. Louis, and her mother was a concert pianist and composer.
After performing in St. Louis theaters, she moved to Fresno, Calif., where she managed the Fresno Storyland amusement park (she also played Mother Goose there).
She was born in Manhattan, and her mother died when she was a young child.
In addition to her husband, Ms. Reinhart is survived by her daughter, Ariane M. Reinhart of New York; her mother, Florence Keren of Washington; and three stepsons, Taylor, of Los Angeles; Adam, of Honolulu; and Scott, of Geneseo, N.Y.
      
Her mother and stepfather moved the family to Miami Beach when she was 10, and there she developed a taste for the theater.
For nearly 30 years on various stations in Monroe, Ms. Toliver presided over a show that mostly consisted of her reading advertisements back to back for businesses like Bubba's Fish Market, Amco Bail Bonds and Mother Helen, a spiritual adviser.
''You would not notice much difference in our life now from when I was a girl or my mother was a girl,'' Mrs. Coblentz said in an Associated Press interview in 2000.
In a letter before Mrs. Coblentz's death, Betty Watters of Independence, Mo., wrote, ''Your letters remind me of my mother -- her chickens, gardens, canning, cleaning, working every day in fields by Dad's side and clean-smelling laundry whipping and snapping in the fresh air and sunshine.
Mother's Days meant wall-to-wall flowers in the Manhattan apartment where she lived alone until she was 102.
Her father died before she was a year old, and her mother married John Gallagher.
Mrs. Connelly lost her mother, brother and sister.
Her mother died when she was 11 months old.
Sarah Bradford, a biographer of George VI, wrote in The Independent of London that Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother had said she felt that women could be divided into two groups, either beautiful and stupid or clever and plain, ''except Elizabeth Longford, of course.
She is survived by her husband, Raouf Boudjakdji; four children; three grandchildren; her mother; and a brother.
In August 1980, Ms. Pienkowska was a withdrawn, single mother with prematurely gray hair who contributed articles to The Coastal Worker on health-related subjects like the rising rate of industrial accidents.
She never knew her given Yiddish name, and became Edith Zwick at 3 after her mother immigrated to Brooklyn for an arranged marriage.
Her mother had another daughter, Rachel Swoger of Providence, R.I., who was Ms. Tiger's half-sister and survives her.
She credited her interest in art and music to her mother, who despite an often constrained budget maintained a beautifully decorated house.
She is survived by her husband; her 13-year-old daughter, Jessica Smith; her mother, Barbara of Philadelphia; and her father, John of Benson, Ariz.
        She summed up her career by saying: ''I needed to run for all the wrong reasons.
Ms. Van Devanter, a native of Arlington, Va., is survived by her husband, Tom Buckley, and their daughter, Molly; a stepdaughter, Brigid Buckley of Raleigh, N.C.; and Ms. Van Devanter's mother, Helen Van Devanter of Sterling, Va.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Lillian Epstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sons, Eric, of Brewster, N.Y., and Bradley, of Washington; a sister, Roberta Goldstein of Greenbrook, N.J.; and two brothers, Neil Epstein of Trumbull, Conn., and Richard Epstein of Norwalk, Conn.
      
Her mother, Pauline Heifetz, a pianist, was a sister of the violinist Jascha Heifetz.
Their book, wrote Marjorie Kaufman in The New York Times, ''is not your mother's cookbook.
Besides her husband, Ms. Bader is survived by her mother, Evelyn Bader of Brooklyn; and her sister, Stephanie Bader of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Bjornson is survived by her mother, Mia Prodan of London.
      
Ms. Enseki's mother, Emi, and her mother's parents were in an internment camp during World War II.
Ms. Enseki's mother, Emi, and her mother's parents were in an internment camp during World War II.
After Linton II was born in 1946, they returned to the United States, and Mrs. Wells was a stay-at-home mother for 18 years.
She later adopted her mother's maiden name as part of hers.
In addition to her twin, Sarah Louise Barasch, she is survived by her mother and two siblings who live in London, her brother Nicholas and her sister Suellen Grealy Vlaveanos.
