Mother Ruth, founder and headmistress of St. Hilda's and St. Hugh's Episcopal day school.
The Reverend Mother, who died Dec. 22 after a brief illness, was 89 years old.
Mother Ruth, founder and headmistress of St. Hilda's and St. Hugh's Episcopal day school.
The Reverend Mother, who died Dec. 22 after a brief illness, was 89 years old.
The Reverend Mother, a native New Yorker, was born Ruth Elaine Younger.
In 1952, she was elected the Reverend Mother of the Community of the Holy Spirit, an Episcopal religious order for women that she founded that year.
Surviving are her husband, Joseph W. De Fossett, a daughter, Michelle, her mother, Annie, of Manhattan, three sisters, Floretta St. Ange, of the Bronx; Faustina Jenkins, of Los Angeles, and Persis Myers, of Manhattan, and a brother, Kendrick, of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Robert, of Falls Church, Va.; three sons, William D. Vandivier of Pittsburgh and John Elliot Vandivier and Robert B. Vandivier, both of Philadelphia; a sister, Bettye Fraley, and her mother, Daisy Finnell, both of Berea, Ky.
      
Miss Cahill is survived by her father, who was Governor from 1970 to 1974, and mother, Elizabeth, of Haddonfield; two brothers, John and William T. Jr., both of Collingswood; and five sisters, Kathleen Tully of Haddonfield, Mary Cahill of Washington, Regina Keeley of Potomac, Md., Eileen Campbell of Merchantville and Teresa Cahill of Boston.
      
Born in London the daughter of a Viennese father and a French mother, Miss Handl took up acting when she was 36 and over the years appeared in stage plays, films and television comedies as well as becoming an accomplished writer.
''
        Born in Brussels of a French father and Belgian mother, Miss Yourcenar grew up in France and traveled widely.
Her mother died when Marguerite was less than a month old, and she was educated, largely by tutors, under the direction of her father.
She said her mother died of a brain hemorrhage in her sleep after a long illness.
Yelena Bonner said her mother, who was among the first of Stalin's victims to be rehabilitated by Khrushchev, was never able to work again after her release in 1954.

       Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a heart attack she suffered in a holiday visit to her son's home.
Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a heart attack she suffered in a holiday visit to her son's home.
She is survived by her husband, Gene; two sons, Mark and Ned, and a daughter, Dorsey, all of Bloomsbury; her mother, Katherine Symington, and two sisters, Lee Mathews and Kathy Seiler, all of Baltimore.
      
Her mother, Mary Fitzmaurice, was Irish.

       Edna Manley, a Caribbean artist and art patron and the widow of Jamaica's first Prime Minister and the mother of another, died Monday at her home, according to a family spokesman.
Edna Manley, a Caribbean artist and art patron and the widow of Jamaica's first Prime Minister and the mother of another, died Monday at her home, according to a family spokesman.
Mrs. Manley was born Edna Swithenbank, in Hampshire, England, of a Jamaican mother and a British father.
Her mother and father, and her five sisters and two brothers have been singing for many years as the Simpson Family Singers.
She is survived by her husband; a son from a previous marriage, P. Richard Cassiday Jr., of Manhattan; her mother, Laura Sheldon of Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Mrs. Herbert Bruckner of Hinsdale, Ill.
      
Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
Miss Greenwood's son, Jason Morrell, said his mother was found dead Saturday by friends she had invited to dinner.
Mr. Morrell did not give a cause of his mother's death, but a BBC news report said she had apparently suffered a heart attack.
Mr. Morrell said his mother had not been ill recently.
Advocate for Women's Rights
        Mr. Green said his mother was a supporter of women's rights, but without stridence.
She is survived by her mother, Margaret Ponce, and a sister.
      
Her father was a surgeon who later took the family to Columbus, and her mother was a diplomat who had been the first woman to be a field officer in the Foreign Service, holding posts with American legations in Switzerland, Panama and Haiti.
Since 1981 the actress had been under the care of her second daughter, Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, who by publicizing her mother's tragic illness had drawn national and international attention to Alzheimer's disease, about which little was known until recent years.
Her father, Eduardo Cansino, was a Spanish-born dancer and her mother, the former Volga Haworth, had been a Ziegfeld Follies showgirl.
As her manager, Mr. Judson also changed his wife's professional name, choosing her mother's maiden name of Haworth and adding a ''y'' to clarify the pronunciation.
Miss Hayworth's other daughter, Rebecca Welles, lives in Tacoma, Wash.
        Princess Yasmin, testifying in 1983 before a Congressional committee concerned with appropriating funds for Alzheimer's disease research, said that the disease had reduced her mother to ''a state of utter helplessness.
She is survived by her mother, Delvia Hill, of Montreal.
      
''
        Another one of her roles, both on Broadway and in summer stock, was that of the fastidious mother in Arthur Kopit's ''Oh, Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad.
''
        Hermione Ferdinanda Gingold was born in London to an English mother and an Austrian father.
Mrs. Jones was the mother of the poet Amiri Baraka, formerly LeRoi Jones, of Newark.
''
        Survivors include her mother, M. Cathryn Springer, and a sister, June Ferol Damon.

       Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
Florence Evelyn Mattson, the mother of Walter E. Mattson, president of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at the Forbes Regional Health Center in Monroeville, Pa. She was 85 years old and lived in Pittsburgh.
Mrs. Ijams was a collateral descendant of Mother Elizabeth Bayley Seton, the first native-born American to become a saint.
In 1917, she joined the board of the Virginia Day Nursery, which her mother helped found in 1879, and remained on the board until her death.
Mrs. David is survived by her husband; two sons, Jim and Craig, both of Los Angeles; her mother, Florence Tuttle of Glen Cove, L.I., and a brother, Al, of Warren, N.J.
Mrs. Gallup was traveling to her mother's home in Cirencester, Gloucestershire, when she died.
She is survived by her mother, Phyllis Grainger; her stepfather, Thomas H. Grainger; and three children from a previous marriage, Peter, Brian and Jennifer, all of Princeton, N.J.
      
Miss Chiba is survived by her mother and three sisters, Nobuko Matsuura, Fumiko Chiba and Haruko Chiba, all of Tokyo.
      
She is survived by her husband, David Silverberg; her mother, Helen G. Brody; a sister, Dr. Sheila B. Kamerman, and a daughter, Dr. Sue A. Shapiro, all of Manhattan.
      
Ms. Hinderas is survived by her mother, Leota Palmer; her husband, Lionel Monagas, and a daughter, Michele.
      
'' On Broadway, she was the mother of the bride in ''Yentl,'' and also played in ''The Respectful Prostitute'' and ''Venus Is.
She was for many years the president of Louise Wise Services, an adoption and child-care agency founded by her mother in 1916.
) Her mother was the former Eleanora de Kielczeska, from a family of impoverished nobility; her father was Jerzy Mathias-Chalupec, a Slovak immigrant.
Miss Negri's mother had to go to work as a cook to maintain a one-room apartment in a Warsaw slum and earn enough money to send Pola to the Imperial Ballet School.
''
        Hitler, who was said to be so fond of her German-made movie about mother love, ''Mazurka,'' that he had it run weekly so he could have a good cry, personally overruled Goebbels.
Her family moved to Brooklyn when she was 7 years old, and her mother and father opened the Mason Dining Room at the corner of Fulton Street and Albany Avenue.
After her father died, her mother operated the 12-table restaurant by herself.
Mrs. Rose's mother also made dresses in the evening to support the family.
''My mother didn't believe in welfare,'' Mrs. Rose recalled in 1972.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Harold Lazarus; her mother, Louise Comens of Bethlehem; a sister, Dr. Iris Rotberg of Potomac, Md., and two sons, Eric, of Garden City and Mark, of Jackson, Miss.
      
Her mother, the late Louise Kalmus, was one of the founders of the centers, which were taken over by the New York City Department of Human Resources in 1978.
She is survived by her mother, Ann, of Westport.
      
Miss Chute - who preferred to be called Joy and signed her books B. J. Chute - moved to New York in the early 1940's with her mother and two sisters.

       Mollie Kofman, mother of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, died Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J.
She was 83 years old and lived in Clifton, N.J.
        Mollie Kofman, mother of Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, died Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J.
Dr. Thorpe sought to use the diary to prove she was an unfit mother, and purported excerpts were published in newspapers under suggestive headlines.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by a son, Jean-Christophe; her mother, Edmee Haviland, and two sisters.
      
She was brought up in genteel poverty by her mother, who still managed to take her to France for a year and send her to the Cathedral School of St. Mary in Garden City, L.I., and the Castle School at Tarrytown-on-Hudson, N.Y.
In 1919, her mother married Dr. Albert Elmer Austin, a prominent physician in Greenwich, Conn. On a trip to Europe in 1920, the 18-year-old Clare met Elsa Maxwell among other social figures.
'' Shaw supposedly replied, ''And now, let me see, dear child, what was your mother's name?
Dr. Weithorn is survived by her husband, Stanley S. Weithorn; a daughter, Lois A. Weithorn of Palo Alto, Calif.; a son, Michael J., of Los Angeles; her mother, Frieda A. Breslow of Fresh Meadows, Queens, and a sister, Elaine M. Brody of Philadelphia.
      
; her mother, Diana P. Haslam of London; three half brothers, Michael, John and Nicholas Haslam, all of London, and two grandsons.
      
Miss Suesse, who was born in Shreveport, La., in 1911, came to New York in 1931 with her mother, an opera singer, and began working as a songwriter; her first hit was ''Have You Forgotten?
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Leonard Moss of Scarsdale; two sons, John, of Wayland, Mass., and William, of Scarsdale; a daughter, Vanessa, of Chicago, and her mother, Ethyl Hoffert of Manhattan.
      
She carried on the work begun by her mother, Elisabeth Ferguson vonHesse, who died in 1963, coaching actors, politicians, business executives and others.

       Edith Luckett Davis, Nancy Reagan's mother, died of a stroke today at her home in Phoenix, Ariz. She was 91 years old.
Edith Luckett Davis, Nancy Reagan's mother, died of a stroke today at her home in Phoenix, Ariz. She was 91 years old.
Mrs. Reagan was at the White House when told of her mother's death.
Her stage name was a construction based on the name of her mother, Ida von Gunther, a well-known operetta singer.
