To encourage the bonding that she observed, she was an early proponent of keeping the mother and the newborn together as much as possible during the first days after birth.
They included Samantha's mother, Endora, played by Agnes Moorehead, and the trouble-making Serena, a look-alike cousin also played by Ms. Montgomery.
Her mother, Elizabeth Allen Montgomery, was an actress.
A former senior editor of Redbook and McCall's magazines, she became the founding editor of Working Mother in 1978.
Her father, George Emery Chase, was the town barber and her mother was the former Carrie Murray.
"
        She was speaking as a mother as well as a professional, a dual role that she played long before it became common.
In addition to Mr. Dessart, she is survived by her mother, Sylvia Field of Fall Brook, Calif.; three stepbrothers, James Truex of New York City and Philip and Barry Truex of California; three sons, Harold Dozier of West Nyack, N.Y.; Aaron Dozier of Los Angeles, and Brendan Dozier of San Diego; a daughter, Shauna Kellin of West Nyack, and two grandchildren.
      
"
        Mrs. Pittman is survived by her four children: Tom, of Toronto; Mrs. Kelly Blackwood of Kincardine, Ontario; Mark Pittman of Newmarket, Ontario; and Mrs. Kathy Fenton of Toronto; her mother, Mrs. Evelyn Borden, of Toronto; a sister, Mrs. Gail Stanzel of Toronto; and a brother, Dave Winaut, of Liverpool, Nova Scotia, and six grandchildren.
      
According to family legend, she arrived moments after her mother had completed a matinee performance in Philadelphia.
In 1930, the family, including Julia and her mother, Sarah, took 9 of the 10  roles of a George Jessel production, "Millions.
In addition to her daughter, of Cambridge, Mass., she is survived by her mother, Freda Tabachnick of Manhattan; a son, David Newbro, also of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.

        Mary Raffa, the mother of Matilda Cuomo, former First Lady of New York, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Her mother, Mildred, became a beautician and moved to Los Angeles, where the girl lived for a while in a foster home before returning to her mother.
Her mother, Mildred, became a beautician and moved to Los Angeles, where the girl lived for a while in a foster home before returning to her mother.
Miss Turner was nominated for an Academy Award in 1957 for her portrayal of a neurotic mother in the film adaptation of Grace Metalious's novel "Peyton Place.
Mildred Turner became a beautician and moved to Los Angeles, where the young Julia lived for a while in a foster home before returning to her mother.
Miss Turner was nominated for an Academy Award in 1957 for her portrayal of a neurotic mother in the film adaptation of Grace Metalious's novel "Peyton Place.
She is survived by her husband; a son, John; a daughter, Lily Clare; two stepsons, Cosmo and Justin Jencks, all of London, and her mother, Clare Lady Keswick of Portrack, Scotland.
      
Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer.
As she later recalled in "I Knew a Phoenix: Sketches for an Autobiography," her mother carried with her from Belgium a copy of "Leaves of Grass," and passed on a love of poetry to her daughter.
Also, Mrs. Morrow, then a 27-year-old mother of two known as Ginny Tighe, seemed an entirely guileless subject.
At that time, store-bought chopped liver was almost an oxymoron, something to be smuggled home in a plain brown wrapper because no self-respecting Jewish homemaker was likely to admit that she did not have enough bedrock mother love or culinary skills to make it herself.
She is Sofie Kane of Manhattan, Dr. Kaplan's mother.
      
For the wedding of President Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci, in 1966, Mrs. Simpson designed for the mother of the bride a wrinkle-resistant yellow silk street-length coat, matching princess-line dress and hat.
Ms. Hadley, a wiry, energetic woman who never married, and the older, plumper Mrs. Irwin, the mother of four children, were a study in contrasts when they took their collaboration on the road with a series of tag-team speeches to education and publishing conferences.
In later roles, she was a depraved warden in "Women's Prison" (1955), a sob-sister columnist in "While the City Sleeps" (1956) and the world-weary mother of a rodeo star in "Junior Bonner" (1972).
Her father, Stanley Lupino, was a noted comedian, and her mother, Connie Emerald, was an actress who was also descended from a theatrical family.
After her husband's death in 1935, Mrs. Day acted as the technical adviser for the Broadway production of "Life With Father" in 1939 and contributed heavily to its sequel, "Life With Mother," in 1948.
According to her friends, Miss Chang's insights into human emotions, especially those of women in the throes of thwarted romance, were grounded in her experiences with a cruel father who abandoned her mother and her first husband, Hu Lan Cheng, a Chinese writer who collaborated with the Japanese in World War II and later betrayed Miss Chang with another woman.
"She believed in treating the whole person," said her daughter, Suzanne Bunzel, noting that her mother was known for the accuracy of her wide-ranging diagnoses beyond her specialty.
Her death, which her husband, William Ramsay, said was caused by an aneurysm, occurred two days before that of her mother, Dorothy Robinson Kidder, who died of cancer at age 78.
The former Lady Elizabeth is the Queen Mother of Britain.
At a birthday lunch Miss Dickson gave at her home in 1980, the Queen Mother demonstrated her own musical-comedy talents by singing a "Cabaret Girl" tune, "Dancing Time.
Her mother scrubbed floors for white families.
They protected me, especially after my mother died.
"
        She was 15 when her mother lost her battle with kidney disease.
"I had a remarkable mother," said Dr. Simmons, who is 50.
"I think my mother must have thought that eventually perhaps I would get enough education to be self-sustaining and to do something comfortable, perhaps housework.
"
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
"Every day that I'm here," Dr. Simmons said, "I try to be worthy of the kind of person my mother wanted me to be.
She is survived by her husband, James M. Hopkins; her mother, Helen Barer of Cranbury, N.J., and her brother, Sol, of Westfield, N.J.
      
"My mother's interest in art developed with her marriage to my father," Mrs. Polsky said.
"My father was more passionate about art but my mother also loved museums and paintings.
She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Aissatou Parks of Manhattan; her mother, Elizabeth Dearing of Tuskegee, Ala.; her father, Charles, of Manhattan; two sisters, Carole, of Tuskegee, and Bianca, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Charles, of Tuskegee, and Andre, of Manhattan.
      
"I realize now that what I say affects my family, so I've become more protective of their feelings, my mother's in particular.
Her father, an alcoholic, abusive man, left the family when her mother was pregnant with their third child.
Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia.
"
        Yet her mother provided a rich, if regimented, family life.
At home, her mother dedicated each night of the week to some educational project: one night the children would present oral book reports or speak on assigned topics (like birds, flowers or geography).
"My mother worked so hard," Ms. Graves said.

        Shirley Silverman, the mother of Beverly Sills, the chairwoman of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, died on Monday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, the Bronx.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Mary Bates of Pittsfield; a sister, Judith G. Clarke of Worthington, Mass., and two stepsons, Barrett L. and Carter L. Smith.
      
She is survived by her father, Donald H. Shaw, and stepmother, Carol Henning Shaw; her mother, Marijane Shaw, and her sisters, Victoria and Donaly, all of Manhattan.
      
Her father, Torsten, was a publisher of art books; her mother, Karen, a painter.
; two sons, Taylor, of Taunton, Mass., and Peter, of Ann Arbor, Mich.; her mother, Barbara C. Lawrence of Norfolk; two sisters, Barbara L. Garside of Washington and Susannah L. Wood of Seattle; two brothers, J. Vinton Lawrence of Norfolk and Starling R. Lawrence of Manhattan, and two grandsons
      

        Frances Grant Bennett, wife of the late Senator Wallace F. Bennett and mother of Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, died on Friday in Salt Lake City.
And if she did nothing else, she proved that a single mother on welfare can be a woman to be reckoned with.
When she was 5, she said  in 1988, her father, who wore expensive clothes and lived in cheap apartments, took her from her mother and hid her in a series of foster homes.
"To this hour I don't know what happened to my mother," Ms. Jeakins said.
She is survived by her mother, Ruth Miller of Manhattan.
      
When her parents separated, Ms. McQueen moved with her mother to Augusta, Ga., and then to New York City.
His mother's life was "the classic American success story," Saul Zabar said last night.
Saul and Stanley Zabar, who live in Manhattan and are still associated with the business founded by their parents, said last night that their mother was a gifted maker of blintzes, potato salad, stuffed cabbage and coleslaw.
"
        Her most recent movie work was as the voice of the Lion Queen in "The Lion King" (1994), and she played Eddie Murphy's mother in "Coming to America" (1988).
She is survived by her husband, Dean Compton, her sons, her mother and a sister.
      
Saul and Stanley Zabar, who live in Manhattan and are still associated with the family business said last night that their mother was a gifted maker of blintzes, potato salad, stuffed cabbage and coleslaw.
She received her first piano lessons from her mother, Alice Goldschmidt Hermanns, and when she was 15 she enrolled at the Berlin Hochschule fur Musik.

        Susie C. Bradley, the mother of Senator Bill Bradley, Democrat of New Jersey, died last Thursday in Palm Beach, Fla., where she had made her home since the early 1970's.
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her mother, Helen Brehon of Queens, and a brother, Walter Cade of Queens.
      
Ms. Sulka is survived by her mother, Anna, of Maspeth, Queens; a daughter, Deirdre, of El Paso, Tex., and two sisters, Barbara Bonomi and Marie Schaefer.
"
        She played a mother who realizes that her daughter (Patty McCormack) is a murderous psychotic and tries to atone for her crimes.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
"Mother passed away peacefully today," Senator Kennedy said last night.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Her mother was a quiet woman who disliked the limelight, and Rose tasted politics early, parading through the streets with her father and attending public gatherings where the beer and the blarney flowed like the lilt of brogue.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
Mother passed away peacefully today," Senator Kennedy said last night.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
"What greater aspiration and challenge are there for a mother than the hope of raising a great son or daughter?
Her mother was a quiet woman who disliked the limelight, and Rose tasted politics early, parading through the streets with her father and attending public gatherings where the beer and the blarney flowed like the lilt of brogue.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy's church, children and grandchildren today celebrated the enduring Catholic faith of the founding mother of a political dynasty at funeral services in the church where she was baptized 104 years ago.
Her last living son, Edward M. Kennedy, eulogized the mother of a President, two Senators and an Ambassador and the grandmother of two United States Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor and a state representative in Maryland, saying, "She was ambitious not only for our success, but for our souls.
Eunice Kennedy Shriver, the next oldest, said, "Mother's intelligence was always informed and directed by the strength and compassion of the heart," exemplified when "she never forgot or let us ignore the company of our sister, Rosemary.
Both Senator Kennedy and Mrs. Shriver called their mother "our greatest teacher.
In 1951, two years after Mrs. Ryan's mother, Addie, died, Mrs. Ryan and the other Kahn heirs sold Rembrandt's "Portrait of a Young Student" for $90,000.
She is survived by a daughter, Roxana, of Los Angeles, and a son, Matthew, of London, from her marriage to Mr. Tynan; her mother, Jean Halton of Ottawa, and a brother, David, of Washington.
      
In addition to her husband of 45 years, who is chairman of Straus Communications, Mrs. Straus is survived by her mother, Louise Mayer Blumenthal Sulzberger of Longboat Key, Fla., and Saranac Lake, N.Y.; four children, Diane Tucker of Bedford, N.Y., Katherine Caple of Wellesley, Mass., Jeanne Tofel of Manhattan and Eric Straus of Rhinebeck, N.Y.; two sisters, Jean Sulzberger and Ann Sand, both of Manhattan, and eight grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, she is survived by her mother, Sadie Tripp; a brother, David Tripp, both of Farmington, Mo., and two sisters, Kay Taylor of Dahrain, Saudi Arabia, and Karen Eaton of Topeka, Kan.
      
Ms. Ripley's early life was marred by marital discord between her mother and stepfather.
She made no secret of the fact that she did not like her mother, whom she did not see during the last two decades of the mother's life.
She made no secret of the fact that she did not like her mother, whom she did not see during the last two decades of the mother's life.
Ms. Highsmith's early life was marred by marital discord between her mother and stepfather.
She made no secret of the fact that she did not like her mother, whom she did not see during the last two decades of the mother's life.
She made no secret of the fact that she did not like her mother, whom she did not see during the last two decades of the mother's life.
She is survived by her mother, Eleanor Futas of Manhattan, and a sister, Susan Wagner of Bethesda, Md.
      
Miss Wilder published three novels in the 1930's: "Mother and Four" (1933), "Heart Be Still" (1934) and "Let Winter Go" (1937).

        Jean Davis, a philanthropist and the mother of Marvin Davis, the billionaire financier and former owner of 20th Century Fox, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 94 and had lived most of her life in Manhattan.
Correction:  March 10, 1995, Friday
        An obituary on Wednesday about Jean Davis, a philanthropist and the mother of the financier Marvin Davis, omitted a surviving daughter.

        Blanche Rangel, a retired garment worker and mother of United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
She was also the mother of the conductor and musicologist Antonio de Almeida.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. M. Lawrence Furst; a son, Merrick, of Pittsburgh; a daughter, Laura F. Jacobs of Merion, Pa.; her mother, Anne Platzer of Philadelphia, and four grandchildren.
      
" She also played the mother in the 1961 New York premiere of Arnold Wesker's "Roots.
Her movies include "Song Without End" (as Dirk Bogarde's mother), "Story on Page One," "Lolly Madonna" and "When Harry Met Sally," her last film, in 1989.
When Rutgers offered in 1961 to make her a full professor at Douglass, its women's division, she accepted, and spent the next 18 years dazzling students like her own daughter, Tamar Skvir, who recalled her mother yesterday as a mesmerizing lecturer who made Pushkin, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy come alive.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Mr. Plimpton said he had not been surprised at his mother's literary emergence.
As the daughter, wife and mother of famous men, Mrs. Plimpton spent most of her life in the shadow of her father, Oakes Ames, the Harvard botanist; her husband, Francis T. P. Plimpton, the lawyer and diplomat, who died in 1983, and her son, George, the multifaceted editor of The Paris Review.
Mr. Plimpton said he had not been surprised at his mother's literary emergence.
But her mother, refusing to deliver a child into a racist society, insisted on returning to her home in Buffalo to give birth.
Her gift for comedy bubbled through movies like "Bachelor Mother" (1939), "Tom, Dick and Harry" (1941) and "The Major and the Minor" (1942).
I want to thank the one who has stood by me faithfully: my mother.
"
        It was her mother, the former Lela Owens, who groomed her for a show-business career with singing, dancing and acting lessons.
Her father, William McMath, and her mother were divorced soon after.
Her mother continued to manage her career until she died in 1977.
Then, for three years, her mother chaperoned her through four vaudeville acts a day throughout the South and Midwest.
"I traveled with my mother, Lela, and there was never enough money," Miss Rogers said.
In her last film, in 1965, she played Jean Harlow's mother in "Harlow.
