
        Sybil Primis, the mother of Lance R. Primis, the former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, L.I.
An earlier book was ''Kathy: A Mother's True Story of a Young Girl's Fight to Regain Health'' (Dutton, 1956).
It told of her daughter Kathy's successful emergence from a mysterious ailment that befell her at 13 and a mother's years of searching for the right diagnosis and cure.
For several years, she traveled as her mother's accompanist before touring on her own as a solo pianist and with chamber music groups.
Her mother was a daughter of Lord Stalbridge, who, despite being the younger brother of the first Duke of Westminster, had little money.
Mrs. Huxley attributed much of her energy, sense of humor and intelligence to her mother, who had, among other things, compiled a Swahili-English dictionary that was published by the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel.
In 1980, she published a collection of her mother's letters along with a biographical essay, in ''Nellie: Letters From Africa.
Mrs. Haisman said she remembered that her father was dressed in an Edwardian dinner jacket, stabbing the cold night air with his cigar and sipping from a snifter of brandy on the deck of the listing ship as she and her mother were being winched 70 feet down into a lifeboat.
' ''
        They hurried through the corridors, leaving behind in their haste her mother's jewelry case, 400 gold sovereigns and a roll of bank notes on top of a bunk.
''
        She and her mother were picked up by the Cunard liner Carpathia and taken to New York, where they left on a train trip to Seattle to spend time with an aunt of Mrs. Haisman's, who lived there and had inspired the move to the West Coast.

        Pilar Barbosa de Rosario, a revered Puerto Rican historian and political authority who served as teacher, mentor and mother confessor to generations of Puerto Rican politicians, scholars and intellectuals, died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in San Juan.
As one of his 12 children, Dr. Barbosa, whose mother died when she was a toddler, inherited her father's intelligence and his ideals.
When she was 8 years old, the story goes, her mother took her to see a gypsy soothsayer who said Jeane had a gift for prophesying.
The child's mother encouraged her in those efforts.
A small, rotund woman with an earthy sense of humor, Ms. Roberts also served as a patient yet eminently practical ''great mother figure,'' as Alvin Ailey put it, to several generations of modern dancers.
They included ''The Blue Heron Tree,'' ''Rain and the Valley,'' ''The Mother Whale'' and ''The Mother Deer.
They included ''The Blue Heron Tree,'' ''Rain and the Valley,'' ''The Mother Whale'' and ''The Mother Deer.

        Catherine Scorsese, the mother of the film director Martin Scorsese, who cast her in several of his films, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
In it, they wrote: ''Except for words that refer to females by definition (mother, actress, Congresswoman), and words for occupations traditionally held by females (nurse, secretary, prostitute), the English language defines everyone as male.
Born in Englewood, N.J., she was a daughter of the late Joseph H. Daniels, the founder of Palisades Newspapers, a chain of weekly newspapers in Bergen County, N.J.
        Miss Daniels is survived by her mother, Eleanor Daniels of Hackensack, N.J., and three sisters, Joanne Daniels Solomon of Manhattan, Bonnie Lee Daniels of Miami and Sheryl Daniels of Hackensack.
      
Born in 1939 in Cermauti, Romania, Ms. Seidman was one of the very few Romanian Jews who survived the Nazi occupation, escaping confinement in the death camps after her mother bribed a Nazi official, a cousin, Rabbi Moshe Handelsman of Brooklyn, said yesterday.
''Her mother, Pepi Lande, was a very courageous lady who went up to the colonel of the Gestapo and asked him that he should give her a paper that she and her daughter and her parents should be able to stay and not go to the camps,'' Rabbi Handelsman said.
''It's not fair to say to a child, 'Your mother can't hold you,' '' Mrs. Davis said in 1986.
''My younger daughter once rebuked me for not being the kind of mother one reads about,'' Ms. Hahn once told an interviewer.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Agie, of Bleiburg; a son, Mono, of Manhattan, and two brothers, Dieter, of Salzburg, Austria, and Herwig, of Rumson, N.J.
      
After the war, divorced and the mother of a son, Winston Spencer Churchill, she moved to Paris where, with her customary energy and resourcefulness, and with the cachet and connections of the Churchill name, she established a glittering place for herself in international high society.
The children loved their mother and their first stepmother, but not their father's new wife.
His daughter Brooke Hayward even suggested in her book, ''Haywire,'' that her last stepmother absconded with a string of pearls her mother had left to her.
In addition to her sister, of Manhattan, she is survived by a daughter, Julia, who now heads the English Theater; her mother, Anna K. Brinkmann of Delray Beach, Fla.; a brother, Klaus Brinkmann of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
A native of Liverpool, England, whose father came to the United States when she was 2, Mrs. Gibson, grew up in New Dorp, S. I., in a house whose spacious, English-style garden appealed to her mother and gave Mrs. Gibson a lifelong love of flowers.
Her father was scandalized, but with the approval of her mother, Mrs. Gibson, who took such pride in her shapely feet that she had her toenails painted even in her 90's, became a foot model in Paris, where she also studied at the Sorbonne and met a self-effacing American Army captain from Poultney, Vt., named Herbert Daskum Gibson.
In addition to her husband and her mother, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Pratt is survived by two daughters, Anne B. Morris of Southampton, Mass., and Ellen Morris McCann of Lincoln, Mass.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
Her family settled in Brooklyn nine months later, where her father found work as a barber and her mother as a seamstress.
She is survived by her husband, Robert Pryor; two children, Shannon and Ben; a sister, Shannon Snapp Natale of Boston, and her mother, Auntrenette Snapp of Roanoke, Va.
      
Ms. Bernstein is survived by her daughter, Jessica, a graduate student at University of California at Berkeley; her mother, Sara Sherman of Los Angeles, and three brothers, Alan and Victor, both of Los Angeles, and Sheldon, of San Diego.
      
It was one of her mother's London society friends who spotted her talent for oratory and recruited her for the suffrage movement.
Miss Frooks, who eventually won a suspended sentence for her client,  became so incensed that the girl's widowed mother had been forced to neglect her children while struggling to eke out a living that she helped prod the legislature into establishing aid to dependent children.
Ms. Woodhull is survived by her husband, William Watson, and a daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson, both of Pittsford, and her mother, May Cromwell, of Matawan, N.J.
      
Several members of her mother's family were pharmacists, too, and in time Mrs. Petry graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Connecticut and went to work at her father's store.
Neither enjoyed the critical or commercial success of her first novel, however, and from then on Mrs. Petry, by then a mother, turned out books for children and young adults, among them two biographies, ''Tituba of Salem Village,'' and ''Harriet Tubman: Conductor on the Underground Railroad.
Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany.
After the war, Miss Schonberg's parents separated and her mother returned with her children to the United States and taught music at the University of Oregon in Eugene.
''
        When ''Barefoot in the Park'' was canceled in 1970 after 13 weeks, as when she was out of show business for several years after her mother died in 1962, Ms. Carpenter, while disappointed, refused to turn bitter.
''
        Ms. Carpenter's career prospered in the United States and abroad, but when her mother died, she said, ''I just lay down in my bed for a whole year.
In addition to her husband, Miss Weston, whose mother died several months ago, is survived by two stepchildren, Tracy Munoz of Hayward and Nick Scopas Jr. of Manteca, Calif., and four stepgrandchildren.
      
The daughter of a Russian mother and an Italian father, Mrs. Youskevitch, whose original name was Anna Scarpa, was born in Urbino, Italy.
The garden of her home on Morton Street in Greenwich Village and of her family home -- established 50 years ago by her mother, Leslie Ten Eyck Michaels, at Manursing Island in Rye, N.Y. -- were among the first to be shown to the public under the auspices of the Garden Conservancy, a national organization that works to preserve exceptional gardens.
''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates.
Miss Goldfrank concentrated initially on kinship, the mundane study of things like what one calls one's mother and who is considered a brother, which was the anthropological rage of the day.
Except for a brief return visit to New Mexico in 1924, partly to alleviate postpartum depression after the birth of a daughter, Miss Goldfrank spent most of the next two decades as a homemaker and mother in White Plains, although an unusually prolific one who kept the typewriter clacking.

        Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn.
''
        Miss Moore came to be called Queen Mother during a trip to Africa years ago, when a tribe in Ghana awarded her the honorary title.
As Mrs. Riggs recounted it in her 1940 best seller, ''From Off Island,'' when her 28-year-old grandfather James F. Cleaveland returned from a voyage in 1852 with a 16-year-old Irish Catholic bride from Australia, his mother was not amused.
Her father, Thomas Coffin, a tea taster, left home when she was 3 and never returned, forcing her mother first to open a boardinghouse in Edgartown and later to leave her daughter with her parents to pursue teaching jobs in Pennsylvania and Brooklyn.
By the time Mrs. Riggs joined her mother for her high school years in Brooklyn, she had a fund of stories and a yen to tell them.
Indeed, Mrs. Monroe was the quintessential wartime mother, said Mrs. Jarvis, who had not yet been born when her mother took the job at Willow Run in the early 1940's.
Indeed, Mrs. Monroe was the quintessential wartime mother, said Mrs. Jarvis, who had not yet been born when her mother took the job at Willow Run in the early 1940's.
''My mother was the type of person who never believed in government assistance,'' Mrs. Jarvis said.
During the war, Mrs. Monroe had hoped to be among the women chosen to learn to fly and transport aircraft parts around the nation, but she was passed over because she was a single mother, Mrs. Jarvis said.
Dr. Hibberd, 50, a divorced mother of two who is given to quoting Gandhi and the Rev.
Dr. Hibberd has a legion of admirers who see her as a Mother Teresa who championed suburbia's invisible needy, and, in the process, cut Suffolk's infant mortality rate by more than 40 percent.
'' He said Dr. Hibberd had been ''canonized'' by the news media, but he conceded, ''She comes across in private as she does in public, as Mother Teresa, and it's very disarming.
Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
The name Thalassa, the Greek word for ''sea,'' was a whim of her mother's.
''My mother's maiden name was Robinson,'' Ms Cruso once said in an interview, ''and I am told that the announcement of that engagement was the last thing that made Queen Victoria smile.
As a wife and mother in Boston, Ms. Cruso was hardly satisfied to confine her days to the garden-club circuit.
''
        Miss Dimitri, born in Nice, France, to a Greek father and French mother, moved to Greece at an early age and grew up bilingual.
Besides her husband, Dr. Fruchter is survived by a son, Lev, also of Brooklyn; a daughter, Chenda Fruchter of San Francisco; her mother, Gertrude Gillett of London, and three brothers, Simon, who lives  in Pakistan, and Matthew and Peter, both of London.
      

        Dorothy Buffum Chandler, whose vision and fund-raising fervor helped transform modern Los Angeles and who as the wife and mother of successive publishers helped turn The Los Angeles Times into one of the nation's great newspapers, died on Sunday at a rest home in Hollywood.
In her autobiography, she wrote: ''Every woman has an image -- mother, princess, ballerina -- that she must uphold.
Longevity ran in the family; Mrs. Calment's mother lived until she was 86 and her father until he was 93.
Her ruling, which was upheld on appeal, also provided for the payment of child support by the mother.
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
Mrs. Good had suffered from pancreatic cancer and said she hoped not to die as her mother had, slowly and in great pain.
After her own illness was diagnosed, she said her belief in a right to die had come naturally, in part because of her mother's suffering.
Her son William was born in June, 1982, providing promised continuity to the crown and making her the mother of a king-to-be.
As a child, she said, her mother took her to suffragist meetings and nurtured her daughter's independent spirit and her wish to become a lawyer, an aspiration hardly befitting a fine Southern lady then.
Her mother, Nellie Nugent Somerville, was the first woman to be elected to the Mississippi Legislature, and Lucy also served there for four years in the 1930's.
She is survived by her husband, Edward Sooter; a daughter, Esther Sooter; her mother, Annette Herr of Seattle, and two sisters, Jennifer and Heidi Herr, of Chlan, Wash.
      
At a time when science fiction was still dismissed as adolescent escapism by most academic critics, her first published story, in Astounding Science Fiction magazine in 1948, told of a mother's devotion to a baby horribly deformed by radiation-induced mutation.
But her team of clinical social workers arranged for Owen and his mother to stay with Owen's grandmother, preserving Owen's caretaking environment and family connection, she said.
While Mr. Green was separated from the family, Owen, his mother and grandmother received continuing treatment.

        Mother Teresa, the Roman Catholic nun who won the 1979 Nobel Peace Prize for her work among the poorest of the world's poor, died yesterday in Calcutta, India, where she had lived since her work with the destitute began five decades ago.
Mother Teresa was hospitalized several times last year with heart, lung, kidney and other problems, and also suffered ill health in earlier years.
As her health deteriorated over the past year, Mother Teresa stepped aside and her order, the Missionaries of Charity, chose a new leader, Sister Nirmala, in March.
Mother Teresa, an ethnic Albanian born in what is now Macedonia, was revered in India, where she worked for 68 years and became a citizen.
''
        Mother Teresa, who had been a school administrator in a suburb of Calcutta, began working in the slums of that poverty-ridden and densely populated city in 1948.
For the living, Mother Teresa set up orphanages, schools in slums and Pure Heart Homes for sick and dying homeless people.
By the time Mother Teresa won the Nobel Prize, her order had attracted 1,800 nuns and 120,000 lay workers, running more than 80 centers in India and more than 100 others in other parts of the world.
That year Mother Teresa visited South Africa, which was still under apartheid rule, to set up a hostel in a black township.
Aid and Tribute, But No Pity
        Mother Teresa often paid tribute to the stricken people she cared for.
''
        Mother Teresa put particular emphasis on giving the deprived and the sick a sensation of dignity through personal contact.
Mother Teresa earned her Nobel Prize despite a political climate in India that was unfavorable to foreign missionaries.
On certain social questions, Mother Teresa adhered outspokenly to the doctrine of her church.
And in February 1996, Senator Bob Dole, campaigning in Iowa for the Republican Presidential nomination, declared that Mother Teresa had called to praise him for helping pass a ban against certain types of late-term abortions.
In 1995, before a referendum in Ireland was narrowly passed to end a constitutional ban on divorce and remarriage, opponents of the law were exasperated when a hand-written letter from Mother Teresa urging a ''no'' vote was made public.
''
        Christopher Hitchens, a columnist for Vanity Fair and The Nation, voiced particularly strong criticism of her in a 1995 book, ''The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice'' (Verso).
''
        The 1994 British television documentary that criticized Mother Teresa, titled ''Hell's Angel,'' was also written by Mr. Hitchens.
Asked about the documentary, Mother Teresa said simply, ''Forgive them for they know not what they do.
Answering the Call To Become a Nun
        Mother Teresa was born Agnes Bojaxhiu on either Aug. 26 or 27, 1910, to Albanian parents in Skopje, about 200 miles south of Belgrade.
Mother said there should be a place where people can die with dignity and know that they are wanted.
''
        And so Mother Teresa set about establishing a home for the dying destitute.
Mother Teresa's undertakings continued, one after another.
In 1971 Mother Teresa's order opened its first house in the United States, in Harlem.
It was soon moved to the Bronx, where, on a visit to the United States in 1980, Mother Teresa helped open a soup kitchen and declared her thanks to the poor people of New York ''for allowing themselves to be taken care of'' by her order.
One of her biographers, Eileen Egan, reported in a 1985 book, ''Such a Vision of the Street: Mother Teresa -- the Spirit and the Work,'' that a Red Cross official who helped her observed later: ''What stunned everyone was her energy.
''
        After suffering heart problems, Mother Teresa sent her resignation as head of her order to Pope John Paul II early in 1990.
In addition to all her good works, Mother Teresa found time to compose prayers, including this one:
        Make us worthy, Lord,
        To serve our fellow men
        Throughout the world who live and die
        In poverty or hunger.
She is survived by her husband, Eugene Eidenberg; two stepdaughters, Elizabeth Eidenberg of Los Angeles and Danielle E. Noppe of Seattle; her mother, Angenette Vail Martin of West Hartford, Conn.; and two brothers, Erle Martin Jr. of Albany, Ga., and Steve T. Martin of Briarcliff, N.Y.
      
In one of her most famous solos, ''Grandma Always Danced,'' she was seen, first, as a baby, then as a bride, a mother and an old woman.
She is survived by her husband, Mark Matthews, the diplomatic correspondent for The Baltimore Sun; a daughter, Sarah; her mother, Elaine A. Bellin, of Rockville, Md.
''
        In 1971, Ms. Lindley starred in ''Taking Off,'' the first film made in America by the Czech filmmaker Milos Forman, and she appeared the next year as Cybill Shepherd's mother in ''The Heartbreak Kid.
'' In 1982, she played Burt Reynolds's mother in ''Best Friends'' and a motherly bordello operator in an adaptation of John Steinbeck's ''Cannery Row.
Her father, Walter J. Kingsley, was a writer and Broadway press agent, and her mother, Alma Hanlon, was an actress in silent movies.
When her parents divorced, she moved with her mother to Grosse Pointe, Mich.
It was her mother who lived and wrote the Betsy-Tacy life, not so much creating as copying her characters whole from her own turn-of-the-century childhood in Mankato, Minn., or Deep Valley, as it is known in the 10 main Betsy-Tacy books and three satellite volumes.
But it was little Merian Lovelace, growing up in the 1930's in Garden City, Long Island, who first demonstrated that her mother's girlhood had more than passing appeal.
She pestered her mother so often for a new story about Betsy Ray and her friend Tacy Kelly that Mrs. Lovelace, who had concentrated on short stories and historical novels, decided to put Betsy and Tacy on paper.
After her mother's death in 1980, Mrs. Kirchner helped keep the Betsy-Tacy flame alive, working closely with the Betsy-Tacy Society and campaigning for reissues of the books.
At the end of ''Betsy's Wedding,'' as her husband, Joe, is about to go off to World War I, Betsy speaks of their plans to have a little girl named Bettina, not realizing, perhaps, that in time the little girl would make her mother write it all down.
      
That is because her mother, Maggie Rogers, who joined the White House staff on the fourth day of the Taft Administration, would often take her daughter to work with her.
Parks to combine her mother's recollections with her own in what became ''Backstairs,'' and two other books written with Miss Leighton: ''It was Fun Working in the White House,'' a children's book, and ''The Roosevelts: A Family in Turmoil,'' published in 1973.
Although she generally found something nice to say about every President and First Lady she or her mother worked for, Mrs.
As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
Albert A. Hale, president of the Navajo Nation, called her ''our legendary mother'' and ''the most honored Navajo in our history.
In addition to her husband and her son Jason, Dr. Binstock is survived by two sons, Jeffrey Binn of Manhattan and Jonathan Binn of Washington, and her mother, Hattie Schwartz of Miami.
      
; her mother, Florence Clark of Seattle; two sisters, Catherine Elizabeth Clark of North Egremont and Candyce Elaine Clark of Washington, and a brother, David Lane Clark of Salem, Ore.
      
In 1956, she volunteered for the Presidential campaign of Adlai E. Stevenson, a distant cousin of her mother's, and met Gov.
Four years later, when a grief-stricken Miss Katzenbogen decided to move to the West Coast after the deaths of her mother and brother, she never considered leaving the cats behind, or allowing them to travel without her.
Even before she arrived and settled into a $1 million Studio City estate she had bought three years earlier, Miss Katzenbogen, who had deferred an earlier planned move after her mother became ill, found that she was not entirely welcome in her exclusive new neighborhood.
Mrs. Hooker's son, Gilbert S. Kahn, said that his mother's total contribution to the Smithsonian, in cash and jewels, was about $9 million.
She donated a section of the lobby of the Metropolitan Opera House in Lincoln Center in honor of her mother, Mrs. Moses L. Annenberg, and she contributed over the years to the New York Philharmonic, the Musicians Emergency Fund and to various outdoor concert programs.

        Sally Marr, the mother of the comedian Lenny Bruce and a primary influence on her son's career, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles.
Her son started his career by imitating his mother's act, then, urged on by her, he began creating his own routines, drawing freely from his life with his mother.
Her son started his career by imitating his mother's act, then, urged on by her, he began creating his own routines, drawing freely from his life with his mother.
Her father, Nat, was a zipper salesman to the military who had a nervous breakdown when she was a child; her mother, Lillian, was a formidable businesswoman compelled to work to support the family.
Her other novels include ''Great Expectations'' (1983), ''Don Quixote'' (1986), ''Literal Madness'' (1987), ''My Mother: Demonology'' (1993) and ''Pussy, King of the Pirates'' (1995).
Her mother was from Wales.
Her father's conversations about the family background in Hasidism and her mother's knowledge of Welsh and English folklore proved influential.
''
        She taught at colleges and universities, and served as poetry editor of The Nation and Mother Jones.
The Victoria Foundation was established by her father-in-law, Hendon Chubb, who named it in honor of his English-born mother.

        Simone Duvalier, who rose from a childhood of poverty and abandonment to become the wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, died of undisclosed causes in a clinic outside Paris on Friday.
At an early age, however, her mother gave her up, and she spent much of her childhood in an orphanage in Petionville, an upper-class suburb in the hills above Port-au-Prince.
