'' In the book, she criticized her father for being preoccupied with his acting classes and she criticized her mother for being overly supervisory about her daughter's work.
With her mother as her tutor, Miss Bryant managed to get her high school diploma from a cooperating school that monitored her progress.
At the age of 5 months she appeared in her mother's vaudeville act, and at 3 she made her first public singing appearance when Paul Whiteman, in whose band her father used to play, stood her on a piano while she sang ''I Never Knew I Could Love Anybody'' at the Palais Royale in Times Square.
The Delany sisters first saw New York City in 1915, on a visit with their mother.
The cause was heart failure, reported the Monterey Bay Aquarium, which recently published a paean by her to Mother Nature.
The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political tracts, book reviews and magazine articles ranged over the successive enthusiasms of her life: ancient Greece, socialism, genetics, science fiction, space, fascism in Spain, home rule for Scotland and independence movements in Africa, where she became the honorary mother of a tribe in Botswana.
Married for 54 years and the mother of seven children, she was asked on her 90th birthday if she had any regrets.
She was later named ''honorary mother'' of the tribe and traveled there often into her 90's.
At 3, she moved with her mother to Toronto after her parents separated; she was raised there by her grandparents after her mother's death seven years later.
At 3, she moved with her mother to Toronto after her parents separated; she was raised there by her grandparents after her mother's death seven years later.
Miss Darre was born in 1905 in Givet, France, a town near the Belgian border, and studied the piano with her mother until she was 10.
Her mother was from Russia.
A newspaper photographer took a picture of her as she collapsed at the sight; Mr. Kosslyn said his mother kept that newspaper picture throughout her life.
''
        Ms. Stoler appeared on Broadway as Lolita's mother in Edward Albee's 1981 stage adaptation of the Nabokov novel.
In championing rarely seen or forgotten classical dance forms, Indrani followed naturally in the footsteps of her mother, Ragini Devi, an American-born dancer who was internationally known for her leading role in the revival of classical dance in India in the 1930's.
Having started at age 5 in her mother's company, she was steeped in the content of classical dance.
'' Her mother, the former Irene Alice Richardson, who had trained as an opera singer, was a ''beautiful, lively, witty woman with a happy temperament.
After her parents' brief marriage ended, she was reared by her mother, whose maiden name she adopted, and by a series of immigrant Italian relatives.
A Geneva-born daughter of the celebrated Swiss composer, Ernst Bloch, she was a child of privilege who had come to the United States with her family in 1917 and lived in Cleveland until 1925, when her father became director of the San Francisco Conservatory of Music and her mother, aware that the composer would be comforted by mistresses, took her children to Paris.
''My father was in the heating business and my mother worked in a store.
''
        Harriet M. Hardin was born in Jefferson City, Mo., on June 20, 1904, and brought up by a grandmother after her mother died.
Mrs. Tyng, the mother of Mr. Luce's children, was a leading figure in New York's social and philanthropic circles for several decades.
''
        To his granddaughter, who grew up on a nearby estate with her mother, Sophia, and father, Ilya, the author's second son, he was simply her beloved bushy-faced dedushka, the jolly man in a peasant shirt who bounced her on his knee and tickled her cheek with his whiskers.
Although she sometimes found the name Tolstoy a burden, and even called herself Vera Mansoureva (after her mother's family estate) during her years as a Russian-language broadcaster, she was proud enough of her family connections to regale friends with tales of the old days at Yasnaya Polyana and to give lectures on her family heritage.
After the Russian Revolution she and her mother made a harrowing escape, eventually landing in Czechoslovakia, where Miss Tolstoy got a job as translator for a wealthy lumber merchant, Odo Bakovsky, and then married him in an Islamic ceremony, giving birth to a son, Serge, in 1922.
Five years later, after her husband had lost his money and, she said, become unfaithful and quarrelsome, she sought to have the marriage declared illegal, explaining that she would rather have an annulment than a divorce because as a prospective single mother she preferred to have an illegitimate Tolstoy than a legitimate Bakovsky.
After supporting her mother and son by working as a hairdresser in Prague, Miss Tolstoy moved to Paris after her mother's death in the 1930's and worked as a nightclub singer.
After supporting her mother and son by working as a hairdresser in Prague, Miss Tolstoy moved to Paris after her mother's death in the 1930's and worked as a nightclub singer.
In addition to her husband and sons, she is survived by her relatives in England: her mother, of Bath; her sister, Lois Stuart-Black of London, and her brother, Dr. Grant Kelly of West Sussex.
In December 1908, Taft wrote the Czar pointing out Felicia's mother's connection to Russia and saying that the count had put the kidnapped toddler in a convent in Russia.
''
        The Czar commanded the count to return Felicia to her mother, and when that happened, as one Patterson biographer has written, ''they caught the first train for Germany and from there took the first steamship to America.
Mrs. Magruder's mother also bought a ranch in Wyoming, and there, as The Laramie Daily Boomerang reported in its obituary of Mrs. Magruder, an able young journalist named Drew Pearson ''came out to court Felicia.
''My husband's mother disapproved of acting, and he was very possessive,'' Miss Lortel said in a 1996 interview.
Dr. Ainsworth's research also found that feeding an infant on demand rather than on a strict schedule led to a more secure attachment between infant and mother.
Her mother was Lady Emily Lutyens, daughter of the First Earl of Lytton, a poet and a Viceroy of India.
Besides her brother, of Kent, Conn., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Lourie, of Tiverton; her mother, Flora Lewis, of Paris, foreign affairs columnist for The International Herald Tribune, and a sister, Kerry Gruson of Miami.
      
Ms. Klaus was a lifelong labor advocate whose sympathy for the working classes was instilled in her by her mother.
''
        Ms. Klaus's desire to become a lawyer also derived from the experience of watching her mother battle  the court system for 10 years over her husband's estate.
Her father was a Spanish professor at the University of North Carolina, her mother a frustrated writer full of unfulfilled literary aspirations.
Ms. Lee drew on her experiences as a young mother of five in Bryn Mawr, Pa., to write about suburbanites in her first novel, ''The Lion House.
Her mother, Helen, was a housewife, and her father, Leonard, was a designer of gravestones and mausoleums, but the only effect her father's choice of career had on her, she said last year, was that she learned to drive in a cemetery.
'' But producers were reluctant to free her from type-casting, prompting her to deplore her repetitious roles as ''the girl of the gangster, then the sister who was bringing up the gangster, then later the mother of the gangster, and they always had me ironing somebody's shirt.
Her richly varied tour and stock performances included ''Pygmalion,'' ''Angel Street,'' ''Jane Eyre,'' ''Joan of Lorraine,'' ''Kind Lady,'' ''O Mistress Mine,'' ''Anne of the Thousand Days,'' ''The Rivals,'' ''The Madwoman of Chaillot,'' ''The Little Foxes,'' ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' ''She Stoops to Conquer,'' ''The Glass Menagerie,'' ''Cabaret,'' ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' ''Butterflies Are Free'' and '' 'Night, Mother.
''
        Among Miss Sidney's dozens of starring television roles were acclaimed performances as a cancer-ridden patient in a hospice in the 1980 play ''The Shadow Box'' and as plain-spoken but compassionate grandmothers of homosexual AIDS patients in ''An Early Frost'' in 1985 and in ''Andre's Mother'' in 1990.
Her parents were divorced when she was 9, and soon after she was adopted by her mother's second husband, Dr. Sigmund Sidney, a dentist.
The highlight of her career in musical theater was a six-year run as the Mother Abbess in the London production of ''The Sound of Music,'' starting in 1961.
''
        Her other novels include ''The Son'' (1966), about an incestuous relationship between a mother and her son; ''The Lights of Earth'' (1984), about a woman and her married lover.
She married Waldo Pizarro in 1962 and settled into a life as a working-class wife and, later, mother of three children.
Her father died when she was 8, her mother when she was 16.
''
        Though an impassioned reader, Ms. Williams had been discouraged from that activity by her mother, who felt she might be introduced to ambitions she would have no possibility of fulfilling.
Her mother, Ann, a teacher and administrator, remarried, to Richard Freeman, an orthopedic surgeon; the couple now live in Old Greenwich, Conn.
Her discovery of the truth caused a rift with her mother but brought her closer to John, whose home in Wiltshire became a retreat for her.
Ms. Fleming's mother, determined to separate her from Fournier, arranged for her to study first in Portugal and later with Casals in Prades, Spain.
As a child, Anita (born Ina Anita Carter in Maces Springs, Va.) hated to be separated from her mother when the Carter Family left to perform at radio stations, so she was brought along.
When the Carter Family split up in 1943, Maybelle and her three daughters -- June, Helen and Anita -- formed Mother Maybelle and the Carter Singers, performing such Carter Family standards as ''Wildwood Flower,'' ''Will the Circle Be Unbroken'' and ''Keep on the Sunny Side.
Mother Maybelle and the Carter Sisters, who renamed themselves the Carter Family after A. P. died in 1960, broke up officially in 1969, though they continued to record together until near the time of Maybelle's death in 1978.
Perrot is survived by her mother, Consuella Perrot, two brothers, Craig Perrot and Kevin Perrot, and a sister, Loretta Williams.
      
Her mother, Bat-Sheva, became a legislator in Israel's Parliament.
President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev's bitter rival in the early 1990's, sent a message of condolence today, and in a statement he said that a ''wonderful person, a beautiful woman, a loving wife and mother is no longer with us.
Her mother, Rose Heiman Halpern, helped Margaret Sanger open a birth control clinic in Brooklyn in 1916; her father, William Halpern, was defeated as a candidate for the New York State Assembly.
She is survived by her daughter, Helena, of Manhattan; her mother, Mary Helfer of Centerville, Tex.
Ms. Webster, born Kathryn Jewel Thorne, was reared by musicians: her father was a ragtime pianist who turned to gospel music when he became a minister in the Sanctified Church of God in Christ, in Houston, and her mother, who played spirituals and classical music, was responsible for her keyboard training.
Her father, Anthony Roman, a carnival barker, died when she was a child, forcing her mother to work as a waitress, cleaning woman and laundress.
Most of the other choreography was by Mats Ek, Miss Cullberg's other son, who cast her as a Mother Africa figure in his ''Soweto.
After the deaths of her mother in 1964 and husband in 1972 (neither of whom had approved of her career choice) she began to take a much more personal and active role in what witches simply call the craft.
Her father, Elie, a chemist, and her mother, Pauline, a writer, separated when she was 2 and remarried,  and she was painfully shuttled back and forth between two countries and two sets of parents.
She went to Paris with her mother in 1902, moved to St. Petersburg in 1905 and then returned to Paris in 1908, where she was then brought up by her father and his new wife, Vera.

        Penelope Mortimer, an English author who drew on her complex and often turbulent relationships with men in writing novels like ''The Pumpkin Eater'' and a heatedly debated account of the romantic life of Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, died on Tuesday at a London hospice.
Ms. Mortimer was well known if not always beloved in Britain for her biography ''Queen Elizabeth: A Life of the Queen Mother'' (1986), which delved into the subject's romantic life before her marriage to the future King George VI.
He vanished in the war, her beloved mother died, and the Depression wreaked hardship.
Her father was a movie executive who worked with Charlie Chaplin and other early movie stars; her mother, late in life, decided to get an education and graduated from college at 80.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her sons, Benjamin, of Northfield, Minn., and Samuel and David, of New York; her mother, Mary Adasko, and a brother, Hardy Adasko, both of Brooklyn.
      
She is survived by her husband, Brian Boylan; her mother, Adele Beudert of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.; her sisters, Martine, of Brooklyn and Michele Richard of Old Greenwich, Conn.; a brother, Claude, of East Hampton, N.Y., and two stepdaughters, Grace and Serena Boylan of London.
      
Her father, George Morse, a drummer from England, led a small dance band and her mother, Ann, a native Texan, played ragtime and Dixieland piano.
In her book, she told of the trauma of learning at 8 that her mother had been killed in a rape attempt by three white men.
Ms. Raileanu is survived by her mother, Sylvia, of Brooklyn; a brother, Val, of Manhattan; and her father, Nicolau, who lives in Romania.
      
In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her husband, Charles Blunden, her mother, Winifred Kilborn, and a sister, Carol Ann Shockley, all of Dayton; a son, Derek, of Charleston, W. Va., and four grandchildren.
      
As a woman, she did not have an opportunity to pursue an education, but she educated herself in her uncle's library with her mother's encouragement.
One poem, ''Our Language: The Language of Bengal,'' ends with the following lines:
        For our language many have died,
        drawn from the arms of our mother
        but down the road, smeared with their blood
        I hope freedom will come to this land:
        the simple language of a simple people
        Will meet the demands of this our land.
''
        It was not until 1986, however, that she scored her biggest triumph, appearing as the morphine-addicted mother in Eugene O'Neill's ''Long Day's Journey into Night,'' a performance that Frank Rich of The New York Times called ''exceptionally beautiful.
'' She is survived by her mother, of Calcutta.
      

        Mabel King, an actress and singer best known for her portrayal of Evillene, the Wicked Witch of the West, in the Broadway and movie productions of ''The Wiz'' and her role as the mother in the mid-70's television comedy ''What's Happening!
''
        She appeared in nine movies, including ''Scrooged'' (1988); ''The Jerk'' (1979), in which she played Steve Martin's mother; ''The Gong Show Movie'' (1980); and ''The Bingo Long Traveling All-Stars and Motor Kings'' (1976).
She is survived by her mother, Rosalee Washington, and a sister, Rose Washington, both of Manhattan.
At age 7, when she and her mother returned to New York from a vacation in Europe, a New York newspaper ran the headline ''Gloria Caruso, Here With a Voice'' and pronounced her ''a potential opera star of the first magnitude.
''
        In marrying Caruso, her mother, an American named Dorothy Benjamin, created a tumult in 1918.
'' Eric D. Murray, one of Ms. Murray's sons, said his mother had become occupied with managing the family estate after her mother died in 1957.
'' Eric D. Murray, one of Ms. Murray's sons, said his mother had become occupied with managing the family estate after her mother died in 1957.
Ms. Craigie was born in Derbyshire to a Scottish father and a Russian emigre mother and had, by her own estimation, a wretched childhood.
Her father was killed in World War I and her mother lived mostly abroad.
Apart from political jabs, Ms. Lamport also turned her attention to the human comedy, with verse like:
        The after-effects of a mother's neglects
        May spoil her boy's orientation to sex,
        But the converse is worse: if she overprotects,
        The pattern of Oedipus wrecks.
Ms. Cage was, as Lincoln Kirstein, co-founder of the City Ballet, described her role in ''Thirty Years,'' his history of the organization, ''at once labor negotiator, certified public accountant, legal expert, mother superior, confessor, psychiatrist and practicing witch (white magic).
Ms. Bird's widowed mother, Anne, moved the family to New York, her home state.
She cared for her aged mother in Palo Alto and surfaced occasionally as a television commentator or a public speaker, but dropped even some old friends and associates.
Her mother died in 1991, and she is survived by two brothers, Philip, of Hawaii, and Jack, of Arizona.
''
        The women of her mother's family knitted.
One day, she asked her mother if she could try knitting, perhaps the most important words she ever uttered.
''If you're good all day today, I'll teach you tomorrow,'' her mother answered.
The result was a sculptural quality, said her daughter Meg Swansen, who is also a noted knitter and will carry on her mother's business.
