She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
      
In 1948, she created the role of the mother in Miss de Mille's "Fall River Legend.
She is survived by her second husband, David Harris, a writer who was a prominent opponent of the Vietnam War, whom she wed in 1977; a daughter from her second marriage, Sophie Whitney Harris of Mill Valley; her mother, who lives in Manhattan, and a brother, Pieter, of Manhattan.
A building's height should be limited to the distance that a mother in a window could be heard when calling to a child in a playground below, she said.
Miss Hepburn, whose name originally was Edda van Heemstra Hepburn-Ruston, was born on May 4, 1929, near Brussels, to a Dutch mother and an English father, and was educated largely in London.
During World War II, she and her mother were caught vacationing in Holland when the Nazis invaded and her family endured much hardship during the occupation.
Ms. Brooks began folk singing and appearing in musicals, encouraged by her mother, Eda, a voice coach.
Besides her husband and mother, Ms. Brooks is survived by two sons, Jonathan and Andrew, both of Manhattan and Mount Kisco; a stepbrother, Alan Brooks, and a sister, Joan Brooks Palermo, both of Manhattan.
She is survived by her mother, Ailene Claeyssens of Santa Barbara.
      
Ravages of Cancer
        In the late 1970's, Ms. Wilke's involvement with the female body became even more personal when her mother contracted cancer and the artist began to photograph the physical ravages of the disease and its treatments.
Married Amid Royalty
        When the Germans overran Greece in World War II, Alexandra and her mother, the former Aspasia Manos, the daughter of a royal equerry, again traveled to London.
She and Peter married on March 20, 1944, at the Yugoslav Legation in London, in the presence of three other monarchs in exile -- King George II of Greece, King Haakon of Norway and Queen Wilhemina of the Netherlands -- as well as King George VI of England, who was best man, and Queen Elizabeth, who is now the Queen Mother.
For the past seven years, Ms. Garrett played the role of the mother figure Jo Johnson on the NBC daytime soap opera "Days of Our Lives.
A nurse pleaded with Dr. Szwajger to inject the nurse's bedridden mother with a lethal dose of morphine.
4th, of Palm Beach, Fla.; her mother, Frances Jones Redmond of Essex, Conn.; a sister, Jean Cushing of Riverside, Conn., and two grandchildren.
      

        Constance Ford, an actress who appeared for 25 years in the role of Ada Hobson, an indestructably upbeat mother in the NBC daytime serial "Another World," died yesterday at New York Hospital.
She is survived by her husband, Ivan Stux; her mother, Rosa Aytch of Philadelphia; two sisters, and a brother.
      
In 1986, she appeared as Alan Alda's hilariously addled mother in "Sweet Liberty," and in 1987 she was widely praised for her sensitive portrayal of an indomitable old woman in "The Whales of August," which co-starred another movie legend, Bette Davis.
"
        Throughout her life Miss Gish remained singularly devoted to her mother and to her sister, Dorothy, who was younger, but who became an actress at about the same time Lillian did.
"Mother Carey's Chickens" (1938), under a new contract with RKO, was a failure.
Later she wrote "The Newborn Mother: Stages of Her Growth" (Little, Brown, 1985), about the psychological changes in women after childbirth.
"
        Her survivors include her mother, Dorothy Boroff of Manhattan; her husband, Richard, and two daughters, Molly and Daisy, the Tony-award winning child actress in "The Secret Garden.
Mrs. Huchet Bishop began her career following in the footsteps of her grandfather and mother, noted storytellers in her hometown of Le Havre, France.
Her marriage to Ethan Gologor ended in a divorce that drew publicity for a custody accord in which the children shuttled between the mother's and father's homes on alternating days.
Her survivors include her husband of a year, Richard Girard; two sons, Matthew Gologor of Oberlin, Ohio, and Benjamin Gologor of Manhattan; her mother, Suzanne Tumarkin of Manhattan, and a sister, Nina Tumarkin of Cambridge, Mass.
      
"I was once the typical daughter, then the easily recognizable wife, and then the quintessential mother.
Thus prepared, mother and daughter, then 8 years old, took the train to New York and waited outside Mr. Fields's office.
Her mother, Lilian Braithwaite, was a star on the London stage, and her father, Gerald Lawrence, was a matinee idol who began his acting career as a juvenile in the company of Sir Henry Irving.
In addition to her husband, Mrs. Fromer is survived by a son, Dr. Carl H., of Staten Island; a daughter, Dr. Sandra A. Stingle of Manhattan; her mother, Bella Siegel of Staten Island; a brother, Jack Siegel of New Rochelle, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
      
"In the problematic role of the mother, Kate Reid is miraculously convincing," Frank Rich wrote in The Times, adding that "she somehow melds affection with pure steel.
She also appeared on television in several dramas by Paddy Chayefsky, including "The Mother" and "The Catered Affair.
Surviving are her husband, Max Greenwood; a daughter, Gwenn Miller; her mother, Sarah Stoler of Stowe, Vt.; a brother, Will Stoler, of Montpelier, Vt., and her sister, Ann Stoler of Ann Arbor, Mich.
      
She is survived by her husband, Paul King; her mother, Kathleen Quinn of Larchmont; a sister, Patricia Quinn of Los Angeles, and a brother, Michael, also of Los Angeles.
      
Her father died when she was a child, and her mother took in laundry to support the family.
Ms. Tolstoy, whose mother was Irish, was fluent in both English and Russian.
Before she was a year old, her mother, Kate, a German-born woman with a son and daughter from a previous marriage, prevailed on her husband to leave the mines.
"
        In 1924, when Pat was 12, her mother died of cancer.
"
        Five years after her mother's death, Pat's jolly, blue-eyed father, whom she adored, died of the miner's disease, silicosis.
She is survived by her huband, Richard; her son, David; her stepdaughter, Jordyn, and her mother, Bea, all of Manhattan, and two sisters, Caroline Anderson of Brooklyn Heights and Martha Hayes of San Francisco.
      
and Walter Anoushian of Manhasset; her mother, Shoushan Kaprielian; a brother Walter Kaprielian, both of Bellerose Village, and four grandchildren.
      
" Portrayed Anne Frank's Mother
        She is best known in this country for her portrayal of Edith Frank in the Broadway production of "The Diary of Anne Frank," which won the Pulitzer Prize and Critics Circle Award in 1956.
"Gusti Huber gives a superbly controlled performance as the patient mother who is close to hysteria," wrote Mr. Atkinson.
Dr. Whitney is survived by her mother, Azalea Boeke of Sun City, Ariz.; a sister, Janice Hayes of Bloomington, Ind., and two daughters, Jennifer Whitney of Port Townsend, Wash., and Katie Whitney of Philadelphia.
      
Surviving are her companion, Irving Appleman; her mother, Catherine Forbes of Wyckoff, N.J.; a daughter, Patricia Kimberly Sposa of Vernon, N.J.; two sons, Lawrence 3d, also known as Kip, and Patrick, also known as Kelly, both of Paterson; three brothers, Cyril Forbes of Montclair, N.J., William Forbes of Paterson and Paul Forbes of Morristown, N.J., and two sisters, Joan Forbes of Wyckoff and Nancy Braithwaite of Nassau, the Bahamas.
      
Her mother, the former Eleanor Reed, was a stage actress.
The cause was bladder cancer, said her mother, Odessa Browne.
She is survived, in addition to her mother, by two sisters, Lenice Pannell and Yvonne Allison, of Wheaton, Md.
      
"
        Three months later, Newsweek named Miss Seberg, a white actress, as the expectant mother.
Her mother was German and her father Greek, and though she admittedly neither spoke Greek nor cared for Greek food, she identified closely with her father's homeland and described herself as Greek-American.
"
        She is survived by her mother, Hildegard Fournier of Florida, and her brother, John, of New York.
      

        Mary Bickford Paulsen, the mother of Gov.
Surviving are her husband, Marion G. H. Gilliam; her mother, Natalie Davenport of Great Barrington and John's Island, Fla.; a sister, Baroness Bernard D'Anglejan-Chatillon of Paris and Vero Beach, Fla.; a half brother, William C. Ladd of Brewster, Mass.
" On television, she appeared in the 1989 sitcom "Chicken Soup," as the mother of the character played by Jackie Mason, and, this year, in the anthology series "TriBeCa.
Big Moment on Broadway
        Her co-starring performance in the 1956 comedy "The Reluctant Debutante," as a busybody mother who tried to marry her daughter to an eligible suitor, was lauded by one critic as crisp, alert and highly enjoyable.
In 1948, Miss Allen played a distraught wife and mother in "Edward, My Son.
In addition to her husband, whom she married in 1984, she is survived by their daughter, Megan Elizabeth Gelstein; her mother, Kathryn Johnson of Brooklyn; and a sister, Janet Grimminger of Townsend, Del.
      
Her daughter, Elinor Fuchs, said her mother had Alzheimer's disease.
Miss Berberova (pronounced bur-BEAR-uh-vuh) was born in 1901 in St. Petersburg; her father was an Armenian civil servant; her mother was Russian.
; her mother, Caroline Colgate Taylor of Manhattan; a sister, Alice Day of Canberra, Australia; a brother, Howard C. Taylor 3d of Jericho, Vt., and six grandchildren.
      
After attending Edinburgh University and working as a journalist in London, she moved to New York with her family and then settled in San Francisco with her mother and sister, Pat, who often collaborated with her.
Mrs. Bozyk was an enduring star of the Yiddish stage here and earlier in Poland and Argentina, appearing in hundreds of productions, often as a comedian and later as the familar mother or mother-in-law character who often stole the show.
Her mother, the actress Lois Wilson Kibbee, made her theatrical debut in "Uncle Tom's Cabin" on a river boat; her uncle was the actor Guy Kibbee.
She is survived by her mother, of Chino, Calif.; two brothers, Milne, of Chino and James, of New Orleans; and a sister, Elizabeth Zonn.
      
Miss Duke liked fine porcelain and jewels and enjoyed building her jewelry collection, which included notable Indian pieces and heirlooms from her mother.
Her mother, who was more supportive of her artistic aspirations, took Miss de Mille and her sister to New York.
She is survived by her husband; her father, Gerald; her mother, Sharon, and her sister, Missy Farr-Kay, all of Phoenix.
      
She began piano study at the age of 5 with her mother.
Besides her brother Clement, of Northfield, Minn., she is survived by her mother, Erline, of Boston; two sisters, Debbie, of Boston, and Linda Gossage, of San Francisco; and another brother, Charles, of Boston.
      
On the screen, Miss McNeil was stolid, voluminous and serene as a mother trying to control her son and wanting to buy her family a respectable home.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by three sons, David and Alexander, of Manhattan, and Oliver, of Tempe, Ariz.; her mother, Margot Hobbins of London, and a brother, Dr. Peter Hobbins of Zug, Switzerland.
      
Ms. Lindbergh also taught for several years at the Riverside School in Lyndonville, Vt.
        Ms. Lindbergh's mother, who is a poet and essayist, lives in Darien and Barnet, Vt.
Turned Into Ideal Mother
        Eventually, the ideal wife became the ideal mother in such successes as "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950).
Turned Into Ideal Mother
        Eventually, the ideal wife became the ideal mother in such successes as "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950).
In 1973 she made her Broadway debut in a revival of Clare Boothe Luce's vitriolic comedy "The Women," again as a shrewd mother.
Her mother, Della, was a singer.
" She starred with Claude Dauphin in the comedy "The Marriage Go-Round" and played the mother in a national tour of Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park.
Eventually, the ideal wife became the ideal mother in such successes as "The Best Years of Our Lives" (1946) and "Cheaper by the Dozen" (1950).
In 1973 she made her Broadway debut in a revival of Clare Boothe Luce's vitriolic comedy "The Women," again as a shrewd mother.
Her mother, Della, was a singer.
" She starred with Claude Dauphin in the comedy "The Marriage Go-Round" and played the mother in a national tour of Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park.
She is survived by her husband, Sandford; four children from an earlier marriage, Joshua, Daniel, Jordanna and Benjamin Abrams; her mother, Pearl Resnick, widow of Jack Resnick, the New York real-estate developer; a sister, Marilyn Katz; and two brothers, Burton and Ira, all of Manhattan.
      
Upon the death of her mother, Clara Houghton Tully, in 1958, Miss Tully inherited a substantial estate, and began her career as a philanthropist.
