''We are hoping to get helpers in every town and school district throughout the world,'' said Barbara Dorsey, Ms. Plummer's daughter, who said she plans to continue with her mother's work.
She was raised in Savannah and dropped out of school in the ninth grade when she became a mother.
She was 8 when her parents divorced and her mother, a native of Murfreesboro, Tenn., took her young daughter and her two sons, Cameron and Frederick, back to her birthplace.
Ms. Cage was, as Lincoln Kirstein described her role in ''Thirty Years,'' his history of the City Ballet, ''at once labor negotiator, certified public accountant, legal expert, mother superior, confessor, psychiatrist and practicing witch (white magic).
Her father was Canadian and her mother was American.
''
        Besides Margaret Lescher, she is survived by another daughter, Katherine Lescher of Sydney, Australia;  her mother, Mary G. Cantwell of Bristol; a sister, Diana Nickerson of Pittsburgh; and a granddaughter.
      
The family lived in several towns in northern California during Ms. Cashin's early years, and in each her mother would open a custom dress shop.
Her mother took her along to the polling place even though she was too young to vote.
Smiling broadly, the mother told officials that her daughter was 21 -- a bit of calculated revenge for centuries of female disenfranchisement.
A classmate introduced the foursome to her mother, Florence Greenberg, the pioneering manager and a founder of Tiara Records, who soon signed the group to record for her label.
Besides her two sisters and her daughter, Alexandra, of Sparkill, Mrs. Pelletier is survived by her mother, Madeline Moran of Chestnut Ridge, N.Y.; another daughter, Etain, also of Sparkill; a son, Kieran, of Turbotville, Pa.; another sister, Marie Long of Jersey City; three brothers, John Moran of Manalapan, N.J., Joseph Moran of Ireland, and Robert Moran of Wappinger Falls, N.Y.; and two grandsons.
      
Faggs, known as ''the mother of the Tigerbelles,'' was the first American woman to compete in three Olympics and was a mentor to Rudolph.
''Hattie and the Wild Waves'' describes in detail her artist mother's childhood in a wealthy German-American family.
Her father, George Kangas, was in the grocery business, and her mother, Janice, tested recipes at home for a local flour mill.
Ms. Harris's mother moved with her to Philadelphia, working there as a dressmaker.
Her mother, Mary, worked as a maid for the Gay 90's pin-up Lillian Russell, among others.
Her father developed Parkinson's disease, which steadily incapacitated him until he had to be hospitalized;  her mother worked as a sewing machine operator and was active in the Socialist Party.
She is survived by her husband, Sherman K. Edmiston Jr.; two stepchildren, Sherman K. III and Lisa A.  of New York City; three grandchildren; her mother, Mary L. Green,  and two brothers, Reuben Jr. and Eli Green, all of Springfield, Mass.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Shannon England; their daughters, Sara and Jenna; her mother, Shirley; and two sisters, Carol and Beverley.
Her mother had been the first woman to enroll at the University of North Carolina.
Miss Von Scherler followed her mother, an actress trained by the playwright and producer David Belasco, into a life in the theater.
She also wrote of her youthful experiences in ''Life With Mother Superior,'' a novel that was made into a film called ''The Trouble with Angels'' starring Rosalind Russell and Hayley Mills.
''My mother never got over it,'' Ms. Trahey recalled years later.
Some of the mail, which had been sitting in storage for months, contained spoiled cakes and cookies, and there was even a package of steaks a mother had sent to her son overseas, Mrs. Earley recalled.
Her mother, Margaret Sallee Barnes, was active in community and civil rights groups, and her father, James D. Barnes, worked as a chef.
Her mother's parents had been slaves in Kentucky, and she reared her children to value education and to stand up for their rights.
Surviving are her mother, Bridget Cappozzi Tobia of Newark, and numerous cousins.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Nicholas; her father, Allan Pearlstein of Boca Raton, Fla.; her mother, Gloria Asnes of New York; a sister, Laurie Goldberg of Atlanta; a brother, Robert Pearlstein of Baltimore; and a grandmother, Flora Pearlstein of Baltimore.
Ms. Abramowicz's mother was dispatched to Treblinka, where she was killed; Ms. Abramowicz to a labor camp.
In other key roles, she was a faithless lover in ''The Amazing Dr. Clitterhouse'' (1938), a conspiratorial killer in ''Murder, My Sweet'' (1945), a vitriolic Broadway actress in ''The Velvet Touch'' (1948), an overprotective mother in ''Marjorie Morningstar'' (1958) and a scornful shrew in two melodramas, ''Two Weeks in Another Town'' (1962) and ''How to Murder Your Wife'' (1965).
Her early influences were folk and blues legends like Pete Seeger, Woody Guthrie and Sonny Terry and Brownie McGhee, all friends of her mother.
''
        She is survived by her husband, Bill Good, and her mother, Marian Robinson.
Although twice married and the mother of three, she did not really like being kissed or touched, wrote a biographer with whom she cooperated, Gwen Robyns.
Then came her story of trying to survive as a young mother on a houseboat on the Thames in ''Offshore.
Ms. Fitzgerald's mother, Christina, was one of the first female students at Somerville College, Oxford.
Then, when she was 18 and about to go to Somerville herself, her mother died.
Yet despite the difficulties of her life as a young married woman, she refused to blame the delay in her writing career on her obligations as a wife and mother.

        Helen Beardsley, a mother of 20 who recounted the story of her unusual family in a book that was later made into a popular movie, died  April 26 at a hospital in Healdsburg, Calif. She was 70 and lived in Santa Rosa, Calif.
She was named Mother of the Year by the National Campfire Girls in 1963 and was a member of the California Advisory Commission on the Status of Women.
By the age of 19, she was a divorced mother of two and had not yet begun to sing professionally.
Her father was cabinet maker; her mother was a dressmaker.
Her books included ''The Infant Separates Himself From Her Mother,'' published by the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1970.

        Priscilla Rudin Stern, who took pride in being the daughter, wife and mother of rabbis, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Sosenko's mother ran a restaurant, and occasionally rented rooms, and that was how the Hildegarde-Sosenko relationship began.
She rented a room from Ms. Sosenko's mother, and soon the young women became fast friends.

        Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Atkins was born Vera Maria Rosenberg in Bucharest, Romania, and went to London with her parents in 1933, where she adopted her mother's last name.

        Nancy Marchand, the distinguished character actress who excelled at playing wise and imperious authority figures -- newspaper publishers, queens, grande dames and a madam -- and who achieved perhaps her greatest fame as the domineering mother of a mob boss in the television series ''The Sopranos,''  died on Sunday at her home in Stratford, Conn., one day short of her 72nd birthday.
That description could be applied to the overburdened wife she played in the 1980 Broadway revival of Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven,'' the patrician publisher on the long-running ''Lou Grant'' television series and her portrayal of Livia Soprano, the monster mother of them all, a woman bred into the Mafia who without a blink of hesitation sets up her son Tony to be assassinated because he has moved her to a nursing home.
In the 1980's she played the title role in Christopher Durang's ''Sister Mary Ignatius Explains It All for You,'' Bessie Berger in Clifford Odets's ''Awake and Sing'' at Circle in the Square, Klytemnestra in Ezra Pound's ''Elektra'' and the august mother in ''The Cocktail Hour'' by Mr. Gurney.
Her movie appearances included ''The Hospital''; two films with the team of Merchant Ivory, ''The Bostonians'' and ''Jefferson in Paris'';  and the remake of ''Sabrina,'' in which she played Harrison Ford's mother.
At the end of the show's first season, Tony was about to smother his mother with a pillow, but a stroke got there first and she was left gasping for breath in a hospital bed.
Tony gave his mother airline tickets so that she and his aunt could fly to Arizona.
Mr. Chase would not discuss forthcoming events in the series, but if the actress had lived, undoubtedly the mother and son battle would have continued and Livia Soprano would have had the last word.
Livia, to whom Ms. Marchand compared her television role as Livia in ''The Sopranos,'' was the great-grandmother of the Emperor Caligula, not his mother.
In addition to her sister, she is survived by her mother, Gladys, and her brother, Saleem Muhammad, both of Brooklyn.
      
Her survivors include her mother,  who is 102, of New Haven; her husband, Jay; two sons, Daniel, of Ridgefield, Conn., and Michael, of Stony Creek, Conn.; a daughter, Sandra Vlock, also of Stony Creek; a sister, Marian Wexler of New Haven; and nine grandchildren.
      
In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mrs. Holt the National Mother of the Year, and in 1995 she became the only non-Korean to receive the Korea National Merit Award.
'' After the book's release, mother and daughter did not speak to each other for months.
When she was 2 her parents separated, and her mother moved with her daughters and son, Jack, to Hollywood.
Miss Young said that her faith sustained her through the difficult times in her life and that her mother had given her an invaluable sense of worth, independence and flair.
''
        Career Highlights  Films:
        Laugh Clown Laugh 1928
        The Squall 1929
        Loose Ankles 1930
        Kismet 1930
        The Devil to Pay 1930
        Taxi 1932
        Zoo in Budapest 1933
        A Man's Castle 1933
        Call of the Wild 1935
        Ramona 1936
        Suez 1938
        He Stayed for Breakfast 1940
        And Now Tomorrow 1944
        The Stranger 1946
        The Farmer's Daughter 1947
        The Bishop's Wife 1947
        Rachel and the Stranger 1948
        The Accused 1949
        Mother Is a Freshman 1949
        Come to the Stable 1949
        Because of You 1952
        Television:
        A Letter to Loretta (series), 1953-54
        The Loretta Young Show (same series, new name), 1954-61
        The New Loretta Young Show (series), 1962-63
        Christmas Eve (TV film), 1986
        Lady in a Corner (TV film), 1989
        Correction:  August 19, 2000, Saturday  An obituary of Loretta Young on Sunday misidentified ''Come to the Stable.
''Loud voice, mother,'' he said.
According to her son Jerald, when she phoned her mother to tell her what she had done, ''Her mother said, 'Frieda, you get home this instant!
According to her son Jerald, when she phoned her mother to tell her what she had done, ''Her mother said, 'Frieda, you get home this instant!
' '' Frieda's mother took her back to the recruiting station and told the Navy man that she could not sign up without her father's permission.
Miss Wells, who was born in Omaha, on Dec. 1, 1920, was reared in Los Angeles by her divorced mother, Mary Ludwig Wells.
In addition to Mr. de Land, Ms. Hearn is survived by her mother, Alice Darcy Hearn of Cranston, R.I.; two sisters, Marie, of Providence, and Marion, of Warren, R.I.; and two brothers, John, of Providence, and William J., of Cranston.
      
Mrs. Fitzgerald is survived by a son, Dr. Kim Fitzgerald of Cleveland; her mother, Effie Hargett Brown of Fonda; and six grandchildren.
      
'' Among the Broadway plays in which she was involved were '' 'Night, Mother'' and ''Passion.
Her daughter said she would prefer not to discuss her mother's past.
''I saw on the wall behind her photographs of my mother,'' he continued.
Born in Moscow, Ms. Riabouchinska was put under house arrest early in the Russian Revolution along with her father, who was a banker for the czar, and her mother and three siblings.
But their servants helped the mother and four children escape and they fled to France, eventually settling in Paris.
Ms. Richards's characters were exemplars of stalwart, soulful women: Sister Margaret, the pastor of a storefront church in James Baldwin's play ''The Amen Corner''; Mr. Poitier's mother in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' (a role for which she was nominated for an Academy Award); Baby Suggs, a former slave who becomes a spiritual leader, in the film version of Toni Morrison's ''Beloved.
''
        As she once said, ''I have played everybody's mother.
In 1984 she was Mr. Glover's mother in ''And the Children Shall Lead'' on the PBS ''Wonderworks'' series.
''
        Ms. Richards's films included ''Hurry Sundown,'' ''Drugstore Cowboy'' and ''The Great White Hope'' (as the mother of the boxer Jack Jefferson, played by Mr. Jones).
'' On ''E.R.,'' she had a running role as Mr. La Salle's mother.
Ms. Doran's more memorable roles included a panicky passenger aboard a disabled airliner in ''The High and the Mighty'' (1954), whose cast included John Wayne and Claire Trevor, and James Dean's tormented mother in ''Rebel Without a Cause'' (1955).
Her mother was born Alexandra Mary Cadogan, a granddaughter of the fifth Earl Cadogan.
Within months of being driven cross-country by her widowed mother, the owner of a tourist camp outside their hometown, Canton, Ms. Peters was chosen as the female lead in the lavish epic ''Captain from Castille,'' opposite Tyrone Power.
In addition to her son Barron, of Manhattan, she is survived by her fourth husband, Dion Neutra, an architect and the son and partner of the modernist architect Richard Neutra, whom she married this year; another son, Alan, of Fillmore, Calif.; a brother, Donald Krasne of Beverly Hills; and her mother, Dorothy Krasne of Los Angeles.
Mrs. Koulomzin also did social work among poor Russian emigres, working with Elizabeth Skobtsova, who became an Orthodox nun known as Mother Maria and died in the Ravensbruck concentration camp after trying to help save Jews during the German occupation.
Mrs. Bandaranaike rose to power in 1960 as a bereaved wife and mother of three, just a year after her husband, Solomon, then prime minister, was assassinated by a Buddhist monk.
The father, mother and daughter have led Sri Lanka for 21 of the 52 years since it gained its independence from the British.
''She was a heroic mother of the nation,'' the Sri Lanka Freedom Party said in a statement.
Mrs. Kumaratunga firmly repudiated her mother's brand of Sinhalese nationalism, which had inflamed ethnic tensions between the mostly Buddhist Sinhalese majority and the predominantly Hindu Tamil minority.
Mrs. Kumaratunga also steered the party toward a more open, market-oriented economy and away from the centralized, state-dominated socialism that had been her mother's trademark.
In a recent interview, Anura, the Bandaranaike's youngest child and only son, said their father had been the affectionate, demonstrative parent while their mother was aloof.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
Her father soon left for New York, where he set up a shop on Ludlow Street in the Lower East Side; Biala, her mother and her older brother Jacob, who would become the Abstract Expressionist painter Jack Tworkov, followed in 1913.
Her mother, Gertrude, had been a member of Denishawn, the influential modern dance troupe.Her father, Joseph, was an electrician at MGM.
Then, in 1947, she married the actor Jack Webb, later famous on ''Dragnet,'' and stopped working to be a full-time wife and mother.
They married in 1947, and she gave up her budding movie career to become a full-time wife and mother.
Selavy's Magic Theater''; and Mr. Silverman staged ''The Mother of Us All'' by Gertrude Stein and Virgil Thomson.
''My mother was a suffragette,'' she said in the opening line of the Ken Burns documentary on the suffragists, ''Not for Ourselves Alone: The Story of Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Susan B. Anthony,'' which was shown last year on the Public Broadcasting System.
''
        Mrs. Dyk's deepest inspiration was her mother, Annie Manson Belcher.
Mrs. Dyk and her mother walked side by side down Beacon Avenue in Boston to demand the vote.
She grew up in Newton Center, Mass., and, like her mother, attended Wellesley College in Wellesley, Mass.
Ms. Carter said her mother's strong will was evident when Mr. Dyk was suffering from Parkinson's disease and cancer and she was juggling two jobs and raising two children in the 1950's and 1960's.
Mrs. Hollister, who was ''just a nice little mother,'' as she put it, at first got nowhere.
She first got an inkling of what would be her life's work as a girl in Leeds, when her mother took her on mercy missions to the poor in the woeful slums there.
Born Margaret Susan Ryder in 1923 into a prosperous farming family outside Leeds, Sue, as she was called, was the youngest of her mother's five surviving children.
In 1979, the Queen Mother opened the Sue Ryder Foundation Museum in Cavendish, with exhibitions that included Lady Ryder's war uniforms and a reconstruction of her mother's room.
In 1979, the Queen Mother opened the Sue Ryder Foundation Museum in Cavendish, with exhibitions that included Lady Ryder's war uniforms and a reconstruction of her mother's room.
In 1949, she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
'' Her mother was an enthusiastic supporter, often telling her, ''You are going to be the lady Paul Laurence Dunbar.
Prompted by her mother, the teenager sent her poems to Langston Hughes and James Weldon Johnson.
The 30-page title poem described a mother's frantic search for her missing daughter in a sprawling, decrepit building called the Mecca, which once was one of Chicago's fanciest apartment houses.
Her mother was a cellist who gave up her career to nurture her musical daughter.
From the age of 10, she was educated at home by private tutors, living with her mother and a beloved aunt in ''a kind of aristocratic poverty,'' as she once told a friend.
''You'd sell out your own mother for a piece of fudge.
' ''
        The Chronicle quoted Frances Bergen, the mother of Candice and a long-time friend, as suggesting that Ms. Windsor's striking resemblance to Joan Crawford might have obscured her during Crawford's heyday.
The case turned into a legal and emotional crucible for her, her son and daughter, her mother and three teachers, as well as the accusing parents.
It started in August 1983 when a mother called the police to say that her 2 1/2-year-old son had been molested at the school.
On the basis of testimony from children and doctors but little corroborating evidence, a grand jury in March 1984 indicted Mrs. Buckey; her son, Raymond; her daughter, Peggy Ann Buckey; her mother, Virginia McMartin, who founded the school; and three teachers.
Her mother, Virginia McMartin, died in 1995.
      
After the death of her mother, Zella, from cancer, Ms. Kennedy and her sister Grayce moved to New York.
Ms. Fleur told of the time at age 8 or 9 that she was caught with her mother in a downpour.
At the time of her death she was playing a Mother Superior in ''Angelface,'' a popular telenovela.
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her brother, Robert McCready of Manhattan, and her mother, Ellen McCready of Dallas.
      
In 1949  she published her second volume of verse, ''Annie Allen,'' a portrait of a Bronzeville girl as a daughter, a wife and a mother, experiencing loneliness, loss, death and poverty.
'' Her mother was an enthusiastic supporter, often telling her, ''You are going to be the lady Paul Laurence Dunbar.
Prompted by her mother, she sent her poems to Langston Hughes and James Weldon Johnson.
The 30-page title poem described a mother's frantic search for her missing daughter in a sprawling, decrepit building called the Mecca, which once was one of Chicago's fanciest apartment houses.
But, as The New York Times wrote at the time, ''Black that no mother could object to, for it was made with snug bodice and as full a dirndl as the law permits.
