In addition to Mr. Cahn, she is survived by their sons, Jonathan, a member of the law firm of Steptoe & Johnson in Washington, and Reuben, a public defender in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; her mother, Florine Camper of Baltimore; two brothers, Nixon and John Camper, and three sisters, Elizabeth Jones, Mary Lou Redd and Ella Johns, all of Baltimore.
      
Beginning in 1972, when she moved to Manchester and re-established the Seaward Kennels, which had been started by her mother in 1932, Miss Ayers became a major dog breeder.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred, professor of the humanities at Quinsigamond Community College in Worcester; her mother, Beth Arick of Brookline, Mass.

        Princess Ileana of Romania, who was known as Mother Alexandra after becoming a nun, died at midday yesterday in St. Elizabeth Hospital Medical Center in Youngstown, Ohio, Mother Christophora, abbess of the Monastery of the Holy Transfiguration, said.

        Princess Ileana of Romania, who was known as Mother Alexandra after becoming a nun, died at midday yesterday in St. Elizabeth Hospital Medical Center in Youngstown, Ohio, Mother Christophora, abbess of the Monastery of the Holy Transfiguration, said.
Mother Alexandra, who founded the convent in 1968 and was its abbess from 1969 to 1980, fractured her hip in a fall there on Jan. 4, entered the hospital that night, suffered a massive heart attack on Jan. 8 and died of heart failure, Mother Christophora said.
Mother Alexandra, who founded the convent in 1968 and was its abbess from 1969 to 1980, fractured her hip in a fall there on Jan. 4, entered the hospital that night, suffered a massive heart attack on Jan. 8 and died of heart failure, Mother Christophora said.
Miss Masiello was born in Milan, Italy, into a family of singers; her mother, Josephine La Puma, had a subsequent career with small opera companies in New York City.
Trained as a pianist at the Milan conservatory, Miss Masiello moved to the United States with her mother in the late 1930's, where she studied further at the Juilliard School.
When Mrs. Parish married at age 19 and had been decorating for all of a year, Mrs. Parish's mother gave the newlyweds a small house on Gracie Square.
"I never forgave my mother.
Ms. Sullivan, who lived in Gainesville, Fla., is survived by her mother, C. Burnice Sullivan of Seattle; her father, Charles E. Sullivan of San Jose, Calif.; a sister, Charla Sullivan of Seattle, and four brothers, Steven Sullivan of Canoga Park, Calif., Patrick and K. C. Sullivan, both of Seattle, and Mike Sullivan of San Jose.
      
She is survived by her mother, Ann, of Washington and a brother, Charles, of Potomac, Md.
      
Her father was an English engineer; her mother was half-Irish, half- Brazilian.
When she began to show talent, she and her mother returned to London, where she attended the school attached to the Vic-Wells Ballet (as the Royal Ballet was then known).
Borrowing her mother's maiden name, she initially danced as Margot Fontes, but soon modified her stage name to Fonteyn.
" At the time, she told her mother: "Frederick Ashton is absolutely mad.
Besides her father, Ms. Wilson is survived by her mother, Doris, and two younger sisters, Toni and Kori, all of Hamden.
      
She left to take care of her mother, who had suffered a stroke.
Miss Chisholm was born in Laurel, Miss., and was a graduate of Sweet Briar College in Sweet Briar, Va.
        She is survived by her mother, Elisabeth Gardiner Wisher Chisholm of Laurel, Miss., and two sisters, Jean C. Lindsey of Laurel and Manhattan, and Cynthia Saint Amand of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Mania, of Manhattan; two sisters, Jeanette Siman of Guatemala City and Betty Nasser of New Windsor, N.Y., and two brothers, Antonio, of Caracas, Venezuela, and Rene, of San Pedro Sula, Honduras.
      
She said her family still lives in Sarasota, where her father is a school principal, and her mother is a painter.
She is survived by her husband, Michael; her mother, Beatrice Gittleman; two sons, Lawrence, of Manhattan, and Mark, of Plainview, L.I., and two sisters, Shula Brudner of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Toby Edelson of Suffern, N.Y.
      
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      
Her mother started the Red Cross chapter in her hometown of Bloomfield, N.J. Mrs. Teaze's late husband, Moses, was president of the chapter and of the Westport-Weston chapter after the couple moved to Connecticut in 1950.
She was the author of "Everyday Mother Talk to Toddlers: Early Intervention" (Academic Press, 1979), and co-editor with Richard K. Stone of "Practical Concerns About Siblings: Bridging the Research-Practice Gap" (Haworth Press, 1987).
; a daughter, Leah Ann , an intern at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston; her mother, Sadie Fuchs of the Bronx; a sister, Norma Resnick of Woodmere, L.I., and two brothers, Daniel Fuchs of Tenafly, N.J., and Leonard Fuchs of Armonk, N.Y.
      
It was her English-born mother, Winifred, whose fanatic admiration for Adolf Hitler (and Hitler's equally fanatic admiration for Wagner's music) made Bayreuth into a Nazi shrine in the 1930's.
After Wieland's death, the hostility shown her by her mother and her brother Wolfgang turned her later years into a gypsylike odyssey as she fruitlessly attempted to find support for her dream of a theatrical academy.
Her father was killed in World War I when she was 10 and her mother died when she was 18, leaving her elder brother, Edward, as her only close relative.
"
        Later roles included an alcoholic mother in "Edward, My Son," in both London and New York; an unloved spinster in "The Heiress," leading parts in Brecht's "Good Woman of Setzuan," Ibsen's "Hedda Gabler" and "Rosmersholm" and the 10-hour tour de force as Margaret of Anjou in the Royal Shakespeare Company's "Wars of the Roses.
"
        The actress also won plaudits for roles in such films as "Diamond Jim," "The Plainsman," "History Is Made at Night," "Only Angels Have Wings," "Arizona" and later, in 1953, in "Shane," about the disturbing effect of a gunfighter (Alan Ladd) on a frontier family, with Miss Arthur playing a gentle and loyal wife and mother.
Mrs. Yarrow, the mother of the singer Peter Yarrow of the group Peter, Paul and Mary, died of leukemia, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Ms. Jernigan is survived by her husband, the composer Philip Glass, a stepdaughter, Juliet, and a stepson, Zachary, all of Manhattan; her mother, Pauline Bauer of Jupiter, Fla., and a sister, Audrey Hart of Key West, Fla.
        A memorial service will be held at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and 112th Street, on Friday at 1 P.M.
      
Her parents were divorced when Eva was 4 years old, and she and her mother moved to Paris.
On the strength of rave reviews and encouragement from theater folk, Miss Le Gallienne and her mother left wartime London in 1915 for New York.
" The revival of the Edna Ferber-George S. Kaufman comedy based on the Barrymore family was a hit of the 1976 Broadway season and a triumph for Miss Le Gallienne, who played the mother of the tribe, skipping girlishly upstairs in Act I and descending like an elderly queen in Act III.
Her mother was a concubine and her father a small-town landowner who beat mother and daughter until they fled home.
Her mother was a concubine and her father a small-town landowner who beat mother and daughter until they fled home.
At age 16, bereft even of underwear, she went off to Beijing with a traveling theatrical group without consulting her mother.
Her father was a physician, and her mother became a successful milliner.
Her mother had invested $30,000 in the bull market of the late 1920's and lost it all.
She is survived by her husband, Lee; her mother, Jenny Hart; a brother, Herbert Hart of Monte Carlo, Monaco; and, by a former marriage, a daughter, Elise Hart of Berkeley, Calif., and two sons, Michael Sheffrin of Majorca, and Ivan Sheffrin of Washington, and a grandson.
      
Many New Haven Productions
        Miss Dunnock performed in numerous stage productions at the Long Wharf theater in New Haven over the decades, including the parts of Mrs. Tyrone in Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and the mother in Mr. Williams's "Glass Menagerie.
Many New Haven Productions
        Miss Dunnock performed in numerous stage productions at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven over the decades, including the parts of Mrs. Tyrone in Eugene O'Neill's "Long Day's Journey Into Night" and the mother in Mr. Williams's "Glass Menagerie.
Her survivors include her husband of 21 years, Kip Gowans, a producer; a daughter, Kate Colleran Sullivan; a son, Matthew Remick Colleran; two stepdaughters, Justine Gowans Solly and Nicola Gowans, and her mother, Pat Packard.
She is survived by two sons, Matthew, of Closter, and James, of Washington; her mother, Florence Aranov of Ridgewood, N.J., and a sister, Janet Bauer, of Ridgewood.
      
In addition to her husband, she is survived by her mother, Charlotte Foy, of Troy; a daughter, Alexandra Rubinstein, of Pasadena, Calif., and two step-daughters, Erika Schickel, of Los Angeles, and Jessica Schickel, of Northampton, Mass.
      

        Irina Nijinska, a dancer and teacher who spent much of her life in a one-woman crusade to preserve the choreography of her mother, Bronislava Nijinska, died on Tuesday at the Daniel Freeman Memorial Hospital in Inglewood, Calif. She was 77 years old and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.
        She died of cardiac arrest, her husband, Gibbs S. Raetz, said.
She believed, as did most dance historians, that her mother -- who first achieved acclaim with Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes in the 1920's -- was among this century's greatest choreographers.
She most often revived two contrasting masterpieces by her mother: "Les Noces," a monumentally scaled depiction of a peasant wedding choreographed in 1923, and "Les Biches," a satire on the French Riviera "smart set" that received its premiere in 1924.
Miss Nijinska was born in St. Petersburg on Oct. 20, 1913, but received most of her training, from her mother and other teachers, in Paris.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
Was Her Mother's Assistant
        After an automobile accident in 1936 that reduced her performing abilities, she served as her mother's rehearsal assistant, and from 1941 to 1950 taught in the school her mother had founded in Hollywood.
When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
When Nicholas Singaevsky, her mother's second husband, died in 1968, she once more became her mother's assistant, and after her mother's death in 1972 she embarked upon her travels as a choreographic reconstructor.
In recent years, Miss Nijinska had sifted through her mother's notes to determine precisely how many works by Bronislava Nijinska were revivable.
Mrs. Falk is survived by her mother, Helen Stephens of College Station, Tex.
She is survived by her mother, Dorothy T. Ellington Ashley of Washington, and her brother, David Ellington of Los Angeles.
      
She is survived by her mother, Mary Petit of Pawling, N.Y.; four sisters, Cordella Pascariello of Freeport, L.I., Cassandra DeFillippo of Pawling, Renee Glover of New Rochelle, and Sarita Petit of the Bronx, and a brother, Peter Petit of San Francisco.
      
Her mother was the former Mary Parkman, daughter of a prominent New England family.
"
        She is survived by her mother, Addie Hutchins of Los Angeles; two sons, Darrin and Raymond, and a daughter, Tracey, all of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
"She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper.
Her first Broadway role with lines came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
" Numerous TV Roles
        On television she was seen with Candice Bergen on "Murphy Brown" in the last three seasons as Murphy's mother, Avery Brown, winning an Emmy Award in 1989.
"She's like an earth mother," the actress Maureen Stapleton once said, "but in real life she's not to be let out without a keeper.
Ms. Dewhurst's first major Broadway role came in a brief 1960 production of Albert Camus's "Caligula," but the next year she won her first Tony Award, as best featured actress, for her portrayal of a suddenly widowed young mother in Tad Mosel's "All the Way Home," an adaptation of James Agee's novel "A Death in the Family.
"
        Her television appearances included three seasons playing Candice Bergen's mother on "Murphy Brown," for which she won an Emmy Award in 1989.
Ms. Lefcourt is survived by her husband of 26 years, Robert, of New York City; a daughter, Jenny; a son, Daniel; her mother, Marjorie Hoffman of New York City, and a sister, Elaine Hoffman Rattet of New Rochelle, N.Y.
      
Her mother, Alice Kohn Pollitzer, one of nine women in Barnard College's first graduating class, founded the Encampment for Citizenship.
When she was 70, Mrs. Weiss and her mother, on principle, challenged a Federal Government provision that required Medicare applicants to sign a loyalty oath.
She is survived by her mother, Dorothy T. Ellington Ashley of Washington, and her brother, David Ellington of Los Angeles.
      
Ms. Carr is survived by her husband, Anthony M. Radice; a daughter, Julia; her mother, Dorislee Kadis Carr, and a half-sister, Amy, all of New York City.
      
She is survived by her mother, Angela Bovasso of Staten Island, and a brother, Bernard X. Bovasso of Saugerties, N.Y.
Her mother, Julia Thomas Neal Christian, died when Mrs. Preston was a child and she was reared by her grandmother, Anna Morrison Jackson, General Jackson's second wife and widow.
Correction:  September 27, 1991, Friday
        An obituary on Saturday about Julia Jackson Christian Preston, a granddaughter of Stonewall Jackson, misidentified her mother.
In 1967 Mrs. Chaplin returned to New York without fanfare to visit her mother, who was dying.
Mrs. Chaplin always told friends and interviewers that she was content to remain a wife and mother, and always said she never noticed the difference between her age and her husband's.
Her mother died when she was born, and she spent most of her childhood "visiting around," she said.
A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress in "Dragon Seed" in 1944, appearing as the Chinese mother to the part played by Katharine Hepburn.
At her urging, her mother, Jennie Simon MacMahon, began her own stage career at the age of 53.
In 1939, she fled Germany through the Netherlands to Britain, and in late 1940 she joined her mother and a brother in the United States.

        Veronica Perry, a Harlem teacher and the mother of Edmund Perry, the honor student fatally shot by a police officer on Morningside Drive on June 12, 1985, died on Oct. 4 at St. Luke's Hospital.
She is survived by her husband, Jonah Perry Sr.; her mother, Eva Rutledge; a son, Jonah Jr.; a daughter, Nicol, and several brothers and sisters.
      
Besides her father, survivors include her mother, Elizabeth, of Princeton; a daughter, Nina Gold of New York City; twin sons, Ethan Gold, a student at Harvard University, and Ari Gold, a student at Columbia University; a sister, Alexandria (Lucy) Nolan of Silver City, N.M., and two brothers, Charles D. Dilworth of San Francisco and Joseph R. Dilworth Jr. of Bronxville, N.Y.
      
Both her parents were immigrant Jews -- her father from Lithuania, her mother from England.
Her mother was Catholic; her father, a professor of anatomy, Jewish.
In "Family Sayings," she mingled her family story -- dominated by her impatient scientist father and ever-cheerful mother -- with the events of Italian history in the period between the two world wars.
A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an Academy Award as best supporting actress in "Dragon Seed" in 1944, appearing as the Chinese mother to the part played by Katharine Hepburn.
At her urging, her mother, Jennie Simon MacMahon, began her own stage career at the age of 53.
She began to study art as a diversion in the 1920's when she was living in Brooklyn, married and the mother of two sons.
She is survived by her husband, Herbert; two sons, David, of Bayside, Queens, and Peter, of Roslyn; two daughters, Karen and Jennifer, of Roslyn; her mother, Miriam Glickman of West Lawrence, L.I.
