Her father worked in a factory that made burlap bags, and her mother was a seamstress and domestic worker.
The character I'd played was the 52-year-old mother I will probably never be.
The calligraphy text was the work of the artist's mother, Julia Warhola.
Her mother, Rozika de Wertheimstein, was a top Hungarian sportswoman, and Dame Miriam herself played tennis, cricket and squash, the last in international competitions.
Mrs. Cox was descended on her mother's side from the socially prominent Livingston family.
Her father worked in a factory that made burlap bags, and her mother was a seamstress and domestic worker.
She is survived by her mother, Zelda Fisher Gourse, of Providence, R.I.
      
In addition to Mr. Kennedy, who is editor in chief of the King Features Syndicate, Ms. Jewler is survived by a brother, Leonard Jewler of Washington, and her mother, Esther Jewler of Silver Spring, Md.
      
She was the mother of Chessy Rayner, a decorator and fashion writer and editor who died in 1998.
Joanne Grant Rabinowitz, whose father was white and mother biracial, was born in Utica, N.Y., on March 30, 1930.
Despite her conventional-seeming role as a wife and mother, she was always staunch in her support of feminism, remaining friends with women like Betty Friedan, Gloria Steinem and Kate Millett, her son said.
Playing the neglected daughter of a driven, manipulative Broadway star (Lana Turner), Ms. Dee projected a genuinely touching fragility, and convincingly turned on her uncaring mother in one notable scene.
She is survived by her son, of San Diego, and her mother, Marianne Patzelt of Nuremberg, Germany.
      
But she unwittingly stepped into the national spotlight when she and her husband, a gynecological surgeon, moved to Eastern Virginia Medical School in 1978 and set out to open a clinic that would allow conception outside a mother's body.
babies born at the clinic would travel down there for Mother's Day reunions.
Her father and mother were devout secular humanists, and at 19, Anna rebelled by converting to Roman Catholicism.She entered a convent as a postulant, but back problems forced her to leave the order, with its requirement of physical labor.
Her mother, who had been a governess in St. Petersburg, Russia, before marrying an army officer, was her first piano teacher, and sent her to school in a convent in Liège, Belgium, when she was 6, setting the tone for a nomadic and international life.
After a few years in Belgium, Ms. Lympany returned to London, where she heard a child prodigy play a concerto with the conductor Basil Cameron and asked her mother if she could do the same.
It was Cameron who advised her to spice up her name a bit, so she replaced her first name with Moura, a Russian diminutive, and Lympany, a variant of her mother's maiden name.
She was born in Berlin on Aug. 14, 1916, to a German father and a mother, Paula Pfingsthorn, who was half-American.

        Deena Burton, an expert on Indonesian dance, died April 3 at her mother's home in Queens.
Ms. Burton is survived by her husband, Skip LaPlante; her son, Roan LaPlante; and her mother, Beatrice Soloway, all of New York City; and a half-brother, Richard Burton, of California.
      
She had been caring for her mother at her home in Penngrove, Calif.
        Ms. Messick was born on April 11, 1906; Brenda Starr was born in June 1940.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Jeffrey M. Duban; a daughter, Jean Petrek-Duban of Brooklyn; a son, Paul Petrek-Duban of Bronxville; her mother, Emily Petrek of Manhattan; three brothers, John Petrek of Bainbridge Island, Wash., Jim Petrek of Danville, Calif., and Jerry Petrek of Denver.
      
Ms. Popkin is survived by her mother, Juliet, of Los Angeles; her son, Joel, of Silver Spring, Md.
'' She was so confident of the show's chances that she even persuaded her mother's dry cleaner to become an investor.
She lent a singular potency to parts as varied as Brecht's ''Mother Courage'' and the mother superior of a convent, and from an aging ballerina to Prime Minister Golda Meir of Israel.
Her father, Michael, was a patternmaker, and her mother, Mildred, a telephone operator.
Instead, her mother insisted that she attend the New York Academy of Dramatic Arts.
Also surviving are her mother and two sisters, Joanne and Phyllis.
In the 1970's and 80's Ms. Bancroft took on a variety of roles, from Winston Churchill's American-born mother in ''Young Winston'' to the actress-wife of a hammy Polish impresario (''world famous in Poland''), played by Mr. Brooks, in the farcical ''To Be or Not to Be.
'' She also earned two more Oscar nominations, one for her portrayal of a ballerina confronting her choice of career over family in ''The Turning Point,'' the other for her work as a mother superior in ''Agnes of God.
'' Other major roles included '''Night Mother,'' as a woman struggling with her daughter's decision to commit suicide, and ''84 Charing Cross Road,'' in which she played an American writer whose correspondence with a London bookseller (Anthony Hopkins) develops into a long-distance romance.
She was briefly on screen as Nicolas Cage's mother in ''Honeymoon in Vegas,'' trained a young woman as an assassin in ''Point of No Return,'' scored a few points as a wily Senator in ''G.I.
In 1995, she published a memoir, ''Happy Days: My Mother, My Father, My Sister and Me'' (Doubleday), an account of her privileged but loveless childhood.
Ms. Alexander's mother, Cecelia, was a film critic for Variety and the New York newspaper PM.
)
        If Ms. Alexander felt a kinship with her subjects, she had good reason: she too was reared in icy splendor, by a remote, glamorous mother.
She is survived by her mother, Tatiana Ruzickova of Pisek, the Czech Republic; and two sons, Mipam Moudry of Bossonnens, Switzerland, and Dorje Moudry of Leysin.
      
(Her mother was able to join her in 1946; a sister also managed to escape.
Her father, Albert Schlesinger, known as Speed, owned one of California's largest Ford dealerships, and her mother, Irma, was a woman her daughter called ''an extraordinary fashion plate, who cared terribly about how she looked and who started me in couture as a child.
Her first big break came after her mother drove her to Miami and convinced Rudy Vallee, then a popular star of stage and screen, to listen to her.
''My mother was just way too feisty to be in bondage to the Warner Brothers,'' Ms. Scheftel said.
When she was 6, her mother died, and she went to Chicago to live with her maternal grandparents.
The mayor said his mother had graduated from New York University in the same year.
Elizabeth Charlene Beine was born in Manhattan on July 4, 1909; her mother was a social worker with the New York Mission Society.
Until then, she had missed only one game as a college coach, for her mother's funeral.
Ms. Rossner's vivid imagination is suggested by the circumstances of the young analysand: Dawn Henley was raised by a lesbian aunt and her lover after Dawn's mother killed herself and her homosexual father drowned in a boating accident.
Her father was a textile merchant and her mother a schoolteacher who nurtured her daughter's early interest in writing.
In addition to Mr. Thompson, a retired manager of Internet services at The Times, Ms. Kerr is survived by their son, Andrew Kerr-Thompson; her mother, Hermine, of Wayne, N.J.; and a sister, Jacqueline Kerr Harrold, of Benton, Pa.
      
Ms. Wilson's full-time entry into politics coincided with her years as a young mother.
Ms. Parker is survived by her husband, Judge Barrington D. Parker Jr. of Stamford, who is on the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit; their daughters, Christine, Kathleen and Jennifer, all of Stamford; her mother, Viola Trent of Greensboro, N.C.; and two sisters, Kay Holloway of Potomac, Md., and Judy Scales-Trent of Buffalo, N.Y.
      
Ms. Friedman appeared in two films, ''Dance Hall Racket'' (1953), which also starred Bruce and his mother, Sally Marr; and ''Princess of the Nile'' (1954).
Through much of the Depression, Ms. Yard's mother, who ran a mail-order business selling imported Chinese goods, was the family's sole support.
Ms. Oppenheimer, whose own mother was a Kindertransport child, said she believed that Mrs. Groszmann was the last surviving mother who had placed a child (the author Lore Segal) on a train from Germany, Austria or Czechoslovakia to seek safety in Britain.
Ms. Oppenheimer, whose own mother was a Kindertransport child, said she believed that Mrs. Groszmann was the last surviving mother who had placed a child (the author Lore Segal) on a train from Germany, Austria or Czechoslovakia to seek safety in Britain.
Ms. Segal told about the Kindertransport (Children's Transport) in her autobiographical novel, ''Other People's Houses,'' drawing a loving portrait of a charming and capable mother.
The mother and daughter also appeared in Melissa Hacker's Academy Award-winning 1996 film ''My Knees Were Jumping.
She wrote, ''Every time I looked toward them it was my mother's tiny face .
In an interview with The Jewish Week in 2001, she said her mother wrote her: ''Be good.
Ms. Segal and her mother and grandmother immigrated to New York from the Dominican Republic in 1951 and lived together in a small apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Each day at 7 a.m., the daughter would take the elevator down to have breakfast with her mother, who until three years ago rose at dawn to squeeze grapefruit juice for the two of them.
      
As a child, she was placed in an orphanage by her father after her mother and sisters died in an epidemic during World War I.
Mother Benedict Duss, who in the late 1940's helped found the first monastery for cloistered Benedictine nuns in the United States but stepped down as its abbess in 1995 amid a Vatican investigation into charges that it was being run in an authoritarian, cultlike manner, died Oct. 2 at the Abbey of Regina Laudis in Bethlehem, Conn. She was 94.
At her death, Mother Benedict was abbess emerita there.
An American who trained as a surgeon in France before World War II, Mother Benedict helped found the abbey in 1947.
Mother Benedict's efforts to start the abbey inspired a popular Hollywood movie, ''Come to the Stable'' (1949).
Mother Benedict was born Vera Duss on Nov. 21, 1910, in Pittsburgh.
When she was 3, she and her brother moved with their mother to France.
In 1946, she arrived in New York with Mother Mary Aline Trilles de Warren, a French nun.
In 1976, the Vatican elevated the monastery to an abbey; Mother Benedict was named its first abbess.
In the early 1990's, the Vatican began investigating accusations that Mother Benedict and the Rev.
The next year, Mother Benedict stepped down from the day-to-day administration of the abbey, becoming abbess emerita, Sister Angèle said.
Mother Benedict, who continued to live at the abbey until her death, leaves no immediate survivors.
      
Among the many shows they represented were Beth Henley's ''Crimes of the Heart,'' Marsha Norman's '''Night, Mother,'' Michael Cristofer's ''Shadow Box,'' John Pielmeier's ''Agnes of God,'' ''Liza Minnelli at the Winter Garden'' and Peter Allen's ''Up in One.
When she was 4, her mother had her start piano lessons.
''
        But as she rushed home from her job as a seamstress at a department store on Dec. 1, 1955, the last thing on her mind was becoming ''the mother of the civil rights movement,'' as many would later describe her.
Parks, her husband and her mother, Leona McCauley, moved to Detroit.
Because her father refused to accept pay for his pastor posts, Mrs. Tucker's mother became an entrepreneur to feed the family.
Her father was a civil engineer; according to an article in The New York World-Telegram in 1934, it was her mother who steered her daughter, at first reluctant, onto the stage.
Dorothy's father died when she was 14, and she left high school to support her mother and younger brother by sketching clothes for a coat and suit manufacturer.
Her mother, the former Emma Williams, was, in 1946, the first black woman to be named American Mother of the Year.
Her mother, the former Emma Williams, was, in 1946, the first black woman to be named American Mother of the Year.
Constance Cummings was born Constance Halverstadt -- she took her mother's maiden name professionally -- in Seattle on May 15, 1910, the daughter of a lawyer and a concert soprano.
Two years later, accompanied by her mother, she went to New York, where she got into the chorus line of a Broadway musical.
Her subjects inhabited the seamy side of small-town life: drunken men leaving a bar, a woman roughed up by policemen, an emaciated child in a mother's arms.
