Their sons, Robert and Laurence Jr., then shared management with their mother and today are chief executive officer and president of the Florence Eiseman Inc. respectively.
'A New Type Was Born'
        She had long, curly hair then, but at her mother's suggestion in 1923 she cut the curls off and landed the part of the flapper.
She had long, curly hair then, but at her mother's suggestion in 1923 she cut the curls off and landed the part of the flapper.
Also surviving are her mother, Anagusta Colville of New Haven; two brothers, George Colville of Madison, Conn., and Paul Colville of Middleton, Nova Scotia; two sisters, Meta Wyss and Pamela Reycraft, both of Manhattan; two sons, Kevin, of Buffalo, and Brian, of Washington; two daughters, Patricia Inciardi of Novato, Calif., and Moya Keating of Chatham, N.J., and eight grandchildren.
      

       Gabrielle Kaufman Koppell, former owner and director of the Riverdale School for Young Children and the mother of Assemblyman G. Oliver Koppell, died of heart failure Sunday at her son's home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
Gabrielle Kaufman Koppell, former owner and director of the Riverdale School for Young Children and the mother of Assemblyman G. Oliver Koppell, died of heart failure Sunday at her son's home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
Refused Her as Envoy
        Miss Astorga at the time was a corporate lawyer and mother of two.
While at the United Nations, she lived in a six-bedroom house in Scarsdale with her mother and her five children, including an adopted son who was the child of a friend killed in the revolution.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stuart Rosenthal; a son, Kennan, of Waltham, Mass; a daughter, Ayla, of Short Hills; her mother, Makbule Aral of Ankara, and three sisters, Nurhan Freie-Aral of Maastricht, the Netherlands, and Gunsel Renkgorur and Aysel Celikadam, both of Ankara.
      
She is survived by her mother, Florencemae Jose of Manhattan, and three sons, Joshua, Daniel and Thomas, all of Manhattan.
      
She is survived by her mother, Adelaide, of New Hyde Park, and a sister, Nancy Gordis of Ephrata, Pa.
      

       Olive Carey, an actress and the wife and mother to a pair of famous Harry Careys, died Sunday at her home.
Olive Carey, an actress and the wife and mother to a pair of famous Harry Careys, died Sunday at her home.
''
        Judith Somogi was born in Brooklyn of a Hungarian father and a Sicilian mother.
Surviving are her mother, Rita Manning of Gunnison, Colo.; a son, Tiger, of Stockholm; two daughters, Ann Gerschman and Marika Bergman, both of Manhattan; a brother, Paul Manning, also of Gunnison; a sister, Gwen Barry of Palo Alto, Calif., and a grandson.
      

       Margaret Phipps Moynihan, a retired registered nurse and the mother of United States Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, died yesterday in Jeffersonville, Ind.
Margaret Phipps Moynihan, a retired registered nurse and the mother of United States Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, died yesterday in Jeffersonville, Ind.
Senator Moynihan, who was in Washington at the time of the death, will travel to Indiana for his mother's funeral, which has not been scheduled yet.
She is survived by two sons, Marco and Andy, her sister, Francesca, and her mother, all of Manhattan.
She is survived by six daughters, three sons, her mother, a brother, a sister and 13 grandchildren.
      
Surviving are her husband, David; two sons, Andrew, of Manhattan, and Matthew, of Pound Ridge, and her mother, Vera Neilson, of Pound Ridge.
      
''
        She is survived by her mother, Toni Doherty, and a son, Trevor Black.
      
She is survived by her husband; two daughters, Daphne E. M. Nash of Oxford, England, and Marina Yedigaroff of London; a son, Audley George Burnett of London; her mother, Lady Malcolm Douglas-Hamilton of Manhattan; a sister, Mary-Chilton Winslow Mead of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
      
She was 82 years old and lived at the home, the mother house of the Sisters of St. Dominic of Amityville.
She was 82 years old and lived at the home, the mother house of the Sisters of St. Dominic of Amityville.
She is survived by her husband, Nicholas; her mother and stepfather, Dale and Harold Kaufman of Manhattan, and her father, Eric Lawyer of Atlantic Beach, L.I.
      
At age 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother.
At the age of 11, she and her sister were placed with the Shaker community at Sabbathday Lake, Me., after the death of their mother.
She had first created her marionettes in the early 1900's with her mother, drawing her plots and characters from ballets and classical romantic literature.
''She loved Helen Keller dearly,'' said Mrs. Walter's daughter, Evelyn D. Tonner of Margate, Fla. She added that her mother had promised Miss Keller and Polly Thompson that she would never write a book about her experiences as a companion, a promise she honored.
Surviving are her mother, Rose Agrin of Manhattan; a sister, Ruth Koban of West Palm Beach, Fla., and two sons, Edward and Louis, both of Manhattan.
      

       Sallie Martin, a singer who was known as ''the mother of gospel music,'' died Saturday.
Sallie Martin, a singer who was known as ''the mother of gospel music,'' died Saturday.
Surviving is her mother, Mary, of Manhattan.
      
Miss Gillars ''has the hair of Mother machree and she wears it in the manner of Rita Hayworth,'' Richard H. Rovere wrote in The New Yorker of Feb. 26, 1949.
She is survived by her father, Dr. Sunoll Blumenthal, and her mother, the former Frima Horwitch, both of Chicago, and by her brother, Alan, of Miami.
      
She had all but turned her back on the exclusive so-called 400, which ruled her mother's day, choosing the new ''cafe society.
Her mother was the former Katherine Duer, a successful writer.
She is survived by her husband, Raymond, of Dallas; by her mother, Ivy Rabinowitz, of Dallas; by her daughters, Andrea, Joan and Nancy Nasher; by her sisters, Judy Tycher and Sandra Cohen, and by her brother, Stanley Randall.
      
The daughter of a clergyman, Mrs. Woodhouse developed her knack with animals as a child when her mother boarded dogs.
Her performance in 1976 as the widowed mother of four young daughters in ''Ladyhouse Blues,'' produced by the Phoenix Theater Company, won her an Obie award.
She is survived by her mother, Jean Dehnel of Daytona, Fla.; a son, Christopher Jones of Boston, and a brother, Robert Henderson of Penn Yan, N.Y.
      

       Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today.
Anne Ramsey, whose portrayal of the ogre-like mother in the comedy ''Throw Momma From the Train'' won her an Academy Award nomination, died of throat cancer Thursday night, her press agent, Stan Rosenfield, said today.
Mrs. Ramsey also appeared in ''Goonies'' and played Nick Nolte's mother in ''Weeds,'' but her role as the domineering, loud-mouthed mother in ''Throw Momma From the Train'' gave her stardom.
Mrs. Ramsey also appeared in ''Goonies'' and played Nick Nolte's mother in ''Weeds,'' but her role as the domineering, loud-mouthed mother in ''Throw Momma From the Train'' gave her stardom.
Crystal) will kill Mr. DeVito's mother, while Mr. DeVito will murder Mr.
Mrs. Golden is survived by her husband, Herbert L. Golden, and her mother, Minnie Fisher.
      
She is survived by her husband, Alfred Prettyman; a daughter, Nina; two sons, Asa Hale, of Madison, Wis., and Emilio; a stepdaughter, Meryl Prettyman, and a stepson, Evan Prettyman, both of New York; her mother, Loretta Conwell, and a sister, Francine Conwell Brown, of Rochester.

       Mother Margarita Maria, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a religious order of Carmelite nuns and turned a farmhouse sanitarium into Santa Teresita Hospital here, died Wednesday.
Mother Margarita Maria, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a religious order of Carmelite nuns and turned a farmhouse sanitarium into Santa Teresita Hospital here, died Wednesday.
Mrs. Stuckey's son, the historian Sterling Stuckey, said his mother was hospitalized during a visit to Washington.
The daughter, wife and mother of Yiddish actors, she made her stage debut at age 3 in Chicago, where she was born.
Miss Jacobson starred on the long-running radio series ''My Mother and I'' in the 1940's.
She is survived by her mother, Julia Whitley of Dallas; a son, Bruce, of Tokyo; a granddaughter, and two great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Baruch, who earned her doctorate at Bryn Mawr College, is survived by her husband, Franklin; a daughter, Susannah, and her mother, Ruth Kestenman of East Providence, R.I.
      

       Mozelle Wallace, mother of former Gov.
Mozelle Wallace, mother of former Gov.
Mrs. Andersen, known in the community as Mother Cay, and Judy H. Sorensen, both lay members of the Episcopal Church, founded the community 30 years ago in an effort to bring about reconciliation among the various Christian denominations and to develop healing as a way of life.
She is survived by her mother, Sadie Fink of the Bronx; a sister, Anita Berger of Providence, R.I.; a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Cindy, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter.
      
Surviving are her mother, Eva Komers Quint of Worcester, Mass., and a sister, Dr. Inge Broverman of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
For six years she lived with her mother, a domestic, in a rented basement room, then wound up in an orphanage.
''
        She is survived by a son, Alexander; her mother, Nettie Levy of West Palm Beach, Fla., and a sister, Marilyn Cohen of New City, N.Y.
      
Born in Budapest, Mrs. Cafritz was the daughter of a Hungarian father and an American mother.
''She did mother's house when I was 15,'' said Mrs. Marion, whose husband, John, is chairman of Sotheby's North America.

       Daw Khin Kyi, widow of a Burmese independence leader and mother of an opposition leader, died today after a long illness, her family said.
Daw Khin Kyi, widow of a Burmese independence leader and mother of an opposition leader, died today after a long illness, her family said.
Daw Khin Kyi, whose husband, Gen. Aung San, was assassinated in 1947, was the mother of Aung San Suu Kyi, a Burmese opposition leader.
Aung San Suu Kyi returned to Rangoon in April from exile in London to look after her mother, who had been bedridden since suffering a stroke earlier this year.
Surviving are a daughter, Jill, and a son, Stephen, both of Manhattan; her mother, Ida Berger, and a sister, Jean Chimsky, both of Cincinnati, and two grandchildren.
      
