After World War II, she joined the emerging Japanese feminist movement and worked with Yuriko Miyamoto, a leading feminist writer of the time.
It gave a powerful impetus to the fledgling labor movement, greatly strengthening the building of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, which two years before the fire had led a three-month strike to focus attention on conditions in workplaces like the Triangle factory.

        Birgit Akesson, a dancer and choreographer whose unconventional approach to movement and music made her a prominent pioneer of Swedish modern dance, died on Saturday in Stockholm, where she lived.
Ahead of her time, she sometimes baffled the international dance world with experiments in stillness, a dissociation between music and movement and her uncanny ability to reshape the body into an assemblage of independent planes.
'' But he added, ''If one lets the movement have its way, it generates a compelling, almost hypnotic beauty.
In search of her own dance idiom and what she called a first or primary movement that did not depend on music, she moved to Paris, where she presented a solo concert in 1934.
''This was coupled with a new idea of space as growing out of the movement instead of being a fixed theatrical frame.
Believing that the women's movement was overshadowing motherhood, Mrs. Willis and a few like-minded women formed Mothers Matter, an educational group, in Rutherford in 1975, in the home where she and her husband, Benedict, raised six daughters and four sons.
It was the era of the free speech movement, and Ms. McCorkle, disillusioned with American politics, dropped out of college and traveled to Europe to study languages and to begin a literary career.
For more than 40 years, beginning in 1930, she was on the headquarters staff of the league, a movement dedicated to helping African-Americans gain social and economic equality by finding better jobs and owning their own homes and businesses.
It was the era of the free speech movement, and Ms. McCorkle, disillusioned with American politics, dropped out of college and traveled to Europe to study languages and to begin a literary career.
Maria Kowroski and Charles Askegard strutted through the sassy fourth movement of ''Western Symphony.
''
        For the final film sequence, the orchestra played the second movement of Bizet's Symphony in C, a score Balanchine used for a ballet that displayed Ms.

        Esther Wanner Hymer, a pioneer of the international women's movement who was long active at the United Nations, died on April 4 at her home in Shrewsbury, N.J. She was 102.
The panel was established by the State Legislature and Governor Wilson to uproot corrupt and abusive judges during a national movement for accountability from the bench.
Ms. Dance also worked in the civil rights movement, founding the Catholic Interracial Council within the Roman Catholic diocese of Bridgeport, Conn., and the Human Relations Commission in Norwalk, Conn.
A practitioner of pediatrics for nearly 50 years, Dr. Hofmann was a leader in a movement to redefine how health professionals treated minors.
' ''
        With the help of the women's movement, and particularly through discussions with Gloria Steinem, Mrs. Graham said she became more cognizant of the causes of her own insecurities and more aware of the problems of working women.
She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement.
She was in the middle of a futuristic electric music movement that never went remotely as far as its pioneers dreamed.
She did that so well that Sports Illustrated once wrote that she was ''most likely to be remembered as the woman who, perhaps more than any other athlete, brought crossover credibility to the disabled sports movement.
Tall and powerful in her movement, with remarkably expressive long arms, Ms. Dudley was initially identified with the roles she created in some of Martha Graham's signature works.
Her main area of concentration was 19th- and early-20th century American furniture, but she arrived there after studying American 19th-century painting and architecture and, at the Met, conducting extensive research on John LaFarge's stained glass and the American Aesthetic Movement.
She also oversaw research, helped select the objects and contributed to the catalogs for ''In Pursuit of Beauty: Americans and the Aesthetic Movement'' (1987) and ''American Paradise: The World of the Hudson River School'' (1988).
Her 88-page ''Dictionary of Architects, Artisans, Artists and Manufacturers'' in the ''Aesthetic Movement'' catalog has become a standard reference in the field.
She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.
