The National Audubon Society honored her with a medal in 1983 and last year listed her among 100 individuals who had done the most to shape the environmental movement, along with Barry Commoner, Jacques-Yves Cousteau, William O. Douglas, Lady Bird Johnson, Stewart Udall and Morris K. Udall.
Her other books in print include ''Sexuality, Body Movement and the Rhythms of Development'' (Aronson, 1995); with Dr. Ira Brenner, ''The Last Witness: The Child Survivor of the Holocaust'' (American Psychiatric Press, 1996), and, as editor with Dr. Eva Fogelman, ''Children During the Nazi Reign: Psychological Perspective on the Interview Process'' (Greenwood, 1994).
Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.
Mrs. Durr and her husband, Clifford, a lawyer, were New Deal veterans who were in the thick of the civil rights movement in their native Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's.
Her courage and steely conviction in the earliest days of the civil rights movement helped to change this nation forever.
Parks's action touched off the Montgomery bus boycott by blacks, which helped spur the civil rights movement and brought the Rev.
John Martin, writing in The New York Times, described her as ''a dancer born and bred, with a natural gift for movement'' and ''a single-mindedness that commands and holds the attention.
During the war she worked for the Free French movement in New York and London.
Testifying before a Senate committee, Miss Sapir became a symbol of the movement to recover these deposits.
Sir John Everett Millais (1829-96) was a handsome British painter and a founder of the Pre-Raphaelite movement in Britain.
Even though she rose to the top of her profession during the years that saw the rise of the feminist movement, Miss Greenfield kept a studied distance from it.

        Trudi Schoop, a popular Swiss-born comic dancer who became a pioneer in the use of dance movement to treat mental illness, died on July 14 at her home in Van Nuys, Calif. She was 95.
Working with several California medical institutions, including Camarillo State Mental Hospital, she developed what she called ''body-ego technique,'' which used movement to help lead patients out of isolation so that they could respond to, rather than shrink from, human contact.
She was a leader in a movement in the 1950's that advocated fresh approaches to dance at a time when  some rebelled against an emphasis on drama in ballet.
Reflecting the ideas that would figure in ''Centering,'' these became increasingly interdisciplinary, with titles like ''Clay and Words,'' ''Clay and Movement'' and ''Clay and Eurythmy.
''But she was really a movement.
Through lectures and her many books, Ms. Valiente became the chief proselytizer of the white witch movement, which espouses use of magic, defined as Divine energy, for beneficial purposes.
''
        Ms. Valiente became a guiding force in the wicca movement, which derives its name from an old Anglo-Saxon word for witch, or the wise one.
Her most important contribution to the movement was a stream of books, including ''An A B C of Witchcraft,'' published in 1973; ''Witchcraft for Tomorrow'' (1978), and ''The Rebirth of Witchcraft,'' (1989).
A gauge of the growth of her movement is that 1964, when she gave the opening speech at the inaugural dinner at the Witchcraft Research Association, it was attended by 50 subscribers.

        Nathalie Sarraute, the Russian-born French novelist who remained an influential and innovative literary figure long after she first gained fame as the doyenne of the Nouveau Roman movement in the late 1950's, died today at her home in Paris.
But while she enjoyed being discovered as a ''new novelist'' when she was already well into her 50's, her attacks on traditional literary form both anticipated and survived the movement.
The result was one of the early major victories in the civil rights movement.
The Weitzmans were involved in the early stages of the civil rights movement, even before it was generally called that, and in 1948 they opened the Dupont Theater, the first desegregated theater in Washington.
Sometimes, in the anatomy department's lunchroom, her colorful past would return when she burst into song; she favored old-time show tunes, the Loyalist songs of the Spanish Civil War and the anthems of the civil rights movement.
      
''This poet was the beacon for our great language movement and liberation war, and inspiration for all democratic movements of the nation,'' Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh said at the ceremony.
''There was a strong anti-British movement, and my family also believed that women should stay out of it.
By 1926 she had been selected to exhibit her work at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Decoratifs, from which the name of the Art Deco movement derives.
By 1926 she had been selected to exhibit her work at the Exposition Internationale des Arts Decoratifs, from which the name of the Art Deco movement derives.
In 1952, she wrote and produced a BBC radio documentary about the British suffragist movement, a subject that was near to her heart since a chance meeting in 1940 with a group of aging suffragists at a memorial service for one of their members.
For the last decades of her life, Ms. Craigie was said to be at work on a  history of the movement, left unfinished at her death.
Ms. Cage was an avid practitioner  of tai chi, the Chinese system of movement.
