Mrs. Inselbuch began her community work as a leader in Young Judaea, the national Zionist youth movement supported by Hadassah.
The official New China News Agency praised Ms. Kang as "an outstanding leader of the women's movement in China" and said she had died of an unspecified illness.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
She produced and appeared in "Shoulder to Shoulder," a history of the women's movement at the turn of the century that was shown in this country as a six-part "Masterpiece Theater" series on public television.
"She was always at the center of the movement to improve the system, someone we and political leaders and other groups always looked up to.
"She was always at the center of the movement to improve the system, someone we and political leaders and other groups always looked up to.
In New York Mrs. Levin was a founding member of the Young Israel Movement and a pioneer member of Hadassah who worked with its founder, Henrietta Szold, during World War I.
Sound and Movement
        Born in Worms, Germany, Miss Holm, whowas originally named Johanna Eckert, pursued a career in dance against her family's wishes.
The theories of Emile Jaques-Dalcroze, a Swiss composer and teacher who helped his music and dance students develop a sense of rhythm by translating sounds into movement, had at that point influenced a generation of German modern dancers, of whom the best known was Wigman.
"In her gestures and movement she carves boldly and delicately visible and fluid forms, shaping, surrounding and sinking in the space which presses close about her.
"The book had an enormous impact on the women's movement," said Marie M. Collins, professor of French at Rutgers-Newark and founder of its women's studies department.
Ms. Claiborne was active in the antiwar movement and frequently wrote in opposition to the stockpiling of nuclear weapons.
It was a pivotal movement in the growth of American performing arts, uniting writers, directors and actors in working to shape socially relevant theater.
