May Karff,'' typically without explaining what the ''N'' stood for, had moved to New York and emerged as Mona May Karff, a name she used when she made a tour of Europe in 1948 for the One World movement.

        Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuing care community in New Hampshire.
In 1930 Chaplin described ''the movement of Helen Wills playing tennis'' as the most beautiful sight he had ever seen.

        Helen Haje, a Washington public relations woman who championed Arab-American interests with such good-natured fervor that she became gadfly and godmother to the Arab-American movement in the United States, died on Monday at a hospital near her home in Washington.
Through her long work with the Saints Peter and Paul Antiochian Orthodox Church in Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Haje had gotten to know and impress many of Washington's leading Arab-American figures, and in 1972 when a group of them formed the National Association of Arab-Americans as the first political Arab-American organization, Mrs. Haje suddenly found herself in the forefront of a movement.
Dr. Howell was also active in the women's health movement.
Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it.
''
        With the rise of the black power movement and the success of independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, interest in the Schomburg grew.
Still, in forming a group in which survivors help each other,  Mrs. Coltoff was part of a nationwide  grass-roots movement.
A member of the Theosophy movement since 1923, she had moved to Ojai in 1948 to be near its leader, the Indian sage Krishnamurti.
The three founded  Blind Man, a magazine that was one of the earliest manifestations of the Dada art movement in New York.
The only professional photographer in Paris in the 30's to work exclusively with the Leica, Ms. Bing mastered the use of this small camera as well as darkroom techniques to show the subtleties of light and movement against the inky blacks of Paris at night.
In the movement's giddy, sloganeering early days, Ms. Abzug was, like Betty Friedan and Gloria Steinem, an icon, the hat bobbing before the cameras at marches and rallies.
Bella Abzug is one who has always represented the extremes of the women's movement.
She organized insurgent Democrats into other groups, too, becoming a leader of the movement against President Lyndon B. Johnson and a prominent figure in the 1968 Presidential campaign of Senator Eugene McCarthy.
''
        Joan Lestor was born on Nov. 13, 1931, in Vancouver, British Columbia, to parents steeped in the international labor movement.
As for the abundant carvings and glyphs on the countless monuments among the ruins, scholars had assumed these were variously religious symbols or arcane notations denoting the movement of planets.
The association cited her ''pioneering efforts'' to promote the nurse practitioner movement and the nurses' role in delivering primary care.
''I must see movement in a dress,'' she once said.
'' In the 1960's and 70's, Miss West was not active in the civil rights movement and found radicals like the Black Panthers discomfiting.
She was active in the teacher center movement nationally, and her center in New Haven served as a model for others.
The Mexican student movement had been fired in part by the country's intellectual elite.
But Ms. Garro turned her back on the movement, at one point calling it a ''crazy adventure.
By 1929, she was active in the women's rights movement in the Dominican Republic, where she was a leader in Accion Feminista Dominicana, which led the fight for expanded rights in the 1942 Constitution.

        Inge Aicher-Scholl, who inspired a generation of pacifists in post-World War II Germany by writing about an anti-Nazi youth movement and the killing of her brother and sister, died on Friday.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl moved millions of Germans toward nonviolence by chronicling the activities of the White Rose, a student movement whose leaders included her younger brother and sister, Hans and Sophie Scholl.
Mrs. Aicher-Scholl headed the school from 1946 to 1974, and remained active in Germany's peace movement throughout her life.
Reviewing Ms. Topf's ''Garden Gate'' in 1991 in The New York Times, Jack Anderson wrote of unhurried, rooted movement that embodied architectural characteristics of the performance space.
But from the time she first returned to Quebec from Paris in the late 1950's she formed part of the inspirational soul of the separatist movement in Quebec.
When her mother died when she was 7, he offhandedly invented the take your-daughter-to-work movement.
Both Mrs. Shaw and the stepdaughter, Pamela Ann Shaw, became leaders in the movement for AIDS research and education, meeting with President Clinton in 1994 to urge him to increase spending for these purposes.
The company performed the second movement of her ''Chopin Concerto'' last year and had been planning to produce a complete staging next June.
'' A. H. Franks wrote of Ms. Beriosova's fluency, of arabesques and attitudes that ''became movement in suspension rather than a cessation of movement.
'' A. H. Franks wrote of Ms. Beriosova's fluency, of arabesques and attitudes that ''became movement in suspension rather than a cessation of movement.
''
        The poem, often quoted to describe the struggles of African-Americans, became a sort of anthem for the Civil Rights movement.
