
        Beatrice Lees, an innovative teacher of improvisational dance movement, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Mrs. Lees, whose original name was Beatrice Mills, was born in 1910 in Chicago into a theatrical family that included her sister, Viola Spolin, who helped found the improvisational theater movement, and a cousin, Robert Fizdale, the pianist and writer.
Trained in flamenco, modern dance and ballet, she taught movement to nondance performers, including opera singers, musicians and actors.
For the last seven years, Mrs. Lees also taught movement classes and worked on productions at the New Actors Workshop, which was founded in 1988 by Paul Sills, her nephew; Mike Nichols, and George Morrison.
In 1971 they changed the name to "Our Bodies, Ourselves" and the book inspired a grass-roots, consumer-advocacy movement, becoming a bible to a generation of young women.
She was a trustee and member of the executive committee of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations and was active in groups like the World Zionist Organization and the American Zionist Movement.

        Adele Simpson, an important player in the postwar fashion movement, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 91.
Followers describe the Nearings as the "senior gurus" of the back-to-the-land movement.
The strike crippled General Motors, and its settlement proved a stellar event for the whole labor movement because it gave new stature to unions representing industrial workers.
Mrs. Blackston turned her rage over the indignities of a belittling system into a grass-roots movement that won widespread changes and helped make the plight of welfare mothers a feminist issue.
Along the way, Mrs. Blackston not only shaped the national welfare debate, but also changed the very terms of the argument, transforming what had been a concern far down the agenda of the civil rights movement into a compelling feminist issue.
Calling herself "a one-lady  movement," she was not afraid to speak her mind, realizing that as an actress, "if you yell loud enough, someone will listen.

        Sylvia Bernstein Seaman, a writer and one of the last active members of the suffragist movement, died on Sunday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
"
        In Mexico, her popularity was limited more to the northern border region, within what Mexicans call the onda grupera, or "group wave," a movement of norteno or "ranchera" pop groups that travel the northern and central states of the country, playing dances in the towns and concerts in the cities.
In 1974, she began a long association with the Laban Center for Movement and Dance in London.
