Peggy Lee was a perfectionist who planned every aspect of her performances right down to her hairdos, her costly gowns, her lighting, her entrances and exits, even the movement of her hands.
As the executive chef of the Indian restaurant Tamarind on East 22nd Street in Manhattan, she combined essential elements of classic French cuisine with Indian ingredients and spices, thereby touching off what has been called the French-Indian fusion movement in gastronomy.
In other Ailey works, she carved distinct shape out of space, describing the form of every movement as few others could.

        Sylvia Rivera, who helped lead the charge -- in makeup and full voice -- at the birth of the modern gay liberation movement, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital.
'' Ms. Rivera shouted to her lover on the morning of June 28, 1969, when patrons of the Stonewall Inn violently rebuffed a police raid, setting a new militant tone for the gay rights movement.
Over the years, there were reconciliations with the mainstream gay rights movement.
''The movement had put me on the shelf, but they took me down and dusted me off,'' she said in a 1995 interview with The New York Times.
It would be wonderful if the movement took care of its own.
She originally gained recognition as one of the first women to paint in the Realist style, favoring the informal composition and contemporary subject matter typical of the movement.
The other early leaders in the movement were Michaela Walsh, a New York investment banker, and Ela Bhatt, founder of a cooperative bank for illiterate women in India.
Her daughter said her mother returned to the religion of her early childhood, Roman Catholicism, in her 40's, partly as a result of interviewing Dorothy Day of the Catholic Worker movement and partly because she hoped to meet in heaven the high school English teacher who had first appreciated her writing.
      
During the civil rights movement, Mattel created Barbie's first black friend, ''Colored Francie.
Jonathan Rendell, an old print expert at Christie's in New York, called her a ''miracle-worker who inspired a whole movement,'' adding, ''She could bring things back from beyond the grave.
She also had a subtle but substantial role in the civil rights movement.
A heroine to feminism before the modern movement even emerged, Ms. de Saint Phalle first made her mark in Paris in the early 60's when she was associated with the Nouveaux Réalistes, a group of avant-gardists that included the sculptors Christo, Arman and Jean Tinguely.
Their antic, absurdist works challenged conventional ideas about art-making in ways that echoed the earlier Dada movement.
After leaving the company, she formed the Body Voice Theater and then the Beverly Brown Ensemble, where she experimented with dancers' performing not only movement but also the natural sounds that accompanied much of her choreography.

        Josephine R. Abady, a theater director who staged plays on and off Broadway and was a leader in the nonprofit theater movement, died on Saturday in her home in Manhattan.
The book caused a sensation in 1970, when Americans were still struggling to comprehend the social upheavals set in motion by the women's movement.
Like the careers of Audre Lord and Alice Walker, Ms. Jordan's was forged by the black arts movement of the 60's and 70's.
Correction:  June 27, 2002, Thursday  An obituary of the poet June Jordan on June 18 misspelled the surname of a poet whose career, like Ms. Jordan's, was forged by the black arts movement of the 60's and 70's.
Ms. Mink, however, stopped short of associating herself with the women's liberation movement.
The chronicle was the main uncensored source of information about the dissident movement around the Soviet Union during the rule of Leonid I. Brezhnev.

        Alina Pienkowska, a shy and soft-spoken nurse whose impassioned words turned a shipyard strike in Gdansk, Poland, in 1980 into a nationwide and triumphant movement called Solidarity that ultimately helped to bring down Communism, died on Oct. 17 in Gdansk.
The strike had been salvaged in the spirit of solidarity, a word that would soon provide the free trade union movement with its name.
It was during the 1960's and 70's, the height the national black theater movement, that Ms. Carroll's talents came into full bloom.
She attended the State University of New York at Stony Brook as a mathematics major but spent the early 1970's in Paris studying movement and mime.
Inspired by Rachel Carson's book ''Silent Spring,'' Ms. Straus turned her attention to the environmental movement when she learned of plans to build hundreds of homes along the Marin County coast as well as a resort at Tomales Bay.
