Among other practical uses, the equations enable meteorologists to predict the movement of storm clouds.
Mary Jean Tully was an architect and mainstay of the feminist movement that regained momentum in the 1970's.
She was most recently a board member and adviser of the Veteran Feminists of America, a gathering of the ''Second Wave'' of the movement.
In the late 1980's, Ms. Tully gave financial support to the Tully Crenshaw Feminist Oral History Project, which collects interviews with those active in the movement.
Now based in Lafayette, La., it tracks the movement's early adherents and keeps them informed through a Web site, www.vfa.us.

        Susan Schechter, whose books about domestic violence helped to unify the movement to assist battered women and to bridge the gap between programs addressing domestic abuse and those for children's welfare, died Feb. 3 at her home in Iowa City.
Mrs. Schecter's 1982 book, ''Women and Male Violence: The Visions and Struggles of the Battered Women's Movement,'' a history and analysis of early efforts against domestic violence, is considered a groundbreaking work.
''O'Donnell created a poetical cloud of movement that refused to be hurried,'' Donald McDonagh wrote in his Complete Guide to Modern Dance.

        Josephine Schwarz, a pioneer of the American regional ballet movement and a co-founder of the Dayton Ballet, died on Friday in Boulder, Colo., said her niece, Johannah Franke.
Considered a giant in the tenants' rights movement, Ms. Wood was credited by housing advocates for helping to prevent the eviction of hundreds, if not thousands, of tenants, as her Chelsea neighborhood became gentrified.

        Larisa Bogoraz, an early Soviet-era dissident whose moral stubbornness helped define the movement, died Tuesday at the age of 74.
''She was a moral influence since the beginning and her influence defined the course of this whole movement,'' said Lyuda Alekseyeva, a close friend and contemporary who now heads the Moscow Helsinki Group, a leading human rights organization.
In 1989 Ms. Bogoraz joined the reconstituted Moscow Helsinki Group and became a bridge between the older dissident movement and the country's new human rights campaigners.
''Many people referred to her as a legend of the Soviet dissident movement,'' she said.
Most histories of the civil rights movement do not mention her.
Hudson was one of the unsung, unheralded heroes of the civil rights movement,'' Vernon E. Jordan Jr., who knew her as director of the Voting Education Project of the Southern Regional Council in the 1960's, said in an interview.
''
        He continued, ''It is inconceivable that the movement could have happened the way it did in Mississippi without these people.
Correction:  May 12, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Winson Hudson, a pioneer of the civil rights movement in Mississippi, misstated the year in some copies for the killing of the rights worker James Chaney, who had been warned by her husband against going to Philadelphia, Miss.
''I am Japanese, and my figure is Japanese,'' she said, ''but the music is Italian, so I try not to do too much of what we would think of as Japanese theatrical movement.
''
        Both Dance Consort and its junior troupe in Brooklyn, Young Dancers in Repertory, were devoted to Weidman's movement principles and the presentation of his works.
Known for her beautiful purity of line and her classic simplicity of movement, Dame Alicia was admired in ''Swan Lake'' and ''Les Sylphides'' as well as in ''Giselle.
'' In 1946 the dance historian Grace Robert praised that interpretation in ''The Borzoi Book of Ballets,'' writing that ''Markova's deerlike shyness in the first scene, her tragic, controlled despair, the exquisite movement of her hand as she wakes up in the tomb scene, all are unforgettable in their subtlety.
She was included in exhibitions in New York that put the movement on the map, like ''Primary Structures'' at the Jewish Museum in 1966.
There, at a rally in support of the Solidarity movement in Poland, she denounced European communism as ''fascism with a human face.
