The Alexander Technique is a means of improving and correcting body movement, and Ms. Leibowitz's students included the actors Kevin Kline, Robin Williams and Kelly McGillis.

        Marie Provaznik, a leader of the nationalist Sokol gymnastics movement in Czechoslovakia who defected to the United States after directing the Czechoslovak women's contingent at the 1948 Olympic Games in London, died on Jan. 11 at St. Clair's Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y. She was 100 years old, and her family said she suffered a stroke two weeks earlier.
She was a founder of the New Democratic Club in the Eighth Assembly District South on the East Side, one of the first clubs in what was to become the reform movement in the party.
"
        The New York Times dance critic John Martin analyzed her artistry in 1953 when he wrote: "She has a muscular awareness of the phrase which automatically translates music into movement, and her scale is beautifully sensitive, so that there is endless color in her movement.
"
        The New York Times dance critic John Martin analyzed her artistry in 1953 when he wrote: "She has a muscular awareness of the phrase which automatically translates music into movement, and her scale is beautifully sensitive, so that there is endless color in her movement.
While attending New York University, where she earned a bachelor's degree, she began a four-year anthropological study of black Jews and of followers of Marcus Garvey's Back-to-Africa movement.
Miss Primo de Rivera was a co-founder of the women's branch of the Falange, Spain's fascist movement, in 1934 and took part in the right-wing Government headed by Franco after the 1936-39 civil war.
She was the author of "The Crisis of the English Constitution" (Rutgers University Press, 1949); "The Political Thought of Sir Henry Vane the Younger" (University of Pennsylvania, 1969); "From Tradition to Political Reality" (Archon Books, 1980); and "Breaking the Barrier: A Professional Autobiography by a Woman Educator and Historian Before the Women's Movement" (Rutgers Univesity Press, 1984).
The Army awarded Dr. DuBois the Exceptional Civilian Award, and she also received the Order of the Crown of Thailand for her participation in the Free Thai underground movement through the O.S.S.
It was there, after studying with Moshe Feldenkreis, that she became interested in Eastern movement disciplines, such as Hatha Yoga, which she also taught.
She never wavered in her belief that movement could express inner feeling.
It is an affirmation of life through movement.
"
        The contraction, originating in the dancer's pelvis, created the percussive angular movement and sexual tension that invariably startled a newcomer to the Graham repertory.

        Goldie Bober Kweller, the president of Mercaz, the Zionist organization of the Conservative movement, died on Sunday at her home in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens.
"
        The delay in announcing her death almost certainly was linked to the Government's concern about possible protests leading up to the second anniversary today of the army crackdown on the Tiananmen Square democracy movement.
Ms. Jiang was faulted for persecuting intellectuals, for insisting on an inane uniformity in the arts and for joining in the violent suppression of a democracy movement at Tiananmen Square -- an earlier one, in 1976.

        Joan D. Abrams, a former superintendent of schools in Red Bank, N.J., and a leader in the movement to open doors for women in school administration, died on Sunday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey.

        Leah Silberzan Sayles, a leader in the movement to legalize abortion in the United States, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
