Her best-known books were on the Art Deco movement and included "Art Deco for Collectors" and "Lalique for Collectors.
Miss Gould was best known for "Winslow Homer: A Portrait" (1962), "Robert Frost: The Aim Was Song" (1964), "The Poet and Her Book: A Biography of Edna St. Vincent Millay" (1969) and "Amy: The World of Amy Lowell and the Imagist Movement" (1976).
Photographs and films of Miss Anderson singing in front of Lincoln's statue, before the enormous crowd, quickly became a poignant symbol for the nascent civil rights movement.
In Cairo, she founded the Brotherhood of Freedom, a democratic anti-Fascist movement.
She was active in the Urban League movement for more than 20 years and served as vice president and trustee of the National Urban League.

        Alison Smithson, a British architect who was prominent in the modern movement, died on Monday in London.
Their position in the history of architectural modernism was summed up in The New York Times in June by Herbert Muschamp, who wrote that with the passage of time, "the pioneers of the modern movement (Gropius, Le Corbusier, Mies van der Rohe)" were still active and vocal, but were "joined in the forum by younger colleagues with ideas of their own (Peter and Alison Smithson, Louis Kahn, Aldo van Eyck).
"In some ways, we were more interested in the movement of the scenery, and how that contributed to the show.
After leaving the board, she was active in the anti-abortion movement and lectured on policy for public schools.
For her, bodily movement was a form of communication akin to speech.
An eclectic, she drew from ordinary gesture and everyday movement as well as from the technical vocabularies of classical ballet, modern dance and folk and social dance.
The dramatic situation always determined the type of movement she employed.
As a result, they emerge as people and not as automata -- warm and believable people made larger than life and more endearing by the formalized movement through which they project themselves.
