
        Olga Marie Madar, who rose to the top echelon in the United Automobile Workers and fought for women's rights in the labor movement, died on Thursday at her home in Detroit.

        Betty Meredith-Jones, a dance educator and a pioneer in the field of movement rehabilitation and community dance in Britain, died last Sunday at her home in Rhosili, Wales.
Ms. Meredith-Jones, born in Wales in 1908, trained as a young dancer with Rudolf Laban, a movement theorist.
In the late 1950's she came to Manhattan, where she began teaching movement classes for the elderly.
In the early 60's, at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital, she established a pilot program in the rehabilitation through movement of patients with Parkinson's disease.
Ms. Howard's earlier books were "Please Touch: A Guided Tour of the Human Potential Movement" (1970), "A Different Woman" (1973) and "Families" (1978).
"A Different Woman" was an examination of the feminist movement.
In fact, she said, the act "has been one of the biggest success stories of the conservation movement in America," contending that many myths had been spread about the act's supposedly onerous effects.

        Catherine S. East, a little-known Government researcher who became the quiet inspiration for the National Organization for Women and a persistent goad to the nascent feminist movement, died on Saturday at Kendal at Ithaca, a retirement community in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 80.
Betty Friedan, whose 1963 book ''The Feminine Mystique'' is credited with helping to spark the modern women's movement, said yesterday that Ms. East was a ''prime mover'' in the 1966 birth of NOW.
''
        Characteristically, Ms. East worked without public acknowledgment and was often so far in the background that friends in the movement started calling her ''Deep Throat.
''
        As a longtime researcher for the Labor Department and later as executive director for various Federal commissions and task forces on the status of women, she came to know scores of accomplished, professional women, in and out of Government, who were concerned about sex discrimination and became important in the feminist movement.
She was 57 and had been a leading voice in the movement to stop violence against women.

        Magda Trocme, a French parson's wife who opened her door to a single shivering refugee in 1940 and helped inspire a movement that saved thousands of Jews and others from the Nazis in World War II, died on Oct. 10 a hospital in Paris.
Mrs. Trocme owed her own prominence in the rescue movement in part to the fact that her husband, Andre Trocme, was the charismatic pacifist pastor of the French Reformed Church in Chambon, a founder of the Cevenol boarding school there and a recognized leader of the rescue effort, which has been credited with saving some 5,000 refugees, about 3,500 of them Jewish, many of them children.
The almost unanimous support the rescue movement enjoyed in the area around Chambon is generally attributed to the mostly Protestant peasant population's identification with the victims of persecution.
Although her open-hearted welcome to the Jewish woman who knocked on her door one snowy night in 1940 has been considered the beginning of the Chambon movement, Mrs. Trocme's daughter, Nelly Hewitt of Minneapolis, stressed yesterday that in an area where secrecy was a way of life and virtually every home eventually harbored one or more refugees, it is impossible to know whether her mother had been the first.
From 1958 into the 1970's, Mrs. Cuyjet was on the dance faculty at Maryland State College (now the University of Maryland-Eastern Shore) and also taught at Delaware State College in Dover, and Cheney State University in Cheney, Pa. She closed her studio in 1971 and trained as a movement therapist, working at the Philadelphia State Hospital for 11 years.
So much so, in fact, that within a decade after her formal retirement in 1964 she had turned out a torrent of books -- among them ''The Sex Game,'' ''The Female World,'' ''The Future of Marriage'' and ''The Future of Motherhood'' -- that established her as a premier scholar of the women's movement.
She received a bachelor's degree in sociology from Brooklyn College and a master's from the University of Connecticut, then joined the civil rights movement in the summer of 1961.

        Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a psychologist who defied conventional wisdom and greatly emboldened the fledgling gay rights movement in the 1950's by finding there was no measurable psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men, died on Monday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89.
In 1932 she settled in Paris, where she was drawn into the Surrealist movement, quickly joining a circle of artists that included Andre Breton, Paul Eluard, Max Ernst and Giorgio de Chirico.
Ultimately, it led to the formation of Civic Forum, a democratic movement that toppled Communist rule in 1989 and catapulted Mr. Havel, a dissident playwright, into the presidency in late 1989.
