In China, she was remembered for her key role in creating the Gung-Ho (Work Together) movement of industrial cooperatives in Shanghai in the 1930's.
Snow liked to point out that besides starting the Gung-Ho movement, she helped enrich the American vocabulary with the term.
She published ''China Builds for Democracy: A Story of Cooperative Industry,'' ''The Chinese Labor Movement,'' ''Red Dust: Autobiographies of Chinese Communists as Told to Nym Wales,'' ''Women in Modern China'' and ''An American Experience in Yenan.
The couple kept the American public up to date on the Beijing student movement that rallied resistance to the Japanese in 1935.
''
        As the African nationalist movement gathered steam, Mrs. Huxley wrote a number of articles defending white settlers and colonial rule.
In a career in which, in 1921, she became the first woman to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and later established the departments of history and social studies there, Dr. Barbosa became such an authority on Puerto Rican political history, from the movement for autonomy from Spain in the late 19th century to the drive for statehood in the 20th, that she was named the commonwealth's official historian in 1993.
''
        Her father, Jose Celso Barbosa, was the founder of the Puerto Rican statehood movement and the precursor of the New Progressive Party, which has continued to embrace his ideals -- as modified over the years, to be sure, by his daughter, who insisted that the party of statehood also commit itself to social justice.
He was a black man who was so outraged at being denied higher education by the Spanish that after graduating first in his class at the University of Michigan medical school in 1882 -- and even then allowed to practice in Puerto Rico only after the intervention of the American consul in San Juan -- that he became a leader of the autonomy movement.

        Harriet Pratt Morris, a leader in the movement against the death penalty in Georgia and nationwide, died on Sunday at her home in Atlanta.
The couple moved to the Deep South in 1954, when Mr. Morris was appointed a vicar in Dillon, S.C.
        At the end of 1958, they moved to Atlanta, where Mr. Morris became the executive director of the newly formed Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, a group that supported the civil rights movement and addressed segregation within the Episcopal Church.
It was one of her mother's London society friends who spotted her talent for oratory and recruited her for the suffrage movement.
As a prominent figure in the women's movement that took part in India's struggle for independence from Britain, Mrs. Jayakar was a confidante of Jawaharlal Nehru, India's first Prime Minister.
Miss Moore, whose real name was Audley Moore, was a hero to many residents of Harlem, where she worked with Marcus Garvey, the Jamaican-born black nationalist leader, and his Back-to-Africa movement.

        Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious, a Chicago lawyer who held high posts in the Nixon and Bush Administrations, was active in the civil rights movement and was on the boards of major corporations, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
She was the author of ''The Reform Movement in China, 1898-1912,''  published in 1932 and reissued in 1963 and 1970.

        Mumeo Oku, a pioneer in Japan's consumer movement and an early campaigner for women's rights, died on Monday at her Tokyo home.
She graduated from Japan Women's University and became active in 1920 in the women's suffrage movement.
She also worked at a spinning company to become involved in the labor movement and was appalled by the working conditions.
Dr. Kevorkian's name was hardly known in 1989, when Mrs. Good started the right to die movement in Michigan by founding a chapter of the Hemlock Society in her living room.
''She was perhaps the first play agent to realize the importance of the new nonprofit theater movement,'' said Andre Bishop, co-director of Lincoln Center Theater, and before that the head of Playwrights Horizons.
Almost from the beginning, Mrs. Weiss was in the forefront of the socialist movement.
Her concern with movement led her to motion pictures, and among her earliest films were dance-related shorts.
As warm-hearted in person as she could be onstage, Miss Goslar was a popular teacher of mime and body movement for actors.
But she did not want to be involved only in women's programming and in the next few years, covered Mr. Kennedy's funeral and the civil rights movement, including the March on Washington.

        Toni Carabillo, a leader and historian of the modern feminist movement, died on Oct. 28 at her home in Los Angeles.
She helped found a group called the Writers' and Artists' Protest Against the War in Vietnam, she was actively involved in the anti-nuclear movement, and in 1967 she edited a volume of poetry for the War Resisters League.
The collection now stretches over some 5,500 feet of shelves and includes materials about women's rights, suffrage, birth control, the women's movement of recent years  and women in the arts.
