Introduced International Designs
        Most influential in the modern home furnishings field was Ms. Hoffman's introduction in 1975 of the furniture designs by Josef Hoffmann, the Viennese leader of the early 20th-century Wiener Werkstatte movement.
Figurehead of Movement
        When her husband died, Mrs. Franco became the figurehead of a loosely formed organization of Franco's political followers, called ''El Movimiento.
Thousands of her husband's followers - dressed in the black garb of the Hasidim - lined the streets for the funeral procession that began outside her home on President Street yesterday afternoon and moved slowly past the headquarters of the Lubavitch movement at 770 Eastern Parkway, near Brooklyn Avenue.
She is the author of ''Follow Those Women: Church Women in the Ecumenical Movement,'' published by the National Council of Churches.
In Parliament, Miss Ravera sought to extend women's rights, and she wrote a history of the women's movement in Italy.
Mr. Robeson had been accused of membership in the Communist Party and of various activities in support of the Communist movement.

       Elaine M. Stately, a co-founder of the American Indian Movement, died of cancer April 27.
Elaine M. Stately, a co-founder of the American Indian Movement, died of cancer April 27.
She was active with International Labor Defense, a group that worked for the legal rights of strikers and others active in the labor movement.
Among Mrs. Gurko's books were ''Restless Spirit: The Life of Edna St. Vincent Millay'' and ''The Ladies of Seneca Falls,'' about the early women's rights movement.
She was a major supporter of the Girl Scout movement.
The youngest of the three Graham sisters who were born in Allegheny, Pa., and who moved to Santa Barbara, Calif., in 1908, Georgia followed Martha Graham into the Denishawn school in Los Angeles during World War I. Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, considered among the founders of the modern-dance movement, enlisted the teaching talents of both Graham sisters before they recognized them as performers.

       Lois Burnham Wilson, a founder of the Al-Anon Family Groups, whose members are relatives and friends of alcoholics, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Mrs. Wilson, widely known as Lois W., was 97 years old and was a longtime resident of Bedford Hills, N.Y.
        Lois Burnham Wilson, a founder of the Al-Anon Family Groups, whose members are relatives and friends of alcoholics, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Mrs. Wilson, widely known as Lois W., was 97 years old and was a longtime resident of Bedford Hills, N.Y.
        As Lois W., she was revered as ''the first lady of Al-Anon,'' and as a living reminder of the beginnings five decades ago of the Alcoholics Anonymous self-help movement.
They also help each other on a one-to-one basis, and they read the movement's many inspirational pamphlets and books.
First Alateen Group
        Not long afterward, the center moved into offices in Manhattan, and the movement took the name Al-Anon Family Groups.
The community also has become a focal point for religious music, in particular a movement to preserve the Gregorian chant, an ancient form of worship, in collaboration with Benedictine monks and nuns in France.
Her father, James Lee, was active in the trade union movement.
Her paternal grandfather, Michael Lee, won renown in the movement, rising to be a member of the Scottish Miners' Executive.
