His death came to symbolize the brutality in the racist South and became a symbol of the civil rights movement.
''What must be put into perspective is that we often say the modern Civil Rights movement began with Rosa Parks in Montgomery.

        Monique Wittig, a French writer and literary theorist whose imaginative, fiercely innovative books tried to create a new mythology for the feminist movement, died Jan. 3 in Tucson.
Mrs. Miller, an expert on the Shaker religious movement, was president of Hancock Shaker Village Inc. from 1959 to 1990.
The Shaker movement, named for the pious trembling of its members, began in 1747 in Britain as a celibate offshoot of the Quakers.
Ms. Rosen, who was born in Baltimore, trained with Bill Evans and at Arizona State University and the Laban/Bartenieff Institute of Movement Studies in New York.
In the 1960's no musical performer was more closely identified with the civil rights movement.

        Khieu Ponnary, the quiet Cambodian intellectual who was the first wife of the Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot and a prominent member of the movement in its early days, died on Tuesday in Cambodia.
Her father was an English professor who adhered to Brahmo Samaj, a religious movement that rejected caste.
Franny Reese, as she was known, was a spark plug in a movement that began 40 years ago with a handful of local gentry who sought to check the unbridled development of the Hudson River Valley.
The movement became today's Scenic Hudson, a potent force in the national environmental movement.
The movement became today's Scenic Hudson, a potent force in the national environmental movement.
Martin wrote of her instinct for design as well as movement, adding, ''Here is a distinguished talent, highly individual in character, with something to say, and certainly with the means to get it said with taste, imagination and authority.
She also taught movement for actors at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
The slow pace -- it runs from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. -- and herky-jerky movement has led to reduced television coverage, she said.
She was one of the first women to study law at the University of Texas, and she started one of the state's first girls' drill teams, a movement that grew into a Texas passion.

        Charlotte Selver, a teacher of sensory awareness who helped inspire the school of psychology that came to be known as the human potential movement, died on Aug. 22 at her home in Muir Beach, Calif., near San Francisco.
In classes and individual sessions held as recently as this March, Ms. Selver taught students exercises focusing on breathing, movement and touch.
Known for its uninhibited atmosphere, Esalen was the birthplace of the human potential movement, which combined experimental techniques, like group encounters and primal therapy, with spiritual seeking.
Two of the movement's leading thinkers, the psychoanalysts Erich Fromm and Fritz Perls, received sensory awareness training from Ms. Selver.
In the high-diving event, which dominated the second part of the film, ''Festival of Beauty,'' she used four cameras, including one underwater, to capture the movement of divers from all angles.
She was later called ''the mother of the voting rights movement'' by its local organizers.
In his book on the civil rights movement, ''The Children'' (Random House, 1998), David Halberstam called Mrs. Foster ''one of the heroes of the Selma group.
She became involved in the growing voting rights movement because of anger over racial discrimination.
The bank, a creation of the feminist movement, was established in April 1975.
As a political partner to her husband, Madame Chiang developed what she called the New Life Movement, a series of principles for modernizing China through social discipline, courtesy and service.
Her 1973 book, ''Toward a Recognition of Androgyny: Aspects of Male and Female in Literature,'' brought her to prominence in the academic feminist movement.
Ms. Estess was told in 1997 that she had the condition, a degenerative disease of the nerve cells that control muscular movement.
''
        Born Gisela Peiper in Berlin, she joined the resistance movement after Hitler came to power and eventually fled Germany, arriving in the United States in 1941.
She was ''the Alice Waters of the tea movement,'' said a friend, Ruth Reichl, editor in chief of Gourmet magazine and former restaurant critic of The New York Times, in a reference to the founder of Chez Panisse.
' would get dressed up and go to Helen's,'' said Kate Coleman, a journalist who was a leader in the Free Speech Movement of 1964.
''But we shall continue to fight for recognition and to show that we are a genuine religious movement.
