She became an influential voice questioning standard medical procedures and was a leader in the movement to change the way the disease is treated.
''
        Like Cecchetti, Miss Craske stressed exact technique and attention to detail in her teaching, emphasizing balance and encouraging her students to pay attention to the quality of movement and the anatomical and physiological workings of the body.
Like Tudor, however, she believed that movement must ''mean something,'' as she put it.
Style of Protest Movement
        Her article on that phenomenon helped draw attention at the end of the 1970's to the protest movement among the young.
Style of Protest Movement
        Her article on that phenomenon helped draw attention at the end of the 1970's to the protest movement among the young.
''
        ''She was slangy without being vulgar,'' Coward added, ''modern without being brash, and her gaucheries of movement had a peculiar grace.
Fritz Perls, a psychiatrist, was the better-known and more flamboyant of the pair, acting as teacher in residence at the Esalen Institute in Big Sur, Calif., during the 1960's heyday of the human potential movement it expounded, and traveling the world to train therapists.
A Turn to the Present
        But among many Gestalt therapists, Laura Perls was seen as the mainstay of the movement, heading the major Gestalt training institute in New York City for almost 40 years, and an unacknowledged contributor to the early books by her husband that formulated the approach.
Some techniques that Gestalt therapists use derive from theater and movement.
A student of movement and dance as well as an accomplished pianist, Mrs. Perls became a psychoanalyst in Germany.
'' ''The Street of the Flower Boxes'' inspired an NBC television special in the 1970's that won a Peabody Award and that inspired a movement for neighborhood beautification.
She was also active in the women's suffrage movement from the early 1900's, and later in life became active in the civil rights movement.
She was also active in the women's suffrage movement from the early 1900's, and later in life became active in the civil rights movement.
She lost her sight when she was 90 years old and put her remaining energies into making audio recordings about the history of the movement.
Mrs. Schwartzman, who was born in Chelsea, was an early member of the block association movement in New York City in the 1950's and was the first president of the West 22d Street Association.
" "Distinctive in her elegance, courage and dedication, Mrs. Pandit was an asset to the national movement," he continued.
Mrs. Pandit, whose husband died in the 1940's, took part in the Indian freedom movement and was arrested several times by the British colonial authorities.
Since there were no professional tournaments for women, she played a series of exhibitions until the outbreak of World War II, when she enlisted in the Hale America movement to assist in improving the physical condition of women and youngsters.
Miss De Treaux played the creature in scenes that required movement, and a robot was used in close-ups.
