''In Vienna she worked closely with the leader of the resistance movement, Erwin Puschmann,'' the Swiss newspaper said.
But long before the environmental movement blossomed, providing a cause that made her celebrated in her later years, Ms. Wolf was steeped in struggles over human rights, communism, labor issues, peace, feminism and immigration.
Another was for environmentalists to include Native Americans, blacks, Hispanics and other minority groups in their movement.
Although she never received a degree in art or architectural history, Ms. Davies was a constant presence  at universities, libraries and museums that harbored information on  her chosen subjects, A. J. Davis and the romantic movement in American 19th-century architecture.
When World War II broke out, she refused to leave France while her husband was in the resistance movement.
Born into a wealthy family, she at first also supported the movement that sent the dictator Fulgencio Batista into exile in 1959.
'' For many years, she taught courses in movement to actors at the HB Studio, directed by Herbert Berghof and the actress Uta Hagen.
Miss Sokolow used movement ''as a human experience, not formally, not mechanistically,'' Miss Hagen said at a program at the Kaye Playhouse in honor of Miss Sokolow's 85th birthday.
Her movement style was known for its passages of hopeless running in place, silent screams, accusatory stares and sudden falls.
''Magritte, Magritte'' was based upon the Surrealist fantasies of the painter, ''Odes'' was filled with swirling movement patterns and ''Poem'' was lyrical.
In the last decades of the 20th century, Mrs. Rubin's work was a cornerstone of the Yiddish revival movement.
The document, written in 1988, was widely distributed among those with cancer, and Mrs. Spingarn became an important figure in the patients' rights movement, Ms. Schellenbach said.
Along the way, she grew close to many of the leading figures in the anti-apartheid movement, and her tiny apartment in St. John's Wood became an unofficial refuge for South Africans working for the cause in London.
''
        Lord Landon remained active in the Olympic movement.
Although she promoted the Olympic movement, Lord Landon spoke out on its blemishes.
Her interest in the South dated to 1950, when she became friends with Claude Williams, a white preacher working to integrate his church in Fungo Hollow, Ala.
        She quickly became involved in the civil rights movement as tensions were escalating.
Ms. Werner was drawn early to the Communist movement and became a member of the German Communist Party at 19.

        Bertha Holt, whose family's struggle to adopt Korean orphans in the 1950's led to a movement that found American homes for thousands of children from overseas, died on Monday at her home in Creswell, Ore., after a stroke on July 24.
In the 1960's Ms. Admiral was active in the antiwar movement, often contributing work to shows based on political themes.
Mrs. Devine, a soft-spoken woman with a ready smile, became deeply involved in the civil rights movement of the early 1960's.
Further transformed by a wig and dark contact lenses, she moved in 1968 first to Harlem and then to the Deep South, where at the height of the civil rights movement she took a job as a cleaning woman.

        Jeanne Lee, one of the great jazz singers in the avant-garde tradition and a teacher of singing, composition and movement, died on Wednesday in Tijuana, Mexico.
She lived in New York from 1994 to 1996 and for the last five years  taught music and movement at conservatories in Antwerp, Belgium,  and in The Hague.
Returning to Paris, she became a leader of the Russian Christian Student Movement, taught emigre children and edited two volumes of church school lessons.

        Ruth Belcher Dyk, one of the last surviving participants in the women's suffrage movement, died in her apartment in Rochester on Nov. 18.
She was also in the forefront of the early instrument movement in Baroque and Renaissance repertory.
