As a result of the movement she led, British agriculture policies that favored replacing natural meadows with rye grass were reversed.

        Joanne Grant, an activist who documented the grassroots efforts behind the civil rights movement through her journalism, filmmaking and commentary, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Midtown Hospital.
One of the first books to trace the origins of the civil rights movement, it remains required reading in many classes on African-American history.
Her award-winning documentary film ''Fundi: The Story of Ella Baker'' (1981), about an unsung matriarch of the civil rights movement, was broadcast nationally on PBS.
''She was an important voice in the early writing on the civil rights movement,'' said Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, a professor of African-American studies at Harvard.
''
        Friends described Ms. Grant as the movement's publicist and said she saw herself as both journalist and advocate.
''She exposed and explained the civil rights movement in ways that the daily press either couldn't or wouldn't,'' said Julian Bond, chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

        Elizabeth Janeway, who began her career as a best-selling novelist in the 1940's and later distinguished herself as a critic, a lecturer and an early advocate of the women's movement, died yesterday at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 91.
She has credentials, she is married to a successful man'' -- the economist and writer Eliot Janeway -- ''has children; as recently as 1969 she termed the women's movement 'frivolous and gestural.
Active in the lighthouse preservation movement until shortly before her death, Mrs. Small lectured widely on her vanished way of life.
''Noah's Garden,'' which mingled good-humored anecdotes about her family with widely applicable advice, caught the attention of gardeners and homeowners around the country and became a bible for a growing native landscape movement.
Mrs. Wofford was active in the hospice movement in Winston-Salem, N.C., in the 1970's until her move to Pennsylvania.
She became politically active during the Vietnam era, working in the antiwar movement and in Democratic Party politics.
With her sister, Doris Zames Fleischer, Ms. Zames wrote ''The Disability Rights Movement: From Charity to Confrontation'' (Temple University, 2001), a historical survey.

        Dame Cicely Saunders, a founder of the modern hospice movement, died July 14 in the prototype she had built in Britain 38 years ago, St. Christopher's in Sydenham, south London.
She founded the hospice at St. Christopher's in 1967 and made it the kernel of a movement that she helped spread in the United States and worldwide.
Her travels in the United States greatly encouraged the movement here, said Patricia Farrington, director of the Pax Christi Hospice program at St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers in New York.
She dressed elegantly, spoke in a low, lilting voice and, in case after case, earned a reputation as the chief courtroom tactician of the civil rights movement.
''
        Mr. Meredith's admission to the University of Mississippi in September 1962 was a major victory for the civil rights movement.
''I walked out,'' she told The New York Times in 1981, ''and joined the women's movement.
After her family moved to Pittsburgh a few years later, Ms. Yard worked in the civil rights movement and was a local organizer for the March on Washington in 1963.

        Rosa Parks, a black seamstress whose refusal to relinquish her seat to a white man on a city bus in Montgomery, Ala., almost 50 years ago grew into a mythic event that helped touch off the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at her home in Detroit.
That moment on the Cleveland Avenue bus also turned a very private woman into a reluctant symbol and torchbearer in the quest for racial equality and of a movement that became increasingly organized and sophisticated in making demands and getting results.
''
        But as she rushed home from her job as a seamstress at a department store on Dec. 1, 1955, the last thing on her mind was becoming ''the mother of the civil rights movement,'' as many would later describe her.
Recalling the incident for ''Eyes on the Prize,'' a 1987 public television series on the civil rights movement, Mrs.
Parks had been unable to find work, but also because of disagreements with Dr. King and other leaders of the city's struggling civil rights movement.
Founded in 1954, at a time when many Japanese people were exploring new freedoms, Gutai reacted to American Abstract Expressionism and the French Informel movement by advocating a radically nontraditional, experimental play with nonrepresentational materials.
Ms. Arango, like the better-known Mexican painter Frida Kahlo, was inspired by the muralist movement of Mexico, which captured Latin America's roiling history in epic proportions.
