President Bill Clinton recognized her philanthropy in 1999 with the National Medal of Arts, and in 2001 she received the Andrew Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy.
In 1929, she was one of 19 participants in the first National Women's Air Derby, a California-to-Ohio race that Will Rogers famously called the ''first Powder Puff Derby.
''
        Mr. Bridges quickly took his case to the national press.
She resumed the studies interrupted by her internment and wrote articles about her childhood for several national magazines.

        Laura Rothenberg, who recorded an audio diary for National Public Radio that documented her daily life as she struggled with cystic fibrosis, died Thursday night at her apartment in Manhattan.
Just one day earlier, President Bush had awarded her the National Humanities Medal, one of numerous honors she had won for turning a historical landmark into an important place to learn and enjoy American history and culture.
She went to work, negotiating an agreement for the theater to operate as a national historic site and museum.
Through a series of televised galas Mrs. Hewitt drew national attention to Ford's and raised money.
''
        She found a niche in radio, singing with orchestras in national broadcasts.

        Margaret Formby, a rancher's daughter whose collection of cowgirl costumes, stored in the basement of a local library, evolved into the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, died on April 10 at her home in Hereford, Tex.
But it began in 1975 with an even longer name, the National Cowgirl Hall of Fame and Western Heritage Center, and not much else.
A Montana cowgirl, Ms. Orr won three national rodeo championships in the 1930's and 40's.

        Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio.
Mrs. Bennack, who with her husband also had a home in western Connecticut, was active in the New York chapter of United Cerebral Palsy and in the national organization.
She and Phyllis Schlafly, a principal opponent, sharply debated the issue at a national forum in 1976.
As proposed, the bill would have barred discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin; she led the drive to add ''sex'' as a listed category.
Soon after, she became one of the first women to take a show on the road, organizing and supervising the national tour of ''Othello'' with Paul Robeson.
Ms. Topaz received a John Simon Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship in 1998, served as a panelist for many cultural organizations, including the Massachusetts Cultural Council and the New York State State Council on the Arts, and was an auditor for the National Endowment for the Arts.
She pursued this interest in several ways, from organizing exhibitions and writing to frequently participating on panels for the National Endowment for the Arts.
Widely credited with raising this art school's national and international profile, she more than tripled its endowment, oversaw the renovation and expansion of its landmark building, added several new trustees, re-established its visiting artists' program and also established an exchange program with Oxford University.

        Franchellie Margaret Cadwell, one of the first women to own a national advertising agency and a strong advocate of change in the image of women in advertisements, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
In 1991, she played the doomed Rebecca Nurse in ''The Crucible,'' the first production of Tony Randall's National Actors Theater in New York.

        Sue Sally Hale, who broke American polo's sex barrier in 1972 when she gained membership in the sport's national governing body after playing matches disguised as a man for two decades, died last Tuesday at her ranch in Coachella, Calif. She was 65.
But the United States Polo Association, the national governing agency, now lists some 600 women among its membership of 3,600.
They included the sets for the 1964 production of ''Othello,'' with Laurence Olivier, at the National Theater in London.
In 1951, with the help of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Bulahs sued not just for a bus ride; they also asked a state court for admission to the white school.

        Selma Koch, a Manhattan store owner who earned a national reputation by helping women find the right bra size, mostly through a discerning glance and never with a tape measure, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
In the final years of her life, Mrs. Koch appeared on national television and radio programs to discuss her specialty and her occupational longevity.
The farm, in Ridgefield and Wilton, Conn., is now the Weir Farm National Historic Site, with programs for both artists and the public.
The programs are run by the Weir Farm Trust, a private nonprofit organization that works in partnership with the National Park Service.
She competed in the United States National Championships four times and at Wimbledon in 1954.
In January, Geppi-Aikens was among three recipients of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's annual Inspiration Award.
She was the national women's lacrosse coach of the year in 1996, 1997 and this season, had a career record of 197-71 and led Loyola to the N.C.A.A.
Geppi-Aikens's 2003 squad lost to Princeton, the eventual national champions, 5-3, in the N.C.A.A.
In 1994, President Clinton gave her the National Medal of Arts.
As well as a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1995, the novel won the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Governor General's Award for fiction, and was shortlisted for a Booker Prize.
''
        In his review of the Kern show, Frank Rich of The New York Times urged readers to write their representatives in Congress demanding that she be detained in the United States ''as a national resource too rare and precious for export.
Her writings found a national response and went through various editions into the 1990's.
The program will be extended to the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum in Washington this fall.
She covered national and foreign affairs for The New York Post, Newsweek and Time magazine before she joined the staff of The Times in 1943.
Her pictorial articles also appeared in magazines like National Geographic, Redbook and The Saturday Evening Post.
The movement became today's Scenic Hudson, a potent force in the national environmental movement.
Language derived from that precedent was incorporated into the 1969 National Environmental Policy Act, which established the Environmental Protection Agency and mandated environmental impact studies for such construction projects.

        Josephine Jacobsen, a poet, short-story writer and critic who held the post that later became that of national poet laureate, died on Wednesday in Cockeysville, Md.
Mrs. Jacobsen's name is on the honor roll of national poets laureate, backdated to 1937, when the consultant's position was created.
Ms. McKenna's work was exhibited widely, most recently two years ago in a retrospective at the National Portrait Gallery in London.
It was published in national magazines and books like ''Modern Poets: An American-British Anthology'' (1963) and her collection ''Writers and Artists.
After years of research at U.C.L.A., New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the National Institutes of Health, she joined the Yale faculty in 1979.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1990, and held honorary degrees from the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands and the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
Ms. Chase left Cold Spring Harbor in 1953 to work at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee and later at the University of Rochester.
Dr. Magno became the first executive director of the National Hospice Organization in 1980.
She became director of international relations and social relations for the National Council of Jewish Women, and, among other things, helped bring Jews out of Hitler's Germany.
In 1960, when a plane crashed taking off from Logan Airport in Boston, killing all 62 people aboard, Ms. Laybourne, then a scientist at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, helped investigators conclude that the cause was a flock of starlings caught in one of its engines.
She worked for the National Fisheries Laboratory in Beaufort, N.C., and the North Carolina State Museum before joining the Smithsonian in 1944, where she worked for 44 years.
After her official retirement, she became a consultant for the National Fish and Wildlife Forensic Laboratory, helping the authorities there investigate illegal bird hunting.
At first she did not think she deserved to be inducted into the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame in 1997, but then decided she had as much right as the next lady, given the things she had done and the things she knew.
In 1998, Mrs. Reeves won the Chester A. Reynolds Award for major contributions to the Western way of life from the National Cowboy and Western Heritage Museum in Oklahoma City, one of two women to do so.
''I still ride alone,'' Mrs. Reeves said in an interview with National Public Radio last year.

        Althea Gibson, the first black player to win Wimbledon and the United States national tennis championship and a pre-eminent figure in women's tennis, died yesterday in East Orange, N.J. She was 76.
national championships in 1947.
In 1949, a year after Dr. Benjamin Weir had become the first black to play in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event -- the 1948 National Indoor Championships -- Gibson took her first steps beyond the world of the black tennis circuit, making it to the semifinals of the Eastern Indoor Championships and then to the semifinals of the national championships.
In 1949, a year after Dr. Benjamin Weir had become the first black to play in a United States Lawn Tennis Association title event -- the 1948 National Indoor Championships -- Gibson took her first steps beyond the world of the black tennis circuit, making it to the semifinals of the Eastern Indoor Championships and then to the semifinals of the national championships.
Even after she had won the 1950 Eastern Indoor Championship and a clamor had begun to let her play in the National Grass Court Championships at Forest Hills, the precursor of the United States Open, the powers of tennis seemed to close ranks to keep her out.
On Aug. 28, 1950, three years after Jackie Robinson had broken the color barrier in major league baseball, Gibson became the first black player to compete in the national tennis championship.
''
        Having won Wimbledon, Gibson rolled through the national championship at Forest Hills.
In the final, she defeated Brough, who had eliminated her in her first national seven years before.
She made her debut at the Washington National Cathedral in 1941 and was the chair of the organ department at Eastman from 1953 to 1955, when her husband, Harold Gleason, an organ professor at Eastman, retired.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
After surgery and chemotherapy, she had to withdraw the next year from a production of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace'' at the English National Opera.
'' Yet, shaped by the profound romanticism of 19th-century German culture, her monumental vision of beauty fitted perfectly into the National Socialist ideology.

        Marie Foster, a dental technician whose quiet but effective efforts to win voting rights for blacks made her a national symbol when she was beaten by the police in the Selma, Ala., voting rights march in 1965, died on Saturday in Selma.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders to make Selma the center of a national crusade.
On March 11, when President Lyndon B. Johnson went on national television to announce that he would send Congress a strong voting rights bill, it was in Mrs. Foster's living room that Dr. King watched and wept at the news.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
In 1965, she was one of President Johnson's first appointees to the National Council on the Arts.

        Margaret E. Murie, a conservationist and an author who helped preserve millions of acres of unspoiled land in Alaska and across the United States by encouraging the creation of the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the passage of the Wilderness Act, died on Sunday at her ranch in Moose, Wyo.
Four years later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower designated eight million acres as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; President Jimmy Carter more than doubled the protected area in 1980.
Their Wyoming home, the Murie Ranch, was declared a National Historic District in 1997 and today is the headquarters of the Murie Center, an educational center dedicated to conservation.
Ms. Murie is survived by her sister Louise Murie-MacLeod of Jackson, Wyo., who was the wife of Olaus's brother Adolph, who was a National Park Service biologist and an author; two sons, Martin, of North Bangor, N.Y., and Donald, of Palm Springs, Calif.; a daughter, Joanne Miller of Brookline, Mass.
''
        General Chiang resigned as president of Nationalist China in January 1949 and fled to Taiwan that May, taking with him a national art collection that was kept in crates in Taiwan for years as the Chiangs clung to the ever-diminishing hope that they would some day take it back to Beijing.
''
        General Chiang resigned as president of Nationalist China in January 1949 and fled to Taiwan that May, taking with him a national art collection that was kept in crates in Taiwan for years as the Chiangs clung to the ever-diminishing hope that they would some day take it back to Beijing.
Miss Allen became known as Queen of the Yodelers after winning a national yodeling contest in 1939.
She parlayed her broadcast appeal into nightly live shows at the Village Barn, a national radio show, a local television show and an Armed Forces Radio Network show.
Miss Allen had strong opinions about country music and wrote articles and columns for publications like National Jamboree, Country Sound Roundup and Hoedown.
The two founded the National Academy of Ballet and Theater Arts in New York in 1962.
In 1987, she became the first person to give the Democratic National Committee $1 million.
She started in children's radio shows and ended up in Manhattan playing the piano on a national radio show for NBC as well as in clubs, under the name Marie Doherty.

        Louise Day Hicks, the Boston public school official and City Council member whose opposition to busing to achieve school integration helped to polarize the city in the 1960's and made her a national symbol of racial division, died on Tuesday at her home in South Boston.
Out of town was, in fact, where Ms. Loudon often ended up supporting herself, in national tours of shows and nightclub gigs.
Out of town was, in fact, where Ms. Loudon often ended up supporting herself, in national tours of shows and nightclub engagements.
Between 1921 and 1925, she held 29 amateur national and world records.

        Elizabeth Stevenson, the first executive director of the National Brain Tumor Foundation, died on Nov. 30 in San Francisco, where she made her home.
Ms. Stevenson was also a former member of the board of the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship.
She was interested in politics and traveled to Miami in 1972 for the Democratic National Convention.
Years later, she testified in defense of Ms. Hearst in a case that brought Dr. Singer national recognition and helped generate public curiosity about mind control.
