''
        During a decade of absence from the New York stage, she toured in national companies of Broadway hits, acted in movies and won roles in four separate television series that were picked up and then dropped.
During the 1980's she played the role of Maggie Jones in the national company of ''42nd Street.
From 1978 to 1996, Ms. Bliven held various offices, including secretary and vice president, at PEN, the national organization of writers and editors.
The paintings were exhibited at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and the National Gallery of Art in Washington.
She was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the National Academy of Design.
In 1996, Mrs. Earley was honored at the Smithsonian's National Postal Museum for her wartime service.
The story became a national scandal.
The project was cited as a model of documentation by the National Initiative to Preserve American Dance.
She won a National Book Award in 1975 for her novel ''M.
She was chairman of the National Council of the U.S.O.
In the ensuing decades, she received, in addition to three Coty Awards and inclusion in the Coty Hall of Fame, major fashion awards from Neiman Marcus and Filene's, the National Cotton Award and both the silver and the vermeil medals of the City of Paris.
In the ensuing decades, she received, in addition to three Coty Awards and inclusion in the Coty Hall of Fame, major fashion awards from Neiman Marcus and Filene's, the National Cotton Award and both the silver and the vermeil medals of the City of Paris.
In 1999, President Clinton lauded her long fight against discrimination as he presented her with the National Medal of the Arts, one of her many honors.
In addition to many honorary degrees, Miss DeLay received the National Medal of Arts in 1994, the National Music Council's American Eagle Award in 1995, the Sanford Medal from Yale University in 1997 and the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Japanese Government in 1998.
      
In addition to many honorary degrees, Miss DeLay received the National Medal of Arts in 1994, the National Music Council's American Eagle Award in 1995, the Sanford Medal from Yale University in 1997 and the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Japanese Government in 1998.
      
The wedding was a national extravaganza, but afterward Elizabeth, now the Duchess of York, settled in relatively modest circumstances, at least by royal standards.
She was soon acting on the London stage in ''The Play's the Thing'' by Ferenc Molnar and then acted so frequently with the Old Vic and the Royal Shakespeare Company (and later the National Theater) that theatergoers assumed she was English rather than American.
Often described as a gifted interviewer, she contributed to many other national magazines and newspapers.
A chief objection of feminists, including the National Organization for Women, was that Barbie's figure created unrealistic expectations for young girls that could lead to low self-esteem.
''She was like a national treasure,'' Mr. Ruiz said.
In 1943 she married Mr. Lara, Mexico's national musician-poet, a sensational union that drove newspapers wild, especially after Mr. Lara wrote Ms. Félix a song, ''María Bonita,'' or ''Pretty Maria,'' which became fabulously popular.
'' Their 1952 wedding was a national event, but the marriage was shortlived.
''María has a mythic quality, and she's a great national symbol,'' Mr. Fuentes responded.
The program began with the national anthem followed by a series of sound tests that included a blast from a gun and a loud chord from the orchestra.
Working for Doubleday and later as an independent publicist, Ms. Shapian organized author tours in the region and promoted new books to the regional and national media.

        A. J. Levinson, who pressed a national campaign to improve what she called ''the quality of death'' by promoting living wills, and who educated both professionals and the public on ways to bring dignity to dying, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She appeared on national television programs like ''The Tonight Show.
The operations were described in a front-page article about donors of living organs in The New York Times on June 24, 2001, and they were the subject of ''A Gift of Life,'' a Science Times television program that was first shown on June 26, 2001, on the National Geographic Channel.

        Rose Ellis Matzkin, national president of Hadassah, the women's Zionist organization of America, from 1972 to 1976, died on Monday in a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88.
The publication Back Stage called her ''the grande dame,'' and The Jewish Week referred to her as ''a national treasure.
The nonprofit organization is now known as the National Puerto Rican Forum.
Working for General Foods from 1971 to 1985, Mrs. Garin helped develop the sweetener aspartame as a sugar substitute and was a national spokeswoman for the product.
She ran a lunchtime series of play readings at the National Arts Club in New York, and also directed plays in Texas and Florida.
She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal.
The election brought Clement Attlee to power and led to the creation of the National Health Service and the nationalization of large swaths of British industry.
Ms. Castle's personal popularity with the party's rank and file was confirmed in 1950 when she was elected to its national executive committee, a post she held until 1979.
Ms. Hogan was a national leader in getting libraries to function as information retrieval systems.
The national Association of College and Research Libraries named her its Academic/Research Librarian of the Year in 2000.
She was a charter member of the National Organization for Women.

        Elizabeth Mongan, an expert in fine-art prints and drawings who helped to create a major collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on June 7 at her home in Rockport, Mass.
The collection moved to the National Gallery in 1943, and she went with it as curator.
She retired from the National Gallery in 1963 and taught art history at Smith College from 1969 to 1975.
      
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.
Among her detractors were the National Rifle Association, which opposed her advocacy of gun control; groups opposing abortion, which deplored her abortion-rights position; and animal-rights organizations, angered by her support for the use of animals in medical research.
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.
Among her detractors were the National Rifle Association, which opposed her advocacy of gun control; groups opposing abortion, which deplored her abortion-rights position; and animal-protection organizations, angered by her support for the use of animals in medical research.
Ms. Gelman was on the New York State Board for Nursing from 1990 to 1996 and was active in the National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates/Practitioners.
Her spikes and gloves are on display at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., where a picture shows her sliding flamboyantly into third base.
The cause was lung cancer, said Donn B. Murphy, president of the National Theater in Washington.
But Creative Time was kicked out earlier this year because of national security concerns.
Meredith Baylis studied ballet in Los Angeles and New York, toured with the national company of ''Carousel'' after graduating from high school and joined the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1951.
The author of numerous books, Ms. Genauer was also a member of the National Council on the Humanities from 1966 to 1970.
The author of numerous books, Ms. Genauer was also a member of the National Council on the Humanities from 1966 to 1970.
Born Daphne Van Beuren Bayne, the granddaughter of the founder of the Seaboard National Bank, she recalled in a 1990 profile in The New Yorker that as a child she liked to keep bats and armadillos as pets.

        Nancy Chaffee Whitaker, a leading tennis player in the 1950's who won three consecutive national indoor championships, died Sunday in Coronado, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Indian Wells, Calif.
She was the national indoor titleholder from 1950 to 1952, defeating Gibson, Beverly Baker and Patricia Todd in the finals, long before the open era and the advent of huge prize money.
She emerged in the national spotlight in 1950, reaching the singles quarterfinals at Wimbledon and the singles semifinals of the United States nationals -- the forerunner of the United States Open -- in addition to winning the first of her indoor championships.
She began her stage career in fringe theaters, but soon moved on to the Royal National Theater and other major companies, and continued to act onstage after her film career took flight.
''
        She also gave William Saroyan's ''Sam, the Highest Jumper of Them All'' its world premiere, enjoyed success with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Make Me an Offer'' and the ex-convict Frank Norman's ''Fings Ain't What They Used to Be,'' and discovered talent that ranged from John Bury, later the National Theater's head of design, to Richard Harris, who played Macbeth for her.
Who needs a National Theater?
Ms. Reinhart usually worked in tandem with her husband, who became the festival's director in 1969 after a pioneering career, begun in the 1950's, in producing and managing modern dance companies as well as developing dance projects for the National Endowment for the Arts and State Department cultural exchange programs.
Ms. Reinhart was a staff member at the National Endowment for the Arts in its early years and joined the American Dance Festival in 1977.
She established a national touring program for the Dayton Contemporary Dance Theater's revivals of rarely performed classics by black choreographers.
After the National Endowment for the Arts was established in 1965, Ms. Reinhart became part of the first generation of professionally trained arts administrators.
Her philanthropy included the New York City Ballet, the National Museum of Racing, the National Museum of Dance and equine research at the Veterinary College of Cornell University.
Her philanthropy included the New York City Ballet, the National Museum of Racing, the National Museum of Dance and equine research at the Veterinary College of Cornell University.
Several years later, she took on Dr. Edgar F. Berman, a member of the Democratic Party's committee on national priorities, who claimed that women's ''raging hormonal imbalance'' made them unfit for executive positions in business and politics.
Kathleen McGrath, the first woman to command a United States Navy warship, died on Thursday at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md.
She received a National Humanities Medal in 2001 for having ''helped transform the study and understanding of American music.
She toured the world, appeared in movies and wrote a sports column for The New York Evening Post and articles for national magazines.
Ms. Tiger was director of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee from 1968 until it merged into the Center for Constitutional Rights in 1998.
She helped support her family by selling eggs, and she became a volunteer clerk at the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee around 1952.
She was prima ballerina at the Zagreb National Theater from 1934 to 1936, and received international attention when she performed at the dance festival held in conjunction with the Berlin Olympics of 1936.
List, who received the National Medal of Arts from President Bill Clinton in 1996, was born Vera Glaser in 1908 in Brookline, Mass., the daughter of a housepainter from Latvia.
Mrs. Stevens was a delegate and observer at national and international meetings, wrote for magazines and contributed to and edited publications of the institute and its affiliated society.
In 1963, she joined efforts to desegregate her hometown, Albany, Ga., as national president of the Delta Sigma Theta sorority.
In 1964, she was chosen by President Johnson to help plan the Women's Job Corps, a component of his national plan to fight poverty.
Later, she was appointed by Presidents Nixon and Ford to serve on national educational commissions.
Dr. Kilbourn's discovery also made it increasingly important to protect the major concentration of gorillas, believed to be the largest left in the world, living in the nearby Odzala National Park, about 100 kilometers away over the border in Congo, by controlling access to them by humans and animals that might be carrying the virus.
DeBus was later barred for two years by The Athletics Congress, then the sport's national governing body, for supplying anabolic steroids to his athletes.
It was during the 1960's and 70's, the height the national black theater movement, that Ms. Carroll's talents came into full bloom.
That show, ''Your Arms Too Short to Box With God,'' with music and lyrics by Alex Bradford and Micki Grant, turned out to be a big success, spawning several national tours and two return trips to Broadway, including a 1982 version starred Patti LaBelle and Al Green.

        Mary T. Kinnear, a former member of the Smithsonian National Board and a trustee of the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., died on Saturday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 73.

        Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn.
        Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms as its president, from 1950 to 1958.

        Florence Segal Lowe, a retired public relations executive and journalist who managed communications for the National Endowment for the Arts from 1970 to 1986, died on Thursday in Washington.
She was instrumental in the creation of the Point Reyes National Seashore in Marin County, preserving 17 ranches.
Her range, too, was striking, crossing from Janacek's operas with David Pountney at the Welsh National Opera to ''Sleeping Beauty'' for the Royal Ballet to Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals.
Much of her work then found its way into newspapers and national magazines like Life, Harper's Bazaar and Vogue.
Known as Marvin then and thereafter, she next became one of ''Murrow's boys,'' broadcasters recruited by Edward R. Murrow, an old friend from the National Student Federation of America.
''
        During the war, she met Jefferson Patterson, a young diplomat whose family founded the National Cash Register Company.
Among her beneficiaries were the Folger Shakespeare Library, International Student House, the National Symphony Orchestra, the Smithsonian Institution and the Corcoran Gallery.

        Fay Bennett Watts, who led national efforts to help farm laborers and the rural poor, died on Dec. 19 in Shelburne, Vt.
        She was 88 and lived in Wake Robin, a retirement community in Vermont.
Known professionally as Fay Bennett, she held posts at the National Sharecroppers Fund from 1952 through 1974, directing attention to rural poverty.
In the 1950's she helped form the National Council for Agricultural Life and Labor, an alliance of dozens of national organizations that sought to spotlight the difficulties facing migrant farm workers to generate laws to protect them.
In the 1950's she helped form the National Council for Agricultural Life and Labor, an alliance of dozens of national organizations that sought to spotlight the difficulties facing migrant farm workers to generate laws to protect them.
During the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, she served on the National Advisory Committee on Rural Areas Development for the Department of Agriculture.
Later she received awards from the American Literary Association, the Treasury Department, the National Council of Teachers of English and many others.

        Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington.
Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services through which the federal government finances medical research.
''It is hard to realize today that government-subsidized research in the 1940's, when Florence Mahoney started her efforts, actually was controversial,'' said Judith Robinson, author of ''Noble Conspirator: Florence S. Mahoney and the Rise of the National Institutes of Health'' (The Francis Press, 2001).
Dr. Robert N. Butler, the first director of the National Institute on Aging, said that the dining room table was on the small side and that he believed it was by design, to encourage robust discussion.
They had been well-known journalists in Ireland -- her father had helped found RTE, Ireland's national broadcasting organization -- and then they felt stuck in the suburbs.
