Over the next decade, she worked as art adviser for the First National Bank of Chicago, assembling an eclectic corporate collection of some 2,000 works that is considered one of the best in the country.
Mrs. Shea, known to her family and friends as Nori, was involved in such causes as the National Center for Disability Services, the Foundation for Children with Learning Disabilities, Catholic Charities, Little League Baseball and the American Ireland Fund.
From 1981 until her retirement in 1987 she served with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington, where she was the deputy assistant administrator of its National Environmental Satellites, Data and Information Service.
From 1981 until her retirement in 1987 she served with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington, where she was the deputy assistant administrator of its National Environmental Satellites, Data and Information Service.
"
        Miss Novotna studied with Emmy Destinn and made her debut at the age of 17 with the Prague National Opera.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
She worked to persuade Congress to increase appropriations for the National Institutes of Health and to set up additional research centers concentrating on specific diseases.
One notable success was the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
As a result, City College created its Workshop Center two years later with Federal education funds and support from the Rockefeller Foundation, the National Institute of Education, the Far West Laboratory and, since 1979, the Jesse Smith Noyes Foundation.
In 1940, she began to build a national following as a performer on the NBC program "Chamber Music Society of Lower Basin Street" and on Eddie Cantor's program, where she was a regular guest for three years before starting her own program.
Mrs. Heitman was co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee during the Reagan years.
She had previously been president of the National Federation of Republican Women.
She was re-elected by the national committee three times, serving until 1987.
She retired from national politics three years ago and returned to Baton Rouge.
A graduate of Texas Women's University, she became active in Louisiana Republican politics and was a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1968 and 1976.
She started working with Dorsey's National Convention of Gospel Choirs and Choruses in the early 1930's, and she became the director of the convention's Soloist's Bureau, evaluating and training gospel singers until the late 1980's.
In 1972 she began to receive national recognition after an appearance at the Newport Jazz Festival.
She appeared in the 1981 gospel documentary film "Say Amen, Somebody," and received a National Heritage Award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1988.
She appeared in the 1981 gospel documentary film "Say Amen, Somebody," and received a National Heritage Award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1988.
"
        Ms. Morris, who was born in Durham, N.C., studied at the National Academy of Dramatic Arts and began her performing career in the American Mime Theater.
Mrs. Logan was active in committees aiding the National Society of Arts and Letters, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the National Symphony and the Opera Society of Washington.
Mrs. Logan was active in committees aiding the National Society of Arts and Letters, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the National Symphony and the Opera Society of Washington.

        Beatrice Card Fulcher, a retired educator with the Protestant Council of New York and the National Council of Churches, died last Sunday at Highland Farms, a retirement community near Black Mountain, N.C. She was 89.
Representing the Presbyterian Church, she served as director of Christian education for the Protestant Council's Manhattan division and the National Council of Churches for 28 years, beginning in 1938.
Her parents opposed her acting, so, at 17, she eloped with Panayiotis Characopos, an elderly, wealthy Athenian sympathetic to her study of classical Greek tragedy at the National Theater Academy.
Miss Leet left Paris in 1938 to become national secretary to the Foreign Policy Association in New York, returning to Reid Hall in 1946.

        Dr. Kathryn Frederick Clarenbach, a founding member and the first chairwoman of the National Organization for Women, died on Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 73.
On the national level, she was an organizer of the National Women's Political Caucus.
On the national level, she was an organizer of the National Women's Political Caucus.
Ms. Strain also danced with the National Ballet Company; the Eglevsky Ballet; the Kansas City Ballet; Eliot Feld, and Pierre Bonnefoux and Patricia McBride.
She went on to do the ads in 1952 at the Republican and Democratic national conventions.
Mrs. Salzman worked with the United Nations Tourist and Visitors Department and the hospitality committee maintained at the United Nations by the National Council of Women.
"
        In 1971, she founded the National Educational Television Training School in New York, a program sponsored by WNET that was intended to prepare minority students for jobs in communications.
She went on to become the first female anchor of an independent national news broadcast in 1980 when she anchored "USA Tonight," a syndicated show televised in 200 cities.
In 1952, 1956 and 1960, Miss Furness did the Westinghouse commercials during the Republican and Democratic National Conventions and developed a strong interest in politics.
'USA Tonight' Anchor
        She became the first female anchor of an independent national news broadcast in 1980, when she anchored "USA Tonight," a syndicated program televised in 200 cities.
In 1992 she coordinated a Manhattan conference in support of the African National Congress.
Mrs. Donaldson was also involved with the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, the New York Women's Association and the Ackerman Institute for Family Therapy.
Her charitable legal activities included legal work for Second Harvest, a national network of food banks and food kitchens that supplied meals to the needy.
Ms. Gair was the executive producer of an hourlong program of world news and public affairs on WBEZ-FM, the National Public Radio affiliate in Chicago.
Dr. King was also an officer of the National Council for Research on Women, the American Antiquarian Society and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Judge Forer received national attention with her first book, "No One Will Lissen: How Our Legal System Brutalizes the Youthful Poor" (1970).
Miss Chute was a president of the PEN American Center, and was elected to the American Academy of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.

        Rita Webb Smith, a community advocate whose work to rid a neighborhood of drug trafficking gained her national attention, died last Saturday at her home in Harlem.
Her efforts received the attention of national television shows and she recounted her experiences in a book written with Tony Chapelle, "The Woman Who Took Back Her Street" (New Horizon, 1990).
The space age entered her career when she was engaged as a consultant by a center at the University of Southern California that evaluated products developed for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
In 1956, Fortune magazine ranked her among the top businesswomen in the United States, and she won the National Retail Merchants Gold Medal for retailing twice.
Mrs. Baan was responsible for training this country's international teams in driving and dressage and coordinated national championships from which the United States Olympic team was selected.
"
        Ms. Stevens served on local and national boards of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists from 1978 until her death.
The wife of Walter Shorenstein, a national real estate developer, Mrs. Shorenstein was also a substantial contributor to local charities and universities.
During her time in Washington, Mrs. Judd, as a board member of the Young Women's Christian Association, championed the regional merger of racially segregated branches into the National Capital Area Y.W.C.A., whose 50,000 members made it the nation's largest at the time.
In 1923 she married Louis Fong Sui Hong, who was instrumental in expanding operations in Asia for the National City Bank of New York.
After Pearl Harbor, she served as a director of the National Board of the American Women's Voluntary Service and as chairman of its Chinese unit in New York.
In addition, she was a member of the national Y.W.C.A.
Mrs. Christy also served on the boards of the Visiting Nurse Association of Brooklyn and the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service, and was secretary of the National United Service Organization from 1957 to 1968.
In the early 1970's, she was also executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League.
In New York, she trained at the Art Students League and the National Academy of Design.
Dr. George sat on policy-making boards of the Girl Scouts of America, the American Red Cross, the League of Women Voters and the National Conference of Christians and Jews, among others.
She had her first solo show at the Max Hutchinson Gallery in SoHo in 1974, and over the years received grants from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation, the National Endowment for the Arts and the Pollock-Krasner Foundation.
She attended the National College of Education in Evanston, Ill.; Roosevelt College in Chicago, from which she graduated with honors, and the Webber-Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art in London.
Dr. Langer, who had a Ph.D. in sociology from New York University, was on the boards of the Bazelon Center for Mental Health Law, in Washington, and the National Coalition Against Censorship.
Dr. Ehrenkranz, who was credited with enhancing the school's national reputation, joined its staff in 1966 and became its dean in 1977.

        Christine Lynn Potts, a Russian affairs expert on the staff of the National Security Council at the White House, died on Thursday at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 36.
She joined the staff of the National Security Council in 1992, specializing in Russian, Ukrainian and Eurasian affairs.
In 1991, the National Council of Teachers of English honored her with its Poetry Award for Excellence in Poetry for Children, given for a body of work.
At her death, Miss Sumner was the president of Sumner National Bank, in Sheldon, Ill., which was founded by her father, Aaron Taylor Sumner.
She was a member of many state and national boards and the recipient of many honors.
Her other political work included membership on the Democratic National Committee.
In 1992, at the age of 95, she was the oldest delegate to the Democratic National Convention, which was held in New York.
A native of Marion, Ohio, she also served on the National Health Care Reform Committee set up by Hillary Rodham Clinton and was a member of the Iowa State Commission on AIDS, Dr. Osterholm said.

        Sandra Fisher, a figurative painter and printmaker who was also the wife of the painter R. B. Kitaj, died on Monday at the National Hospital for Nervous Disorders in London.
She was a former trustee of the National Trust for Historic Preservation.
She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.
In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset.
In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset.
In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset.
In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset.
She was also vice president of the National Council of Churches.
She worked as a secretary and a writer at Oxford University Press from 1943 to 1951 and as reference librarian at the National Audubon Society from 1952 to 1959.
They had already received the Kennedy Center Lifetime Achievement medal, in December 1986, and the National Medal of Art, from President Bush in 1990.
"
        The play, co-starring Marlon Brando in the role of Stanley Kowalski and Kim Hunter as Blanche's sister, Stella, won rapturous reviews, a Pulitzer Prize and the Drama Critics Circle Award and ran for more than two years on Broadway before going on a national tour.

        Merrinelle Sullivan, a past president and longtime officer of the National Council of Women of the United States, died on Sunday in her Manhattan home.
At her death, Mrs. Sullivan represented the International Council of Women, an umbrella organization for 78 national councils worldwide, to the United Nations Family Committee.
She had been executive director of the National Council in New York for 18 years before being elected president.
As such, she oversaw its activities in New York and Washington in 1988, when both the national and international groups, which lobby for women's causes, observed their 100th anniversaries.
She was a native of Benton, Wis., and worked for The New York Herald Tribune, Reuters and the National Broadcasting Company in New York, London and Paris in the 1930's.
Starting in the mid-1970's, she composed the texts for full-page advocacy advertisements published in national newspapers.
Professor Starling drew national attention in 1981 with the publication of "The Slave Narrative: Its Place in American Literary History," which told the history of slavery in America in the words of its victims.

        Mary G. Roebling, former chairwoman of the National State Bank, one of New Jersey's largest independent banks, and a former governor of the American Stock Exchange, died on Tuesday at her home in Trenton.
Mrs. Roebling retired in 1984 as chairman of the National State Bank in Elizabeth, N.J., which then had assets of $1.2 billion.
It grew substantially and she was its president or chairman or both until 1972, when Trenton Trust was acquired by National State.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
Over the years, Mrs. Roebling was variously a director of the Tattersall Corporation, the Standard Fire Insurance Company and the Colonial Operating Company, in Trenton, among other concerns; an officer of the New York World's Fair Corporation in 1964 and 1965; a member of the National Business Council on Consumer Affairs and of the Boy Scouts of America's national advisory council, and an active participant in other nonprofit organizations.
Unable to find a laboratory job open to blacks, she applied to the National Youth Administration and was put into a dance group.
Miss Primus toured with the musical "Show Boat," then founded a company and presented her work on Broadway and in national tours.
Other honors included the National Medal of the Arts in 1991.

        Shirley Chernela, a former administrator of Temple Shaaray Tefila in Manhattan and the first woman to be president of the National Association of Temple Administrators, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
She was president of the national administrators' group from 1982 to 1985.
She was the first woman to be certified a Fellow in Temple Administration in a program set up by the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the Union of American Hebrew Congregations and the National Association of Temple Administrators.

        Virginia E. Montes, a former national secretary and lobbyist for the National Organization for Women, died Thursday at her home in Atlanta.

        Virginia E. Montes, a former national secretary and lobbyist for the National Organization for Women, died Thursday at her home in Atlanta.
Ms. Montes, a native of Honduras, had been active in NOW for 13 years and was the first Latin American woman to serve as a national officer of the organization.
She was elected secretary of NOW and of its national political action committee in 1991 and served until last year.
In two terms on the organization's national board she headed the committee for racial diversity.
She was a delegate to three Democratic national conventions and frequently lobbied for civil rights groups in the halls of Southern state legislatures.
She also conducted leadership training activities for NOW, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Women's Political Caucus and other groups.
"
        The Blumkas also made gifts of art objects and antiques to the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore, the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the National Gallery in Washington, the Minneapolis Museum of Art, the Cincinnati Art Museum and the Louvre in Paris.
She was a member of the National Antique and Art Dealers Association of America and a participant in the International Fine Art and Antique Dealers Show each year since its founding in 1989.
"
        She was voted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame, the Helms Hall of Fame, the Women's Sports Foundation Hall of Fame and the Black Athletes Hall of Fame.
In 1990, she became the first woman to receive the National Collegiate Athletic Association's Silver Anniversary Award, even though she competed before the N.C.A.A.
She received a medical degree from the University of London's School of Medicine for Women and after World War II she joined the National Health Service.
New York State recognized her as Social Worker of the Year in 1970, and a few years ago, the National Association of Social Work set up its Ruth Fizdale Fund in Social Welfare Studies in her honor.
She was a charter member of the National Association of Social Workers and its Competence Certification Board.
In 1992, she started a cancer registry in Vermont, and Congress passed the Cancer Registries Act, which established a national standard for the collection of cancer data.
Early in her career, she joined National Players and took part in productions of "The Taming of the Shrew," "Twelfth Night" and "Oedipus Rex" in Europe and in this country, including a performance at the Carnegie Hall Playhouse in Manhattan.
At the time of her death, she was the president of the board of directors of Child Find America, which tries to find runaways and missing children, and a member of the steering committee of the National Crime Prevention Council, for which the McGruff anti-crime advertisements were designed.
" In January, she received a National Endowment for the Arts Jazz Fellowship award for lifetime achievement.
A lawyer who became the owner and operator of a business school in St. Louis, Miss Hickey was prominent in World War II as chairwoman of the Women's Advisory Committee of the national War Manpower Commission, from 1942 to 1945.
An effective fund-raiser for the Republican Party, Mrs. Hilson lent her name to a series of citizens' committees to elect or re-elect Republican candidates to state and national office.
This past October, she was among 12 Americans to receive the National Medal of Arts.
In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.
In 1949, she joined the National Symphony Orchestra's board, and she served as its vice president from 1951 through 1968.
In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her to the first board of the National Cultural Center, now known as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, to which she was reappointed twice by President Richard M. Nixon.
In 1966, at the age of 70, she donated 100 acres of the farm in Vienna to the United States Government to create a national park for the performing arts.
Two years later, she married Jouett Shouse, the chairman of the Democratic National Executive Committee.

        Frances Prince Schuman, the founding chairwoman of the National Friends of Public Broadcasting and the wife of the composer William Schuman, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Schuman was the founder and first chairwoman of the Friends of Thirteen and the National Friends of Public Broadcasting, and served for many years on the board of WNET Channel 13.
A native New Yorker who graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in 1943, Mrs. Everdell won the national women's sailing championships in 1939, 1940, 1947 and 1971.
She was a friend of former President George Bush, at one time a Greenwich resident, who appointed her to a three-year term on the National Council on Disability in 1990 when she was 92.
President Richard M. Nixon named her to his National Advisory Council of Vocational Rehabilitation in the early 1970's.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.
Thousands of delegates, dignitaries and guests stood frozen in place at the Democratic National Convention in New York City as she told of the death of her 7-year-old daughter, Ariel, in 1988 from AIDS.

        Aminda Badeau Wilkins, a retired welfare official and the widow of Roy Wilkins, longtime executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
President Lyndon B. Johnson named her to the National Advisory Council on Extension and Continuing Education, and she served on the Department of Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Armed Forces.
