She won national fame in the 1940's, singing with the popular flamenco artist Manolo Caracol, and landed her first film contract at 17.
Mr. Ryan organized a comprehensive show of Miss Sampson's work that was presented at the National Arts Club in Manhattan in 1988.
Later that year she was given a second show at the National Arts Club.
Her articles often dealt with political matters, and she interviewed national and international figures.

        Margaret Chase Smith, a flinty, independent Maine Republican who made history as the first woman to win election to both houses of Congress and the first whose name was advanced for the Presidency at a national convention, died yesterday at at her home in Skowhegan, Me.
She drew more than a dozen votes at the Republican National Convention, which was controlled by the conservative forces backing Barry Goldwater.
"We had a national sickness then from which we recovered," she said.
"We have a national sickness now from which I pray we will recover.
In the 1940's and 50's she wrote about music for a number of national magazines.
She was on a committee to save Cooper Union Museum, now the Cooper Hewitt National Design Museum.

        Rochelle Pittman, whose legal battle in a tainted blood scandal led to a continuing national inquiry into the state of Canada's blood supplies, died Wednesday at her home in Toronto.
For Canada it was a heart-wrenching story, followed in all its intricate twists on newspaper front pages and on national television.
Her most recent book, "Thieves' World: The Threat of the New Global Network of Organized Crime" (1994, Simon & Schuster), was praised by Stephen Handelman, of the Harriman Institute of Advanced Soviet Studies at Columbia University, as making "a significant contribution to post-cold-war debate" by affirming "that the growing interdependence among nation-states and financial institutions has made it easier for crime syndicates to cooperate across national boundaries.
"More than 200 were placed on the New Jersey Register of Historic Places, and about 190 were placed on the National Register.
Previously, she was an independent consultant with National Economic Research Associates in White Plains and a senior consultant with Arthur Andersen & Co. in Manhattan.
" Although she never had the full recognition attained by many of her peers, and never won a Pulitzer Prize or a National Book Award, her work generally received favorable reviews and she had a loyal readership.
Her father was an early civil rights leader; in 1916 he formed the Lincoln League to register and organize voters, and in 1917 he founded Tennessee's first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
She was given the National Medal of Science at a White House ceremony in 1985.
She was active in many organizations, including Jewish General Hospital in Montreal, the National Council of Jewish Women and the Organization for Rehabilitalation through Training.
's faculty, she served on virtually every city, state and national conference devoted to children and wrote widely on the subject.
Ms. Hafey represented the agency and was involved in the Ad Council's public-service campaigns for the United Negro College Fund and the National Urban League.
At one time, she also served on the boards of the National Urban League, the New York Urban League, WAIF/International Social Service, the Girl Scouts of Greater New York and the Cooperative Education Association.
The program, a national referral service for sex offenders seeking therapy, grew out of her visits to prison and the Prison Research Education Action Program she founded in 1976.
Over the years she also served as director of the New York Region of the American Friends Service Committee, projects director for the National Peace Education Division in Philadelphia and counselor to many conscientious objectors.
The 1928 Democratic National Convention was held in Houston, and she worked on senatorial and mayoral campaigns.
Undaunted, she went on to make her mark in the sport through administrative undertakings, and in 1986, was inducted into the United States National Ski Hall of Fame in Ishpeming, Mich.
        She had been director of the United States Olympic Training Center in Lake Placid since 1985, and was executive director of the United States Ski Association from 1961-68.
She was also the first national coordinator for Nastar, a racing program for recreational skiers.
"
        In 1958, when she was sent on a national promotional tour for "Reading Skills," a groundbreaking book on remedial reading written in collaboration with Marjorie Westcott Barrows of Jordan High, Mrs. Wood began asking everywhere, "Do you know anyone who can read fast?
She was a vice president of the National Anti-Vivisection Society, and no animal escaped her sympathy.
He became director of the National Gallery in 1973 and was knighted eight years later.
She was a major contributor to dance programs at the Kennedy Center, to the National Gallery of Art and the Smithsonian Institution in Washington and to the Museum of Modern Art in New York.
She was a member of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy for 19 years, and its senior vice president since 1991.
Born a generation after the Civil War, they had triumphed over Jim Crow, worked in Harlem during its renaissance, borne witness to the feminist and civil rights movements and in recent years, become national celebrities.
She served on advisory boards for Cornell University's Institute for Women and Work and for the National Organization for Women.
Ms. Burke came to national attention in 1945 with a 2 1/2-by-3 1/2-foot bronze plaque commemorating President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Four Freedoms.
He was president of the National State Bank, the Elizabethtown Consolidated Gas Company and the Elizabethtown Water Company, all in Elizabeth, N.J. Thomas H. Kean, the former Governor of New Jersey, is his nephew.
In the 1940's, Mrs. Kaufman worked for the National War Labor and Wage Stabilization Boards, and she was a prosecutor at a war-crimes trial in Nuremberg.
She became an original member of the National Lawyers Guild in that year.
"
        The Lita Annenberg Hazen Charitable Trust played an important part in numerous medical and scientific programs on both coasts and made significant contributions to cultural institutions, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art, the National Gallery and the Metropolitan Opera.
An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.
Before she joined the Newark law center she represented such organizations as the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the Urban League and the National  Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Her work attracted many honors, including a Special Achievement Award from the New Jersey Education Association in 1993, and the Martin Luther King Jr. Award from the National Education Association last year.
In May 1994, she received an "Extraordinary Voices" award from Mothers' Voices, a national AIDS awareness and advocacy organization.
She had been a small-town Kansas banker and a Democratic National Committeewoman since 1936.
Mrs. Gray was a highly visible figure in Democratic Party affairs, including its national conventions.
After serving as a National Committeewoman for 28 years, Mrs. Gray resigned in 1964 to devote herself full time to banking and other business and farming interests.
And their children went on to musical careers as well: Leonard Slatkin, now in his final season as music director of the St. Louis Symphony and soon to become music director of the National Symphony Orchestra in Washington, and Frederick Zlotkin, a cellist in New York.
"
        Miss Young, who taught at an Indianapolis high school and at the University of Iowa after Chicago, moved to New York in 1943 and burst on the literary scene two years later with the simultaneous publication of "Moderate Fable," which won the best poetry award from the National Academy of Arts and Letters, and "Angel in the Forest," a highly acclaimed account of successive utopian communities at New Harmony, Ind.
She was named Woman of the Year in 1973 by the  National Committee for the Furtherance of Jewish Education.
Within months in 1963, Mrs. Blackston and her friends founded Aid to Needy Children-Mothers Anonymous, linked up with other state groups and inspired the creation of the National Welfare Rights Organization.
Along the way, Mrs. Blackston not only shaped the national welfare debate, but also changed the very terms of the argument, transforming what had been a concern far down the agenda of the civil rights movement into a compelling feminist issue.
"
        After serving as the national organization's executive director until a lack  of money forced it to close the Washington office in 1974, Mrs. Blackston returned to California, where she worked as a legislative aid and served on state and local committees concerned with welfare.

        Hannah Hirschhorn Baumann, a former national vice president of the American Jewish Committee who was active in many charitable, cultural and religious organizations, died on Sunday at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 79.
Mrs. Baumann was also a member of the national executive council of the American Jewish Committee and chairwoman of the organization's Westchester chapter.

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
She served on the  National Board of Directors of Church Women United and was the keynote speaker at the first "International Year of the Woman" Conference in Mexico City in 1975.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
She served on the  National Board of Directors of Church Women United.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.
During Sister Evelyn's nine-year tenure as chief executive, St. Vincent's acquired the National Maritime Union headquarters at Seventh Avenue and 12th Street and made it over as the O'Toole Medical Services Building.
Whether working as an archivist in Colonial Williamsburg in the 1920's and 30's, cataloguing Thomas Jefferson's papers at the University of Virginia and the Library of Congress in the 1940's or serving as a historical architectural specialist and information officer at the National Trust for Historic Preservation in the 1950's, 60's and 70's, she kept her sights on early American history.
By then he had moved to Athens and, as a Greek national, he could not be extradited.
In the last two years, Ms. LaMott had achieved a national reputation, and her recently released fifth album, "Listen to My Heart" (Midder Music), recorded with the arranger Peter Matz, received critical acclaim.
She was the recipient of several awards, including the Order of Distinction bestowed by the Prime Minister of Jamaica and two Image Awards from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Over the years, Mrs. Loring was a consultant to the National Endowment for the Humanities, president of the Adult Education Association/ U.S.A. and a board member of the National University Extension Association.
Over the years, Mrs. Loring was a consultant to the National Endowment for the Humanities, president of the Adult Education Association/ U.S.A. and a board member of the National University Extension Association.
She spent a few years as a staff reporter for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, and after returning briefly to The Daily News and working for other news organizations, in 1939 she joined the National Broadcasting Company, for which she reported and worked in other capacities until 1950.

        Elaine Sulka, the director of the National Shakespeare Company and of the Cubiculo theater in New York City, died on Dec. 24 at her home in Manhattan.
"
        Ms. Sulka founded the National Shakespeare Company in 1963 with Philip Meister, her husband, with the aim of taking Shakespeare to schools and universities on bus tours throughout the country.
The Cubiculo is the home of the National Shakespeare Company, which will continue under the direction of Greg Lombardo and Tom Trudgeon.
" She last performed in the 1970's, appearing onstage in Los Angeles and with the national touring company of Neil Simon's "Gingerbread Lady.
Among her works currently in print are "History of the Balkans: 18th and 19th Centuries" (Cambridge University Press, 1983); "History of the Balkans: 20th Century" (Cambridge, 1983); "Russia and the Formation of the Romanian Empire" (Cambridge, 1984); "Modern Austria: Empire and Republic" (Cambridge, 1987); "Russia and the Rumanian National Cause" (Archon reprint, 1974), and "Russia's Balkan Entanglements, 1806-1914" (Cambridge, 1991).
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.
There were meetings with kings, presidents and popes, and the satisfaction of children on the national stage, in Congress and in the White House.

        Anne D. Campbell, an official of the Democratic National Committee in Washington, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
She was serving her fourth term on the National Committee's executive committee in Washington.
Born in Brownsville, Tex., she grew up in New York City, attended Monmouth College and entered national politics in 1972.
She was a past vice chairman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee and in 1977 became the first woman to be elected president of the National Association of State Chairmen.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
Mrs. Etra expanded that role by helping to found, in 1953, the National Women's Division of Yeshiva's newly chartered Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
Mrs. Etra was on the national Board of Directors for the United Jewish Appeal and served as a director of Seton Hill College in Greensburg, Pa., and the Brookdale Center of Hunter College.
She made her final public appearance last August with an address on feminism and women in American history when the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women marked the 74th anniversary.
As a junior player, she captured three titles in the 1930's and at age 16 won the singles and doubles trophies at the United States Ladies Tennis Association National Indoors Tournament in 1933.

        Margaret Wade, who coached Delta State to three national championships in six seasons in the 1970's and in 1986 became the first woman named to the Basketball Hall of Fame, died yesterday at the Bolivar County Hospital in Cleveland, Miss.
Over the next six seasons her teams compiled a 157-23 record, won three national championships and set a record of 51 consecutive victories, from 1974 to 1976.
She also served on the executive board of the Nassau / Suffolk Coalition for a National Health Care Plan.
Sister Ann was also executive director of the National Coalition of American Nuns in the 1970's and served several terms on the governing board of Common Cause, the public-affairs lobbying organization.
      
She was also a trustee of the Congressionally chartered National Tropical Botanical Garden, the Fairchild Tropical Garden in Miami, the American Horticultural Society, the World Wildlife Fund and the Conservation Foundation.
She donated the property, the former residence of the plant explorer David Fairchild, to the National Tropical Botanical Garden as a refuge and retreat for horticulturalists.
She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Rye, N.Y., and a life trustee and national board member of the Aspen Music Festival and School in Aspen, Colo.
        Born Catherine Denkmann Hauberg, she was a granddaughter and grandniece of the two brothers who established the company that became the Weyerhauser lumber empire.
It also led to many invitations for her to appear on national television and radio programs.
Her most important success was a victory in the National Board-a-Match Teams, now called the Reisinger Teams, in 1944.
She won nine other national titles in the Mixed Teams in 1949, 1950 and 1959; the Women's Teams in 1948, 1953, 1954, 1961 and 1967, and the Women's Pairs in 1960.
Her 14 second-place results included all three major national team championships, the Spingold Knockout in 1944, the Board-a-Match in 1953 and the Vanderbilt Knockout in 1954.
She was previously married to Benjamin Golder, a Pennsylvania member of the House of Representatives for 12 years who also headed the national bridge organization; Mr. Golder died in 1946.
Mrs. Mercati served as a member of the national council of the Metropolitan Opera, a director of the English Speaking Union and in many capacities with Recording for the Blind, including vice president of its board and director emeritus, a post she held at her death.
She was active in many national and local organizations, including International B'nai B'rith/Hillel Commission, the Jewish Publication Society, and the American Association of University Women.

        Pearl Rainwater Twyne, an animal rights advocate in the Washington area who helped draw national attention to the plight of the Tennessee Walking Horse, died last Friday in St. Alphonsus Hospital in Boise, Idaho.

        Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta.
She became actively involved in breast cancer issues by organizing survivor groups and speaking at national conferences and regional workshops.
Last November, Ms. Hermanson delivered a paper on the struggle to live with cancer pain to the annual National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship assembly in Washington.
Ms. Hermanson was also an active member of the national board of the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship, which provides support to cancer survivors, their friends and families and health care providers.
Ms. Hermanson was also an active member of the national board of the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship, which provides support to cancer survivors, their friends and families and health care providers.
It is the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship, not the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship.
      
It is the National Coalition for Cancer Survivorship, not the National Coalition for Breast Cancer Survivorship.
      
