
        Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass.
An outspoken feminist in the 1940's and 50's before feminism became popular, Mrs. McIntosh was the first married woman to head one of the seven top women's colleges known as the Seven Sisters and became a national icon.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and was the president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
A local jeweler fabricated that bracelet, which is now in the National Museum of Natural History's Science, Medicine and Society Collection, although it is not currently on display.
; Correggio's ''Salvator Mundi'' in the National Gallery of Art in Washington; Rubens's ''Cleopatra'' at the Detroit Institute of Arts; a Frans Hals at the Mauritshuis in The Hague; numerous Rembrandts, including ''Young Man With a Sword'' in the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh; and da Vinci's ''Bear Walking'' and a Jean-Antoine Watteau, both at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
She contributed entries to national and international reference works.
In 1965, they won the Gold Medal of the National Conference of Christians and Jews for a Look magazine piece, ''The Christian War Against Anti-Semitism.
The cause was brain cancer, said Nancy Toff, a flute historian and a former president of the National Flute Association.
She edited The National Flute Association Newsletter, now The Flutist Quarterly, from the mid-1970's to the early 80's and expanded it from a concise information sheet to a publication that regularly included interviews with important flutists.
''
        She also danced with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes, the Marquis de Cuevas Ballet, London Festival Ballet, the Komaki Ballet of Japan, the Australian Ballet and the National Ballet of Washington.
As director of the Norwegian National Ballet from 1966 to 1970, she introduced several ballets by George Balanchine into the repertory, produced the first complete Oslo versions of ''Swan Lake'' and ''La Sylphide'' and was knighted for her services by King Olaf V.
        She became director of the San Diego Ballet in 1971.
''I was the first black female -- no, make that black, period -- to make a national TV commercial, on camera, with lines,'' she said, referring to a pitch for the detergent All in the early 1960's.

        Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island.
Ms. Lawry founded both the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in the United States, in 1946, and the International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis Societies, in 1967.
She was also one of the leaders of the effort to establish the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke at the National Institutes of Health, in 1950.
She was also one of the leaders of the effort to establish the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke at the National Institutes of Health, in 1950.
The national society has also helped develop medicines to alleviate symptoms and prolong life expectancy, essentially offering a normal life span to many with multiple sclerosis.
The national society credited her with the first use of the abbreviation M.S.
''
        On March 11, 1946, Ms. Lawry assembled 20 prominent research scientists to found the Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis, which was renamed the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in 1947.
In 1950, she teamed up with Senator Charles Tobey of New Hampshire, whose daughter had multiple sclerosis, to lobby Congress for what is now the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
The international organization was born after the national society realized it was giving almost one-third of its research grants to foreigners.

        Constance Myers Anderson, a former head of both the New York City and national Young Women's Christian Association, died Jan. 31 at her retirement home in Kennett Square, Penn.
She was also president of the national organization from 1946 to 1952 and afterward was an honorary board member.
In 1934 she became the first woman to to receive the Hubbard Gold Medal of the National Geographic Society.
''Angel Unaware'' sold 400,000 copies in two years; Miss Evans gave the profits to the National Association for Retarded Children.
Ms. Converse played feature roles in plays like ''Othello,'' ''Wuthering Heights,'' ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' ''The Corn Is Green'' and ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' in summer stock companies from Tarrytown, N.Y., and Weston, Conn., to Santa Fe, N.M., and Carmel, Calif. She and her husband, the actor Don Porter, appeared together in the national touring companies of ''Any Wednesday,'' ''The Best Man'' and ''Love and Kisses.

        Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Ms. Roth, a television producer, contracted multiple sclerosis 30 years ago and died of complications of the disease, her husband, Michael Tompane, said.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
After writing their book, they worked with the National Park Foundation to improve accessibility at 175 places in more than 100 national parks.
After writing their book, they worked with the National Park Foundation to improve accessibility at 175 places in more than 100 national parks.
Last year, the National Multiple Sclerosis society presented Ms. Roth with its National Education Award.
Last year, the National Multiple Sclerosis society presented Ms. Roth with its National Education Award.
In conjunction with her dissertation, she produced ''New Yorkers at Work,'' an eight-part series broadcast on National Public Radio.
She was known to her friends as Debs -- shorthand not only for Debra, but also for Eugene V.
        And it was largely as a result of Dr. Bernhardt's efforts that in September 1998, Union Square Park was declared a national historic landmark by the National Park Service.
She was known to her friends as Debs -- shorthand not only for Debra, but also for Eugene V.
        And it was largely as a result of Dr. Bernhardt's efforts that in September 1998, Union Square Park was declared a national historic landmark by the National Park Service.
But it was her romance with Henry Tindall Merrill, known as Dick, that captured the national imagination.
She was named folk artist of the year by the National Endowment for the Arts in 1984.
According to the Web site of the National Museum of American History (www.americanhistory.si.edu), Santa Clarans use the same word for clay and for people: nung.
Returning to London in 1926, Miss de Valois opened a school and began to build what eventually became a national ballet company.
In 1980 Queen Elizabeth II made her a member of the Companions of Honor, for those who have done ''conspicuous national service.
At 16 she was named the outstanding high school composer in Minnesota and sent to Detroit to represent Minnesota in a national contest.
The series was exhibited at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, and ''Hollis Sigler's Breast Cancer Journal,'' a book of related essays by Ms. Sigler, Susan M. Love and James Yood, was published by Hudson Hills Press in 1999.
She is survived by her sons, Gary Cookson, an actor in New York, and Tony Cookson, a writer and director in Santa Monica, Calif.; two stepchildren, Peter Cookson Jr. of Irvington, N.Y., and Jane Coopland of Hawaii; a brother, Michael Straight of Chicago, a former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
The balcony in the title referred to the perch above the auditorium of the National Press Club, which did not allow women on the floor and barred them from membership.
She blurted out, 'Scotty, don't you ever send me to that damned National Press Club ever again.
In 1969, Ms. Hunter was elected president of the Women's National Press Club.
The National Press Club finally admitted women in 1971 and the two clubs were merged in 1985.

        Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J.
She lectured widely, conducted seminars, appeared on national television programs and served on industry advisory boards on toys and other products.
In 1961 she and another producer, Michael Dewell, founded the National Repertory Theater.

        Ann Tanneyhill, a counselor who was the National Urban League's director of vocational services from 1947 to 1961, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Mashpee, Mass.
Most recently she headed the mammalian development section of the National Institute for Medical Research in London.
In 1968 she had a baby, but was soon preparing for the English National Opera's ''Ring,'' under the conductor Reginald Goodall.
Her other roles included Abigaille in ''Nabucco'' (New Orleans, 1978), Turandot (Welsh National Opera, 1979) and Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' (Welsh National Opera, 1980).
Her other roles included Abigaille in ''Nabucco'' (New Orleans, 1978), Turandot (Welsh National Opera, 1979) and Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' (Welsh National Opera, 1980).
She later served on the boards of many corporations, including Allied Stores Corporation and Sterling National Bank.
The panel was established by the State Legislature and Governor Wilson to uproot corrupt and abusive judges during a national movement for accountability from the bench.
''
        In 1987, President Ronald Reagan presented Dr. Anastasi with a National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for scientific achievement.
Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star.
An oral history interview with Ms. Dance, conducted by Patricia Willard, a jazz historian, is part of the Ellington Collection at the National Museum of American History in Washington.
He considered himself a liberal and had earlier helped set up the National Scholarship Fund and Service for Negro Students, working with Jim Robinson, a Harlem minister.
She trained at Babies Hospital of Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center and was a National Foundation Fellow in Endocrinology at Presbyterian Hospital.
Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star.
The four-acre garden was her working laboratory, where she domesticated elements from legendary gardens, like the yellow-flowering laburnum arch at the National Trust's Bodnant Garden, in North Wales, or the ornamental potager, or vegetable garden, at the Chateau de Villandry, in the Loire Valley in France, and made them seem possible for the home gardener.
The accident took place just outside Houston, where Dr. Robertson was based at the Johnson Space Center of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
Her goal was to be a writer, but her varied life included long periods  as a rancher, as well as acting as general contractor for the house O'Keeffe built on a hilltop in Abiquiu, N.M., which in 1998 was designated a national monument.
''I had never found anything as romantic as this beat-up building, a ruin really,'' Ms. Chabot said in an interview with The Albuquerque Journal in 1999 when the house was dedicated as a national landmark.
''
        She was married for six months in 1961 to Dana K. Bailey, a radio astronomer for the Los Alamos National Laboratory.
' ''
        At the Supreme Court, the Times and Post cases were heard together, and the justices voted, 6 to 3, on June 30, 1971, against restraining publication of the Pentagon Papers on the ground of endangering national security.
''
        Weathering Watergate
        On June 17, 1972, five months before Nixon's re-election, five men were caught breaking into the headquarters of the Democratic National Committee in the Watergate complex.
The funeral is scheduled for 11 a.m. on Monday at the National Cathedral in Washington.
'' She also received the National Book Critics Circle Award, the American Book Award, several O. Henry Awards and the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
'' She also received the National Book Critics Circle Award, the American Book Award, several O. Henry Awards and the Gold Medal of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
''Oh, I think The Southern Review was giving $25 a story, but it took two years before an agent could place one of my stories in a national magazine.
She was also a member of the National Advisory Council of the National Institute on Aging and helped organize the 1982 White House Conference on Aging.
She was also a member of the National Advisory Council of the National Institute on Aging and helped organize the 1982 White House Conference on Aging.
One of her books, ''The Road Through Sandwich Notch'' (Greene, 1972; reprinted 1984) helped to discourage development of that part of the White Mountains and to turn it into a national forest.
'' She was also inducted into the National Ski Hall of Fame that year.
She rejoined the national disabled team and persuaded potential corporate sponsors to support the team as they would any other.
She persuaded the United States Ski Association to allow disabled skiers to compete in national championships against able-bodied skiers.
Had it not been for the pivotal shows the Modern sent to Australia, Ms. Gund said, Jackson Pollock's ''Blue Poles'' might not be in the National Gallery in Canberra today.
'' On various stages -- at the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal Court, the National Theater and on the West End -- she continued to blaze for the rest of the 20th century.
'' She also starred opposite John Wood in Tom Stoppard's adaptation of Arthur Schnitzler's ''Undiscovered Country'' at Britain's National Theater.
''
        In 1987, after the Iran-contra affair, when Ms. Reagan asserted that Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security aides,  should be court-martialed for their actions, Mr. Reagan told Republican leaders, ''I gave up arguing with my daughter long ago.
In 1983, she was given the title of special consultant to the Republican National Committee and moved to the family quarters in the White House.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
She left The Times in 1975 and for the next seven years worked as a freelancer, writing for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation, The Progressive and Esquire, among other publications, and winning a Guggenheim fellowship, 1975-76, and a National Endowment for the Arts grant, 1978.
Over the course of her career she also served as a lecturer and instructor in various writing workshops, including as a participant in the visiting authors program of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the lecture series at the Museum of Modern Art, and at the Museum of Television and Radio.

        Gale Cincotta, a plainspoken mother of six who became a neighborhood activist and went on to help ignite the national debate over bank lending policies that discriminated against minority home buyers, died Wednesday at a hospital in Maywood, Ill. She was 72.
The cause was gall bladder cancer, said Tracy Van Slyke, spokeswoman for the National Training and Information Center, of which Ms. Cincotta was executive director.
She moved on to national issues, especially her challenge to the banking industry and the federal bureaucracy over the practice called redlining, refusing to lend to residents of minority neighborhoods.
People in other cities began turning to Ms. Cincotta and her colleagues for advice, and she became head of National People's Action, a network of 30 groups from 110 cities.
National People's Action combined with other neighborhood groups to persuade three large Chicago banks to commit themselves to making $173 million in low-interest loans for housing and industrial development in poor neighborhoods.
Lynn Payer was born in El Dorado, Kan., and discovered her interest in science on nature walks and at summer science camps of the National Science Foundation.
Mrs. Wheeler, a lifelong equestrian, led efforts to return the National Horse Show to Madison Square Garden after it moved to the Meadowlands in New Jersey in 1989.
Mrs. Wheeler believed the National Horse Show was synonymous with its original location, Madison Square Garden.
She began to ride competitively, and at 15, she made her first National Horse Show appearance.
Among them were ''I Lost It at the Movies'' (1965); ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang'' (1968); ''Going Steady'' (1970); ''Deeper Into Movies'' (1973), a 1974 National Book Award winner; ''Reeling'' (1976); ''When the Lights Go Down'' (1980); ''Hooked'' (1989); ''Movie Love'' (1991); and ''For Keeps'' (1994).
The Penthouse studies continued  until 1981 and influenced national norms for recommended daily allowances of nutrients.
Although Mrs. Olson was generally a take-no-prisoners advocate, Mr. Olson recalled on Tuesday that she recently told him she had come to believe that the national political debate had become too acrimonious.
''Ninety percent of the time we were on the opposite sides, but you had to have the utmost respect for her,'' said Abbey Meyers, president of the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an advocacy group for people with rare diseases.
''
        Mrs. Crawford coached cheerleaders for the University of Southern California, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League and the Los Angeles Express of the defunct United States Football League.
After studying at the School of the National Academy and the Art Students League in New York, Ms. Hudson exhibited her work at the American Watercolor Society and the National Arts Club in New York, the Farnsworth Art Museum in Rockland, Me., the Portland Museum of Art and other museums and galleries throughout the United States.
After studying at the School of the National Academy and the Art Students League in New York, Ms. Hudson exhibited her work at the American Watercolor Society and the National Arts Club in New York, the Farnsworth Art Museum in Rockland, Me., the Portland Museum of Art and other museums and galleries throughout the United States.
Then she learned about Chinese cooking as a student of poetic structure at the National University in Taiwan.
In the 1970's she was a member of the National Theater Company, winning plaudits for her appearances in ''Il Campiello'' by Goldoni and Ben Travers's ''Plunder.
She completed an analytic training program at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis in Manhattan before going into practice.
She worked to protect sacred Indian sites and, starting in 1993, was national coordinator of a coalition that pushed for passage of the American Indian Religious Freedom Act Amendments, federal legislation adopted in 1994 that allowed use of peyote for religious purposes.
She was its national president in the 1960's, when it was called the Orton Society.
''
        She lived with her husband in a stone farmhouse they restored; it is included in the National Register of Historic Places.
Mrs. Holberton, who joined the National Bureau of Standards in 1966 and worked there for two decades, once echoed those views.
'' In 1963, at the opening of the rebuilt National Theater in Munich, she appeared in ''Die Frau Ohne Schatten'' in the role of the Nurse.
Variously called ''the most dangerous woman in Britain,'' ''the Queen of Clean'' and ''the Archangel of Anti-Smut,'' Mrs. Whitehouse became in the end a beloved national institution, though she achieved far less than she sought.
''The Clean Up TV Campaign,'' which she started in 1964 and which the next year became the National Viewers and Listeners Association, influenced several pieces of British legislation.
