She was an author and lecturer on professional ethics, a past chairman of the Pennsylvania Humanities Council and a member of the National Architectural Accrediting Board.
Among the events she organized there were a dinner for recipients of the Medal of Honor; a tribute to Adm. Hyman Rickover; celebrations marking the 25th anniversary of the National Endowment for the Humanities, the 75th anniversary of the Brookings Institution and the 20th anniversary of National Public Radio, and a dinner honoring the Polish leader Lech Walesa during his 1989 visit to the United States.
Among the events she organized there were a dinner for recipients of the Medal of Honor; a tribute to Adm. Hyman Rickover; celebrations marking the 25th anniversary of the National Endowment for the Humanities, the 75th anniversary of the Brookings Institution and the 20th anniversary of National Public Radio, and a dinner honoring the Polish leader Lech Walesa during his 1989 visit to the United States.

        Dora R. Inselbuch, a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the women's Zionist and charitable organization, died on Thursday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale.
During her 16 years on the national board, Mrs. Inselbuch served in several capacities.
In the 1940's, she was chairman of the Jewish National Fund department, Hadassah's official Zionist land-buying agency in what was then Palestine.
She also was a past national Hadassah chairman for young people pioneering in Palestine and helped found Kibbutz Hasollelim to train young Zionists.
Mrs. Inselbuch began her community work as a leader in Young Judaea, the national Zionist youth movement supported by Hadassah.
Miss Gaver helped develop national school library standards in 1960 and headed a $1.1 million campaign promoting their adoption nationwide and creating eight model libraries.
Miss Bryceland moved to London in 1978 to take the lead role in "The Woman," a play by Edward Bond, at the Royal National Theater.
She spent eight years at the National, playing leading roles in Bertolt Brecht's "Mother," Mr. Fugard's "Road to Mecca" and others.
In recent years she worked for the Strang Cancer Prevention Center in Manhattan as the director of the National High-Risk Registry for women with a family history of breast cancer.
Award from President
        In September, President George Bush awarded her the National Medal of Technology "for her pioneering accomplishments in the development of computer programming languages that simplified computer technology and opened the door to a significantly larger universe of users.
Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988.
As its director, she shaped the program to train, monitor and evaluate such mentors, and its comprehensive approach came to be a national prototype.
She then took up the training of Shetland sheepdogs for another 25 years and was the oldest trainer competing in this year's National Obedience Championship, the Gaines Classic.
In the 1960's she was a caseworker for the Suffolk County Social Services Department, worked for the National Council on Aging and was the community relations director for the Long Island chapter of the Congress of Racial Equality.
When Dr. Chenitz-Manley learned she had AIDS in 1988, she quit her job at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in San Francisco and began speaking around the country for the National Association of People with AIDS.
She was the first recipient of the national Oncology Nursing Society's award for excellence in the administration of cancer nursing.
Mrs. Hoving was the musical leader of the Pickens Sisters, a trio born on a Georgia plantation that reached national stardom in the 1930's with its own radio show, concert tours and records.
Mrs. Hoving was the musical leader of the Pickens Sisters, a trio born on a Georgia plantation that reached national stardom in the 1930's with its own radio show, concert tours and records.
In addition to her active role with the Red Sox and her extensive charitable work, Mrs. Yawkey had been a director of the National Baseball Museum and Hall of Fame since 1984, when she became the first, and so far only woman elected to the board.
Justice Levittan served as an officer of the New York Women's Bar Association and was a member of the New York city and state bar associations and the National Association of Women Lawyers.
Their therapeutic approach, based on the participation of both staff members and residents in ranch affairs, attracted national attention.

        Helen Deutsch, the award-winning screenwriter for "Lili," "I'll Cry Tomorrow" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and co-author of "National Velvet," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
"National Velvet" (1944), which was about youngsters training a horse, was named one of the 10 best films that year and propelled the young Elizabeth Taylor to stardom.

        Helen Deutsch, the award-winning screenwriter for "Lili," "I'll Cry Tomorrow" and "The Unsinkable Molly Brown" and co-author of "National Velvet," died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
"National Velvet" (1944), which was about youngsters training a horse, was named one of the 10 best films that year and propelled the young Elizabeth Taylor to stardom.
She was an officer in the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Jewish Welfare Board.
She was an officer in the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Jewish Welfare Board.
On a national level, Miss Johnson was a powerful force in the promotion of contemporary art.

        Amy Ogden Welcher, a founder and first national president of Church Women United, a national ecumenical organization, died on Feb. 21 at her home at Avery Heights in Hartford.

        Amy Ogden Welcher, a founder and first national president of Church Women United, a national ecumenical organization, died on Feb. 21 at her home at Avery Heights in Hartford.
Under her leadership, the organization became a strong advocate for peace and national unity, fighting against religious, racial and political bigotry.
She was awarded the Legion of Honor by the French Government and France's National Arts Prize in 1966.
She was active both in her community and on the national level.
The league became the National Organization for Mentally Ill Children in 1955, and Mrs. Mandelbaum was its first president.
Honors From Teachers
        Most of her books were poetry, fiction and nonfiction for children, and her work was honored by the National Council of Teachers of English.
She was also executive secretary of the National Federation of Music Clubs and of the New York City Opera Guild.
She was also a frequent contributer to the major food magazines and for several decades wrote a column about food, wine and travel for The National Review.
After the Communist revolution in 1949, Ms. Kang became a leader of the Women's Federation and entered the National People's Congress.
Program
        She directed a 1972 United Nations Task Force on Deafness and a 1974 national conference on training psychological workers for the deaf.
In the late 1960's she became a program manager in the alcohol, mental health, and drug division of the National Institute of Mental Health, supervising the Federal agency's programs in the New York metropolitan area, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.
The National League of Women Voters also honored Mrs. Wright for 50 years of service.
She was a member of the league's national board in the 1930's and headed its government and foreign affairs department when the United States entered World War II.
In testimony before the Senate on the country's neutral status in 1939, she also spoke for the American Association of University Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Women's Trade Union League.
In testimony before the Senate on the country's neutral status in 1939, she also spoke for the American Association of University Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Women's Trade Union League.
In testimony before the Senate on the country's neutral status in 1939, she also spoke for the American Association of University Women, the General Federation of Women's Clubs, the National Board of the Young Women's Christian Association, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Women's Trade Union League.
Besides her husband, she leaves a daughter, Cordelia, of South Hadley; her parents, Sylvester Garrett and Molly Yard, former president of the National Organization for Women, of Washington, and two brothers, James Garrett of Pittsburgh, and John Garrett of Rochester.
      
Topping was also a trustee of Pratt Institute, manager of the National Society of Colonial Dames in New York, an advisory council member of the New York Women's Foundation and a past board member of the Women's Prison Association and was also active in the Trust for Cultural Resources.
She was a winner of many national, international and world bridge titles and an organizer of matches, the editor of a bridge column and the author of eight books on the game.
Among many honors, Dr. Symonds was a recipient of the Susan B. Anthony award of the New York chapter of the National Organization for Women, and the first recipient of the Association of Women Psychiatrists' Alexandra Symonds Award for her efforts on behalf of women.
She served on the board of directors of the American College Dance Festival, the Association of American Dance Companies and the National Association for Regional Ballet, and contributed articles to Vogue, Parents Magazine and other publications.

        Gillian Barr Rudd, who ran a marketing firm and was a leader in national efforts to foster business ownership by women, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital in Washington.
She was the chairwoman of the National Foundation for Women Business Owners and vice president of the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs.
The act created the National Women's Business Council to promote businesswomen's access to contracts, purchase orders, credit, statistics and managerial and technical assistance.
Last year the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers gave her a lifetime achievement award.
"
        As a consultant in 850 civil and criminal cases she helped lawyers select jurors, and she promoted her approach in articles, speeches, seminars and courses at the National Criminal Defense College in Macon, Ga.
Last year, President Bush appointed her to the National Community and Service Commission.
She was also an officer in the National Center for Voluntary Action and co-chairwoman of the National Congress on Volunteerism and Citizenship.
She was also an officer in the National Center for Voluntary Action and co-chairwoman of the National Congress on Volunteerism and Citizenship.
Won Mayoral Award 3 Times
        In 1988, Leonard W. Stern, executive director of the National Assembly, a coalition of charitable organizations, called her "the ultimate volunteer.
She was also the first woman to become the local and national president of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of America and the first to serve as a trustee of New York University Medical Center.
Last year the National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers gave her a lifetime achievement award.
"
        As a consultant in 850 civil and criminal cases, she helped lawyers select jurors, and she promoted her approach in articles, speeches, seminars and courses at the National Criminal Defense College in Macon, Ga.
A native of Argentina, Dr. Roque Cohen came to the United States after her graduation from the National University of Cordoba Medical School.
She was a trustee of Clark Atlanta University and Meharry Medical College and served on the boards of the Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority and the National Young Women's Christian Association.
She had recently been accepted into a research treatment program conducted by the National Institutes of Health at the Garden State Cancer Center in Newark and had been there last week for an initial treatment with radiated monoclonal antibodies.
The loans went to such institutions as the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, the Addison Museum in Andover, Mass., the Washington Museum in Hagerstown, Md., and the Norton Gallery of Art in West Palm Beach, Fla.
        Jack Coward, curator of the Twentieth Century collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, said that during the last decade the Leavitts had contributed more than 30 works.
"
        As a teen-ager, the daughter became an accomplished horsewoman, winning awards at Eastern horse shows and the National Horse Show.
In 1980 Mrs. Sherman was appointed to the White House Conference on Small Business, and in 1982 she became the first Connecticut woman to receive the National Award for Small Business Person from the United States Business Administration.
Mr. Sherman was born in Charleston, W.Va. She graduated from the National Cathedral School for Girls in Washington in 1938 and from Mount Holyoke College in 1942.
In 1982, she was the banking industry representative to the Council to the New York State Board of Regents National Program on Noncollegiate Sponsored Instruction.
Under the name Caroline Miller, Mrs. Ray burst upon the national scene with the publication of the prize-winning book "Lamb in His Bosom," a tale, derived from the history of her extended family, about a backwoods community in pre-Civil War Georgia.
From 1985 to 1987, Mrs. Kramer was executive director of the Committee for Food and Shelter in Washington, an advocacy group for the homeless, and a forerunner of the National Alliance to End Homelessness.
The daughter of a former Chinese Ambassador to the United States, Ms. Sze was born in China but was educated at the National Cathedral School in Washington and graduated from Wellesley College in 1931.
During this period she also wrote a column for The New York Post and contributed articles to a number of national magazines.

        Helen M. Serfling, an art director for national magazines, advertising agencies and department stores, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She helped to gather and maintain records of the earliest settlements of Lutherans in the United States and Canada and organized the library and archives of the National Lutheran Council, which coordinated the service work of more than 30 Lutheran groups.
From 1954 to 1966 she was secretary of research and statistics of the National Lutheran Council.
That suddenly changed when a burst of publicity starting in 1958 featured her in newspapers and on national radio and television.
She was an entertainment reporter for ABC Television's "Good Morning America" and a film critic for National Public Radio.
She began to show films on health during World War II as a program director for the Office of War Information, an information officer at the Public Health Service and, finally, chief of information for the National Institute of Mental Health.
The American Judicature Society, a national group for improving the courts, honored her with an award for the major progress she made on all those points.
By May 1982, she had seen 62 patients with AIDS -- a fourth of the national total recorded at the time.
The American Judicature Society, a national group for improving the courts, honored her with an award for the major progress she made on all those points.
She served on the boards of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Red Cross, the United Negro College Fund and Lincoln Center and was chairwoman of funds, committees and benefits for these organizations.
She died of cancer, said Blanche Lewis, the treasurer of the committee, which is known as Pearl, of which Mrs. Flast was a national vice president.
It is widely used as a college text and was honored by the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
Her work won national recognition when Lady Bird Johnson invited her to be guest of honor at the White House.
" From 1978 to 1988, Mrs. Fibich directed and choreographed for the Jaffa Dance Ensemble of New York, a group of dancing grandmothers that performed locally and on national tour.
She was a member of the Presidium of the National Liberation Front, the political form of the Vietcong.
Her mother cofounded a national chain of fashion stores, Tennis Lady.
She encouraged others who made their cases public, including Elizabeth Glaser, the wife of a television actor, who addressed the Democratic National Convention, and Mary Fisher, a former aide to President Gerald R. Ford who will speak to the Republican convention.
She was a board member and past president of the National Association of Women Artists and was active in the Artists Equity Association, the American Society of Contemporary Artists and the Alliance of Queens Artists.
Miss Paxton was Mrs. Higgins in the first national company of "My Fair Lady," and played that role more than 3,000 times in various productions.
In 1972, Mrs. Gera, who fought in courtrooms for the preceding five years to achieve her goal, gained national attention when she umpired a Class A minor league game between the Geneva Rangers and the Auburn Phillies of the New York-Penn League.

        Pamela Hollingworth, who drew national attention at the age of 5 when she was lost for eight days in a New Hampshire forest, died on Sept. 11 at her home in Orleans, Mass., on Cape Cod.
In October 1941, she was lost for eight days on Mount Chocorua, a 3,475-foot peak in the White Mountains National Forest, after wandering away from a picnic wearing only overalls and sneakers.
In 1975 she became the first national administrator for the Cancer Research Institute in Manhattan, which finances immunological research looking for a cancer cure.
Dr. McClintock's findings were so profound that she garnered honors and prizes throughout her long career, including membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1944, president of the Genetics Society in 1945, the National Medal of Science in 1970, the first MacArthur Laureate Award, for $60,000 a year for life, in 1981, and a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.
Dr. McClintock's findings were so profound that she garnered honors and prizes throughout her long career, including membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1944, president of the Genetics Society in 1945, the National Medal of Science in 1970, the first MacArthur Laureate Award, for $60,000 a year for life, in 1981, and a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.
In the 1930's, Dr. McClintock established her reputation by becoming one of the scientists to develop an understanding of chromosomes as the basis of heredity, work that was honored by her National Medal of Science.
She was also a founder of the Peer Group, a national association of women in management and the arts, and served as a director of the New York Mission Society, the Women's Economic Round table and Mary Baldwin College.
Her recent shows at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York City won wide praise, and the Museum of Modern Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum and the National Gallery were among the museums that had recently bought major works of hers.
She was the economic development director of its New York chapter and was also on the national board.
Works from the Suida Manning collection have been donated to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Morgan Library and the National Gallery in Washington, among other institutions.
Others included the New York chapter of the National Council on Alcoholism and Young Concert Artists, which helps talented young people to start a career.
Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
Over the decades, Mrs. Bernheim also was an officer or otherwise involved in, among others, the Jewish Association of Neighborhood Centers, the National Jewish Welfare Board, the National Conference for Social Welfare, an advisory committee on volunteer services for the Veterans Administration, the United Neighborhood Houses of New York City, the National Council on Social Work Education and the Associated Young Men's and Young Women's Hebrew Associations.
She was also involved with the Community Council of Greater New York, the Community Service Society, the National Homemakers Service Council and the Brookdale Institute on Aging, among others.
Dr. Eliot, who was then secretary-treasurer of the National Association for Nursery Education, became a member of the National Advisory Committee for the program.
Dr. Eliot, who was then secretary-treasurer of the National Association for Nursery Education, became a member of the National Advisory Committee for the program.
She won three other national titles: the Women's Teams in 1956 and 1969 and the Life Master Women's Pairs in 1965.
Her 1973 collection, "From a Land Where Other People Live," was nominated for a National Book Award.
Dr. Bryan was a founder and president of the National Council of Women Psychologists.
In 1973 she became an administrator at the National Hemophilia Foundation in New York.
In 1973 she became an administrator at the National Hemophilia Foundation in New York.
She served as hostess for foreign ambassadors during the 1976 national convention, and she often entertained other visiting foreign dignitaries as well.
"
        Ms. Jones played over 60 character roles in stock theater, and performed in national tours, including that of "Come Blow Your Horn.
She was cited by the National Park Service for helping to preserve parkland in the New York metropolitan region and establishing the Gateway National Park recreation area.
She was cited by the National Park Service for helping to preserve parkland in the New York metropolitan region and establishing the Gateway National Park recreation area.
From 1974 to 1980, she was a member of the National Council on the Humanities and served on the New York State Council on the Arts.
In 1943, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt tapped her to join the national women's committee of the March of Dimes, which he founded to fight polio, Miss Whitelaw recognized the philanthropic potential of middle-income Americans.
'She Was Irresistible'
        "She was the general of a volunteer army," said Beverly Sills, the national chairwoman of the March of Dimes and a longtime friend of Miss Whitelaw's.
As a fixture on the national charity-ball scene, Miss Whitelaw embodied can-do do-gooding.
She moved on to volunteer for the National War Fund.
After retiring from the March of Dimes last year, Miss Whitelaw volunteered as a regional director of the Enterprise Foundation, a national organization involved in housing the poor.
She was also a member of the National Writers' Union, of which her husband, Robert Claiborne, was an organizer and founder.
Divorced in 1948, she became a founder of the Congress of Democrats, the white wing of the African National Congress.
In August 1983, she became a sponsor of the United Democratic Front, which orchestrated the protest campaign of the mid-80's on behalf of the still-outlawed African National Congress.
The objects of the Marquesa's philanthropy included the Venezuelan Red Cross, of which she was chairman for many years, and the National Gallery in Caracas.
Mrs. Gnichtel was a horsewoman and served on committees of the National Horse Show Association.
She then joined with Eleanor Darnton in establishing the Women's National News Service, a daily news syndicate.
She was a member of the National Commission on the Causes and Prevention of Violence in 1968.
She was a director and a former president of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhood II, a past president and trustee of the Larchmont Temple Sisterhood and a past president and trustee of the Larchmont chapter of Hadassah.

        Ruth Sleeper, a national leader in nursing education who helped raise academic standards for the nursing profession, died Thursday at her home in Braintree, Mass.
Miss Sleeper was a past president of the National League of Nursing Education and the National League for Nursing.
Miss Sleeper was a past president of the National League of Nursing Education and the National League for Nursing.
