She landed a part in the national company of ''Meet the People'' in 1941.
Dr. Reiner succeeded in securing sustained support for the project from the National Endowment for the Humanities in 1976.
Weeksville was also listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
She drew covers for Crisis, the publication of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, as well as comic book treatments of black history.
Among the many awards she received was the Louise DuPont Crowninshield Award from the National Trust for Historic Preservation, of which she had been a trustee.
She went on to lead the effort for a national holiday in his honor and to found the Martin Luther King Jr. Center for Non-Violent Social Change in Atlanta, dedicated both to scholarship and to activism.
Her husband became minister of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery in 1954, but about a year later, the Montgomery Bus Boycott brought Dr. King to national attention.
''
        She joined the board of directors of the National Organization for Women and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and she became widely identified with a broad array of international human rights issues, rather than focusing primarily on race.
The first was to have a national holiday established in Dr. King's honor, and the second was to build the center in Atlanta to honor his memory, continue his work and provide a research facility for scholars of his work and the civil rights era.
President Moshe Katsav led the tributes to her role in expressing Israel's national identity, describing her as a woman who ''united the country and who conveyed hope and optimism.

        Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing.
Ms. Dai was a familiar figure in international dance circles, first as a dancer and choreographer who performed in London in the 1930's and in New York in the 40's, then as the guiding force in China's first state-sponsored national ballet institutions after the Communist government came to power in 1949.
When the Central Ballet of China, as the National Ballet of China was then called, made its New York debut at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1986, Mayor Edward I. Koch paid tribute to Ms. Dai from the stage.
In an epoch when breaking records and stretching human achievement were national passions, Miss Neumann in 1929 swam across the East River at the treacherous stretch known as Hell Gate and two weeks later swam for 24 hours straight in tidal waters.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
In 1969, she was a founder of the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws, now known as Naral Pro-Choice America.
With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects?
In 1966, Ms. Friedan and a group of colleagues founded the National Organization for Women.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
In 1969, she was a founder of the National Association for the Repeal of Abortion Laws, now known as Naral Pro-Choice America.
With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
What is to stop a woman who is interested in national and international affairs from reading magazines that deal with those subjects?
In 1966, Ms. Friedan and a group of colleagues founded the National Organization for Women.
At 17, she joined the national society of composers.
Roller derby, often compared to professional wrestling, became a popular feature on national television.
In 1985, she was among the founders of the National Rainbow Coalition, now the Rainbow/PUSH Coalition.
Ms. Braden's account of the case, ''The Wall Between,'' was a finalist for a National Book Award in 1959.
Last year, one of her paintings from the 1940's was included in ''Surrealism USA,'' a major survey of American Surrealists at the National Academy Museum in New York.
      
She delved more deeply into economics and cities with ''Cities and the Wealth of Nations: Principles of Economic Life'' (Random House, 1984), in which she contended that national governments undermine the economy of cities, which she saw as the natural engines of economic growth.
The women were cited as important influences in a national ballet teaching project created by the Ford Foundation in the 1960's.
tournament, her team was routed by Tennessee, a perennial national power, 102-54, and finished 20-11.
In May 2000, she was cut by the Los Angeles Sparks of the Women's National Basketball Association and later talked her way into an assistant's job at DePaul.
Among the titles published during Ms. Maguire's tenure are ''Sontag & Kael,'' by Craig Seligman (Counterpoint, 2004); ''The Autobiography of Medgar Evers,'' by Myrlie Evers Williams and Manning Marable (Basic Civitas, 2005); and ''When Smoke Ran Like Water: Tales of Environmental Deception and the Battle Against Pollution,'' by Devra Davis (Basic Books, 2002), a National Book Award finalist.
Spark's literary history when she donated letters from her son to the National Library of Scotland.

        Ellen Kuzwayo, the lone woman and the least flashy of the founders of the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and a quiet moral force throughout the rise of the African National Congress from outlaw movement to governing party, died Wednesday in Johannesburg.
At 22, she began attending local African National Congress conferences with her father.
In the 1940's, she joined Mr. Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others in forming the breakaway African National Congress Youth League, a more militant offshoot of the Congress, and served as its secretary.
''The National Party gave them an inferior education so those children were going to remain the slaves of white people.
In the early 1950's, after her husband took a job with the National Security Agency, Mrs. Avram moved to the Washington area, where she studied mathematics at George Washington University.
In 1971, Marc became the national standard for electronic cataloging; it was named the international standard two years later.

        Carolyn Shaw Bell, an economist at Wellesley College who took her fight for equal opportunities for women in economics from the college into the national arena, died May 13 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 85.
Gay received the National Jewish Book Award for nonfiction for ''Unfinished People: Eastern European Jews Encounter America'' (W. W. Norton, 1996).
''I am a short, squat toad of a woman,'' Ms. Moore wrote in ''Fat Girl,'' which was nominated for a National Book Critics Circle award last year when it was published.
In the early 1980's, Dr. Roberts and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, began to experiment with the protein, called T.G.F.-beta, short for transforming growth factor beta.
In the early 1980's, Dr. Roberts and colleagues at the National Cancer Institute, part of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, began to experiment with the protein, called T.G.F.-beta, short for transforming growth factor beta.
''
        Dr. Sporn, a former researcher at the National Cancer Institute, added, ''Anita Roberts delivered some of the first studies showing the protein is a key component in healing all types of injuries and was exceptional in collaborating with other scientists.
After postdoctoral work at Harvard, Dr. Roberts joined the National Cancer Institute in 1976.
''This was the seed for the great national mobilizations against the war in Vietnam.

        Dorothy Hayden Truscott, for many years the top-ranked woman in bridge and the winner of four world titles and more than two dozen national championships, died on Tuesday in New Russia, N.Y. She was 80.
She won the first of her national titles in 1959, and in 1965 became the second woman to play for the United States in the Bermuda Bowl world team championship.
In 17 years with the Trumans -- including two years chaperoning their daughter, Margaret, when she was making national tours as an aspiring classical singer -- Miss Odum became close to the family.
In 1985 she became the national spokeswoman for Depend, a diaper for adults with incontinence.
Yet when she and her own teacher, Lisa Gardiner, founded the Washington School of Ballet in 1944 and then a small performing group, she set in motion a pioneering career that had national and international impact.
After founding the Washington School of Ballet in 1944, both women presented their students in children's ballets, often with the National Symphony Orchestra.
When Mr. Franklin left in 1961 to form a new company, the National Ballet, in Washington, Ms. Day shifted her attention to her school, adding an academic wing.
The National Ballet folded in 1974, and Ms. Day reorganized the Washington Ballet as a professional company in 1976.
In her 1965 article, in the Journal of the National Association of Social Workers, she wrote of her experiences as supervisor of social work at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Brooklyn and of the hospital's efforts to reform its treatment of the terminally ill. For the first time, she wrote, ''the majority of patients were considered capable of understanding the nature of their diseases.
For much of her career, Ms. Walker was active in the National Bar Association, a historically black organization.
In 1934, before beginning her formal training, she won a grant from the League of National Socialist Students for a cycling and camping trip to England, where she learned English.
At the music school, students were required to attend daily lectures on Hitler's National Socialist movement, and in 1935, when she was nearly 20, Miss Schwarzkopf joined the student association of the National Socialist Party.
At the music school, students were required to attend daily lectures on Hitler's National Socialist movement, and in 1935, when she was nearly 20, Miss Schwarzkopf joined the student association of the National Socialist Party.
The information had come from documents discovered in the Allied Denazification Bureau in Vienna and subsequently moved to the National Archives in Washington.
But the party she started and led went on to challenge the right of the all-white Mississippi delegation to represent her state at the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City.
''We were going in the face of the Mississippi Democratic Party, which included some of the most powerful members of the U.S. Congress, to demand that we be recognized to have representation at the Democratic National Convention.

        Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin.
The speech transformed her, then the Texas treasurer, into a national figure.
''Ginger Rogers did everything Fred Astaire did,'' she told the national audience.
''
        Her defeat in 1994, coming in a year of sweeping Republican success at the polls nationwide, did not dim her celebrity on the national stage.
She continued to speak out on behalf of liberal causes, was a regular commentator on CNN and appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips.
The same year, she was named chairwoman of the Democratic National Convention, which nominated Bill Clinton for president for the first time.
She was also a sought-after commentator and speaker whose observations had lost little of their tart humor since her national emergence two decades ago.
''
        Correction:  September 16, 2006, Saturday  A picture caption yesterday with the obituary of Ann W. Richards, the former Texas governor, misstated the year she gave the keynote speech at the Democratic National Convention.
At the opening of the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, Sinatra, Davis, Mr. Lawford and Ms. MacLaine helped lead the singing of ''The Star-Spangled Banner.
In 1974, the brownstone coalition held a national ''Back to the City'' conference at the Waldorf-Astoria, which was followed by 13 other annual conferences in 13 cities, including St. Paul, Hartford, Washington and San Antonio, Mr. Ortner said.
Loyalty issues were becoming a national political flash point, although mainly in the context of the cold war, and the American Legion and the powerful columnist and broadcaster Walter Winchell had spoken out against Mrs. D'Aquino.
The decision was supported by a unanimous vote of the California State Legislature, the national Japanese-American Citizens League, and S. I. Hayakawa, a United States senator-elect from California.
In 1984, she became the first woman elected to the National Rowing Hall of Fame.
In 1992, USRowing -- rowing's national governing body -- presented her with its highest honor, and it annually presents a medal in her name for outstanding contributions to women's rowing.

        Estelle R. Ramey, an endocrinologist, physiologist and feminist who came to national prominence in 1970 after she famously rebutted a Democratic leader who pronounced women unfit for important jobs because of the ''raging hormonal influences'' to which they were supposedly subject, died Friday at her home in Bethesda, Md.
The controversy arose in April 1970, at a session of the Democratic Party's Committee on National Priorities.
''
        Dr. Berman, who helped propel Professor Ramey into the national spotlight, died in 1987, at 68, of a heart attack.
      

        Ann W. Richards, the silver-haired Texas activist who galvanized the 1988 Democratic National Convention with her tart keynote speech and was the state's 45th governor until upset in 1994 by an underestimated challenger named George W. Bush, died Wednesday at her home in Austin.
So cemented was her celebrity on the national stage, however, that she appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips, and was a lawyer and lobbyist for Public strategies and Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.
So cemented was her celebrity on the national stage, however, that she appeared in national advertising campaigns, including one for snack chips, and was a lawyer and lobbyist for Public strategies and Verner, Lipfert, Bernhard, McPherson & Hand.
''
        Her acidic, plain-spoken keynote address was one of the year's political highlights and catapulted the one-term Texas governor into a national figure.
''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said, bringing the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory to the national political stage in a way that transformed the mother of four into an revered icon of feminist activism.
It was her speech to the Democratic convention in Atlanta, though, that made her a national figure.
Her celebrity, however, carried her onto the boards of several national corporations, including J.C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
She did, although she said in an interview with The National Observer in 1971 that the job ''had some onus attached to it'': her predecessor had been a girlfriend of Mr. Hefner's, and gossip was inevitable.
She told The National Observer that when people brought intellect to humor, the enjoyment was lost.
In 1945, she designed a mural depicting the history of the National Maritime Union.
Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage received national attention for mocking the Endangered Species Act, saying it applied to white males, and, during her first campaign, in 1994, holding what she called endangered-salmon bakes.
'' Ms. Allen began playing roles with the company's national touring troupe.
According to one often-cited anecdote, when applying to Idhec, as France's national film school was known in the 1950's, she refused to submit the required entrance essay on the grounds that the film she was asked to analyze, Yves Allégret's ''Manèges,'' was unworthy of serious consideration.
After she was released from prison in 1979, however, she was appointed a member of the National People's Congress standing committee, and she devoted herself to social causes.
But in 2004, she used the 24-hour guideline as the basis for a suit against the city, charging that it was illegally detaining protesters at the Republican National Convention.

        Dr. Edithe J. Levit, an educator who helped reform the bedside tests required for doctors to be licensed and oversaw the National Board of Medical Examiners in the 1970s and '80s, died on Oct. 18 in Amherst, Mass.
From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.
From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.
In an essay in The New York Times in 1999, Ms. Willis wrote:
        ''The Lewinsky scandal has prompted an impassioned national conversation on the relationship of the political to the personal, public authority to private behavior; on sexual privacy versus 'family values'; on female sexual autonomy and victimization.

        Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J.
The company was profitable for decades, but burst onto the national scene only after the new name was concocted.
In the 1970s, '80s and '90s, Dr. Smith, a hematologist, led several studies that were financed by the National Institutes of Health and contributed to changes in federal recommendations in screening for and aggressively treating sickle cell anemia and related diseases.
Dr. Clarice D. Reid, a pediatrician and chief of the sickle cell disease branch of the National Institutes of Health from 1975 to 1994, praised Dr. Smith's expertise in evaluating clinical trials and said that her ''keen diagnostic acumen'' had led to ''a no-nonsense approach to tackling sickle cell anemia and other challenges, including advocating for patients and informing them about the disease.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
She was also a former board member of the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund.
During the Reagan administration, she served on the National Advisory Council on Women's Educational Programs.
In the early 1990s, Ms. Elliott was chairwoman of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation in Princeton, N.J., which promotes excellence in teaching, the humanities and women's studies.
She was the only woman, and the only Democrat, in President Ronald Reagan's National Security Council.
''When she put her feet under the desk of the Oval Office, the president listened,'' said William P. Clark Jr., Mr. Reagan's national security adviser during 1982 and 1983.
''
        President Reagan brought her into his innermost foreign policy circle, the National Security Planning Group.
Her public diplomacy made her a national political figure.
She was a star performer at the 1984 Republican national convention, deriding the Democrats as the ''blame America first'' party.
In private, she supported American efforts to sustain the contras, the rebel group that tried to overthrow the Sandinistas with help from the Central Intelligence Agency She was a crucial participant in a March 1981 National Security Planning Group meeting that produced a $19 million covert action plan to make the contras a fighting force.
She was part of a national security team that was often at war with itself.
Richard V. Allen, who later became the first of his six national security advisers, introduced him to Ms. Kirkpatrick.
''
        Role as Adviser Blocked
        In 1983, Ms. Kirkpatrick was a strong candidate to become President Reagan's third national security adviser.
''
        Ms. Kirkpatrick was at the June 1984 National Security Planning Group meeting that began the secret initiative that later became known as the Iran-contra affair.
Robert C. McFarlane, who had won the national security slot over Ms. Kirkpatrick, pleaded guilty to misinforming Congress.
Swept In With 50 Others
        She joined the vanguard of the neoconservative movement, the Committee on the Present Danger, which warned throughout the late 1970s of a disastrous downturn in every aspect of American strength, from nuclear warheads to national image.
