In 1952, by special permission of the Daughters of the American Revolution, she appeared as a soloist with the National Symphony Orchestra at Constitution Hall in the first commercial appearance there by a black artist since Miss Anderson had been barred from performing at the hall in  1939.

        Barbara Howes, a poet who was one of five finalists for the National Book Award in poetry last year for her book "Collected Poems 1945-1990," died in her  sleep early yesterday at the Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington,  Vt. She was 81 and lived on a farm in Pownal, Vt.
        She died after a long illness, said her son Gregory Jay Smith.
In addition to being active in the Boston social registry from the 1930's to the 50's, she and her four sisters all claimed national tennis titles at varying points of their lives.
The United States National champion in singles in 1941 and again in 1945, Danzig ranked among the world's top 10 women on six occasions between 1933 and '39.
Danzig rose to prominence on the national scene as a teen-ager.
By the time she acquired her last  amateur national title in 1945 at a doubles clay-court championship where her partner was Elwood Cooke, the second of her three husbands, Danzig possessed a total of 63 national titles.
By the time she acquired her last  amateur national title in 1945 at a doubles clay-court championship where her partner was Elwood Cooke, the second of her three husbands, Danzig possessed a total of 63 national titles.
She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women as a member of the national board and executive committee and national treasurer.
She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women as a member of the national board and executive committee and national treasurer.
She was active in the National Council of Jewish Women as a member of the national board and executive committee and national treasurer.
She  took up public service the next year as an attorney for the National Recovery Administration.
Ms. Maxwell, who was professor emeritus at San Diego State, worked in various positions at the National Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers in  New York from 1944 to 1953, when she joined with other new faculty members at N.Y.U.
An expert on aging, settlement houses and social work education, she worked from 1959 to 1961 with the Committee on Aging of the National Social Welfare Assembly, a planning and coordinating body for social welfare agencies.

        Frieda Sandberg Lewis, a champion of Jewish causes and past national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Feb. 29 in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 85, and a former resident of Great Neck, L.I., and Manhattan.
She served as  national vice president and treasurer and headed its Nassau and Suffolk region as well as a number of its divisions.
She was national president from 1980 to 1984.
Recently, she was a member of the  executive and national board of the American Zionist Federation and sat on the presidium of the Zionist General Council.
Mrs. Lewis was active in a number of other organizations, including the American Foundation for Jewish Culture, the advisory board of the National Jewish Family Center of the American Jewish, the United States and New York Holocaust Commissions, the Synagogue Council of America and the World Synagogue  Council.
She was 70 and had cancer, said her son, Jay Perlstein of Pleasantville, N.Y.
        Mrs. Perlstein was already ill last year when she placed 16th in the American Contract Bridge League's National Player of the Year standings.
They won the National Women's Pair Championship in Phoenix in March, and, with others, the National Women's Knockout Team Championship in Atlanta in August.
They won the National Women's Pair Championship in Phoenix in March, and, with others, the National Women's Knockout Team Championship in Atlanta in August.
Mrs. Perlstein won many regional titles and was second in the National Women's Teams in 1976.
The work brought her awards from the two nations in 1975: the National Aeronautics and Space Administration's Achievement Award and the Soviet Kosmos Award.
She was also a member of the Nature Conservancy and the National Historic Trust.
She organized the National Committee for the Wild Flowers of the United States, which raised some  $500,000 for the project.
" Her national reputation was boosted by two serials, "The Vanishing Rider" in 1928 and "Queen of the Northwoods" in 1929.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
"
        She had served as a chairman of the American Advertising Federation National  Convention.
She helped establish a local chapter of the National Association of Professional Geriatric Care Managers and advised newcomers to the field.
She was active in the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy and the American Civil Liberties Union.
And she was the founding national president of the Coalition of Labor Union Women in 1974.
Ms. Madar was also active in civic affairs, working with national organizations with programs to improve parks and recreation centers in the inner cities.
Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.
When she arrived at Bryn Mawr in 1944, she was appointed director of its Child Study Institute, which grew to national prominence during her tenure.
She appeared regularly on the "National Barn Dance" program and recorded for  the American Record Corporation, usually accompanied by the Ramblers; she relocated with them to WOR radio in Manhattan in 1935.
In the 1980's, she was on the board of the National Tropical Botanical Garden in Hawaii.
After moving to New York City in 1992, she worked as a press agent for Broadway, Off Broadway and national touring productions, including the 1994 revival of "Medea," "Blood Brothers," "Pounding Nails in the Floor With My Forehead" and "The Night Larry Kramer Kissed Me.
Most recently, she worked on the national tour of "Ain't Misbehavin',"  with the Pointer Sisters.
Ms. Beattie was a strong proponent of the effort to have gray wolves in Yellowstone National Park for the first time since the 1920's.
Ms. Beattie sought to conserve species by managing entire ecosystems rather than waiting until individual species became endangered, and presided over the addition of 15 national wildlife refuges to a system that now has 508.
Earlier this month, Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, introduced legislation in the House and Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, in the Senate to name an eight-million-acre wilderness in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge after her.
Dr. Wofsy was the founding chairwoman of the Women's Health Committee of the  AIDS Clinical Trials Group of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.

        Laurel Weiner, a national associate and former national vice president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on June 2 at Portsbridge Hospice in Atlanta.

        Laurel Weiner, a national associate and former national vice president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on June 2 at Portsbridge Hospice in Atlanta.
She was a delegate to three World Zionist Congresses and a leader in many national, regional and local Jewish groups.
' "
        She amassed countless awards and commendations, including honorary doctorates at Yale and Dartmouth, the National Medal of Arts, and 13 Grammy Awards, including one in 1967 for Lifetime Achievement.
It was a year-round proposition,  encompassing everything from local school board elections to special elections and capped by the November stampede for borough, city, state and national office every two years.
During and after World War II, she worked for United China Relief and the Friends of France and played a pivotal role on the Committee for Economic Development, a national organization.
In 1948, she was a founder of Recording for the Blind, and she helped build it from a local group in New York for the benefit of blind war veterans into a national organization.
"
        Mrs. Crain, who served on the boards of the International Advertising Association, the National Press Foundation and the Advertising Council of New York, was an early critic of violence in television shows.
She became a force in Pennsylvania's Democratic Party as a member of the Democratic National Committee and the party's National Policy Committee.
She became a force in Pennsylvania's Democratic Party as a member of the Democratic National Committee and the party's National Policy Committee.
She attended every Democratic National Convention from 1932 to 1972 and served as vice chairwoman of the Pennsylvania delegation at the 1956 convention.
She won two national titles, the Open Pairs in 1955 and Mixed Teams in 1965, and was runner-up three times.

        Catherine S. East, a little-known Government researcher who became the quiet inspiration for the National Organization for Women and a persistent goad to the nascent feminist movement, died on Saturday at Kendal at Ithaca, a retirement community in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 80.
The cause was cancer, according to a statement from the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, of which she was national treasurer.
On Jan. 10, 1985, Mrs. Ruppe went on national television to say that the Peace Corps was looking for 600 volunteers to do famine-relief work in Africa.
Nona Quarles later joined the Federal Aviation Administration in Washington as public information officer for National Airport and Dulles International Airport.
'' A director of the Screen Actors Guild from 1990 until her death, Ms. Besch served on many of the organization's committees, among them the national communications committee, the women's committee, the agents relations committee and the women's health task force.
Dr. John Beutler, a researcher at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md., said that unlike many botanists who only dabble in the study of how plants are used, Mrs. Morton devoted all of her time to the field.
Miss Mongan is survived by her sister, Elizabeth, a former curator of prints at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, of Pigeon Cove, Mass.
      
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out for a female vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who  had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
In 1968, she starred in the national road show production of ''Hello, Dolly!
She had no training as a singer but was persuaded by a friend to try out, successfully, for a vocalist's spot with Herbie Kay, a band leader who had a national radio show called ''The Yeast Foamers,'' apparently because it was sponsored by Fleischmann's Yeast.
In 1968, she starred in the national road show production of ''Hello, Dolly!
She was named a Companion of the Order of Canada in 1984 and an Officer of the National Order of Quebec in 1985.
But once she got started, taking a job in suburban Atlanta as director of Georgia's first shelter for battered women, Ms. Carlin became so outraged by what she viewed as society's indifference to the problem that she was soon in the forefront of national efforts to curb domestic violence.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
Although Ms. Carlin held high positions in the National Coalition Against Domestic Violence, helped found the National Women's Abuse Prevention Project and was keynote speaker at national conferences, her major contribution came as the executive director of Men Stopping Violence, an organization based in Atlanta that she helped establish in 1982.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1984.
Ms. Lear made a name for herself among feminists, working in political campaigns, including Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign in 1968; with the National Organization for Women on behalf of the Equal Rights Amendment, which was not ratified; as a partner in an executive search firm specializing in placing women, and as a writer, producing articles for a number of national publications.
Ms. Lear made a name for herself among feminists, working in political campaigns, including Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign in 1968; with the National Organization for Women on behalf of the Equal Rights Amendment, which was not ratified; as a partner in an executive search firm specializing in placing women, and as a writer, producing articles for a number of national publications.
She performed in plays by Joe Orton, Edward Albee and Peter Nichols, as well as in classics for the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater.
Later she acted in Mr. Albee's ''Counting the Ways'' at the National, in Congreve's ''Way of the World'' for the Royal Shakespeare Company and in Mr. Nichols's ''Born in the Gardens.
''The Court of the Stone Children'' (1973), a complex tale involving ghostly apparitions in modern-day San Francisco, won her a National Book Award.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.
President Gerald R. Ford accepted her resignation in 1976 and replaced her with Rosemary L. Ginn, a longtime Republican national committeewoman from Missouri.
Mrs. Woodruff was a Democratic National Committeewoman for two terms.
She was co-chairwoman of the New Jersey delegation at the 1976 National Democratic Convention.
She was twice elected to lead the national umbrella Association of Commissions on Women, of which she eventually became president emeritus.
The national group advises state organizations, like the New Jersey Division on Women, on issues deemed important to women.
Ms. Bessay, a retired bookkeeper, reached agreement with the National Park Service in 1991 -- shortly before she was to be evicted -- to settle her lawsuit.
Her shanty was one of 17 simple cottages on a small compound, in the dunes of Truro and Provincetown, within the 43,000-acre Cape Cod National Seashore.
In 1967, the National Park Service claimed the structures as part of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
In 1967, the National Park Service claimed the structures as part of the Cape Cod National Seashore.
In national competition, she won the Life Master Pairs in 1966 and five other titles: the Women's Teams in 1964 and 1968; the Women's Pairs in 1968 and 1982, and the Life Master Women's Pairs in 1963.
She later joined the First National Bank of Chicago as an officer in the trust department.
Her early advocacy of racial equality was inspired by her father, Earl B. Dickerson, a prominent Chicago civil-rights lawyer and 30-year board member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Among the chief beneficiaries were Yeshiva University and its Albert Einstein College of Medicine, where she was a board member of the national women's division.

        Hildegarde Fillmore Smith, a former fashion and beauty editor at the women's magazine McCall's, died on Monday in her garret apartment at the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park South.
After retiring in 1953 she became active in the National Arts Club, editing its bulletin and serving as its  secretary for more than a decade.
''
        At the peak of the McCarthy period, in 1953, she applied for and received a grant from the National Institute of Mental Health.
''
        In 1967, Dr. Hooker was appointed to head a study group on homosexuality for the National Institute of Mental Health.
She was the artistic director of Danceworks, the modern dance troupe of the Maryland National Capital Parks and Planning Commission, which performed throughout the region through 1981.
Until recent years, on any game day, Mrs. Hyman could be seen at Gate B at Giants Stadium, insuring smooth passage for the approximately 200 fans in wheelchairs and their escorts who attended the home games of the two New York area franchises in the National Football League.
She also was a president of the Nassau Senior Forum and the National Council of Jewish Women.
Tower City was built by her family's Forest City Enterprises, a national real-estate developer.
Holocaust Museum and the National Jewish Coalition and a trustee of Cleveland State University and the Western Reserve Historical Society.
Mrs. Gaiser had been on the national board of the Young Women's Christian Association since the late 1940's.
Peggy Wattles grew up in Buffalo and graduated from Bennett Junior College in Millbrook, N.Y. She was an outstanding amateur golfer who won New York State championships in the 1930's and twice reached the quarterfinals of the United States Women's National Golf Tournament.
''This motion, so intensely human, transcends time,'' Mrs. Leakey wrote in the National Geographic magazine.
Her honors were many for a woman who never finished high school: medals from the National Geographic Society, the Geological Society of London and the Royal Swedish Academy and many honorary degrees.
For many years she was active in the English-Speaking Union of the United States, serving on the national board of governors and as president of the Chicago branch.
In the 1960's, while working at the National Institute of Mental Health, she developed a training program for middle-aged women seeking to pursue careers in psychotherapy.
At that time, Mrs. Wilson gave up her work as administrative assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and with her husband founded the Martha's Vineyard Little Theater, where they produced and directed plays.
In 1976, she was the first black woman to deliver a keynote address at the Democratic National Convention, riveting her audience on national television as she spoke magisterially from the stage at New York's Madison Square Garden.
In 1976, she was the first black woman to deliver a keynote address at the Democratic National Convention, riveting her audience on national television as she spoke magisterially from the stage at New York's Madison Square Garden.
The company earned a national reputation for corporate good works, including paying  for renowned architects to design public buildings for Columbus, leading the town to style itself "the Athens of the prairie.
She served as  president of the organization in 1958, when it was known as the National Association for Retarded Children.
In 1988 she revived Henry Cowell's 1929 Piano Concerto for a performance with the National Symphony at the Kennedy Center.
Mrs. Schwartz was the founder of Catalyst, a national organization that was  dedicated to helping women choose and advance careers and that later promoted the participation of women in corporations and their recruitment on corporate boards.
She prompted a national debate in 1989 with an article in the Harvard Business Review that asserted it cost companies more to employ women than men.
In 1945, she  founded the National Scholarship Service and Fund for Negro Students.
She helped organize its White Plains chapter and was a vice president of the Westchester Region and a national board member.
Hemphill, who was born in Hattiesburg, Miss., and grew up in Columbia, reached the semifinals of the national amateur championship in 1936 and '37.
Nor is "The Oysters of Locmariaquer," a somewhat similar book that used oystering in Brittany as a springboard to an excursion through history and culture, and won the 1964 National Book Award for  arts and letters.
