Mrs. Smith was the widow of Bromley K. Smith, who was a consultant to the National Security Council for many years.
The project was displayed at the National Association of Home Builders' show in Atlanta in 1990.
Miss Wood was the founding director of the Chicago Housing Authority, an Illinois state housing official and an officer of the National Association of Housing Officials.
As a Democratic district leader, she was a delegate to the 1984 Democratic National Convention and a leader emeritus of the Tilden Midtown Democratic Club.
She was a past member of Manhattan Planning Board 6 and was active in the National Arts Club until the time of her death.
A Difficult Passage
        But it was as Speaker, the keeper of the rules and traditions in the lower house, that Mrs. Sauve broke barriers and gained a national reputation.
She also wrote songs for Radio City Music Hall revues, pieces for three world's fair exhibitions and commemorations for several national organizations, including the Camp Fire Girls and the American Medical Association.
She was also a trustee of the New York City School Volunteers and a member of the Orton Dyslexia Society, the national advocacy group.
She did editorial work for the national education office of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union and for a time worked as a researcher for the National Opinion Research Center in Princeton, N.J.
        She continued to write juvenile biographies, notably "Young Mariner Melville" (1956) and "That Dunbar Boy" (1958), about the poet Paul Laurence Dunbar.
She did editorial work for the national education office of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union and for a time worked as a researcher for the National Opinion Research Center in Princeton, N.J.
        She continued to write juvenile biographies, notably "Young Mariner Melville" (1956) and "That Dunbar Boy" (1958), about the poet Paul Laurence Dunbar.
For her performances in "Another World," Ms. Ford was awarded a Certificate of Merit for Outstanding Contribution to Daytime Drama by the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
A founder and past president of the National Center for Clinical Infant Programs, she received many honors, including the C. Anderson Aldrich Award of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
She later became spokeswoman for the National Stroke Association, which established the Ruby Keeler Fellowship Memorial.
She was the editor of the National Women's Health Network Series for Pantheon Books and president of Healthright, a nonprofit organization.
Ms. Eagan was active in local and national efforts for abortion rights and other health and women's issues.
From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines.
From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines.
She was president of the American Theater Wing and the American National Theater and Academy and was the national chairwoman of women's activities for the March of Dimes.
She was president of the American Theater Wing and the American National Theater and Academy and was the national chairwoman of women's activities for the March of Dimes.
She trained with the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis and, at the time of her death, was treating patients as a psychotherapist.
She was long associated with the Student Conservation Association, a nonprofit educational organization that places student volunteers with national parks, forests and wildlife refuges.
to national championships in 1933 and 1938 and coached the Hunter team to a national title in 1970.
to national championships in 1933 and 1938 and coached the Hunter team to a national title in 1970.
basketball team, she took up fencing and helped found the National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association.
Her works are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Guggenheim Museum, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the National Gallery in Washington and the Fogg Art Museum in Cambridge, Mass., among others.
"
        After being selected by Moss Hart for the role of Mrs. Pearce, the housekeeper, in "My Fair Lady," she toured with the National Company in the United States and the Soviet Union from 1956 to 1962.
For the next 25 years, she worked with other young playwrights, first as coordinator of the National Playwrights Conference at the O'Neill Center in Waterford, Conn.,, then as associate producer at Arena Stage in Washington.
Her last mural, "Grant in the Wilderness," was installed in 1979 in the Chancellorsville Visitors Center at the Fredericksburg National Military Park in Virginia.
Her last mural, "Grant in the Wilderness," was installed in 1979 in the Chancellorsville Visitors Center at the Fredericksburg National Military Park in Virginia.
Miss Anderson's achievements, which inspired generations of young black performers, included a concert before 75,000 listeners at the Lincoln Memorial in 1939 arranged by Eleanor Roosevelt after the Daughters of the American Revolution denied the singer the use of the concert hall in their national headquarters.
In 1939, Hurok tried to book her at Constitution Hall in the national headquarters of the D.A.R., and was told that all dates were taken.
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan awarded her the National Arts Medal.
She gave benefit concerts for the Congress of Racial Equality, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.
Later, in Delaware, she was the founding chairman of that state's Mental Health Association and an officer and fund-raiser in the National Association for Mental Health, of which she was a past president.
In New York City, Mrs. Sanford was the longtime national chairwoman of the April in Paris Ball Committee, which raised money for several charities, including the Leukemia Society of America and the Parkinson's Disease Foundation.
Later, she worked at Brookhaven National Laboratory as it was being readied for work on nuclear physics.
The National Society of Film Critics named it the best screenplay of the year, and the New York film critics, in a tie vote, named her co-winner for best screenplay with Larry McMurtry, for "The Last Picture Show.
At the time of her death, Mrs. Hartstein was vice president of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue's Women's Club, co-president of AMIT, the national Zionist organization of religious women, and a board member of Re'uth, an international Jewish social service agency based in Israel.
Their efforts also led to the formation of the national United Cerebral Palsy Associations, which merged similar groups around the country.
Daughter of Dentist
        She was also a consultant to the National Institute of Health and the American Fund for Dental Health.
She was also a benefactor of the Armenian Seminary of New York and a member of the Armenian Assembly, a national lobbying organization.
In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford visited the district to proclaim its national landmark status, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation gave Mrs. Kramer an award.
In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford visited the district to proclaim its national landmark status, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation gave Mrs. Kramer an award.
A foreign client was the King of Saudi Arabia, who had made 20 matching music boxes playing the Saudi national anthem.

        Doris Jonas Freed, a national authority on family law who headed the American Bar Association's committee on divorce law and procedures, died on July 23 at Keswick Nursing Home in Baltimore.
Besides her work for the national association, she chaired the custody committee and the surrogate parenting committee of the New York State Bar Association's Family Law Section.
Mrs. Jacobs was former president of the Urban League of Greater New York and the National Council of Women.
She was active in the Urban League movement for more than 20 years and served as vice president and trustee of the National Urban League.
She became president of the National Council of Women in 1960 and was chairwoman of the 75th anniversary of the International Council of Women and the national affiliate, in Washington in 1963.
She became president of the National Council of Women in 1960 and was chairwoman of the 75th anniversary of the International Council of Women and the national affiliate, in Washington in 1963.
Dr. James Ebert, vice president of the National Academy of Science, called Dr. Ramsey "the world's leading student of the anatomy of the placenta.
She also served on the boards of the National Symphony Orchestra and the National Cathedral Choral Society.
She also served on the boards of the National Symphony Orchestra and the National Cathedral Choral Society.
She was appointed to national boards by Presidents Dwight D. Eisenhower, Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
She was a lifetime member of Actors' Equity and was also a member of the National Association of Talent Representatives.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.
She served on the oversight board of the Anne Frank House for homeless women in Washington, D.C. She was also active in the National Museum for Women in the Arts and the Glen Rock League of Women Voters.
She was later a social worker for the National Institutes of Health.
She served on the oversight board of the Anne Frank House for homeless women in Washington, D.C. She was also active in the National Museum for Women in the Arts and the Glen Rock League of Women Voters.
She joined The New York Times in 1982, and worked as a makeup editor and as a copy editor on the metropolitan desk and the national editions.

        Elizabeth Sullivan Ridder, a philanthropist who was formerly the national secretary of the Girl Scouts of America, died on Thursday in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 93 and formerly lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Ridder was on the national board of the Girl Scouts from 1946 to 1958 and from 1961 to 1970 and was national secretary from 1950 to 1968.
Mrs. Ridder was on the national board of the Girl Scouts from 1946 to 1958 and from 1961 to 1970 and was national secretary from 1950 to 1968.
1942 Award From Pope
        She was a former member of the boards of directors of the Welfare Council of New York City and the National Conference of Catholic Charities.
Early in her life she appeared in National Stage Productions on Broadway, and left the stage to marry Abbot J. Copeland.

        Doris G. Ross, a volunteer worker for children's welfare for half a century and former national president of the Girls Clubs of America, died on Friday at White Plains Hospital.
In the 1960's she directed a study of schools and mental health with a $1 million grant from the National Institutes of Mental Health.
Mrs. Stark then married Theodore Silbert, chairman of the board of Sterling National Bank, who died last year.

        Alberta Moore Meeker, a retired executive of the National Council of Churches who lived in Sarasota, Fla., died on Sept. 3 in Sarasota Memorial Hospital.
Until her retirement in 1985, Mrs. Meeker had been an editor and staff associate for 15 years in the stewardship department of the National Council of Churches, in New York City.
Mrs. Serrano was also a consultant to the Government of Australia's AIDS prevention programs and presented papers at many national and international AIDS conferences.

        Bee Schenken, a leading contract bridge player who won seven national titles, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Schenken had an unusual string of successes in national women's team championships, winning in 1958, 1960, 1961, 1964, 1968 and 1969.
She also won the national mixed pairs title in 1957.
She was a runner-up in five national events, including the prestigious Reisinger Teams in 1966.
She received the Handel Medallion, New York's highest award for achievement in the arts, in 1976; the Kennedy Center Career Achievement Award in 1980, and the National Medal of the Arts in 1986.
She was an original member of the National Council on the Arts and the first chairman of its Dance Panel in 1965.
Mrs. Logan was a socially prominent fund-raiser who generated financial backing for both national and local civil-rights issues and causes, particularly those of the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
She studied at Bratislava Academy and made her professional debut in 1963 as the Queen of the Night at the National Theater in Bratislava.
She was also an adviser and former officer of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing.
" She starred with Claude Dauphin in the comedy "The Marriage Go-Round" and played the mother in a national tour of Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park.
"
        In 1980, the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures presented her with its first David Wark Griffith award "in grateful recognition of her outstanding contribution to the art of screen acting.
She was also an adviser and former officer of the National Committee Against Discrimination in Housing.
" She starred with Claude Dauphin in the comedy "The Marriage Go-Round" and played the mother in a national tour of Neil Simon's "Barefoot in the Park.
"
        In 1980, the National Board of Review of Motion Pictures presented her with its first David Wark Griffith award "in grateful recognition of her outstanding contribution to the art of screen acting.
Mrs. Heineman was a board member of the National Coalition Against Censorship and was a member of the President's Council at the New School for Social Research.
She received the Gallatin Medal from New York University in 1976 for "contributions of lasting significance to society," was a recipient of the first National Medal of Arts in 1985, and received the American Red Cross Humanitarian Award in 1988.
