Especially in the Seattle region, but also beyond, she was elder stateswoman in a community of intersecting social causes, recognized by the Association of Biologists and Ecologists of Nicaragua for conservation work there, by the Washington Physicians for Social Responsibility with their Paul Beeson Peace Award, by the National Audubon Society with its medal of excellence and last year by Seattle with its Spirit of America Award.
In 1993 Mrs. Simon was named chairwoman of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science, a post to which President Clinton reappointed her in 1997.
As a teenager, she entered a national singing contest and won; she also appeared in television variety shows and in Israeli movies.
She was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, its Institute of Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences.
She also was associated with the American Heart Association as an investigator and with the biochemistry section of the National Institutes of Health, which gave her its N.I.H.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
In the 1950's, when women's track and field began its emergence, the Tigerbelles became a national force.
Faggs won 11 national Amateur Athletic Union titles and was inducted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in Indianapolis in 1976.
Faggs won 11 national Amateur Athletic Union titles and was inducted into the National Track and Field Hall of Fame in Indianapolis in 1976.
But she thrived at Tennessee State, having been the first athlete recruited by Ed Temple, who would build a national reputation as the Tennessee State women's track coach and an Olympic coach.
''I was already a national outdoor champion, I was national indoor champion, I had been to the Olympics,'' she recalled in an interview with Runner's World magazine in 1993.
''I was already a national outdoor champion, I was national indoor champion, I had been to the Olympics,'' she recalled in an interview with Runner's World magazine in 1993.
She then went on to local, state and national meets.
In 1933, she won all the national freestyle swimming championship meets from 100 meters to 1,500 meters.
Wingard won 20 national freestyle championships, and she held 21 American records and 7 world records in the freestyle.
She maintained close ties to Iceland, where she came to be viewed as something of a national treasure.
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington, the Indiana Art Museum in Bloomington and the National Gallery of Iceland in Reykjavik.
''
        Then there was the party she gave for Senator John F. Kennedy during the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles, at which he won his party's nomination.
Ms. Harris went on to be a chorus girl in ''Runnin' Wild,'' with music by James P. Johnson and lyrics by Cecil Mack, which added a new dance, the Charleston, to the national repertory.
It surprised no one in the dance community that in 1966 she  was one of seven choreographers who were awarded the initial dance grants made by the recently established National Council on the Arts.
The first athletes from Regina to win an Olympic gold medal became national heroines.
As a university student studying sociology in Frankfurt, she became a political activist protesting the rise of Hitler's National Socialism.
In later years Ms. Freund became well known in her adopted France, winning the National Grand Prize for Photography in 1980.
Ms. Dlugoszewski was the first woman to win the Koussevitzky International Recording Award, in 1977, and has also been honored by the National Institute of Arts and Letters.
A conservative Republican, she was vice chairman of the Republican National Committee from 1965 to 1976, and honorary chairman of the 1973 Nixon inaugural committee.
      
She was named Director of the Year last year by the National Association of Corporate Directors and in 1995 received the Breaking the Glass Ceiling award of the National Women's Economic Alliance Foundation.
She was named Director of the Year last year by the National Association of Corporate Directors and in 1995 received the Breaking the Glass Ceiling award of the National Women's Economic Alliance Foundation.
She edited two Caldecott Medal books, ''May I Bring a Friend?,'' by Beatrice Schenk de Regniers, illustrated by Beni Montresor, and ''A Story, a Story,'' by Gail E. Haley, as well as Ursula K. LeGuin's ''Farthest Shore,'' which won a National Book Award.
The couple moved to Washington when he was appointed manager of the National Symphony Orchestra.
She also continued to perform, giving recitals at the National Gallery and elsewhere, and she created ''Music in Schools,'' an educational radio program for young listeners.
Piping and sardonic, her distinctive voice was familiar to radio listeners in Los Angeles, where she was a regular commentator on KABC, and nationally, with frequent appearances on National Public Radio's ''Wait, Wait, Don't Tell Me.
''
        A graduate of Northwestern University, Ms. Kaufman began her career as a columnist for City Paper, an alternative weekly in her native Baltimore, and continued writing after she moved to Los Angeles, first at the LA Weekly and then for national publications.
An opponent of mandatory sentences and long confinement for juveniles, she was president of the National Council of Juvenile Court Judges in 1976 and 1977.
During her long career with the Y.W.C.A., Ms. Holtz was also the executive director of branches in Brooklyn and New Orleans and was a staff member of the group's national board.
The book won the National Book Critics Circle Award in 1998, defeating works by authors Philip Roth and Don DeLillo.
She was named Mother of the Year by the National Campfire Girls in 1963 and was a member of the California Advisory Commission on the Status of Women.
She investigated dozens of other shipwrecks and appeared on National Geographic television specials to discuss deep-sea vent systems, the warm-water ecosystems caused by volcanic activity.
She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
She also worked as a freelance photographer for national magazines like Time and Newsweek.
In 1968, she was the first woman to be elected a national vice president of the committee.
She remained active as an honorary national vice president and honorary chairwoman of the organization's Women's Campaign Board.
She had been expecting Oliver Tambo of the African National Congress; when she opened the door, Mr. Mandela was standing beside him.
When the African National Congress was banned, she continued to support its leaders, visiting Mr. Mandela when he was forced underground and at least once accompanying him in a car in which he posed as her chauffeur.
Among Miss Benson's first books was a history of the outlawed African National Congress, published in the United States as ''South Africa: The Struggle for a Birthright.
A poor woman all her life, Ms. Goncalves da Silva rose to national prominence because of her role in the samba school of Mangueira, a sprawling favela in Rio de Janeiro.
After divorcing Mr. Martin, she married Cedric H. Belfrage, one of the founders of the leftist National Guardian.
)
        Dr. Martin went with Mr. Belfrage to London, where she qualified to work for the National Health System; while there, she treated W.E.B.
'' she wrote in the National Guardian at the time.

        Grace M. S. McKittrick MacNeil, a civic worker and philanthropist who was the national president of Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. from 1969 to 1972, died on June 30 in Natchez, Miss.
After holding paid and unpaid posts with Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., whose headquarters are in Manhattan, she was on its board of directors for some years and was elected national president after holding lesser executive posts in the 1960's.
She also oversaw the beginning of a national Girl Scouts program of education about, and improvement of, the environment.
Mrs. Holt first attracted national attention when she and her husband, Harry, adopted eight abandoned children whose fathers were American soldiers.
In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mrs. Holt the National Mother of the Year, and in 1995 she became the only non-Korean to receive the Korea National Merit Award.
In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mrs. Holt the National Mother of the Year, and in 1995 she became the only non-Korean to receive the Korea National Merit Award.
Known as Constance Stuart earlier in her career, Mrs. Larrabee in 1997 donated her African images to the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of African Art, her World War II pictures to the Corcoran Gallery and her views of the Eastern Shore to the Chesapeake Bay Maritime Museum.
A traveling display, titled ''South Africa, 1936-1949 -- Photographs by Constance Stuart Larrabee,'' is being readied for a national tour by the Museum of African Art.
Her exhibitions drew national attention and led to her appointment as a war photographer.
The team won scores of national and world championships, and its members encouraged Reilly to attend college, pointing her on a career that made her a well-known coach and athletic administrator.
While she was the women's basketball coach, Central Connecticut reached the quarterfinals of the Division II National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament in 1986 after posting a 24-4 record, and Reilly was honored as coach of the year.
In 1995, Nostalgia Television, a national cable network, began reruns of the original show, the rights to which Miss Young had turned over to her son, Christopher Lewis, and his wife, Linda, who are film producers.
First National Studio signed her to a contract at age 14, put braces on her teeth and renamed her Loretta, a change she gladly accepted as evidence that she was on her way to becoming a star.
Naval Reserve,'' Mrs. Hardin provided the emotional high point at the ceremony, held in October 1997 at Arlington National Cemetery to dedicate the Women in Military Service for America Memorial, honoring almost  two million women who had served.
She served two terms on the national board, and Amnesty International U.S.A. now gives an annual Ginetta Sagan Award for outstanding work on behalf of oppressed women and children.
They also gave buildings to the National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey and to Community Mainstreaming Associates of Great Neck, N.Y., which provides homes for the disabled.
She attended the 1964 Democratic National Convention in Atlantic City along with Victoria Gray-Adams and Fannie Lou Hamer.
'' became a national best seller in 1982.

        Lucille Fletcher, who transfixed a national audience with her radio drama ''Sorry, Wrong Number'' on CBS's ''Suspense'' in 1943, died on Thursday in Langhorne, Pa. She was 88 and lived in Oxford, Md.
Some of her other collections were donated to the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York.

        Sybil H. Milton, a leading scholar of Nazi Germany and the Holocaust and a senior historian at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum in Washington, died on Oct. 16 in the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md.
Friday and Saturday have been declared days of national mourning.
She also zealously pursued efforts to make Sinhalese the sole national language, a stance that deeply alienated the country's Tamil speakers.
Her son, Anura, 51, who lives  next to his mother's home in the family compound, went over to the family's despised rival, the United National Party, after his sister, now 55, won the right to succeed their mother.
While both nieces contend that Biala knew she wanted to be a painter from a very early age (before her brother did, in fact), all they know of her artistic education is that at the age of 18 or 19, after a brief period of study at the National Academy of Design, she went to Provincetown, Mass., to study with the painter Edwin Dickinson, whose painterly representation was especially influential on her work.
She was active in the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, a refugee organization, and became a founding member of the National Refugee Service (now the New York Association for New Americans), the Council for Jewish Women and the Jewish Social Service Association.
She was active in the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, a refugee organization, and became a founding member of the National Refugee Service (now the New York Association for New Americans), the Council for Jewish Women and the Jewish Social Service Association.
It gained national prominence in Mexico after being featured on weekly television programs in the 1950's.

        Rita A. Edelman, a philanthropist who was prominent in national charitable organizations, died on Friday in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills.
''In the Mecca'' was nominated for a National Book Award.
In 1976, she became the first black woman to be elected to the 250-member National Institute of Arts and Letters.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994 -- ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
And in 1995 she received the National Medal of Arts award.

        Gisela Kahn Gresser, a pioneer in women's chess and a nine-time national champion, died Dec. 4 in her Manhattan home.
She was on the boards of the New York Federation of Music Clubs, the Liederkranz Foundation and the National Opera Foundation.
Among the honors she received for her work was a lifetime achievement award from the National Opera Association in 1998.
She fought in the courts and on the streets for abortion rights, represented Black Panthers, was a founding member of the National Women's Political Caucus and led a mass urination by women protesting a lack of women's restrooms at Harvard.
Justice Goodman said she answered, ''To my friends at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, it all sounds the same.
''She did great good and it had a national impact,'' said Patrick V. Murphy, the New York City police commissioner in the early 1970's, who knew her.
''In the Mecca'' was nominated for a National Book Award.
In 1976 she became the first black woman to be elected to the 250-member National Institute of Arts and Letters.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
She received a lifetime achievement award from the National Endowment for the Arts in 1989 and another from the National Book Foundation in 1994.
The Gwendolyn Brooks Chair in Black Literature and Creative Writing was established at Chicago State University in 1990, and there is a Gwendolyn Brooks Center for African-American Literature at Western Illinois University and a Gwendolyn Brooks Junior High School just south of Chicago in Harvey, Ill. She was selected by the National Endowment of the Humanities as its Jefferson Lecturer in 1994, ''the absolute award crown of my career,'' she said.
And in 1995 she received the National Medal of Arts award.
Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Marvel Jackson moved to New York in 1926 and worked as secretary for W. E. B. DuBois, editor of The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
She is survived by a sister, Helen Wilkins Claytor of Grand Rapids, Mich., a former national president of the Y.W.C.A.
      
