
       Sister Ann Christine Heintz, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a national student-written news service, died of cancer here Friday.
Sister Ann Christine Heintz, a Roman Catholic nun who founded a national student-written news service, died of cancer here Friday.
Miss Kimbrough was also active in civil rights with the National Urban League during the 1960's.

       Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday.
Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday.

       Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday.
Catherine M. Conroy, who helped to organize the National Organization for Women, died of cancer Saturday.

       Rosa Slade Gragg, a civil rights advocate appointed in the 1940's to a national advisory post by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died Monday at Harper Hospital.
Rosa Slade Gragg, a civil rights advocate appointed in the 1940's to a national advisory post by President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died Monday at Harper Hospital.
In 1942 the President appointed Mrs. Gragg to a national advisory board of the Federal Office of Civil Defense.
She and her husband, James, also opened a headquarters for the Association of Colored Women's Clubs, an organization that later elected her national president and president emeritus.
Mrs. Vare won the United States women's national title six times between 1922 and 1935, including three years in a row from 1928 through 1930.
In history and biography, she told an audience at the National Portrait Gallery in 1978, ''the writer's object is - or should be - to hold the reader's attention.
She worked for the National Organization for Women as coordinator for displaced homemaker organizations, many of which were established in the 1970's.

       Beatrice Swancutt Wright Fuerst, former assistant director of women's activities for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, died of natural causes Wednesday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Rhinebeck.
Beatrice Swancutt Wright Fuerst, former assistant director of women's activities for the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, died of natural causes Wednesday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Rhinebeck.

       Dr. Ruth Fox, a psychoanalyst who in 1959 became the first medical director of The National Council on Alcoholism, an agency devoted to alcoholism prevention, died in her sleep Friday at a nursing home in Washington.
Dr. Ruth Fox, a psychoanalyst who in 1959 became the first medical director of The National Council on Alcoholism, an agency devoted to alcoholism prevention, died in her sleep Friday at a nursing home in Washington.
The winner of a number of honors, she received, among others, the Citation of Merit award from the Malvern Institute for Psychiatric and Alcoholic Studies in 1963; the Silver Key award from the National Council on Alcoholism in 1972, and the annual award from the American Medical Society on Alcoholism in 1973.
Miss Ilma founded Friends of the Saratoga National Battlefield, in Stillwater, N.Y.
''
        Mrs. Logan was also a chairwoman and founder of the Actors' Fund blood bank and a trustee of the Museum of the City of New York and the National Corporate Theater Fund, which helps finance regional theaters and neighborhood playhouses.
' ''
        She was a native of Rumson, N.J., and a graduate of the National Park Seminary in Washington.
'' A Doctorate From Skidmore
        Miss Steloff was awarded a prize by the National Institute of Arts and Letters for distinguished service to the arts, was listed in Who's Who in the Theater and received an honorary doctorate from Skidmore College - an award that stood in sharp contrast to one of her remarks:
        ''I used to feel bitter and cheated about not having a formal education.
Mrs. Casselman was honorary chairwoman of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum, which grew from the merger of the National Council on Naturalization and Citizenship and the American Immigration Conference, organizations she had founded in New York.
Mrs. Casselman was honorary chairwoman of the National Immigration, Refugee and Citizenship Forum, which grew from the merger of the National Council on Naturalization and Citizenship and the American Immigration Conference, organizations she had founded in New York.
Miss Guilfoyle worked in the United States Attorney's office in Manhattan and in the National Bureau of Casualty Underwriters, as a law assistant to Federal District Judge Mary H. Donlon and, from 1977 until her retirement in 1980, as a staff lawyer at the United States Court of International Trade.
She was a former president of the National Conference on College Fraternities and Societies and a former vice president of the National Association of Women Deans and Counselors.
      
She was a former president of the National Conference on College Fraternities and Societies and a former vice president of the National Association of Women Deans and Counselors.
      
From 1944 to 1961 she was with the National Library of Medicine in Cleveland, where she became chief of the history of medicine division.
The elastic-faced, husky-voiced comedian was a national institution from 1951 to 1974 in three series and many specials on television that centered on her ''Lucy'' character.
It was a major national event when, on Jan. 19, 1953, Lucy Ricardo gave birth to Little Ricky on the air the same night Lucille Ball gave birth to her second child, Desiderio Alberto Arnaz y de Acha 4th.
She won national attention as the Chesterfield Cigarette Girl in 1933.
She had also served on the board of governors of the Women's National Republican Clubs.
Miss Thomas served on the Council of Actors Equity, and was a member of the national board of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
For many years she exhibited her works with Grand Central Art Galleries, and she received awards from the Hudson Valley Art Association and the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park in New York, where she lived for more than 30 years.
Her work was exhibited at a number of galleries, including the National Arts Club, the Kentucky Museum of Fine Arts and the American Institute of Architects.
Her mother, the late Dorothy Hailes Guimaraes, was a collector of 19th- and 20th-century decorative objects who donated extensively to the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn and the costumes division of the National Museum of American History of the Smithsonian Institution.
A visiting lecturer at Johns Hopkins University, she held honorary doctorates at Goucher and at the Maryland Institute and had been a senior fellow of the National Endowment for the Arts.
'' Other topics that enraged her included conservation of national race horses, preoccupation with violins on television and concern for Soviet jewelry.
'' In 1974 she came to New York to do ''The National Lampoon Radio Hour'' and ''The National Lampoon Show.
'' In 1974 she came to New York to do ''The National Lampoon Radio Hour'' and ''The National Lampoon Show.
She had been active in the Democratic Party for many years and served on the board of the National Women's Party in Washington.
Mrs. Mack was a delegate to six national Republican conventions and the first woman elected to the State Republican Committee from the Third Assembly District.
These included the American Jewish Committee, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Council of Negro Women.
These included the American Jewish Committee, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Council of Negro Women.
These included the American Jewish Committee, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Council of Negro Women.
These included the American Jewish Committee, the National Council of Jewish Women and the National Council of Negro Women.
She served as president of the trustees of the National Symphony Orchestra, a fellow of the Viriginia Museum and the Aspen Institute and a governor of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation.
Her husband, Howard, a chairman of First National City Bank of New York, now Citicorp, and founding chairman of WNET, died in 1980.
Ms. Henry, a past president of the National Dietetic Association, retired from the Visiting Nurses Association as a nutritionist in 1968.
      

       Edith M. Lerrigo, who was national executive director of the Young Women's Christian Association of the United States before retiring in 1974, died of complications from Alzheimer's disease Saturday at the Health Services Center in Claremont, Calif. She was 78 years old.
Edith M. Lerrigo, who was national executive director of the Young Women's Christian Association of the United States before retiring in 1974, died of complications from Alzheimer's disease Saturday at the Health Services Center in Claremont, Calif. She was 78 years old.
She was also a delegate to the general board of the National Council of Churches.
Miss Matsukata also worked at the National Diet Library.
Mr. Buchheister was a former president of the National Audubon Society, and the Buchheister Memorial Garden in the National Arboretum in Washington is named in the couple's honor.
Mr. Buchheister was a former president of the National Audubon Society, and the Buchheister Memorial Garden in the National Arboretum in Washington is named in the couple's honor.
In 1930 she was hired by Margaret Sanger to become executive director of the National Committee on Federal Legislation for Birth Control.
Mrs. Spock was active in Americans for Democratic Action, the American Civil Liberties Union and the National Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy.
She was a graduate of Miss Spence's School and attended Sweetbriar and Barnard Colleges and was a three-time winner of the hunter championship at the National Horse Show.
She received the Herreshoff trophy in 1966 from the North American Yacht Racing Union, sailing's national governing body at the time, for her leadership and accomplishments in the sport.
She competed eight times for the Mrs. Charles Francis Adams Cup, a national sailing championship for women.
She was a past president of the medical social work section of the National Association of Social Workers.
Miss Williams arrived in Haiti in 1953 to work with members of the National Folkloric Troupe.
In 1955, she was elected a director of the National Association of Wool Manufacturers, the first woman to hold the position.
She received awards from such diverse groups as the Italian fashion industry and the Rhode Island School of Design and she became a chevalier of the French National Order of Merit.
In 1987, the New York chapter of the National Academy of Television Arts and Sciences awarded her a regional Emmy for ''First City,'' a news-magazine program for WNYC-TV.

       Mary D. Romano, director of social work at the National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington, which specializes in treating injuries and neurological disorders, died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma Monday at the Washington Hospital Center.
Mary D. Romano, director of social work at the National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington, which specializes in treating injuries and neurological disorders, died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma Monday at the Washington Hospital Center.
For 17 years she was president of the National Ziegfeld Club, offering assistance to needy women in show business.
She also served on the book-selection committees of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the National Committee for Program Services of the Campfire Girls.
She also served on the book-selection committees of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the National Committee for Program Services of the Campfire Girls.
Her family owns 1,300 acres on the island, which Congress declared a national seashore in 1972.
Her freelance work appeared in the National Catholic Reporter, The Nation, Harper's, Newsweek, The Washington Post and other publications.
'' She served on the national board of the Y.W.C.A.
Mrs. Willis, whose grandfather, Harvey S. Firestone Sr., founded the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, had been a member of the National Council of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a trustee of the Archives of American Art and the New England Conservatory of Music.
In 1984, she was awarded both the Edward MacDowell Medal for outstanding contributions to literature and the National Medal for Literature.
She was nominated for a National Book Award in 1979 for her translation of ''The Horse of Pride'' by Pierre-Jakez Helias.
Mrs. Staupers was the executive secretary of the National Association for Colored Graduate Nurses from 1934 to 1949, when she became its president.
She was a founder of the National Council of Negro Women, in 1935, and received awards from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Nurses Association.
She was a founder of the National Council of Negro Women, in 1935, and received awards from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Nurses Association.
The Communist Party is the mainstay of a coalition called the United Left, which after years of decline rebounded in national elections last month to win 9 percent of the vote and 18 seats in Parliament.
A Founder of Party
        She was a member of the first provincial committee of the fledgling Spanish Communist Party in her home province in 1920 and was elected a delegate to the first national Communist congress, which led to the formal founding of the party in 1921.
In 1930, elected to the Central Committee of the party, she backed the national leadership in its fight against Trotskyists in Catalonia - a quarrel that was to come into the open again during the civil war.
She also served as an officer of the American Dance Guild and a consultant to the National Endowment for the Arts.
She also served as an officer of the American Dance Guild and a consultant to the National Endowment for the Arts.
She was a member of the National Arts Club and the American Water Color Society.
Before receiving her doctorate in economics, Mrs. Alexander had been the first national president of the black women's sorority, Delta Sigma Theta.
She was active in the American Civil Liberties Union, Americans for Democratic Action and a board member of the National Urban League.
Mrs. Hessen, who attended the University of Michigan and held a master's degree from Columbia University, was the managing editor of The Minkus Stamp Journal, one of the largest national journals for stamp collectors.
Miss Mangano's three daughters, Veronica, Rafaella and Francesca, flew to Madrid to be with her, the Spanish National Radio reported.
The Spanish national news agency EFE quoted a family representative as saying Miss Mangano's body would be cremated today and the remains sent to New York to be placed next to those of her son.
      
Mrs. Hessen, who attended the University of Michigan and held a master's degree from Columbia University, was the managing editor of The Minkus Stamp Journal, one of the largest national journals for stamp collectors.

       Brooke Michele Ward, the first bone marrow recipient to be matched with a donor through a national registry, died Saturday, exactly two years after receiving the transplant in Seattle.
Brooke Michele Ward, the first bone marrow recipient to be matched with a donor through a national registry, died Saturday, exactly two years after receiving the transplant in Seattle.
Her operation on Dec. 16, 1987, at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle was the first transplant in which marrow was located from the National Bone Marrow Donor Registry.
Mrs. Bachner, a graduate of St. Lawrence University, and her husband, Lester, a Manhattan lawyer who died in 1976, were avid tournament bridge players and won the National Mixed Team Championship in 1932.
Miss Miller was manager of the national ministries' individual and corporate responsibility unit of the churches.
She had been executive director of the churches' division of Christian social concern and director of issue development for national ministries.
She held many committee postions with the National Council of Churches, the World Council of Churches and the Baptist Joint Committee on Public Affairs.
In 1985, she was given the American Institute of Architects' national honor award for excellence.
