Mrs. Chisholm was an outspoken, steely educator-turned-politician who shattered racial and gender barriers as she became a national symbol of liberal politics in the 1960's and 1970's.
Mrs. Chisholm was an outspoken, steely educator-turned-politician who shattered racial and gender barriers as she became a national symbol of liberal politics in the 1960's and 1970's.
''Scholars began to realize that you couldn't understand how this became a national phenomenon unless you understood how communities rallied around issues.
In the 1960's, as a reporter for The National Guardian, she often traveled to rural Southern towns to describe demonstrations and organizations that other publications largely ignored.
''She exposed and explained the civil rights movement in ways that the daily press either couldn't or wouldn't,'' said Julian Bond, chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.
She was a trustee of Barnard, a fellow of Berkeley College at Yale University and a director of the Legal and Education Fund for the National Organization for Women.
At the request of Walter Reuther, the labor organizer, Ms. Janeway served as secretary of the National Committee to Aid Families of G.M.
After working as a magazine writer and editor in New York City, she did clinical work at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis, founded by Theodore Reik, receiving certification as a psychoanalyst in 1962.
She said Ms. Fittko's death was announced on German radio and television, and obituaries appeared in the major national newspapers.
The cause was cancer, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the research and advocacy group Ms. Dolbeare founded in 1974.
Ms. Lathrop was appointed an associate biochemist at the Argonne National Laboratory, where she worked from 1947 to 1954.
She is survived by a son, Dr. David Lathrop, a physiologist at the National Institutes of Health, of Gaithersburg, Md.
But she unwittingly stepped into the national spotlight when she and her husband, a gynecological surgeon, moved to Eastern Virginia Medical School in 1978 and set out to open a clinic that would allow conception outside a mother's body.
She became its first executive director in 1965 and oversaw its growth into a national organization, known as WICS.
During World War II she became popular in Britain by performing in the National Gallery lunchtime concerts organized by Dame Myra Hess.
) The collection was acquired in 1989 by the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York.
Ms. Brady's works are in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York; the National Museum of Women in the Arts, Washington; and the Art Institute of Chicago, among numerous other institutions.
Mrs. Claytor, a longtime civil rights leader in Grand Rapids, served two terms, from 1967 to 1976, as national president of the Young Women's Christian Association.
As a board member and a national organizer since the 1940's, she had been a strong force in the racial integration of the organization at all levels.
She then joined the newly established race relations office of the national Y.W.C.A.
Once she was national president, she oversaw the adoption of an amendment to the organization's constitution that buttressed the changes she had helped bring about.
Elizabeth McFarland was born on May 3, 1922, in Harrisburg, Pa. As a teenager, she won a national poetry contest sponsored by Scholastic magazine; she later became Scholastic's poetry editor.
''Imagine having to explain the facts of life to Jack Kilpatrick on national TV,'' Ms. Alexander said in a 1976 segment on maternity leave.
A study by the National Association of Black Accountants found that in 1943 Ms. Washington became the first black woman to become a C.P.A.
From the 1950's through the 70's, in addition to her cabaret appearances and record albums, she appeared in a number of television specials and toured with the national company of the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies.
From the 1950's through the 70's, in addition to working in cabaret and recording albums, she appeared in a number of television specials and toured with the national company of the Stephen Sondheim musical ''Follies.

        Sue Gunter, a pioneering women's college basketball coach who turned Louisiana State University into a national power in a career spanning four decades, died yesterday at her home in Baton Rouge, La.
(1982-2004), reaching the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament 14 times with L.S.U.
From 1960 to 1962, she played for United States national teams against those from the Soviet Union.
'' She was a founder of local chapters of groups like the National Organization for Women and campaigned for the Equal Rights Amendment and abortion rights.
's Legal Defense and Education Fund, an affiliate of the National Organization for the Advancement of Colored People that Mr. Marshall and his mentor, Charles Houston, had created in 1939.
It is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People -- not National Organization.
      
It is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People -- not National Organization.
      
Ms. Settle, who was a National Book Award winner and the author of the novels known as ''The Beulah Quintet,'' explained her research process in an introduction to ''O Beulah Land,'' the first in an interconnected five-book saga that spanned three centuries, from Cromwell's England to what Ms. Settle called ''the feudal coal culture'' of West Virginia, her native state.
In 1978, she received the National Book Award for ''Blood Tie,'' the story of American and British expatriates in Turkey.

        Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del.
Founded in 1971, the National Women's Political Caucus is a bipartisan group that seeks to foster women's participation in the political process.
She founded several chapters of the women's political caucus, including its Northern Virginia chapter, before becoming involved with the national organization.
She attended the 1980 Republican National Convention -- visibly pregnant -- with a button supporting abortion rights pinned conspicuously to her lapel.
Alex Wohl, a spokesman for the national union, which Ms. Feldman led from 1997 to 2004, said the cause was breast cancer, which recurred last year and deterred Ms. Feldman from seeking re-election.
Hardened in that caldron, Ms. Feldman became the union's secretary and took over its presidency in 1986, when Mr. Shanker became head of the national union.
She also tried unsuccessfully to devise a merger with the largest national union, the National Education Association.
She also tried unsuccessfully to devise a merger with the largest national union, the National Education Association.

        Molly Yard, for more than half a century an outspoken advocate for liberal causes, who came to national prominence as president of the National Organization for Women in the late 1980's, died yesterday at a nursing home in Pittsburgh.

        Molly Yard, for more than half a century an outspoken advocate for liberal causes, who came to national prominence as president of the National Organization for Women in the late 1980's, died yesterday at a nursing home in Pittsburgh.
They also helped set up giraffe preserves in four national parks in Kenya.
On June 12, the day after Ms. Jones and James Hood were escorted into the university by federalized National Guard troops, the civil rights leader Medgar Evers was shot to death in Jackson, Miss.
Vivian Juanita Malone grew up in Mobile, Ala., where she was a member of the National Honor Society in high school.
Another had it that she was a ''plant'' by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
''
        She also expressed fear that since the birthday of Dr. King became a national holiday, his image was being watered down and he was being depicted as merely a ''dreamer.
She also contributed $1 million to buy River Farm, a former home of George Washington in Alexandria, Va., for use as the national headquarters of the American Horticultural Society (with a stipulation that the 27 acres be open to the public).
There were also gifts to the Monet garden in Giverny, France, and the National Wildflower Research Center in Austin, Tex.
A gift of Édouard Vuillard's ''Place Vintimille'' to the National Gallery of Art in Washington in 1998 was valued at $3.5 million.
Six bronze sculptures by Giacometti, a sculpture by Henry Moore and a painting by Mark Rothko were among 13 pieces she gave to the National Gallery of Art in 1977.
She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women.
She held leadership positions in the Democratic Party, the National Women's Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, among many other organizations.
She held leadership positions in the Democratic Party, the National Women's Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, among many other organizations.
Doris Eaton Travis, 101, is now the sole surviving Ziegfeld Girl, according to Nils Hanson, administrator of the National Ziegfeld Club.
Bond was part of a fact-finding mission for the National Council of Negro Women that studied the role of women in Senegal, Togo and the Ivory Coast.
Playing opposite Laurence Olivier at the National Theater, Ms. Cummings delivered a subtle and hypnotic portrayal of transformation, from a gentle maternal presence to the spectral morphine addict of the last act.
In the 1950's and 60's, she made only eight movies, but performed in scores of plays on Broadway, in the West End and at the National Theater in London, and elsewhere in Britain and Europe.

        Margretta Madden Styles, a nursing educator who conceived and helped establish precise national standards for certifying nurses in pediatrics, cardiology and other medical specialties, died on Nov. 20 at her home in Clearwater, Fla. She was 75.
Ms. Cohen was a member of the first National Endowment for the Arts Dance Panel in 1966; organized a critics' conference at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., in 1970; and taught over the years at many colleges, including the University of Chicago, where she returned to head summer seminars from 1974 to 1976.
