Over the years, Mrs. Heyman worked at the Smithsonian Institution, the National Museum of American Art and the Oakland Museum of California.
She graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a National Science Foundation research scholarship.
In 1997, she received a Living Legend Award from the National Black Theater.
In 1968 she founded the National Center of Afro-American Artists, which still exists although the school closed in 1986.
In addition to becoming a MacArthur Fellow, she received a national medal for the arts in 1983.
She chose track, and by 17 she had broken her first national record.
She remained a national hero.
''
        In 1948, she led the national company of ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and then followed Jessica Tandy in the role on Broadway.

        Mary Jean Crenshaw Tully, a founding strategist of modern feminism and former president of the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund, died on Dec. 27 at White Plains Hospital.
She was a co-founder of the Westchester chapter of NOW and went on to head the group's national legal arm from 1971 to 1977.
Ms. Tully was also a founder and past co-chairwoman of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy and a founding member of the New York State National Women's Political Caucus.
Ms. Tully was also a founder and past co-chairwoman of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy and a founding member of the New York State National Women's Political Caucus.
Her subjects ranged beyond the Kennedy Center and National Endowment for the Arts to include a cookbook by Ralph Nader's mother and how men and women communicate.
Ms. Schwarz was a former member of the dance advisory panel of the National Endowment for the Arts, and she held honorary doctorates from Wright State University, in Dayton, and the University of Dayton.
Mrs. Tishman was one of the first women to gain national recognition as the chief executive of a major charitable federation.
She was a trustee of Wellesley and a former president of its National Development Fund Council.
She gained a national reputation in 1954 when she joined the board of the Jewish Home and Hospital amid a growing debate over how society cared for its elderly.
Since then her work has entered private and more than a dozen public collections, including those of the National Academy of Sciences and the Corcoran Gallery.
She made the campus a national center for modern dance and generally enhanced the college's reputation.
Until about 1950 she made records, including one with the musician and humorist Allan Sherman, released before he gained national prominence.
She was a founder of the National Women's Political Caucus and was the unofficial head of a group of women who helped persuade Walter F. Mondale to name Geraldine A. Ferraro as his running mate on the 1984 Democratic ticket.
After helping create the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971, she became a leader on the Democratic Party committee that ensured that half the delegates to its 1980 convention were women.
She played a major role in many groups, including the Coalition of Labor Union Women, Emily's List, Americans for Democratic Action, the National Abortion Rights League and the American Civil Liberties Union.
Her work is in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney Museum of American Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, and other institutions.
In 1998, when accepting the National Press Club's Fourth Estate Award, Ms. McGrory described her view of a Mary McGrory column.
She became chairwoman of the county chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1961 at the urging of her friend Medgar Evers, the N.A.A.C.P.
From inviting civil rights workers to sleep on her floor, to bringing Head Start to the community center she created, Mrs. Hudson achieved much -- but not national fame.
Others included the Brooklyn Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where she sat on the visiting committee on American art and sculpture.
''Vulindlela,'' her wedding song, was adopted by the African National Congress in its 1999 election campaign.
In addition to working for the Met, which she did through the 2003-04 season, she wrote surtitles or subtitles for the Washington National Opera, La Scala and the Public Broadcasting series ''Great Performances.
The ballad made her famous as it gained the status of an informal second national anthem once Israel had ''reunited'' the ancient city.
She also was active in the Women's Leadership Forum of the Democratic National Committee in Washington.
''
        In 1960, she moved with her children to Los Angeles, where the actress Tallulah Bankhead almost immediately asked her to join the national production of ''Here Today'' -- a job that Ms. Sanford said resulted in her first encounter with discrimination, as she found herself relegated to separate sleeping and dining quarters from her white colleagues.

        Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto.
She was a ballet mistress of the National Ballet of Canada and director of the National Ballet School until her retirement in 1989.
She was a ballet mistress of the National Ballet of Canada and director of the National Ballet School until her retirement in 1989.
Under Ms. Oliphant's guidance, the National Ballet School became an internationally respected institution.
'' Many leading Canadian dancers and choreographers studied with her over the years, including Frank Augustyn, Veronica Tennant, Karen Kain, Rex Harrington, John Alleyne and James Kudelka, the National Ballet's artistic director.
After meeting Celia Franca, the British-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada, she was appointed its ballet mistress in 1952 and served as its associate artistic director from 1969 to '75.
She and Ms. Franca founded the National Ballet School in 1959, and Ms. Oliphant directed it until her retirement.
In 1988 the National Ballet School named its theater the Betty Oliphant Theater.
''
        Decades later, when the National Endowment for the Arts started requiring grant recipients to sign an anti-obscenity pledge, Ms. Lewitzky and her company filed a lawsuit, and in January 1991, a federal judge found the pledge unconstitutional.
Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
Her nonfiction book on the war, 'Winners & Losers' (Random House, 1977), won a National Book Award in 1978 but she described it as 'too huge and somewhat messy.
According to some historians, Ms. Mirrer is allowing conservative board members to push the society into showcasing national history at the expense of the city's, and kicking it all off with a tribute to Hamilton, a conservative icon.
With full panache intact at 51 -- her black skirt is short, her patent heels are high, her blue Hermès scarf is, like that 600-pound granite gargoyle on a corner pedestal, a gift from colleagues at the City University of New York, where she was executive vice chancellor -- Ms. Mirrer is an avowed fan of blockbusters on a national scale.
THE exhibition will sponsor a few private receptions during the Republican National Convention before opening to the public, but Ms. Mirrer denies that the society's agenda is partisan: ''I don't see this as a place that nurtures one view of history at the expense of another,'' she says.
'' A year later she was promoted to fish chef and achieved national renown.
She stayed with WGBH even after her series became a national success because it gave her the freedom to cook tripe, kidneys and other offal that she said would not fly on commercial television.
She was awarded a George Foster Peabody Award in 1965, the National Book Award for ''Julia Child and More Company'' in 1980 and the Légion d'Honneur from the French government in 2000.
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
Gacioch played right field, and, as she told Susan E. Johnson in an interview for ''When Women Played Hardball,'' she had a phenomenal assist total, thanks to a move by her manager, Bert Niehoff, a former National League infielder.
Mrs. Whitman was national president of the Daughters of the Cincinnati, a historical society started by women descended from Revolutionary War officers, and was on the board of the Colonial Dames of America.
In 1987 they announced they would donate their collection, which experts say is worth well over $300 million, to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, becoming the gallery's largest single-gift donor after Andrew W. Mellon and the gallery's founding benefactors.
''We thought someday when we fall off our perches, we wanted our art in a place like the National Gallery, which is open to the public and free of charge,'' Mrs. Meyerhoff said in an interview last year.

        Betty Hill, whose assertion that she was carried off by otherworldly beings in 1961 inspired a national obsession with alien abduction that remains a staple of American popular culture, died on Sunday at her home in Portsmouth, N.H. She was 85.
Ms. Kallir's first important performance in New York was an evening of concertos with the National Orchestral Association at Carnegie Hall, in 1949, when she played the Schumann Concerto and gave the premiere of a Concerto by Alan Hovhaness in which she was asked to imitate the sound of a Javanese gamelan, partly by playing on the strings of the piano with a timpani stick.
Her legs are tucked underneath her on a wooden bench in Federal Hall National Memorial, the Greek Revival landmark on Wall Street.
It now has a national roster of members, with chapters in many American cities.
''
        In 1975, Dr. de Laguna and Margaret Mead were the first female anthropologists elected to the National Academy of Sciences.

        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced.

        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced.
Returning to Britain after the war, they made their troupe the basis of the London Festival Ballet (today's English National Ballet).
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
''
        That book, which won the National Book Critics Circle Award for criticism in 1978, explored the role of the photographic image, and the act of picture-taking in contemporary culture.
Though ''In America'' received a National Book Award, critical reception was mixed.
''
        Mr. Henry wrote that he considered Ms. Van Duyn's first three books to be her best, especially ''To See, To Take,'' her second, which won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1971.
She was also a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Ms. Martin was awarded a National Medal of Arts by President Clinton in 1998 and recently accepted a lifetime achievement award from the Women's Caucus for Art.
