
        Eleanor Schley Todd, a former Republican National Committeewoman, died on Monday at her home in Oldwick, N.J. She was 79 years old.
In 1956, Mrs. Todd was elected vice chairman of the Republican National Committee.
From 1956 to 1966, she was a Republican National Committeewoman from New Jersey.
She attended every Republican national convention as a delegate, alternate or convention manager from 1940 to 1976, and was a member of the board of governors of the Women's National Republican Club.
She attended every Republican national convention as a delegate, alternate or convention manager from 1940 to 1976, and was a member of the board of governors of the Women's National Republican Club.
Her father, Dr. John E. T. Camper, a physician in Baltimore, was a founder of the first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in that city, where she was born and reared.Regular visitors to the home included Thurgood Marshall, who was to become the first black Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and the singer Paul Robeson, who was her godfather.
Joined War on Poverty
        In 1964, during their final year in New Haven, the Cahns jointly wrote an article for The Yale Law Journal proposing a national system of legal services to the poor as part of what was to become the Johnson Administration's War on Poverty.
Mrs. Cahn was the first director of the National Legal Services Program in the O.E.O.
Mrs. Cahn attracted national notice in 1967 and 1968 as a lawyer for Adam Clayton Powell, a popular Harlem Congressman who was battling in court to reverse his 1967 expulsion from the House of Representatives for misuse of public funds and other transgressions.
She also held positions with the National Council of Churches and the Interreligious Foundation for Community Organization.
She was a member of the Central Jersey Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
She was the author of "Decorative Folding Screens: 400 Years in the Western World" (1982; Viking) and curator of "The Folding Image," an exhibition sponsored by Yale University Art Gallery that opened in 1984 at the National Gallery of Art.
Housing for War Workers
        In 1933, Mrs. Rosenman became chairwoman of the investment housingcommittee of the Citizens Housing Council of New York and, on its formation in 1941, she was named chairwoman of the National Committee on Housing, where she championed emergency housing for war workers.
In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe.
Among the honors Dr. Baumgartner received were the Sedgwick Medal and the Lasker Award of the American Public Health Association and the Public Welfare Award of the National Academy of Sciences.
She was a founder and former board member of the Pittsburgh chapter of the National Organization for Women.
As the leader of 500,000 women in the Czechoslovak Sokol organizations after World War II, Mrs. Provaznik was regarded in her homeland as a national heroine.
Sokol, the Czech word for falcon, symbolizing freedom, was established in 1863 to combine athletics suggestive of an army in training with national democractic resistance.
In the early 1960's, she was national secretary of the Student Peace Union, a group protesting the blockade of Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis.
She also gave lectures and demonstrations to the public at Wave Hill, the National Academy of Design and the Donnell Public Library.
A few years later she directed the bureau's studies for the Temporary National Economic Committee's investigation of monopolistic practices in industry.

        Katie Louchheim, a former State Department official and a former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee who was a prominent figure in the social life of Washington for four decades, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
A vivacious woman of enormous energy, she plunged into Democratic Party affairs and worked her way up to become vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee from 1956 to 1960.
She was editor in chief of Medica, a national magazine for women practicing medicine, from 1982 to 1984, and was executive editor of Manhattan, inc. in 1985.
She was a member of the Salvation Army's advisory board; vice chairwoman of the board of managers of the New York Botanical Garden; a trustee of the Brick Presbyterian Church; a board member of the Young Women's Christian Association, and a member of the national Y.W.C.A.
She was a delegate to the 1932 Republican National Convention, and in the 1930's served on the executive board of the American Jewish Congress.

        Elizabeth Ulman Rowe, former chairwoman of the National Capital Planning Commission and a leader in urban beautification, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
Active in Democratic Party campaigns, she was named to the National Planning Commission by President John F. Kennedy.
She also headed the Parks and History Association, a private group supporting the National Parks Service.
National and City Awards
        Mrs. Singer was chairwoman of the voluntary advisory council to the Department of Correction, and of the executive committee of the Women's Prison Association.
She was also vice chairwoman of the Citizens Union of the City of New York and a trustee of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
In 1977 Mrs Singer was named as one of 50 Women of Achievement by the National Conference of Christians and Jews at its 50th anniversary celebration, and in 1956 she received the city's award for distinguished and exceptional service from Mayor Wagner for 20 years of volunteer activity, an award that she received again from other mayors, most recently Edward I. Koch.

        Enid C. Baird, executive assistant to three presidents of the National Urban League, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 85 years old and lived in Port Charlotte and Brooklyn.

        Lola Popper Kramarsky, former president of Hadassah, the national women's Zionist organization, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.

        Viola Hymes, a former president of the National Council of Jewish Women, died Friday at Methodist Hospital in St. Louis Park, Minn. She was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis.
Mrs. Hymes was national president of the organization from 1959 to 1963.
The largest single collection, 40 of her prints, is at the National Museum of American Art in Washington.
She was a founding member and first secretary of the National Book Critics Circle and she had served on the Pulitzer Prize committees for non-fiction and poetry.

        Katherine Warren, a research scientist and former grants administrator for the National Institutes of Health, died March 23 at Greater Laurel Beltsville Hospital in Laurel, Md.
A graduate of Columbia University with a doctorate in zoology and genetics, Dr. Warren retired in 1971 after working at the National Institutes of Health for 10 years.
Her last fund-raising campaign in the late 1970's resulted in the acquisition of the Mashomack forest preserve on Shelter Island by the Nature Conservancy, a national environmental organization.
Among Miss Graham's awards were the first Guggenheim Fellowship given to a dancer; the Kennedy Center Honors; the Aspen Award in the Humanities; the Capezio Dance Award; the first Samuel H. Scripps-American Dance Festival Award to honor achievement in modern dance; the Meadows Award in the performing arts; the Handel Medallion of New York City; the Henry Hadley medal for contribution to American music, and the first National Medal of Arts.
She was also director of liaison for the fashion industries at the American National Exhibition in Moscow in 1959 and 1967, executive director of Fashion Capital of the World Inc. from 1973 to 1974, and a trustee of the Coty Awards.
At her death she was first vice chairwoman of the National Advisory Council of the American Civil Liberties Union.
She helped to lead campaigns against a jetport in Big Cypress Swamp, home to the endangered Florida panther, and a resort city on the islands of what is now Biscayne National Park.
She is survived by her husband, Barry Levine, a partner in the Washington law firm of Dickstein, Shapiro & Morin; a son, Adam Golden Levine, a student at the University of California at Santa Barbara; two daughters, Kiera S. Levine and Surell Golden Levine; her father, Dr. Benjamin E. Golden, a general surgeon, and her mother, Dita Seiden Golden, of Washington, and two sisters, Soma Golden Behr, the national editor of The New York Times, of Manhattan, and Carol Golden Sadeh, a historian and tour guide, of Ein Karem, Israel.
      
She also helped run benefit concerts for the Metropolitan Opera National Council audition for several years.
The museum also gave shows to the Federation of Modern Painters and Sculptors and the National Association of Women Artists.
As fine arts chairman of the National Council of Women of the United States, from 1937 to 1954, Mrs. Horch was interested in fostering the work of women artists, and mounted a series of group shows devoted to women of various nationalities, among them Japanese, Canadian and Norwegian.
Moon was also a member of the Democratic National Committee.
Moon was also the founder of the Camden County chapter of the National Political Congress of Black Women.
Her husband, Samuel McCrea Cavert, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, died in 1976.
" Both awards were given under the auspices of the National Academy of Design.
Her work was exhibited in the National Museum of Modern Art in Rome, at museums in Trieste and Florence, at the Royal Academy of Scotland, at the Springfield Museum of Fine Arts and elsewhere.

        Wilhelmina Harris, for nearly four decades the superintendent of the Adams Presidential Family National Historic Site in Quincy, Mass., died on May 20 at her home in Quincy.
She died of a heart ailment, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service said.
She was a past president of the American Geological Institute and the Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, and headed the national committee on geology at the National Academy of Sciences.
She was a past president of the American Geological Institute and the Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, and headed the national committee on geology at the National Academy of Sciences.
She was named principal of Cardozo High School in 1961, where she initiated an academic and work-study program that became a model for the National Teacher Corps.
She traveled extensively in Western Europe and India, lived and studied in Mexico and Nicaragua, and taught English and German at Kangreung National University in Korea in 1985.
She won awards from the Chicago Council on Foreign Affairs and the National Association of Black Journalists.
In 1981 she appeared in a production of Shakespeare's "Measure for Measure" at the National Theater.
Mrs. Kweller, a native of Brooklyn, was national president of the Women's League for Conservative Judaism from 1978 to 1982.
She was a member of the board of overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary and the board of directors of the United Synagogue of America, vice president of the World Council of Synagogues and secretary of the national association of Solomon Schechter Day Schools.
She often performed in the West End of London in the 1950's and with the Royal Court, the Shakespeare Memorial Theater, the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater.
As translator, director and a star of Chekhov's "Seagull" in 1964, Miss Le Gallienne received from Adlai E. Stevenson the award of the American National Theater and Academy.
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan awarded her the National Medal of Arts.
She was a member of the first women's advisory board for First Merchants Bank, now Midlantic National Bank, in Asbury Park in 1970.
Last year Wilderstein received National Historic Landmark status.
She was also a former chairwoman of the Town of Greenburgh Democratic Committee for many years, a delegate to the 1980 Democratic National Convention in Manhattan and the Westchester County coordinator for Mario M. Cuomo's first campaign for governor.
Helen Meany won her first national Amateur Athletic Association diving championship as a 15-year-old in 1920 and qualified for the Olympics that year in Antwerp, Belgium.
She won 17 national championship diving medals from 1920 through 1928 and was named to the International Swimming Hall of Fame in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., in 1971.
Before joining the faculty of the CUNY Graduate School in 1981, Dr. Scribner was a research scientist at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington and, from 1978 to 1979, was associate director of the National Institute of Education.
She was a winner in 1965 of the annual Federal Women's Award for outstanding contributions by women in government service, and in 1973 she received the Career Service Award of the National Civil Service League.
She was past president of the Hunter Faculty Club, the Hunter Chapter of the American Association of University Professors and of the Hunter Unit of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.
She was also a familiar figure in companies as diverse as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet, the National Ballet of Holland, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Tulsa Ballet Theater and the Dance Corps of the State University of New York at Purchase.
Mrs. Wyzanski was a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the American women's Zionist organization, and worked in Berlin in the Hitler era with Youth Aliah, a group that resettled Jewish children in Palestine and other countries.
Mrs. Wyzanski was a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the American women's Zionist organization, and worked in Berlin in the Hitler era with Youth Aliah, a group that resettled Jewish children in Palestine and other countries.
Ms. Piper's works were primarily still lifes and are in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Corcoran Gallery of Art and the National Academy of Design.
Ms. Piper's works were primarily still lifes and are in the Philadelphia Museum of Art, the Brooklyn Museum, the Corcoran Gallery of Art and the National Academy of Design.

        Sylvia Petit Maples, the director of community services at the National Association of Drug Abuse Problems in New York, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
She received the Susan B. Anthony Award from the National Organization for Women in February 1990.
Mrs. Mayer exhibited in many group shows with the National Association of Women Artists, winning several of its awards, and was a past president of the New York Society of Women Artists.
To help change this, she founded the National Women's Caucus of the American Association of School Administrators.
For her pioneering research Dr. Seibert was inducted last year into the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y.
        She was born in Easton, Pa., and was stricken by polio at the age of 3.
In 1931 Mrs. Reed was the subject of national headlines when she and her chauffeur were kidnapped at gunpoint outside her home and held for ransom.
In 1931 Mrs. Reed was the subject of national headlines when she and her chauffeur were kidnapped at gunpoint outside her home and held for ransom.
She performed with the Israel National Opera and Bat-Dor in the early 1970's, coming to New York City in 1974 to study at the Merce Cunningham Studio.

        Belinda Mason, a member of the National Commission on AIDS who pleaded with President Bush in a letter in August not to support proposed Federal policies that she said would further stigmatize AIDS sufferers, died this morning at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
She was a fellow and former officer of the National Sculpture Society; a member of, and contest juror for, the Allied Artists of America, and director of the American Society of Contemporary Artists from 1970 to 1972, among many other professional affiliations.
Known for her instrumental role in galvanizing support for, and contributing art to, the Museum of Contemporary Art in the late 1970's and early 80's, Mrs. Weisman also gave prize works from her collection to the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
To the National Gallery, Mrs. Weisman promised paintings by Ed Ruscha and Clyfford Still.
Her article "Estimates of Gross National Product, 1919 Through 1928," published in the Federal Reserve bulletin in September 1945, used new Commerce Department concepts to calculate the gross national product for the 10 years after World War I.
Her article "Estimates of Gross National Product, 1919 Through 1928," published in the Federal Reserve bulletin in September 1945, used new Commerce Department concepts to calculate the gross national product for the 10 years after World War I.

        Alice R. Bachrach, a volunteer leader of numerous national social service agencies who was involved in a landmark discrimination suit, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Among her early activities, she organized and was chairwoman of the Women's Division of the National Jewish Welfare Board and was a vice president of the board for 19 years.
She also had been an honorary governor of Hebrew Union College, vice president of the New York City Y.W.H.A., vice president of the national Girl Scouts and chairwoman of its American Girl magazine, executive committee member of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Parsons School of Design.
" Will Help Black Writers
        Miss Gordimer, who is a member of the African National Congress, which had long been outlawed, said today that she wanted to use some of the prize money to help the predominantly black Congress of South African Writers.
During her years abroad, Mrs. Delmas worked as a radio journalist, reporting for French National Radio and Radio Canada.
Ms. Sayles joined the board of directors of the Abortion Justice Association in 1969, was a founding member of the National Abortion Federation and was active in the National Abortion Rights Action League.
Ms. Sayles joined the board of directors of the Abortion Justice Association in 1969, was a founding member of the National Abortion Federation and was active in the National Abortion Rights Action League.

        Eleanor Pollock Hughes, former top editor of three national magazines and a public relations executive for several Federal agencies, died Friday at Sibley Hospital in Washington.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
A champion of women's rights, she observed in 1982, during a convention of the National Association of Women Judges, that "women judges are sometimes very lonely.
A champion of women's rights, she observed in 1982, during a convention of the National Association of Women Judges, that "women judges are sometimes very lonely.
"
        While at Madeira, Miss Maynard served six years on the executive committee of the National Council of Independent Schools and was its chairwoman for three years.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.
"
        She was a vice chairwoman of the National Safety Council, wrote a newsletter column for the National Council of Women, was a director of the Advertising Women of New York and the Fashion Group and was an adviser to the Tobe-Coburn School for Fashion Careers.

        Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, the secretary of the Democratic National Committee who called the roll and tallied the votes at 12 national conventions from 1944 to 1988, died on Saturday in a hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 75 years old.

        Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, the secretary of the Democratic National Committee who called the roll and tallied the votes at 12 national conventions from 1944 to 1988, died on Saturday in a hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 75 years old.
At each Democratic national convention, from the one that nominated the Roosevelt-Truman ticket to the one that drafted Michael S. Dukakis and Lloyd Bensten, Mrs. Bush called the role of states in a slight, but crisp, Dixie-accented voice that made her a fixture of the convention floor and a legend in the party.
She was elected national committee woman of the Alabama Young Democrats in 1941 and a vice-president of the Young Democratic Clubs of America in 1943.
She was just 27 years old when she was named secretary to the Democratic National Committee in 1944.
In addition to her work at the conventions, she also arranged meetings of the national and executive committees and kept party records.
Her work is represented in many museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York City, and the National Museum of American Art and the Hirschhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden in Washington.
Ms. Savoyka, whose father was arrested and killed by Russian forces in Cracow, Poland, came to the United States in 1948, under a program for orphans, sponsored by the National Catholic Welfare Conference.
'Extraordinary Devotion'
        Besides her counseling activities, Ms. Savoyka was president of the New York General Committee for Immigration, grouping 30 private agencies, and was a member of the National Advisory Council on Immigration and Naturalization.
In 1985, she was an organizer of a Melendez exhibition at the National Academy of Design in New York City.
She studied art in Vienna and, after her family moved to the United States in the early 1920's, at the National Academy of Design and the Art Students League in New York City.
