in the late 1930's and joined its national office as associate director of research in 1942.
Her dancing in the national tour of another show, ''Shuffle Along,'' led Bill Robinson to call her ''the greatest living female tap dancer.
She came to national attention as executive director of the San Antonio Housing Authority, where she championed amenities like balconies for every apartment.
Miss Torre served 10 days in the Hudson County Jail in New Jersey in 1959, the first reporter to gain national attention for going to jail for refusing to identify a news source.
In 1995 she took part in the opening of a memorial garden at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London, with a granite monument commemorating the victims, and in 1993 she appeared in public in Southampton to receive a gold watch thought to be her father's from the head of the American company that had salvaged it from the wreckage.
They also wrote many articles on sexism in English that appeared in national periodicals and in more than 30 anthologies and textbooks.
Dr. Wu joined forces with a research team at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, which had one of the few laboratories in the country that could chill materials to extremely low temperatures.
She received a bachelor's degree from National Central University in Nanjing in 1936 and a doctorate from the University of California at Berkeley in 1940.
She was also the first woman to receive the Cyrus B. Comstock Award of the National Academy of Sciences and the first woman to receive an honorary doctorate in science from Princeton.
''
        She also received the National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for achievement in science, and the Wolf Prize in physics.
Dr. Wu was elected to the National Academy of Sciences, and was elected to the Royal Society of Edinburgh as an honorary fellow.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Vincent Yuan, of Albuquerque, N.M., who is a research scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
      
Mrs. McKean won four national junior girls' tennis titles, playing out of Boston, and five national women's titles, in indoors singles and doubles.
Mrs. McKean won four national junior girls' tennis titles, playing out of Boston, and five national women's titles, in indoors singles and doubles.
Miss Beloff worked for the national weekly newspaper The Observer from 1948 to 1978.
Mrs. Gatov was Elizabeth Rudel Smith -- she had just divorced Frederick H. Smith, a San Francisco businessman when, as a Democratic national committeewoman from California, she was appointed Treasurer in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy.
She also rejoined the Democratic National Committee, where she remained until 1965.
From the early months of World War II, when the United States began  planning for the postwar world, until President Reagan opened the final phase of the struggle against the Soviet Union with his ''evil empire'' speech in 1983, Dr. Fosdick was in the thick of national foreign policy planning and debate.
Her 1961 report, for example, after a quiet, thorough investigation of cold war policy procedures became the blueprint for President John F. Kennedy's reorganization of the national security policy apparatus.

        Judi Bari, an environmentalist whose passionate defense of the California redwoods earned her national prominence and who was injured in a car bombing that might have been related to her protests, died on Sunday at her cabin home in Willits, Calif. She was 47.
Ms. Bari emerged on the national scene in the summer of 1990.

        Leanne Katz, who served as executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship since its creation more than 20 years ago, died at her New York home Sunday, after a three-year battle with cancer.
''
        The coalition is an alliance of 45 religious, artistic, educational and civil liberties groups ranging from Actors' Equity to the American Library Association and the National Council of the Churches of Christ, and it began as a project of the American Civil Liberties Union, but soon became a separate entity.
The coalition acted as an advocate against proposed legislation, national or local, that would restrict free speech.
Before she began working with the censorship coalition, Ms. Katz was on the national staff of the American Civil Liberties Union, as liaison to the group's affiliates.
Ms. Katz served as a consultant for Human Rights Watch, the National Council of Teachers of English and the Modern Language Association.
She was national vice chairman of Americans for Democratic Action and was active in the Lenox Hill Neighborhood Association, the League of Women Voters, B'nai B'rith and the Urban League.
At the time of her death, she was education adviser to Mayor Richard J. Riordan, director of a national urban school reform organization, and a candidate in Tuesday's local election for a commission that will help rewrite the city charter.
She was a founding member of New York's Liberal Party, was a member of the Americans for Democratic Action and served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the National Urban League.
)
        Whatever her age, by then she had a national reputation as ''the infant prodigy,'' ''the baby orator,'' and the girl who had made speeches for women's suffrage from Union Square to Hyde Park before turning her attention to military recruitment and Liberty Bonds.
She was a former president of the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and, with Betty Friedan, a founding chairwoman of Women, Men and Media, a national organization that monitors the coverage of women in the media.
She was a former president of the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and, with Betty Friedan, a founding chairwoman of Women, Men and Media, a national organization that monitors the coverage of women in the media.
She began in 1951 as a member of the national board and in 1988 was elected to the Board of Trustees.
She was a trustee of Spelman College in Atlanta for nearly 25 years, a trustee of the Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Mass., and the Whitney Museum of American Art and, in 1972, was chairman of the Y's National Convocation on Racial Justice.
In 1992, Mr. and Mrs. Rockefeller donated her family home and surrounding property in Woodstock, Vt., to the Federal Government for development as the state's first national park.
When The Crisis, a magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, paid her $20 for one of her stories, ''On Saturday, the Sirens at Noon,'' it came to the attention of an editor at Houghton-Mifflin and led to both a $2,500 literary award and a contract for what became ''The Street.
She remained active to the end of her life in some of India's most important cultural organizations, including the Crafts Museum in New Delhi, the Calico Museum of Textiles in Ahmedabad and the Indian National Trust for Art and Cultural Heritage, which she founded in 1984.
Mrs. Anderson had been active in the Democratic Party on the state and national levels when she was appointed Ambassador to Denmark  by President Truman.
She was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, a National Committeewoman, and a campaigner for the re-election of President Truman.
She was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, a National Committeewoman, and a campaigner for the re-election of President Truman.
She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
The honors she received included the  the Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal from the national academy, an Outstanding Investigator Award from the National Cancer Institute and a Guggenheim fellowship.
The honors she received included the  the Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal from the national academy, an Outstanding Investigator Award from the National Cancer Institute and a Guggenheim fellowship.
She won the first of her six consecutive national championships in 1991, captured the first of her four world titles in 1992 and was so dominant in the United States that when she placed second last weekend in a race in Birmingham, Ala., the 55-year-old woman who beat her was described as stunned.
It was Ms. Flannery's first loss in a national age-group competition in six years.
Her proficiency as well as her popularity helps explain why the sport's national governing body, USA Triathlon, named her last month as the Master Female Triathlete of the Year.
A powerful runner who held her own in swimming, Ms. Flannery proved especially adept at cycling, so much so that she won five national age-group titles in time trials.
She served three terms as national president of the large volunteer agency, from 1953 to 1956.
In 1945, as chairman of Hadassah's national convention, she called on its 150,000 members to take up the struggle for Jewish statehood.
As national board chairman, she stayed in Israel to mesh Hadassah's medical and child-care centers of Palestine with the public health and sanitation programs being charted by the new state.
She first attracted national attention for her dance composition classes at Sarah Lawrence College, where she began teaching in 1938.
Miss Schonberg was on advisory panels for the New York State Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts.
'' -- became a national catch phrase in the early 1960's, died on Sunday at the Encino-Tarzana Medical Center in Encino, Calif. She was 75 and lived in nearby Sherman Oaks.
It was a prescription that made Roller Derby a national television rage in the 1950's and filled Madison Square Garden and other arenas as late as the mid-1970's.
The garden of her home on Morton Street in Greenwich Village and of her family home -- established 50 years ago by her mother, Leslie Ten Eyck Michaels, at Manursing Island in Rye, N.Y. -- were among the first to be shown to the public under the auspices of the Garden Conservancy, a national organization that works to preserve exceptional gardens.
In 1947 she organized the museum's first annual National Print Exhibition, and she supervised them until 1968.
In 1994, she addressed a conference in Detroit of the the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations in America, where she declared, in a voice gone soft and husky with age: ''Reparations.
The Gurwins have been prominent supporters of the UJA-Federation of New York, American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee, Israel Bonds and the National United Jewish Appeal, among others.
Her dedication to legal and social services for the poor was a family heritage: her grandmother, for whom she was named, was one of the first women lawyers in the country and the founder of the National Consumers League, an advocates' group for which Judge Kelley worked.
Dr. Keyserling was a onetime president of the Women's National Democratic Club.
She also ran the District of Columbia Commission on the Status of Women and advised the National Academy of Sciences on child development, working on issues that had been a major concern since she was a child.
She supervised a vast study of commercial day-care operations for the National Council of Jewish Women, producing a highly critical 1972 report, ''Window on Day Care,'' that became the national blueprint for changes in such programs.
She supervised a vast study of commercial day-care operations for the National Council of Jewish Women, producing a highly critical 1972 report, ''Window on Day Care,'' that became the national blueprint for changes in such programs.
''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science.
Dr. Esau (pronounced EE-saw) was also the sixth woman elected to the National Academy of Sciences, in 1957, the academy said.
Besides performing at the candle-lighted Chansonette, Miss Dimitri appeared on Broadway and on national tour in the mid-1950's in the Cole Porter musical ''Can-Can,'' playing the singer who owns a boite in Montmarte.
''
        Robert Weil, a senior editor at St. Martin's Press, recalled that Ms. Daves became familiar with Dr. King in the early 1950's before he achieved national prominence while leading the 1955 boycott of the segregated transit system in Montgomery, Ala.
        Mr. Weil said Ms. Daves told a friend that there was an extremely articulate, charismatic and visionary minister from the South she had to meet.
In the civil rights field, she was a founding member of the Congress of Racial Equality, an officer of the Chicago chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union.
Helen Jacobs was a champion in her own right, winning nine major championships, including the United States national title four straight times from 1932-35 and the Wimbledon singles in 1936.
I feel I have spoiled the finish of the national championship.
Ms. Meserand began her career in 1926 in the press department of the National Broadcasting Company, which had been newly formed from WJZ and WEAF.
The National Circus School, which she started in the 1970's and which is credited with training dozens of clowns and other circus workers, said that she had been hospitalized in a clinic outside Paris since June 10.
''
        The National Circus School eventually offered courses in such circus essentials as magic, trapeze, gymnastics and tightrope walking.
From 1993 to 1995, she served as a governor of the National Association of Securities Dealers.
As her fame spread, she was written about in newspapers and national magazines and television cameras arrived on her doorstep.
In 1985, President Ronald Reagan included her in the first group of winners of the National Medal of Arts.

        Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines.
Mrs. Smith was chosen to be chairman of the Republican National Committee by Gerald Ford when he succeeded Richard M. Nixon as President in 1974.
In January 1977, the Republican National Committee elected Bill Brock, a conservative former Senator from Tennessee, to succeed Mrs. Smith.
She became active and prominent in Republican politics and served on the Republican National Committee from 1964 to 1984.
Born in Detroit, Mrs. Peet, who was known professionally as Margot Sherman, was the first female graduate of the journalism department at the University of Michigan, where she was a member of Phi Beta Kappa, the national honors society.
So the unenvious task of trying to put a brave face on the McGovern campaign fell to Mrs. Westwood, who became the chairman of the Democratic National Committee after Mr. McGovern won the Democratic nomination.
A native Mississippian, Mrs. Howorth spent much of her life in the political arena, including a turn as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1932.
She was a national officer in the American Association of University Women, played a pivotal role in ending the organization's practice of racial segregation in the 1940's and headed a task force on the status of women and their employment opportunities after World War II.
Along with her husband, Arnold, she was a founding member of the Muscular Dystrophy Association, the national organization best known for fund-raising telethons with its chairman, Jerry Lewis, as host.
''Traditional fragmented care for the individual parent and infant will not do,'' she wrote in a 1993 article for the National Center for Clinical Infant Programs.
Mrs. Lookstein was a national board member and New York chapter president of Amit Women.
Mrs. Weiss, who was on the Socialist Workers Party's national ticket in 1952, 1956 and 1960, was the daughter of an unabashed capitalist, Myron Tanner, who managed an investment syndicate before becoming a top insurance salesman in Los Angeles.
A fiery speaker, Mrs. Weiss was chosen in 1952 as the running mate of the party's Presidential candidate, Farrell Dobbs, a onetime truck driver who had virtually created the teamsters' union as a national force before becoming a Socialist Workers official.
Ms. Browne was honored last year for her choreography in a National Tap Dance Day program at Alice Tully Hall.
She wanted to be on the air herself but in those days, the national reporting staff of CBS was a male preserve.
She first covered Senator Humphrey's campaign, but when he lost the West Virginia primary to Mr. Kennedy and dropped out of the primary, she covered Senator Lyndon Johnson all the way to the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles in July of 1960, where he became Mr. Kennedy's running mate,
        Later that year, CBS gave her own weekday radio show, ''One Woman's Washington,'' in which she discussed Washington topics that she thought might be of interest to women around the country.
In 1963, she left CBS and joined NBC News in Washington, where she remained until 1970, covering general national news and politics.
In 1985 she joined the Post as as political editor and directed the newspaper's coverage of Congress, the White House and national politics for the next four years.

        Evelyn Slewett, a founder of the National Parkinson Foundation and supporter of numerous charitable organizations, died Oct. 14 at Jackson Memorial Hospital in Miami.
Her other beneficiaries included Girls Town in Jerusalem, Miami University and various other institutions..
        She helped establish the National Parkinson Foundation in 1957 with her husband, Nathan Slewett, a lawyer who became its chairman in 1981.
She was sent to the applied mathematics panel of the National Defense Research Committee in the Office of Research and Development.
Dr. Rees was a Presidential appointee to the board of the National Science Foundation from 1964 to 1970, and she was active in the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America, among other groups.
A national board member of Hadassah since 1934, Mrs. Gottesman held many positions in the organization, including vice president and treasurer.
Dr. Koshland, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the president of the American Association of Immunologists in 1982 and 1983, discovered that antibodies differ in their amino acid composition, a factor that makes them extremely efficient at fending off disease.
After two years as a fellow in the department of bacteriology at Harvard University, she joined the staff of the Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, first as an associate bacteriologist in the biology department and, from 1963 to 1965, as a bacteriologist.
Dr. Koshland, who was also the head of the graduate affairs division in the department, was a member of the National Science Board from 1976 to 1982 and of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Dr. Koshland, who was also the head of the graduate affairs division in the department, was a member of the National Science Board from 1976 to 1982 and of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
She received much of the credit for defeating tuberculosis among the Navajo beginning in the 1950's and received national recognition for her role.
Aileen Ward, whose biography of John Keats won a National Book Award, said she was impressed that Ms.
When her husband died in 1972, their house was turned over to the National Trust.
In 1941, she married Allan MacDougall, the president of the National Distillers' import division.
Her articles appeared in trade and business periodicals, and then national publications like The Saturday Evening Post and Reader's Digest.
She conducted research at the Argonne National Laboratory on the effects of ionizing radiation on the heart and blood vessels until she retired in 1981.
The cause was lung cancer, said Susie Gilligan of Feminist Majority, a national group that Ms. Carabillo helped found 10 years ago.
Ms. Carabillo, who was co-author of ''Feminist Chronicles, 1953-1993,'' rallied to the feminist cause more than 30 years ago when she joined the National Organization for Women.
Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
At her death, Ms. Carabillo was national vice president.
When her dissertation, ''Patrons and Patriotism: The Encouragement of Fine Arts in the United States: 1790-1860,'' was published in 1966, it created such a stir that in 1971 the Smithsonian Institution lured her to Washington to become historian of the National Portrait Gallery.
Another volume, written with Emily Copeland, ''Forced Migration: Policy Issues in the Post-Cold War World'' (1993), was widely distributed by the United Nations High Commission on Refugees and various national governments.
She was 93 and had homes in Manhattan, Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hooker was one of the principal benefactors of the National Museum of Natural History, the largest of the Smithsonian Institution's family of museum buildings on the Mall in Washington.
Mrs. Peterson later was hired by the National Association of Professional Insurance Agents as its consumer adviser, concerning herself particularly with the problems of older people, and she continued to keep a foot in both camps, serving on the board of Consumers Union.
She also was active as an officer in the American Society for Public Administration, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Jewish Welfare Board and the YM-YWHA of Greater New York.
She represented the United States in 1996 at the Blenheim Castle three-day event in England; also that year she won the fall national championship three-day event of the United States equestrian team at Fair Hill.
Mrs. Rockefeller was president of the National Mental Health Association and the Arkansas Association for Mental Health.
She served on the national board of the Urban League and the White House Commission on Mental Health under Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dr. Kenneth R. Barasch, national president of the Fight for Sight, an organization through which she raised money.
Ms. Weisenfeld, who lost her eyesight at 25 as a result of retinitis pigmentosa, began her effort as the National Council to Combat Blindness in 1946.
Her campaign became a national group that has awarded grants that total more than $13 million.
The hearings led Congress to recognize eye disease as a factor when it created the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Blindness.
That move, again with her encouragement, led to the establishment of a separate National Eye Institute in the National Institutes of Health.
That move, again with her encouragement, led to the establishment of a separate National Eye Institute in the National Institutes of Health.
