As a young suffragist, she held street meetings on women's causes and was head of the Boston and New York offices of the National Woman's Party.
The new concept of inducing differentiation to normalcy in cancer tissues is undergoing early tests in patients at several research centers under the sponsorship of the National Cancer Institute and other agencies.
A memorial service is scheduled at 2 P.M. Saturday in the Bethlehem Chapel of the National Cathedral in Washington.
      
Dr. Downs gained national recognition in 1924 for her work on tularemia, a viral disease commonly known as rabbit fever.
She was most recently in the news in 1975, when the National Collection of Fine Arts in
        Peggy Bacon, a poet, author, artist and illustrator of more than 60 books, whose whimsical pastels featured some of Manhattan's toughest alley cats, died Sunday in Kennebunk, Me.
She was most recently in the news in 1975, when the National Collection of Fine Arts in Washington honored her with a yearlong retrospective.

       Marion E. Martin, founder of the National Federation of Republican Women's Clubs, died Thursday at her home here.
Marion E. Martin, founder of the National Federation of Republican Women's Clubs, died Thursday at her home here.
Miss Martin also was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee.
From 1936 to 1946, she was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee in Washington and head of its women's division.
In that capacity, she founded what is now the National Federation of Republican Women.
''
        In the late 1930's and early 40's, national polls of radio editors consistently placed her programs first in juvenile entertainment.
More recently, she was a board member and past president of the National Council of Jewish Women, Hollis section.
She was executive director of the National Cathedral Association in Washington in 1958-59.
Ms. Sherman was a member of the New-York Historical Society, the Daughters of the American Revolution and the National Society of Colonial Dames of the State of New York.
She later was dismissed from a teaching job in Charleston for being a member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

       Molly O'Day, who never became a major national star but who was prized by aficionados as one of the finest country-and-western singers ever, died of cancer of the colon Saturday at Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. She was 64 years old.
Molly O'Day, who never became a major national star but who was prized by aficionados as one of the finest country-and-western singers ever, died of cancer of the colon Saturday at Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. She was 64 years old.
'' When she got on Rules, she was among the very strongest members for national Democratic Party policies.
She was a delegate to three national Democratic Party conventions.
She also worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to end discrimination in employment and housing.
She was legislative chairman of the Women's National Democratic Club and its liaison to the House.
'' When she got on Rules, she was among the very strongest members for national Democratic Party policies.
She was a delegate to three national Democratic Party conventions.
She also worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to end job and housing discrimination.
She was legislative chairman of the Women's National Democratic Club and was its liaison to the House.
Gerald Strober, a spokesman for the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, which helped to plead her case, said Mrs. Meiman was admitted to the center on Jan. 20.
In 1921 she married her first cousin, a Rhodes scholar and lawyer who founded the People's National Party in Jamaica and helped lead his country to political independence in 1962.
Mrs. Levy was president of the New York chapter of the college's National Women's Division, a fund-raising organization, and was vice president of the division's national board.
Mrs. Levy was president of the New York chapter of the college's National Women's Division, a fund-raising organization, and was vice president of the division's national board.
Concert at Town Hall
        Their first major concert, which brought the Trapp Family Choir national attention, took place in New York in Town Hall on Dec. 10, 1938.
Concert at Town Hall
        Their first major concert, which brought the Trapp Family Choir national attention, took place in New York in Town Hall on Dec. 10, 1938.
Mrs. Stark won the United States Lawn Tennis Association national doubles championship with Marjorie (Midge) Van Ryan in 1936.
Mrs. Greenberg was the first national chairman of Youth Aliyah, serving in the post from 1936 to 1941.
A national board member of Hadassah since 1927, she was a national vice president and a Hadassah delegate to five world Zionist Congresses between 1931 and 1952.
A national board member of Hadassah since 1927, she was a national vice president and a Hadassah delegate to five world Zionist Congresses between 1931 and 1952.
She was also national chairman of the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Building Fund.
'' In Washington, she taught history and Russian language and was an editor for The National Jewish Monthly.
She was a delegate to the 1956 Democratic National Convention and a member of the platform committee.
After retiring, she became a professor of government at Warner Pacific College and in 1976 she served as co-chairwoman of the National Democrats for Gerald Ford.

       Alnah James Johnston, former headmistress of Dana Hall School and president of the National Association of Principals of Schools for Girls, died April 13 at the Beaumont Nursing Home, Westborough, Mass., after a brief illness.
Alnah James Johnston, former headmistress of Dana Hall School and president of the National Association of Principals of Schools for Girls, died April 13 at the Beaumont Nursing Home, Westborough, Mass., after a brief illness.
She was a director of Freedom National Bank from 1966 to 1971, a member of the New York State Electoral College in 1968 and the president of the Inner City Housing and Development Council from 1972 to 1980.
She was a member of the National Advisory Board of the Fund for the Improvement of Post-Secondary Education, and a board member of the State Regents External Degree Faculty.
She covered a number of national political conventions, including the violence-wracked Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, as well as Presidential campaigns and inaugurations.
She covered a number of national political conventions, including the violence-wracked Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, as well as Presidential campaigns and inaugurations.
Her work is in the collections of the Art Institute of Chicago, the National Museum of American Art and the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo, N.Y.
        She is survived by her husband, Herman; a son, Mark; a daughter, Julie; a brother, Hans, and two grandchildren.
      
Since 1981 the actress had been under the care of her second daughter, Princess Yasmin Aga Khan, who by publicizing her mother's tragic illness had drawn national and international attention to Alzheimer's disease, about which little was known until recent years.
In 1928, Mrs. Ziesing helped start the Women's National Republican Club.
Another mystery story, ''The Weeping and the Laughter,'' published in 1950 by Little Brown, became a national best seller.
Mrs. Nitze, who suffered from emphysema, had been a trustee of the National Symphony.
Mrs. Nitze, who suffered from emphysema, had been a trustee of the National Symphony.
In a playing career lasting more than 30 years, she won four world titles and 11 national titles.
She was a member of the Actors Repertory and, later, the National Repertory Theater, appearing in ''Let Freedom Ring'' and, in 1936, in Irwin Shaw's antiwar drama ''Bury the Dead.
She also held posts in other civic and political organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; the National Democratic Committee; the Salvation Army Advisory Committee, and St. Mary's Hospital.
She also held posts in other civic and political organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; the National Democratic Committee; the Salvation Army Advisory Committee, and St. Mary's Hospital.
Mrs. Heller was a member of the Democratic National Committee from 1944 to 1952.
She was also actively involved with the Dance Theater of Harlem Inc., both as a board member and as a member of its national advisory board, from its inception in 1969 until her death.
Mrs. Choate, the widow of Robert B. Choate, former publisher of the Boston Herald Traveler Corporation, bred and trained dogs at Robin Hill Farm, her home in Danvers, and was the winner of two national championships at the Westminster Dog Shows in the late 1930's.
She was president of the Queens branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the late 1950's and early 1960's.
Miss Blood served as a consultant on women's organizations from 1953 to 1973 with the National Foundation for the March of Dimes.
She was a member of the National Council of Negro Women, the National Organization for Women, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union.
She was a member of the National Council of Negro Women, the National Organization for Women, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union.
She was a member of the National Council of Negro Women, the National Organization for Women, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union.
Miss Monroe, the official soloist for the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars, spent much of her career singing the national anthem.
When she performed for American troops, she did not sing the national anthem because, she said, ''the men are living it.
After her incapacitation, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, in tandem with an organization called the Jacqueline du Pre Research Fund, presented several benefit concerts at Carnegie Hall.
From 1972 to 1983, Mrs. Heilbrun edited the Christmas Bird Count issue of the National Audubon Society's American Birds magazine.

       Constance Maroselli, who worked for the National Basketball Association for 36 years, died Saturday night of a heart attack while on a flight from New York to Phoenix, where she was to retire.
Constance Maroselli, who worked for the National Basketball Association for 36 years, died Saturday night of a heart attack while on a flight from New York to Phoenix, where she was to retire.
