Two years later, she received the National Medal of Arts from President Ronald Reagan.
She also served on citywide, state and national committees promoting libraries, including the American Library Trust Association and the 1979 White House Conference on Libraries.
From the time she won her first national title at the second women's championship in 1938 until she clinched her seventh national championship in 1974, Miss Karff was in the forefront of women's chess in the United States.
From the time she won her first national title at the second women's championship in 1938 until she clinched her seventh national championship in 1974, Miss Karff was in the forefront of women's chess in the United States.
Ms. Costello joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute in 1962, and taught harpists who eventually took positions in many of the world's great orchestras, including the Berlin Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony and the National Symphony.
She chided society for its ''waste of highly talented, educated womenpower,'' as she put it in a 1961 article she wrote for The New York Times Magazine, calling it a ''prodigious national extravagance.
's national board.
In 1967, she formed the Council of Dance Administrators, a product of a national conference on dance sponsored by the arts and humanities division of the United States Office of Education.
The council published ''Standards for Dance Major Programs'' of colleges in 1979, leading to a national dance certification program.
She later founded the national Council of Graduate Dance/Movement Therapy Educators.
''
        She won the first of her 19 Grand Slam singles titles as a pigtailed 17-year-old in 1923 at the national championships in Forest Hills, N.Y.
At 15, on her first attempt, she won the national junior championship in 1921.
Just two years later, at 17, she became the second-youngest United States national champion by dethroning Molla Mallory, the defending champion.
She was only the third woman to head a national Olympic committee, following Princess Anne in Britain and Princess Nora in Liechtenstein.
The year after she arrived at Cornell, she became a charter member -- and the sole woman at the time -- in the National Academy of Arbitrators.
She was the author of many papers and books and edited the proceedings of several annual meetings of the National Academy of Arbitrators.
During World War II, she was a hearing officer and arbitrator for the National War Labor Board.
In a land of immigrants where ethnic and national societies abound, there had been virtually no Arab-American organizations in the United States, but in the wake of the 1967 war, many prominent Arab-Americans saw the need for a concerted effort both to counter the demonizing stereotypes and to lobby for policies favorable to their often-embattled homelands.
Through her long work with the Saints Peter and Paul Antiochian Orthodox Church in Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Haje had gotten to know and impress many of Washington's leading Arab-American figures, and in 1972 when a group of them formed the National Association of Arab-Americans as the first political Arab-American organization, Mrs. Haje suddenly found herself in the forefront of a movement.
Dr. Goldhaber was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and retired as a senior scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
Dr. Goldhaber was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and retired as a senior scientist at Brookhaven National Laboratory.
She was elected a fellow of the American Physics Society in 1947 and the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1980, and to membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1972.
She also was an adviser and consultant  at the National Research Council, the National Science Foundation and many other scientific bodies.
She also was an adviser and consultant  at the National Research Council, the National Science Foundation and many other scientific bodies.
''She was packaged like the quintessential elderly lady that a Boy Scout would help across the street, except that she drank martinis, smoked cigarettes and could, on occasion, have a mouth like a sailor,'' said George White, chairman and founder of the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center, where Miss Oliver served as a dramaturge for 20 seasons at its National Playwrights Conference in Waterford, Conn. ''She could be tough and would brook no banality, but she truly loved playwrights and loved the theater.
''She was a person of great wit, great sardonic and satiric wit and yet very generous at the same time,'' said Lloyd Richards, the veteran stage director and longtime artistic director of the National Playwrights Conference.
Ms. Hillis, who appeared as a guest conductor with many American orchestras, including the National Symphony, the St. Louis Symphony, the Oregon Symphony and the Minnesota Orchestra, often said that orchestral conducting was her first love.
She was  a founding member of the National Women's Health Network, which was formed in the 1970's to lobby for better health care for women.
Mary helped organize the first national women's health conference, which brought individual women and representatives of grass-roots women's health groups to the Harvard campus.
While president of the National Association of Talent Representatives, Ms. Fields led a three-year legal battle to end the licensing of talent agents by actors' unions and the payment of franchise fees by agents to the unions.
The democratically elected Government said the move was essential for national reconciliation.
Over the next two decades she dispensed justice with such consistent compassion, good humor and common sense that in 1989 the National Judges Association named her the outstanding non-attorney judge in the United States.
In 1949, she married Count Anthony Szapary, a founder of the Hungarian National Sports Federation.

        Elizabeth Barnes, a volunteer for national organizations including the Y.W.C.A.
and National Council of Negro Women, died on Thursday at the Health Clinic of Westminster Shores in St. Petersburg, Fla. She was 90 and a resident of St. Petersburg.
's national board.
She was also a member of Price Waterhouse's worldwide tax services panel and was the first woman to lead a national practice area for the firm.
She studied painting and photography at the Minneapolis School of Art, and in 1942 became a microfilmer of rare books at the National Archives in Washington.
Over the years she was active in Siamo (We Are), the Federation of Italian-American Educators and the National Italian American Foundation, of which her husband was a founder.
The National Gallery of Art got nine American and French paintings, which had been placed in a charitable trust during Mr. Whitney's lifetime.
But she was also known for the inspirational message she spread as a guest on national talk shows or to people she met on the Boardwalk with whom she formed close relationships.
In 1983 she took the role of Grizabella in the national touring company of ''Cats'' with the proviso that she step into the part on Broadway when Betty Buckley departed.
Despite her illness, she joined the national touring company of ''Les Miserables'' in the role of Fantine, performing in the touring production of ''The Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber: The Sunset Edition,'' and singing ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' at President Clinton's 1997 inaugural gala.
A memorial service will be held at the National Arts Club at 15 Gramercy Park South on April 2 at 3 P.M.
In March 1993, Ms. Bing was awarded the first Gold Medal for photography by the National Arts Club in Manhattan.
She  brought with her a belligerent, exuberant politics that made her a national character.
A founder of Women Strike for Peace and the National Women's Political Caucus, she spent a lifetime prodding for change, with a lawyer's enthusiasm for political channels, through organizations from the P.T.A.
Campaign Became A Women's Crusade
        At this point, Bella Abzug became national news, a flash of local color in a political year.
She wanted national health insurance, money for  day-care centers and housing, and more money for New York City, all to be paid for with billions siphoned from the Pentagon's budget.
Ten years later, she was denied a seat in the state's delegation to the national party's biannual conference because New York leaders considered her disruptive.
She was appointed co-chairwoman  of President Jimmy Carter's National Advisory Committee on Women, and then, after disagreeing with him over economic policy, was dismissed.
The Government charged that the group, called the Harrisburg Six, had conspired to blow up Federal property in Washington and to kidnap Henry A. Kissinger, then the national security adviser in the Nixon Administration.

        Joanne Eve Lukomnik, a consultant and lifelong advocate of community health services who was also active in national professional and policy-making health groups, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Her other associations included the National Conference on Primary Care, sponsored jointly by the Federal Public Health Service and the Kellogg, Kaiser and Robert Wood Johnson Foundations.
She served on the board of the National Association for Regional Ballet, a group now known as Regional Dance America.
Over the years Ms. Skelly served on numerous boards, including the National Council of Christians and Jews, Gov.
She was a member of the national committee of the Whitney Museum of American Art and of its painting and sculpture committee.
It was the band's performances, however, that brought it to national attention.
He said that after cremation, her remains would be scattered over a portion of  Everglades National Park that bears her name.
''
        In 1947, the year her book was published, she also helped lead the campaign to have the central core of the Everglades preserved as Everglades National Park.
The following year the Clinton Administration and the State of Florida agreed to buy more than 50,000 acres of sugar cane fields on the outskirts of Everglades National Park, a step toward rescuing the endangered ecosystem from polluted runoff.
In 1975, a grant from the National Endowment for the Arts enabled her to prepare a series of radio programs on dance history.
''
        Professor Grenander received a Fulbright Fellowship and grants from institutions including the National Endowment for the Humanities, the New York Council for the Humanities and the Rockefeller Foundation.
Her work is in numerous public collections, among them those of the National Museum of American Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington and the Museum of Fine Art.
An exhibition of them organized by the museum and supported by the National Endowment for the Arts toured the country from 1992 to 1997, ending at the National Museum of the American Indian in New York.
An exhibition of them organized by the museum and supported by the National Endowment for the Arts toured the country from 1992 to 1997, ending at the National Museum of the American Indian in New York.
Her father, Victor Hugo Stickney, a doctor who made calls on horseback, was one of the first 10 members elected to the National Cowboy Hall of Fame.
Almost overnight, the slogan became a national catch phrase, and dyed hair (although never thereafter, she made sure, known that way) went from declasse to de rigueur.
A 27-year member of the National Organization for Women, for which she frequently handled publicity and public relations, Ms. Harragan often addressed professional societies and seminars for female managers.
After working for the National Council of Christians and Jews and as a hospital chaplain, Rabbi Timoner joined the Army Reserves and in 1993 became the first Jewish woman to serve as a full-time chaplain in the regular Army.
This position lasted until he gave the works to the National Gallery of Art in 1942.
She also played a prominent role in the National Arts Club's creative writing program for public-school children, hoping to whet their taste for reading and writing.
At her celebrity-studded 90th birthday party on the island in 1997, which drew hundreds of well-wishers, she was called ''a national treasure'' by Hillary Rodham Clinton.
The president of the National Council for Culture and the Arts in Mexico, Rafael Tovar y de Teresa, labeled Ms. Garro one of the three most important female writers that Mexico had produced, alongside the 17th-century nun and poet Sor Juana de la Cruz and Rosario Castellanos, Ms. Garro's contemporary.
Upon her return to Mexico in 1991, she was honored for her life's work at the National Theater Program in Aguascalientes.

        Sister Irene Kraus, a onetime schoolteacher with such a high-spirited talent for leadership and such hard-nosed business ability that she went on to run a series of hospitals and spend six years as the founding chief executive of the $3 billion Daughters of Charity National Health System, died Aug. 20 at a hospital in Baltimore.
During a career in which she served on more than 70 national boards and committees, Sister Irene became accustomed to being the only woman in the room.
''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain.
''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain.
Dr. Harrison also served on the National Science Board in the 1970's.
After retiring in 1989, she designed the uniforms of the Indiana Pacers of the National Basketball Association.
''
        Some in Europe have called for a review of the record, but Craig Masback, the chief executive officer of USA Track and Field, the sport's national governing body, said the matter was closed.
The most serious allegation was made in 1989 by Darrell Robinson, a former national 400-meter champion, who said that he had sold human growth hormone to Griffith Joyner in 1988.
She began receiving numerous awards, including the National Medal of Arts given last year by President Clinton.
Mr. Edey, the co-author of the book ''Lucy: The Beginnings of Mankind'' (1981), which won a National Book Award, died in 1992.
In the 1970's, Ms. Long became the first publicist for the National Arts Center of Canada.
She also played Mrs. Bradman in the National Theater Company's production of Sir Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' (1976) and won a Tony Award as best supporting actress for her performance as Delia in Alan Ayckbourn's ''Bedroom Farce'' (1977).
Three years earlier, as a representative of family planning, she took part in the first American Conference on Church and Family run by the National Council of Churches.
She was 94 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.
        Mrs. Kappes, known as Nancy, was born in Lutherville, Md., and graduated from National Cathedral School in Washington and Smith College.
Ms. Katzen's work is in the permanent collection of museums across the country, including the National Gallery of Art, in Washington, the Wadsworth Atheneum in Hartford and the Milwaukee Art Center.
It was the Paramount engagement that helped make the Azpiazu recording of ''El Manisero'' (''The Peanut Vendor'') a national hit and the foundation of the rumba craze of the 1930's.
She supervised psychiatric residents from Albert Einstein Medical School at the School for Children, developed the multidisciplinary 42d Street Early Childhood Center for children and parents, and directed a national Head Start project as well as Bank Street's participation in the Federal Office of Education's National Follow Through Programs.
She supervised psychiatric residents from Albert Einstein Medical School at the School for Children, developed the multidisciplinary 42d Street Early Childhood Center for children and parents, and directed a national Head Start project as well as Bank Street's participation in the Federal Office of Education's National Follow Through Programs.
She joined the National Federation of the Blind, founding its Stamford-area chapter and serving as its president.
Early productions included Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town,'' mostly because it required no scenery and was inexpensive to produce, and ''Porgy and Bess,'' which the center snared as it was completing a national tour.

        Esther Rolle, a pioneering African-American actress who gained national recognition in the 1970's for her role as Florida Evans on two television shows, first ''Maude'' and then ''Good Times,'' died at a hospital here on Tuesday.

        Carol Henning Shaw, an early organizer of Mothers' Voices, a national group working for AIDS prevention and cure, died Thursday at her home on the West Side of Manhattan.
She also taught at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival and the Eugene O'Neill National Theater for the Deaf.
'' She starred in the Broadway production and national company of ''State of the Union'' in the late 1940's.
From 1981 to 1983 she was the artistic director of the Centre National de Danse Contemporaine in Angers, establishing, at the same time, an institute for the training of dance teachers in Paris.
As a student leader she met Mr. Murrow, who was president of the National Student Federation of America.
She became a Mount Holyoke trustee for 21 years and also served on the boards of National Public Radio and the Henry Street Settlement in  Greenwich Village.
