Her agency also represented authors like Richard Rhodes, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1988 as well as a 1987 National Book Award for ''The Making of the Atomic Bomb,'' and David Garrow, whose ''Bearing the Cross'' won a Pulitzer in 1987.
She was a past president of the community-based National Council of Jewish Women, which supports the Lighthouse, day centers for the elderly and Libraries on Wheels.
She headed the National Council of Jewish Women New York Section, not its umbrella group, the National Council of Jewish Women Inc.
She headed the National Council of Jewish Women New York Section, not its umbrella group, the National Council of Jewish Women Inc.
After her husband's death in 1973, Mrs. Mott established her own charitable organization, the Ruth Mott Fund, which for the last 20 years contributed more than $1 million a year to hundreds of local and national organizations concerned with the arts, the environment, health and international affairs.
The National Audubon Society honored her with a medal in 1983 and last year listed her among 100 individuals who had done the most to shape the environmental movement, along with Barry Commoner, Jacques-Yves Cousteau, William O. Douglas, Lady Bird Johnson, Stewart Udall and Morris K. Udall.
Analyzing data supplied by the National Office of Vital Statistics, she said that 400 children under the age of 5 died each year in the United States from accidental poisoning.

        Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Saturday at her home in Miami Beach.
''
        In 1991, President George Bush awarded Ms. Elion a National Medal of Science, saying her work had ''transformed the world.
In 1961, Indrani was the first dancer presented on a national tour by the Asia Society.
Indrani received the Indian Government's national award, Padma Shri, and the Sangeet Natak Akadami Award in the performing arts.
In response to the threat of extinction, the trade group has hired a marketing heavyweight, begun a national advertising campaign to encourage people to shop small and created its own on-line store, scheduled to open this summer.
Orval E. Faubus called out the National Guard to prevent their entry.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
A graduate of Kansas State University, she worked during the Depression as an aide to Mary McLeod Bethune, the director of the National Youth Administration's Division of Negro Affairs and later a civilian adviser to the WAC.
Her break came when, as an understudy, she took over for Jan Sterling in Chicago in the national tour of ''Born Yesterday.
From 1960 to 1977 she was the Berlin correspondent for The New York National Guardian.
But it won awards, including two National Magazine Awards in 1993.
Mrs. Rivkin was also a founder of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and in 1976 she served as the coordinator of volunteers at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
Mrs. Rivkin was also a founder of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and in 1976 she served as the coordinator of volunteers at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
''
        Miss Lortel was frustrated by the success of ''Threepenny Opera'' because she wanted to bring more plays into her theater, so she  persuaded the American National Theater and Academy to support a matinee series as a ''laboratory for innovation.
'' The house was renamed the Lucille Lortel Theater in 1981, and has been the setting for Larry Kramer's ''The Destiny of Me,'' for ''Groucho'' and for ''Gertrude Stein and a Companion,'' the recipient of the National Education Film and Video Award for historical biographies.
Ms. Rathbun campaigned on the local, state and national level to legalize marijuana for medicinal purposes.
He called it ''a conscience-wrenching book of major significance,'' and said that ''every American concerned with human liberty should know of this bleak period of our national history.

        Adele Woodhouse Erb Sullivan, who was president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution in the 1960's, died on April 22 in Wilton, Conn., at the home of her daughter, Nancy E. Thorne.
''That trip to Vietnam meant a great deal to the national society,'' said Sarah King of Murfreesboro, Tenn., who was president general of the D.A.R.
In 1956, she was elected recording secretary general of the national society, and in 1959, she was elected first vice president general.
After graduation, Ms. Klaus worked as a review lawyer for the National Labor Relations Board in Washington.
In 1948, she took the post of solicitor for the National Labor Relations Board, a position that made her the highest-ranking female lawyer in the Federal Government.
She became known as the author of the so-called Little Wagner Act, the city version of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, which recognized workers' rights to organize and bargain collectively through unions of their choosing.
These were the nascent days of organized women's track and field at the national level.
She was inducted into the National Track and Field, the United States Track and Field and the Helms Halls of Fame.
In the early 1960's, she was a staff member of the National Council of Churches in Greenville, Miss.
During her tenure the magazine won four National Magazine Awards, including two for general excellence, in 1981 and 1991, and one in the public interest category in 1992, for a series conceived by Mrs. Whitney on the availability and safety of abortions in America.
His illness prompted her to become a dedicated volunteer for the National A.L.S.
''
        Her 1996 collection of 35 short stories, ''Women in Their Beds,'' received critical acclaim and won the 1997 National Book Critics Circle Award, the PEN/Faulkner Fiction Prize and the Rae Award for the Short Story.
She was given a fiction award by the National Endowment for the Arts.
On the political side, she was a founder of Women Strike for Peace, which opposed nuclear weapons and the Vietnam War, and she served as Washington representative for the National Committee to Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee.
She received a master's degree in economics at the University of Chicago in 1953 and a Ph.D. in history at Howard University in 1971, with a dissertation on national health insurance.
She was active in the National Women's Political Caucus, the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Party.
She was active in the National Women's Political Caucus, the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Party.
She was active in the National Women's Political Caucus, the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Party.
After graduating from the National Cathedral School in Washington, Mrs. Lindsey earned her bachelor's degree at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., in 1947.
She accompanied her first husband, John Franklin Campbell, a Foreign Service officer, to Ethiopia, where she became a special assistant to Emperor Haile Selassie and arranged a national exposition of Ethiopian crafts.
Her first book of verse, ''The Peacock Poems,'' was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize and a National Book Award in 1975.
She won an Emmy Award for a television performance of poems from her second book of verse, ''Some One Sweet Angel Chile,'' which was another National Book Award nominee.
Her one-woman drama, ''Letters From a New England Negro,'' was performed at the National Black Theater Festival in 1991 and at the Chicago International Theater Festival in 1992.

        Kim Perrot, the tiny floor leader of the Houston Comets team that has won the first two Women's National Basketball Association championships, died here today.
More recently, she was a professor at the Foreign Service Institute and the National Defense University.
In 1997, at the 50th anniversary celebration of ''Meet the Press,'' held at the National Building Museum in Washington, Ms. Rountree was honored as the only woman who had moderated the program.
''She was a news pioneer who helped create a national treasure,'' said Tim Russert, the chief of NBC News's Washington Bureau who now serves as moderator of ''Meet the Press.
A member of the National Press Club and the Women's National Press Club, she received awards in recent years from the Women for Achievement, the National Fraternity of Women in Journalism and the American Legion.
A member of the National Press Club and the Women's National Press Club, she received awards in recent years from the Women for Achievement, the National Fraternity of Women in Journalism and the American Legion.
A member of the National Press Club and the Women's National Press Club, she received awards in recent years from the Women for Achievement, the National Fraternity of Women in Journalism and the American Legion.
She was a member of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Science and co-director of two groundbreaking programs to train geriatric and family nurse practitioners at Cornell University-New York Hospital.
''
        Those books included Mr. Bellow's first two novels, ''Dangling Man'' and ''The Victim''; Dr. Seuss's first two books, ''And to Think That I Saw It on Mulberry Street'' and ''The 500 Hats of Bartholomew Cubbins,'' and a score of books by Ms. Oates, including the novel ''Them,'' which won the National Book Award.
After the Kennedy assassination, she returned to Washington, where she again worked for the Peace Corps and the Democratic National Committee.
The group performed at Carnegie Hall in 1944 with the National Symphony Orchestra conducted by Leon Barzin.
Her clients included the Archives of American Art, the National Portrait Gallery and the New-York Historical Society.
She was also the director of the National Jewish Music Council from 1968 to 1980 and a consultant to the American Jewish Historical Society and to libraries and academic institutions.
Starting on Nov. 5, the work of five Magnum photojournalists, including Ms. Silverstone, will be exhibited at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh.
''
        Correction:  October 6, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the photographer and Buddhist nun Marilyn Silverstone on Monday misstated the given name of a photojournalist whose work, along with hers and others', will be exhibited at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh beginning Nov. 5.
The Prime Minister of Portugal, Antonio Guterres, ordered three days of national mourning.
Mrs. Bates, as Arkansas president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, was a central figure in the litigation that led to the confrontation in front of Central High, as well as the snarling scenes that unfolded in front of it.
Orval Faubus, responding to political urging from other Southern governors as well as polls showing that 85 percent of the state's residents opposed school desegregation, sent in the National Guard to stop blacks from attending.
The next day, the National Guard stepped in again.
Dr. Bluestone also helped organize national conferences and seminars on the challenges for female doctors and the special problems of female patients.
In addition to guiding the small modern-dance troupe to national prominence over its 30 years of existence, Mrs. Blunden developed a number of leading American modern dance performers, among them the former Alvin Ailey star Donna Wood.
'' That no-nonsense approach to life was mixed with steely determination, a great personal warmth and humor and an unsentimental humanity that made her a much-loved figure on the national dance scene.
As the national flag was lowered and buglers saluted, about 10,000 people paid their respects to Ms. Kamal at her funeral on Wednesday in Dhaka.
Before her death Ms. Kamal specified that she preferred to be buried in a simple private cemetery rather than in the national cemetery, where her nation's leaders had suggested she be buried.
Mrs. Slatkin, who published numerous articles on Boucher in Burlington magazine and other journals, was instrumental in organizing the National Gallery of Art's 1974 exhibition of Boucher drawings, the first major show of its kind in North America, for which she wrote the catalog introduction and entries.
The cause was emphysema, said her daughter Jessica Mansell Ambrose of East Hampton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Mansell, who was known as Mona, was a recovering alcoholic and a volunteer counselor at the National Council on Alcoholism in New York when she started the Freedom Institute in 1976.
Mrs. Mansell, a native of San Francisco, lived in New York before retiring to Jupiter Island, Fla. She was chairwoman of the Freedom Institute and a director of the National Council on Alcoholism and Drug Dependency.
