
        Ruth Warrick, who made her movie debut with Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and ended her career with the long-running role of Phoebe Tyler Wallingford on the television soap opera ''All My Children,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
She created the role when the show was first broadcast in 1970, and this month she made a final visit to its fictional setting, Pine Valley, to commemorate the soap opera's 35th anniversary.
In addition to ''All My Children,'' she worked for five years on ''As the World Turns'' and played Hannah Cord in the 1960's prime-time soap opera ''Peyton Place,'' as well as in the 1985 made-for-television movie ''Peyton Place: The Next Generation.
She studied dancing and was briefly in the ballet corps of the St. Louis Municipal Opera.

        Nell Rankin, an American mezzo-soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 25 years and was highly regarded for her warm-toned portrayals of Amneris in Verdi's ''Aida'' and in the title role in Bizet's ''Carmen,'' died last Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York.
Her operatic debut in New York was in a production of ''Aida'' at the Salmaggi Opera Company, in Brooklyn, in which she sang Amneris and her sister sang the title role.
In 1948, Ms. Rankin joined the Zurich Opera Company, where she made her debut as Ortrud in ''Lohengrin'' in 1949, and went on to sing 126 performances in her first year.
That victory led to her debuts at La Scala and at the Vienna State Opera, both as Amneris, in 1951, and to her Met debut in the same role later that year.
Debuts at Covent Garden and the San Francisco Opera followed in 1953.
The song's haunting melody, which Ms. Velázquez also wrote, is based on the aria ''Quejas, o la Maja y el Ruiseñor'' (''Plaints, or the Maiden and the Nightingale''), from the 1916 opera ''Goyescas,'' by the Spanish composer Enrique Granados.

        The Spanish soprano Victoria de los Angeles, whose sweet-toned lyric voice and beguiling expressivity earned her a devoted following during a career of more than four decades, died overnight Friday in a hospital in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Liceu Opera there said.
By the 1950's she was a mainstay of opera houses around the world and widely admired for her portrayals of leading lyric soprano roles, including Puccini's Mimi (from ''La Bohème'') and Madama Butterfly, Verdi's Violetta (from ''La Traviata''), and Massenet's Manon, Bizet's Carmen and Debussy's Mélisande.
Though her sound was not enormous, she knew how to project her voice so that it carried effortlessly in the opera house.
After the conservatory, instead of immediately pursing a career in opera, Ms. de los Angeles joined Ars Musicae, an ensemble that specialized in French and Spanish songs from the Renaissance to modern times and in German lieder.
She made her recital debut in 1944 in Barcelona and, several months later, her professional debut in opera as the Countess in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' at the Liceu.
After winning the Geneva International Singing Competition in 1947, she attracted the attention of the world's leading opera companies, and debuts at Covent Garden in London, La Scala in Milan and elsewhere soon followed.
She remained at Universal for what was probably her finest sustained performance in certainly the most important of all her films, Douglas Sirk's grandly Brechtian soap opera ''Imitation of Life'' (1959).
But for Mrs. Small, there were ample pleasures: correspondence courses from Betty Crocker, fresh clams dug up outside the house, friendships with summer visitors and the rough-hewn crew of a fishing boat who lumbered into her living room one day demanding to hear an opera on the radio.
Even in the 1960's, when their performances were no longer a novelty, viewers in the Metropolitan Opera House sprang to their feet in a frenzy.
In 1980, she was in a revival of the 1927 musical ''The Five O'Clock Girl'' at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., and took part in a tour of ''The Big Broadcast of 1944,'' which recreated radio programs of that year.
She was in a 1979 revival of the 1927 musical ''The Five O'Clock Girl'' at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn., and took part in a tour of ''The Big Broadcast of 1944,'' which recreated radio programs of that year.

        Barbara Bel Geddes, a critically acclaimed stage, screen and television actress known for her work with Alfred Hitchcock in the 1950's and, more recently, for her role as Miss Ellie, the matriarch of the fractious Ewing clan on the long-running nighttime soap opera ''Dallas,'' died on Monday at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me.

        Helen L. Phillips, a lyric-dramatic soprano who preceded Marian Anderson in breaking color barriers at the Metropolitan Opera and elsewhere in the 1940's and 50's, died on July 27 in the Washington Heights neighborhood of Manhattan.
In 1947 Ms. Phillips became the first black singer known to have appeared with the Metropolitan Opera Chorus, in what she recalled as an apparently accidental breaking of an unofficial color barrier.
The stage manager at the opera had called her agent seeking the agent's best soprano because several chorus members were missing; when Ms. Phillips arrived, she remembered, he looked at her twice, then told her to hurry up and go backstage.
The first black chorister to be granted a contract was Elinor Harper, who made her debut at the opera in 1962.
She appeared as a soloist with symphonies in St. Louis and Madrid and the St. Louis Opera, and played Queenie in the 1954 production of ''Show Boat'' at City Center in New York.
''
        In 1950 she traveled to Europe and began an opera career in Germany; the next year she sang the part of Electra in the 1951 Salzburg Festival presentation of ''Idomeneo,'' conducted by Georg Solti.
In 1956, she took over Lotte Lenya's role in ''The Threepenny Opera.
