Katharine Homer was born in New York City to two well-known parents, Sidney Homer, a composer of chamber music and songs, and Louise Homer, a Metropolitan Opera contralto.

        Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
In a way, Ms. Krainik was the personification of the Lyric Opera.
Its endowment had shriveled to $6,000 from nearly $3 million, and cost overruns on an adventurous production of Krzysztof Penderecki's ''Paradise Lost'' in 1978 and on the  elaborate 25th-anniversary celebration in 1979, left the Lyric Opera with a $1.2 million deficit.
''
        She restored the company's fortunes quickly, and by 1993 she had raised much of the money required for a $100 million project to purchase and restore the company's home, the Civic Opera House.
Although the company had always presented contemporary work, she made its commitment to modern opera formal in 1989, when she announced ''Toward the 21st Century,'' a decadelong series that would include two 20th-century operas every season: 10 by American composers, 10 by Europeans, with newly commissioned works along the way.
By 1980 Ms. Krainik had grown restless at the Lyric Opera, where her further career prospects seemed limited, and where the dire financial situation had made the company itself unstable.
She considered an offer to become general manager of the Australian Opera, in Sydney, and in December 1980 she informed the Lyric Opera board that she would be leaving.
She considered an offer to become general manager of the Australian Opera, in Sydney, and in December 1980 she informed the Lyric Opera board that she would be leaving.
But at the same time, Fox resigned because of poor health, and the Lyric Opera board offered the general directorship to Ms. Krainik.
Many of the opera world's biggest stars turned up to sing at a gala concert in her honor in October.
Ms. Krainik was particularly proud of her ''Toward the 21st Century'' series, a program that proved that opera audiences were not thwarted by new works.
''I want American opera to reach its zenith,'' she said in 1990.
We have to have our own unique American opera, not just a hashed-over European art form.
It was, in fact, Ms. Piper's suggestion that Britten base on opera on the Henry James novella about a governess who wrestles with a pair of ghosts she believes are corrupting the children in her care.
There was a long hiatus between ''The Turn of the Screw'' and Ms. Piper's next libretto for Britten, but in 1968, when Britten was commissioned to write an opera for television, he settled on another Henry James story, ''Owen Wingrave,'' and revived the collaboration that had worked so well in ''The Turn of the Screw.
''
        Soon after ''Owen Wingrave'' had its premiere, in 1971, Britten invited Ms. Piper to write a libretto for what would be his final opera, ''Death in Venice,'' based on the Thomas Mann novel.
Although she often sang operatic arias in recitals, the lasting effects of polio made it nearly impossible for her to perform in staged opera productions.
She spoke French and German, heard her first opera when she was 10, discovered art at the Barnes Collection and despite the comforts of her life, developed an early sense of social injustice.
She spoke French and German, heard her first opera when she was 10, discovered art at the Barnes Collection, and despite those comforts, developed an early sense of social justice.
Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany.
Miss Biracree also provided dances and performers for productions by the Eastman School Opera Department in Rochester, and was a regional representative for the Lincoln Kirstein-George Balanchine School of American Ballet.
Miss Danilova gained the reputation of being an artist who was never slack and who gave one-night appearances in tiny villages the same loving care that she bestowed upon seasons at the Metropolitan Opera House.
She also studied the piano and enjoyed the opera.
She acted in revivals of plays by Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, Thornton Wilder and John Osborne, while also performing in new works (''The Shadow Box'') and, occasionally, musicals (for 10 years she studied opera).
She also played a leading role in organizing dinner dance benefits for the New York City Opera and the School of American Ballet.

        Kaaren Erickson, a soprano who was on the roster of the Metropolitan Opera for the last 12 years and whose repertory ranged from Handel oratorios to Philip Glass's most recent opera, died on Saturday at her home in Maryville, Tenn. She was 44.

        Kaaren Erickson, a soprano who was on the roster of the Metropolitan Opera for the last 12 years and whose repertory ranged from Handel oratorios to Philip Glass's most recent opera, died on Saturday at her home in Maryville, Tenn. She was 44.
She made her San Francisco Opera debut in a production of Massenet's ''Cendrillon'' in 1982.
In 1984, she made her New York City Opera debut as Pamina in Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' and the next year she made her Metropolitan Opera debut as Susanna in ''Le Nozze di Figaro.
In 1984, she made her New York City Opera debut as Pamina in Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' and the next year she made her Metropolitan Opera debut as Susanna in ''Le Nozze di Figaro.

        Helen Jepson, a soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and with other American companies in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. She was 92 and lived in Bradenton.
Ms. Jepson's attractive lyric soprano, preserved on recordings of excerpts from Verdi's ''Otello,'' and her radiant good looks -- she had blond hair and dark eyes -- made her a favorite of opera fans who wanted to see an American soprano sing beside the more prominent European stars of the day.
While still a student, she sang with the Philadelphia Civic Opera, and organized a student troupe that spent a summer performing in small towns across the country.
She made her debut with the Philadelphia Grand Opera Company in 1930.
After that company disbanded in 1932, Miss Jepson moved to New York, where she sang in choruses and as a soloist on several radio programs before auditioning for the Metropolitan Opera.
She moved to Bradenton in 1976, and was on the board of the Sarasota Opera Association and the Bradenton Opera Association.
She moved to Bradenton in 1976, and was on the board of the Sarasota Opera Association and the Bradenton Opera Association.
''There must be 40 or 50 others like me in the country, with a desire for self-expression and no urge to move to Hollywood and make soap opera,'' Miss Clarke said.
Mr. Gonzalez attended the funeral today, as did the Spanish tenor Placido Domingo, whom Ms. Miro had seen perform at the Royal Theater opera house in Madrid the night before she died.

        Margaret Harshaw, an American soprano and mezzo-soprano who was best known as a Wagnerian singer but whose performances in Mozart and Verdi operas were also highly regarded, died on Friday at Condell Memorial Hospital in Libertyville, Ill. She was 88 and lived in Lake Forest, Ill.
        Ms. Harshaw sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 22 seasons, from November 1942, when she made her debut as the Second Norn in Wagner's ''Die Gotterdammerung,'' until March 1964, when she gave her final performance as Ortud in ''Lohengrin.
In March 1942, Miss Harshaw won the Metropolitan Opera's Auditions of the Air, and she began her career at the house at the start of the next season.
''
        Ms. Harshaw also sang at Covent Garden, Glyndebourne, the San Francisco Opera, the Paris Opera and with companies in Philadelphia, Cincinnati, New Orleans, San Antonio, Pittsburgh and Houston.
''
        Ms. Harshaw also sang at Covent Garden, Glyndebourne, the San Francisco Opera, the Paris Opera and with companies in Philadelphia, Cincinnati, New Orleans, San Antonio, Pittsburgh and Houston.
She donated a section of the lobby of the Metropolitan Opera House in Lincoln Center in honor of her mother, Mrs. Moses L. Annenberg, and she contributed over the years to the New York Philharmonic, the Musicians Emergency Fund and to various outdoor concert programs.
The author of 10 novels, dozens of stories and essays, an opera libretto and a screenplay, she began as a writer by publishing her own books and peddling them from bookshop to bookshop, once working as a stripper on 42d Street to support herself.
Her opera libretto, ''Birth of a Poet,'' on which she collaborated with the composer Peter Gordon, was performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1985.
She appeared with the Marx Brothers in ''A Night at the Opera.
'' She studied voice both in Rome and in California and later sang a duet with the Metropolitan Opera tenor James Melton in the movie, ''Ziegfeld Follies.
In 1948, she was in the world premiere of Kurt Weill and Arnold Sundgaard's folk opera, ''Down in the Valley,'' at Indiana University and repeated her role on television.
Later she sang at the St. Louis Municipal Opera, the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera and the Sacramento Music Circus.
Later she sang at the St. Louis Municipal Opera, the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera and the Sacramento Music Circus.
