'' ''We're a true soap opera,'' she remarked to the reporter.
Nedda Logan appeared in many Broadway plays, including ''Dracula,'' ''Merry Andrew'' and ''Becky Sharp,'' as well as films, including ''Charlie Chan at the Opera,'' ''The Case of the Black Cat'' and ''Devil's Island.
Miss Thomas, who was born in Newport, R.I., began acting at 4 years old, in a Metropolitan Opera production of ''The Merchant of Venice.
At the time of her death she was preparing for a trip to Fort Worth, where her one-act opera ''Cockcrow'' (1953) was scheduled for performance.
She retired in 1979 from the soap opera ''Love of Life.

       Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Mrs. Dansereau was a native of Jersey City who performed in many tours of such operettas as ''Countess Maritza'' and ''Blossom Time'' and later taught voice at the Juilliard School and at her home.

       Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Muriel Tannehill Dansereau, a lyric soprano who sang in opera houses in Europe and the United States, died of pneumonia on May 13 at a nursing home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 96 years old and had lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y.
        Mrs. Dansereau was a native of Jersey City who performed in many tours of such operettas as ''Countess Maritza'' and ''Blossom Time'' and later taught voice at the Juilliard School and at her home.

       Zinka Milanov, the leading dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera for nearly 30 years until her retirement in 1966, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Zinka Milanov, the leading dramatic soprano of the Metropolitan Opera for nearly 30 years until her retirement in 1966, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
On Dec. 17, 1937, the young Yugoslav soprano made her Metropolitan Opera debut as Leonora in Verdi's ''Trovatore.
In her first season at the Metropolitan Opera, Olin Downes, then the chief music critic of The New York Times, constantly referred to her ''magnificent'' voice and her ''grand manner.
When Edward Johnson, then general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, heard her in 1937 at the Salzburg Festival, where she was singing under the baton of Arturo Toscanini, he immediately recognized her potential and offered her a contract that had two stipulations: She had to learn her roles in Italian (up to then she had been singing Italian operas in her native Croatian or in German), and she had to take off 25 pounds.
'' A Formidable Ego
        Miss Milanov was a legend around the Metropolitan Opera in more ways than one.
But there was never a time in any opera when she did not thrill her audiences, and she did so entirely through her voice, because she never was much of an actress.
She was equally impressive in ''Il Trovatore,'' an opera that she ''owned.
'' Fortunately, she recorded that opera with Jussi Bjoerling and Leonard Warren, and connoisseurs believe it is the greatest performance of that work ever put on disks.
After graduating from the Royal Music Academy in Zagreb, where she won first prize in singing, Miss Kunc became a member of the State Opera, making her debut as Leonora in ''Il Trovatore.
''
        Soon she was singing in opera houses in Germany and Central Europe, and appearing with orchestras under conductors like Bruno Walter.
Gave 445 Met Performances
        At the Metropolitan Opera she specialized in Verdi roles, above all ''Aida,'' which she sang at the house and on tour with the Met 75 times.
She was honored on her 25th anniversary at the Metropolitan Opera with an on-stage ceremony, with Rudolf Bing, the Met's general manager, as master of ceremonies.
She decided to retire at the end of the 1965-66 season, just before the opening of the new opera house in Lincoln Center.
She settled in New York City, where she soon became a guest observer for NBC radio and the host for broadcasts including Metropolitan Opera performances and Berkshire music festivals.
'' Other Stage Roles
        Off Broadway, her favorite roles included Mrs. Peachum in the long-running ''Three Penny Opera,'' Julie in Jerome Kern's ''Show Boat,'' Mother Grieg in ''Song of Norway,'' Aunt Eller in ''Oklahoma!

       Norma French, an American coloratura soprano who sang with the New York City Opera, died of lymphoma on June 26 at Toronto General Hospital.
Norma French, an American coloratura soprano who sang with the New York City Opera, died of lymphoma on June 26 at Toronto General Hospital.
Miss French made her City Opera debut in 1972 as Gilda in ''Rigoletto,'' and subsequently performed in company productions of ''The Barber of Seville,'' ''The Magic Flute'' and ''L'Incoronazione di Poppea.
'' She sang with the New York Grand Opera, the Cincinnati Opera, the Alabama Symphony Orchestra and at Wolf Trap and Caramoor.
'' She sang with the New York Grand Opera, the Cincinnati Opera, the Alabama Symphony Orchestra and at Wolf Trap and Caramoor.
She also gave recitals and wrote and performed a concert program called ''Some of My Best Friends Like Opera.
Seven years later she became the first woman to conduct an opera performance by a major New York company when she led the New York Hippodrome Opera production of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel.
Seven years later she became the first woman to conduct an opera performance by a major New York company when she led the New York Hippodrome Opera production of Humperdinck's ''Hansel and Gretel.
During her student years, she supported herself by playing piano recitals and became interested in conducting while working as an assistant to Paul Steindorff, the director of the San Francisco Opera.
She also directed the Denver Opera Association, the Women's String Orchestra and the Boulder Philharmonic and was active as a teacher.

       Margaret Batts Tobin, a longtime board member of the Metropolitan Opera, died of bone cancer last Thursday in San Antonio, her hometown.
Margaret Batts Tobin, a longtime board member of the Metropolitan Opera, died of bone cancer last Thursday in San Antonio, her hometown.
Mrs. Tobin helped found the San Antonio Symphony Society in 1939 and its opera series five years later.
She was also a major supporter of the Santa Fe Opera and the Spoleto Festival in Italy.
She was first elected to the Metropolitan Opera's board in 1969.
Miss DeGaetani, who sang everything but opera, had one of the largest repertories of any singer before the public.
In 1956, they toured with programs of Mozart's music for two and three pianos, with their nephew, the pianist and opera impresario Boris Goldovsky.

       Mattlyn Gavers, a former ballet mistress of the Metropolitan Opera and a professor of ballet at the University of Utah, died of emphysema on Aug. 19 in Salt Lake City.
Mattlyn Gavers, a former ballet mistress of the Metropolitan Opera and a professor of ballet at the University of Utah, died of emphysema on Aug. 19 in Salt Lake City.
In 1950, she began a 15-year association with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet in New York, serving first as assistant to Antony Tudor, its director at the time; she was appointed ballet mistress in 1955.
'' She also choreographed the Little Orchestra Society's production of George Kleinsinger's opera ''The Swallow and the Prince'' in 1950.
After leaving the Met, she served as assistant ballet director of the Vienna State Opera for two years.
Mrs. Willis, whose grandfather, Harvey S. Firestone Sr., founded the Firestone Tire and Rubber Company in Akron, Ohio, had been a member of the National Council of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a trustee of the Archives of American Art and the New England Conservatory of Music.
'' Ms. Crossman-Hecht made her performing debut at age 12 with the Juilliard Symphony Orchestra and was first pianist with the Teatro dell'Opera in Rome and a soloist with the Rome Opera Orchestra.
For 10 years in the 1930's and 1940's, she was a star of the Municipal Opera Company of St. Louis, appearing in plays by Noel Coward and Moss Hart.
A 30-year member of the board of the Goodspeed Opera House Foundation, in Chester, Conn., Miss Terris sang there occasionally and supported the theater.
Later, she established a fund to encourage performing artists and composers and endowed an intern program at the Goodspeed Opera House, which aids young people starting theatrical careers.
She was born in Columbus, Kan., to a singer, who named her after the Bellini opera ''Norma.
She was network director for CBS in the early 1950's, and she directed the New York City Opera in 1957-58 when it was at City Center.
Among her leading roles were the Queen of Spades in ''The Card Party'' and the Bride's Friend in ''Le Baiser de la Fee,'' both created by Balanchine for a Stravinsky Festival in 1937 at the Metropolitan Opera House, then the home of the American Ballet.
Her writing included an English translation, with James Durbin Jr., of Rossini's opera ''Cenerentola'' (Cinderella).
