She pursued her interests in fashion, theater and opera.
Friends recalled that on one occasion at the Metropolitan Opera, she paused as she walked down the aisle to make sure that the plaque bearing her name was still attached to an orchestra seat.
She was soon performing in halls as far from home as the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco, earning as much as $2,000 a performance.
''
        Among her compositions are two ballets, an opera called ''King David'' and two piano concertos, the second of which was performed twice with the Los Angeles Philharmonic, conducted by Zubin Mehta.
Her last major work, ''The Memoirs of Uliana Rooney'' (1994), was a multimedia opera with a libretto by Sonya Friedman that followed a female composer through the decades of the 20th century.
Working with Tim Moore, who became famous as Kingfish in the ''Amos 'n' Andy'' television series, she performed the burial scene from the play ''Porgy,'' the precursor to the same scene in Gershwin's opera ''Porgy and Bess.
'' in 1976 and ''The Blue Opera,'' a contemporary treatment of Orpheus and Eurydice.
She taught in several colleges before moving to Seattle, where she also staged dances for the Seattle Opera.
In addition to her daughter Katie, an actress who lives in Stratford, Ms. Marchand is survived by a son, David of Madison, Wis.; another daughter, Rachel Sparer Bersier, an opera singer of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
That same year she also played the wicked stepmother in a revival of Rodgers and Hammerstein's ''Cinderella'' at the New York City Opera.
She started a classical music section of the W. Colston Leigh speakers bureau, where she represented Melchior and other opera stars.
''Thea has always been open to hearing anybody who calls the office for an audition,'' said Mr. Leech, who signed with the agency during his first season with the New York City Opera in 1984.
''
        Although critics derided the moralistic melodramas as ''Sunday night soap opera,'' the series became one of the most popular on television, earning Miss Young millions of dollars and a reputation as one of the best businesswomen in Hollywood.
From 1961 to 1970 she played the role of Louise Capice, an upper-class suburban wife on the daytime soap opera ''The Edge of Night.
'' In 1974 she joined the writing staff of the ABC soap opera ''All My Children.

        Sally Amato, a singer and actress who founded the Amato Opera with her husband, the conductor Anthony Amato, died on Wednesday at her home in City Island in the Bronx.
For more than 50 years, Mrs. Amato was in many ways the welcoming face of her family-run opera company.
The company became a home for enthusiasts on both sides of the footlights: amateur singers (and some who became professionals) go there to learn and perform the great works and occasional rarities, and opera lovers on tight budgets go there to hear their favorite scores.
She began her performing career as a child, when she and her sisters performed vaudeville skits in movie theaters, and she continued to work as an actress and singer into the first decades of the Amato Opera, which she and her husband started in 1948.
They also shared an abiding love of opera, and it occurred to them soon after World War II that a company was needed to provide opportunities for aspiring singers returning from military service.
The Amato Opera gave its first performances in the basement of Our Lady of Pompeii Church in Greenwich Village.

        Helen Quinn, who for more than 30 years presided firmly over the Metropolitan Opera patrons who lined up every Saturday morning to buy standing-room tickets for the next  week's performances, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
In 1943, having just finished high school in Manhattan, she attended a performance of Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' at the Met and was instantly hooked on opera.
Under Ms. Quinn's system, as opera buffs arrived, many as early as 4 or 5 a.m., they wrote their names on a numbered list on her clipboard, then went home or to a coffee shop across the street, leaving Ms. Quinn to wait in their place.
Happy that someone was in charge, the opera buffs complied.
In the early 1960's, when she heard that a new Metropolitan Opera House would be built, she moved to  an apartment on West 57th Street to be close.
Ms. Mercer appeared in the soap opera ''For Better or Worse'' and as a nurse in the syndicated medical series ''Dr.
After touring in Italy, she moved to the United States in 1947, then sang for two seasons with the New York City Opera.
That same year she married Mr. Hines, a leading bass at the Metropolitan Opera.
She and Mr. Hines were co-founders of Opera Music Theater International, a training company for young singers.
She also organized a series of benefits for the New Jersey State Opera, which were held at places like the Newark Museum and the Meadowlands.
It often sent groups on tour while other dancers continued to perform at the Palacio de Bellas Artes, the Mexico City opera house.
After appearing in some bit parts, she headed for New York, where she was cast in more than 400 radio shows, including a nine-month stint on the soap opera ''Our Gal Sunday,'' from 1943 to 1945.

        Ruth Martin, a writer whose English translations of both popular and obscure operas were widely used in American opera houses, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Miss Kelley married Thomas Martin, a conductor who was born in Vienna and later conducted at the New York City Opera and worked with several other music theater ensembles.
Their first, Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' was performed at the Metropolitan Opera, as were several of their subsequent translations.
''The translator,'' Mrs. Martin wrote in The Times in 1948, ''derives a great degree of satisfaction from helping to present an opera to American audiences in the way both the composer and his librettist intended, namely, as a drama set to music, which may be enjoyed without reference to the libretto in intermissions.
''
        Mrs. Martin also wrote articles on opera for Opera News, Aria and Theater Arts.
''
        Mrs. Martin also wrote articles on opera for Opera News, Aria and Theater Arts.
She was on the boards of the New York Federation of Music Clubs, the Liederkranz Foundation and the National Opera Foundation.
Among the honors she received for her work was a lifetime achievement award from the National Opera Association in 1998.
Eventually, she developed a way for them to go to a range of cultural events, from City Center Theater, the opera and ballet center that preceded Lincoln Center, to Carnegie Hall to small Off Broadway theaters.
