Ms. Ralston came out of retirement in 1961 to play the mother in a daytime soap opera on NBC, "Our Five Daughters.

        Sherry Mathis, an actress who performed on Broadway and in the daytime soap opera "Search for Tomorrow," died on Jan. 23 in Memphis.

        Jarmila Novotna, a Czech-born lyric soprano who sang major roles at the Metropolitan Opera from 1940 to 1956, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
"
        In her years at the Metropolitan Opera, Miss Novotna sang 193 performances -- 142 in the opera house, the rest on tour -- and won consistent praise for her expressiveness and musicianship.
"
        In her years at the Metropolitan Opera, Miss Novotna sang 193 performances -- 142 in the opera house, the rest on tour -- and won consistent praise for her expressiveness and musicianship.
Art as Beauty
        "Of course there are many important things in life besides music," she said in a 1989 interview in Opera News, "but that doesn't make music unimportant.
"
        Miss Novotna studied with Emmy Destinn and made her debut at the age of 17 with the Prague National Opera.
She continued her studies in Milan and became a member of the Vienna State Opera from 1933 to 1938, eventually singing opera and concerts in most of the major houses of Europe.
She continued her studies in Milan and became a member of the Vienna State Opera from 1933 to 1938, eventually singing opera and concerts in most of the major houses of Europe.
She was frequently seen at opera performances and at events celebrating the art of singing.

        Tiana Lemnitz, a German soprano who was a major interpreter of opera and lieder in Europe after World War I, died on Feb. 5 in Berlin.
She sang at Covent Garden in 1934 and at the Teatro Colon in Buenos Aires in 1936, but the war prevented her from accepting an invitation to the Metropolitan Opera in the 1939-40 season.
Her final opera role was the Marschallin in Berlin in 1955, and she ended her career with a lieder recital in Berlin's new opera house in 1957.
      
Her final opera role was the Marschallin in Berlin in 1955, and she ended her career with a lieder recital in Berlin's new opera house in 1957.
      
She was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and a chairwoman of the Polonaise Ball.
      

        Doris C. Frankel, a playwright whose work found its way to Broadway, radio and television and who won an Emmy Award for her work on the soap opera "All My Children," died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
She and her husband, Julius Fleischmann, whose family made its fortune through yeast, were benefactors of many cultural and civic groups, including the New York Public Library, the Metropolitan Opera and the Council on Foreign Affairs.
Mrs. Logan was active in committees aiding the National Society of Arts and Letters, the Corcoran Gallery of Art, the National Symphony and the Opera Society of Washington.
She then danced with the Paris Opera and, at 19, succeeded Mistinguette as star of the Casino de Paris Revue.

        Natalie Hall Rowe, a musical-comedy star and opera singer in New York and London in the 1920's and 30's, died last Friday at her home in Edgecomb, Me.
A lyric soprano, she then played a variety of roles with the American Opera Company from 1928 to 1930, including Marguerite in "Faust" and the leads in "Carmen" and "Yolanda in Cyprus.
She studied Spanish dance in New York and Madrid with many teachers, and ballet in New York with Michel Fokine and at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School.
After appearing with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet as a teen-ager, she made her debut as a Spanish dancer with a solo concert in New York in 1927.
Miss Nelli, a solid, able singer who was often called "the Toscanini soprano" because of her seven-year association with the conductor, was reared in Pittsburgh and made her debut in 1937 with the Salmaggi Opera in New York City.
"
        Over the next seven years she sang with the orchestra in several Verdi operas and went to Italy with Toscanini for the postwar reopening of La Scala opera house.
She made her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1953 in "Aida" and sang many leading roles there.
Mrs. Rothman, who used her maiden name in performance, made her debut with the Chicago Civic Opera in 1934, as Gilda in "Rigoletto.
" She sang with the Cincinnati Summer Opera and made nationwide concert tours.
She made her New York City Opera debut in 1946, as Violetta in "La Traviata" and was heard regularly on the radio.
She later sang leading roles with the Detroit Civic Light Opera and at the Paper Mill Playhouse in Millburn, N.J.
After starring in the radio soap opera "Mr. Pepper's Family" and taking ingenue roles on the stage, she made her Broadway debut in "The Land Is Bright" in 1941.
She also performed at the Colorado Springs Opera, with Sarah Caldwell's company in Boston, and with the Mostly Mozart Festival.
She also was a professor of music and head of the voice department at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, where she also directed the Summer Opera Workshop.
Her encounter with Broadway was brought about by the composer Gian Carlo Menotti for the 1950 production of "The Medium," a folk opera, at the Arena stage of the Hotel Edison.
Dr. George had sung the opera's leading role of Madame Flora, a fraudulent spiritualist, at the dedication of the Karamu Lyric Theater in Cleveland the year before.
She earned bachelor's degrees in English and music at Western Reserve University (now Case Western Reserve) and moved to New York to become an opera singer.
She was also in the Off Broadway productions of "The Threepenny Opera" and "Brecht on Brecht.
Newspapers in the 1920's and 30's carried stories of her marriages (nine in all, to seven different husbands) and divorces, as well as her affairs with the rich and famous (including Jack Dempsey, Nelson Eddy and the Metropolitan Opera baritone Lawrence Tibbett) and a rape case that ended in the conviction of an Army private.
"
        Miss Hayman had a role in the soap opera "One Life to Live" for 17 years, as the character Sadie Gray, and was a regular on the short-lived "Leslie Uggams Show" in 1969.
Miss Knapp was a leading actress with Dorothy Raedler's Masque and Lyre Light Opera Company, which later became the American Savoyards.
She also sang the role of Mrs. Peachum in the New York City Opera's 1965 production of "The Threepenny Opera," and appeared on television in shows like "The Goldbergs," "Kraft Theater," "I Remember Mama" and "Search for Tomorrow.
She also sang the role of Mrs. Peachum in the New York City Opera's 1965 production of "The Threepenny Opera," and appeared on television in shows like "The Goldbergs," "Kraft Theater," "I Remember Mama" and "Search for Tomorrow.
