Edith, the mother, also incurred the wrath of her father, Major Bouvier, by showing up at the wedding of her son dressed like an opera star, just as the ceremony ended.
Nela, as she was known, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, the daughter of Emil Mlynarski, the founding conductor of the Warsaw Philharmonic and later director of the Warsaw Opera.
She staged her husband's works for the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet, the Frankfurt Ballet, the Cullberg Ballet, the Lyons Opera Ballet and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens.
She staged her husband's works for the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet, the Frankfurt Ballet, the Cullberg Ballet, the Lyons Opera Ballet and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens.
''
        In 1951, she won the role of Jo in a new CBS soap opera, ''Search for Tomorrow,'' and played the long-suffering Joanne until 1986, when the show, which had moved to NBC, went off the air.
Correction:  March 6, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of the soap opera star Mary Stuart on Sunday misstated her age.
Her attitude exasperated many opera buffs, particularly Wagner fans, who heard in her enormous voice the Isolde and Brünnhilde of the future.
She sang those roles tantalizingly in excerpted concert performances of ''Tristan und Isolde'' and ''Götterdämmerung'' with the New York Philharmonic conducted by Leonard Bernstein, but never sang them in the opera house.
Ms. Farrell's belated debut in opera came in 1956, when she appeared as Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' in Tampa, Fla. For her long-awaited Metropolitan Opera debut in 1960 she sang the title role of Gluck's ''Alceste'' in a new production.
Ms. Farrell's belated debut in opera came in 1956, when she appeared as Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' in Tampa, Fla. For her long-awaited Metropolitan Opera debut in 1960 she sang the title role of Gluck's ''Alceste'' in a new production.
She did not help herself by publicly dismissing the genre of opera in several interviews, once describing Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' as ''a real nothing.
But she was impatient with the pretentiousness of the opera world and never embraced it fully.
Her work in popular music, radio and television also tainted her in the eyes of many impresarios, though today a singer with such media appeal would be prized by any opera company.
If Ms. Farrell never fulfilled her potential in opera, she had an important career as a recitalist and vocal soloist with orchestras.
One of her lasting contributions to opera is the recording of a now-historic 1951 Carnegie Hall concert performance of Berg's ''Wozzeck'' with the New York Philharmonic conducted by Dimitri Mitropoulos, with Ms. Farrell as a searing Marie and Mack Harrell in the title role.
In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis recounts a story of Ms. Farrell's first performances with the powerhouse tenor Franco Corelli in ''La Forza del Destino'' in Philadelphia.
''
        Though at full volume Ms. Farrell's voice could fill any opera house, her sound was never strident or forced.
Later she studied in New York with Merle Alcock, a Met contralto, and Eleanor McLellan, a vocal and opera coach.
In the 1950's, when Ms. Farrell had all the concert engagements she could possibly want and was enjoying her regular work with the Bach Aria Group, a respected New York ensemble, she stumbled into one of her greatest popular successes: providing the singing voice for the actress Eleanor Parker in the 1955 film ''Interrupted Melody,'' the story of Marjorie Lawrence, the opera star, and her battle with cancer.
The same year as her 1956 opera debut in Tampa, Ms. Farrell made her San Francisco Opera debut in ''Il Trovatore'' with Jussi Bjorling, returning in 1958 as Cherubini's ''Medea,'' a landmark performance of a work then little-known.
The same year as her 1956 opera debut in Tampa, Ms. Farrell made her San Francisco Opera debut in ''Il Trovatore'' with Jussi Bjorling, returning in 1958 as Cherubini's ''Medea,'' a landmark performance of a work then little-known.
Reflecting on her work in her 1999 autobiography, ''Can't Help Singing,'' written with Brian Kellow, a critic and the features editor of Opera News, Ms. Farrell wrote: ''In some ways I'm not sure I was suited to the career I had -- nothing in my background had really prepared me for how to handle it.
She went to the Brooklyn Academy of Music to see Mark Morris, saw ''War and Peace'' at the Metropolitan Opera House and had tickets for the opening of Mr. Albee's new play ''The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?

        Beverly Bower, an operatic soprano who sang the lead at the first performance in the new Metropolitan Opera House at Lincoln Center, died on March 24 at her home in Washington Township, N.J. She was 76.
She joined the New York City Opera in 1956.
Ms. Bower also sang at the Vienna State Opera under Herbert von Karajan in 1963.
Mrs. Herwitz graduated from Simmons College in Boston and was a trustee of the Connecticut Opera and the Worcester Art Museum.
''
        She was the author or editor of 28 books, essays and novels for children and the libretto for the 1995 opera by John Adams ''I Was Looking at the Ceiling and Then I Saw the Sky.
Roland Petit, one of the world's major choreographers, was an unknown dancer chafing under the strictures of the Paris Opera Ballet when Ms. Lidova presented his first ballets with another young dancer-choreographer, Janine Charrat in 1943 and 1944.
With her help, the San Francisco Opera commissioned new works like ''Dead Man Walking'' and ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and staged productions of operas like Berg's ''Lulu'' and Janacek's ''Katya Kabanova,'' which remain hard-to-sell items in the standard repertory.
''I've had the same seats at the opera for 30 years,'' she said four years ago in an interview in The New York Times.
Although her husband loved opera, he considered visual artists to be little more than ''decorators,'' Mrs. Wattis said.
He later served as managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
She went on to write regularly for the magazines High Fidelity, Musical America (where she wrote a monthly column called Artist Life) and Opera News.
She also wrote a book about the history of the Metropolitan Opera.
An Ohio doctor's daughter, Mrs. McCollum was a concert and opera singer for a short time after graduating from Florida Southern College.
Ms. Hunter caught the acting bug in elementary school and was never a snob about the roles she chose, mixing highly demanding parts with smaller ones in B-movies, long stints in regional theater, television guest appearance and even a running role on an ABC soap opera, ''The Edge of Night,'' in 1979 and 1980.
She worked as a dancer and a choreographer in early dance styles for BBC Television, the Handel Opera Society in London, the New York Pro-Musica Antiqua, the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera, where she created the dances for Thea Musgrave's ''Mary, Queen of Scots'' in 1981.
She worked as a dancer and a choreographer in early dance styles for BBC Television, the Handel Opera Society in London, the New York Pro-Musica Antiqua, the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera, where she created the dances for Thea Musgrave's ''Mary, Queen of Scots'' in 1981.
She worked as a dancer and a choreographer in early dance styles for BBC Television, the Handel Opera Society in London, the New York Pro-Musica Antiqua, the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera, where she created the dances for Thea Musgrave's ''Mary, Queen of Scots'' in 1981.
Another match she worked on was that of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Michael M. Kaiser, who took over as president in 2001 after serving as executive director of the Royal Opera House in London.
She also appeared with companies like American Ballet Theater, the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, the Chicago Opera Ballet and London Festival Ballet, and helped direct and advise several regional ballet troupes, among them the Forth Worth Ballet and the Louisville Ballet.
She also appeared with companies like American Ballet Theater, the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, the Chicago Opera Ballet and London Festival Ballet, and helped direct and advise several regional ballet troupes, among them the Forth Worth Ballet and the Louisville Ballet.

        Vera G. List, a forward-looking philanthropist whose causes included contemporary art, opera, education and social justice, died Thursday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 94.
The Lists' beneficiaries included the Metropolitan Opera, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Jewish Museum and the New School for Social Research, now New School University.
Another endowment enabled New School students to attend the Metropolitan Opera for $5.

        Anne Chotzinoff Grossman, a translator of grand opera and author of a culinary guide to Patrick O'Brian's popular seafaring tales, died on Tuesday at her home in West Gilgo Beach, on the barrier islands off Suffolk County, New York.
Her father, Samuel Chotzinoff, was a pianist, critic, general music director of NBC and founder of the NBC Opera Theater (1949-52).
After graduating from the Katharine Gibbs School in 1948, Mrs. Grossman worked as an associate producer for her father's television opera venture and as a translator for NBC.
She translated opera for English-language productions, starting with a new version of Puccini's ''Gianni Schicchi.
Correction:  November 25, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the opera translator and writer Anne Chotzinoff Grossman on Nov. 9 misstated the life span of the NBC Opera Theater, where she was an associate producer.
Correction:  November 25, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the opera translator and writer Anne Chotzinoff Grossman on Nov. 9 misstated the life span of the NBC Opera Theater, where she was an associate producer.
Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinnear, former president and chief executive of Texaco and chairman of the Metropolitan Opera who will step down later this month and become honorary chairman.

        Maria Bjornson, a designer of sets and costumes for opera, theater and ballet, died at her home in London on Dec. 13.
While acclaimed for her designs for ''Phantom of the Opera,'' for which she won two Tony Awards in 1988, she was mainly active in noncommercial theater.
Her debut project for the Metropolitan Opera, the sets for Francesca Zambello's production of Berlioz's ''Troyens,'' will be seen for the first time on Feb. 10.
Her range, too, was striking, crossing from Janacek's operas with David Pountney at the Welsh National Opera to ''Sleeping Beauty'' for the Royal Ballet to Andrew Lloyd Webber musicals.
Her first collaboration with Ms. Zambello, Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' opened last February at the Royal Opera House, and they were working on two other projects beside ''Les Troyens'': ''The Little Prince'' (which will open at the Houston Grand Opera in June), and Verdi's ''Trovatore'' for the Opéra Bastille in Paris.
Her first collaboration with Ms. Zambello, Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' opened last February at the Royal Opera House, and they were working on two other projects beside ''Les Troyens'': ''The Little Prince'' (which will open at the Houston Grand Opera in June), and Verdi's ''Trovatore'' for the Opéra Bastille in Paris.
