When Mr. Jamieson worked as an aide to Nelson Rockefeller in the State Department, she returned to acting for a year, playing a villainess in a radio soap opera broadcast in Washington.
''But then, I thought, I couldn't go to the opera or a play every night and I'd get tired of shopping,'' she said in an interview with The Modesto Bee in 1996.
She was a lieder and opera singer in Germany for a few years before she married Dr. Schaeffer, who was also born in Germany, not long after World War I ended.
She later studied with the flutist Marcel Moyse as well as with William Kincaid, the principal flutist of the Philadelphia Orchestra, and Harold Bennett, the principal flutist of the Metropolitan Opera orchestra.
When Ms. Lawrence moved to New York in the 1960's, she joined the American Symphony Orchestra and the Brooklyn Philharmonic and performed periodically with the New York Philharmonic and at the Metropolitan Opera.
Ms. Arova was the ballerina with whom Nureyev danced the ''Don Quixote'' pas de deux at his New York debut with Ruth Page's Chicago Opera Ballet on March 10, 1962, at the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
A dancer of strong technique and dramatic projection, Ms. Arova was born Sonia Errio in Sofia, the Bulgarian capital, where she studied music as well as ballet, receiving her dance training at the school of the Sofia Opera Ballet.
Ms. Arova was first associated with Page in Paris in 1951 when she danced a leading role in ''Revenge,'' the popular choreographic adaptation of the opera ''Il Trovatore'' that Page created for Les Ballets des Champs Élysées.

        Frances Bible, a mezzo-soprano who performed in the New York City Opera for nearly 30 years and created roles in several contemporary works, died on Jan. 29 in Hemet, Calif., where she lived.
Ms. Bible's warm voice and lively stage presence -- particularly in trouser roles like Cherubino in Mozart's ''Nozze di Figaro'' and Octavian in Strauss's ''Rosenkavalier'' -- made her one of City Opera's stars  when the roster also included Beverly Sills and Norman Treigle.
Among the roles she created were  Augusta Tabor in Douglas Moore's ''Ballad of Baby Doe'' in 1956 at Central City Opera in Colorado and later at the City Opera, and Elizabeth Proctor in Robert Ward's ''Crucible,'' which had its premiere at the City Opera in 1961.
Among the roles she created were  Augusta Tabor in Douglas Moore's ''Ballad of Baby Doe'' in 1956 at Central City Opera in Colorado and later at the City Opera, and Elizabeth Proctor in Robert Ward's ''Crucible,'' which had its premiere at the City Opera in 1961.
Among the roles she created were  Augusta Tabor in Douglas Moore's ''Ballad of Baby Doe'' in 1956 at Central City Opera in Colorado and later at the City Opera, and Elizabeth Proctor in Robert Ward's ''Crucible,'' which had its premiere at the City Opera in 1961.
She studied voice at the Juilliard School and made her debut at the City Opera as the Shepherd in ''Tosca'' in 1948.
''
        She also sang in the premiere of David Tamkin's ''Dybbuk'' and in  the United States premiere (at the San Francisco Opera) of Walton's ''Troilus and Cressida.
Ms. Zubkovskaya led the troupe in its United States debut when she appeared in the dual role of Odette-Odile in ''Swan Lake'' at the Kirov's opening night on Sept. 11, 1961, at the Metropolitan Opera House.
Mrs. Levin was a longtime board member and benefactor of the School of American Ballet and a patron of both the New York Philharmonic and the Metropolitan Opera.
In the 1950's she choreographed several works for the Royal Swedish Ballet as well as a space age opera, ''Aniara,'' that was typical of her collaboration with Sweden's modernist composers and poets.
It kept that name in 1946 when it moved to the Royal Opera House and in 1949 when it made its New York debut.
After the company settled into the Royal Opera House, Miss de Valois  established a second company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, at Sadler's Wells.
'' She was in the original cast of the 1954 musical ''The Golden Apple'' and many years later had a long-running role as Mrs. Gurney, a nanny, on the television soap opera, ''All My Children.
She was called Portia by friends in grade school, who took the name from the radio soap opera ''Portia Faces Life.
''
        Ms. Karnilova's career after 1946 was focused on Broadway and television as well as opera and regional stage productions.
From the 1940's through the 60's, these included ''Miss Liberty,'' ''Two's Company,'' ''The Beggar's Opera,'' ''Kaleidoscope'' and ''Bravo Giovanni.
She started her professional career in 1927 in the Children's Ballet of the Metropolitan Opera and joined the corps when Ballet Theater, now American Ballet Theater, was founded in 1939.
The cashier pointed to the Metropolitan Opera House, then on West 39th Street.
Ms. Karnilova began studying with Margaret Curtis at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School and trained later with Fokine, Tudor, Edward Caton and Anton Dolin.
After appearing in small groups headed by Fokine and Mikhail Mordkin, whose company was the nucleus of Ballet Theater, she danced with the Salmaggi Opera at the Hippodrome in New York and in ''Stars in Your Eyes,'' a Broadway musical.
She was the ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Company in the 1952-53 season.

        Graziella Sciutti, an Italian soprano and opera director whose purity of sound and deft characterizations won her admiration in Mozart, Puccini and Verdi roles, died on Monday in Geneva.
''
        Ms. Sciutti made her Covent Garden debut in 1956, and her American debut, at the San Francisco Opera, in 1961.
She was also a member of the Vienna State Opera roster for several years, where her most successful roles were in the Mozart operas and as Nanetta in a Luchino Visconti production of Verdi's ''Falstaff.
She staged productions of ''Le Nozze di Figaro'' and Donizetti's ''Elisir d'Amore'' at the Canadian Opera, and in 1983 she made her New York directing debut with a highly praised staging of Puccini's ''Bohème'' at the Juilliard School.
In 1984 she revised Colin Graham's production of ''Così Fan Tutte'' at the Metropolitan Opera.
Her 1995 staging of ''La Bohème'' at the New York City Opera won an Emmy Award after it was broadcast as part of the ''Live From Lincoln Center'' series in 1997.
Ms. Sciutti taught at the Royal College of Music in London and gave master classes at the Lyric Center of Chicago, at the Juilliard School and as part of the Merola Opera Program at the San Francisco Opera.
Ms. Sciutti taught at the Royal College of Music in London and gave master classes at the Lyric Center of Chicago, at the Juilliard School and as part of the Merola Opera Program at the San Francisco Opera.
In 1975, when the two singers appeared together at the Metropolitan Opera in ''Die Walküre,'' Ms. Hunter as Brünnhilde and Ms. Nilsson switching from that role to Sieglinde, it was as if the bequeathing -- or the challenge -- were being staged.
In 1954 she joined the chorus of the Sadler's Wells Opera, in London, and continued her training with Edward Renton.
Three years later she joined the Carl Rosa Opera and married a colleague, the baritone John Darnley-Thomas.
In 1968 she had a baby, but was soon preparing for the English National Opera's ''Ring,'' under the conductor Reginald Goodall.
Her other roles included Abigaille in ''Nabucco'' (New Orleans, 1978), Turandot (Welsh National Opera, 1979) and Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' (Welsh National Opera, 1980).
Her other roles included Abigaille in ''Nabucco'' (New Orleans, 1978), Turandot (Welsh National Opera, 1979) and Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' (Welsh National Opera, 1980).
In 1981 she signed a three-year contract with the Australian Opera, and sang Brünnhilde, Isolde, Donna Anna in ''Don Giovanni,'' Aida, the ''Trovatore'' Leonora, Norma, and Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana.
She was an advisory director of the Metropolitan Opera.
She was also the touring lighting designer and technical director for City Ballet as well as American Ballet Theater and Jerome Robbins's  Ballets: U.S.A. She is thought to have been the first American stage manager to work on programs at the Paris Opera, Rome Opera and La Scala.
She was also the touring lighting designer and technical director for City Ballet as well as American Ballet Theater and Jerome Robbins's  Ballets: U.S.A. She is thought to have been the first American stage manager to work on programs at the Paris Opera, Rome Opera and La Scala.
She also designed the lighting for solo ballet and opera performers like Rudolf Nureyev, Mikhail Baryshnikov, Teresa Berganza and Joan Sutherland.
She was a major collaborator with Frank Corsaro, the opera director, in the mid-1970's, helping to develop  systems to meld lighting, film and projections in multimedia productions for the New York City Opera and Opera Society of Washington.
She was a major collaborator with Frank Corsaro, the opera director, in the mid-1970's, helping to develop  systems to meld lighting, film and projections in multimedia productions for the New York City Opera and Opera Society of Washington.
She was a major collaborator with Frank Corsaro, the opera director, in the mid-1970's, helping to develop  systems to meld lighting, film and projections in multimedia productions for the New York City Opera and Opera Society of Washington.
She and Ms. Kinsella served as  consultants for projects including  theaters, opera houses and small community theaters as well as the lighting for Niagara Falls.
      
Blending lunatic fantasy and more contortions than a fun house mirror, Ms. Coca caricatured the foibles of housewives, spinsters, opera singers, ballet dancers, pouting flappers and haughty socialites, while Mr. Caesar provided the stoicism of a luckless schlemazel and wacky foreign accents -- memorably, a fastidious Prussian with a ''geschmutzik'' monocle who dons a bemedaled tunic and braided military cap and barks orders at his aide-de-camp: ''Brushin' a Prussian!
But soon after her marriage in 1923 to Maurice Sens, a tenor at the Comic Opera, she decided to cultivate her voice, with her husband's encouragement.
She made her debut in 1933 at Covent Garden as Marguerite in the first British stage production of Berlioz's ''Damnation of Faust,'' and in 1937 she made her American debut at the Metropolitan Opera in the title role of Verdi's ''Aida.
They have been seen on film, in an animated television series in Japan and in theater and opera.
One was Vincent la Selva and the New York Grand Opera, which recently completed a complete cycle of Verdi's operas in Central Park, an achievement for which Ms. Williamson helped get them a citation in the  Guinness Book of World Records.
There was that time when Mrs. Newhouse, as an original board member of the New York City Opera, informed sorrowful board members that she planned on retiring, but she told them, rather drily, not to worry.
She called up her nephew Mark Newhouse, who later became the opera board's president.
''
        Mrs. Newhouse also put the bite on her niece  Caroline Diamond Harrison, noting pointedly that Mrs. Harrison's sister Alison Diamond Levasseur is on the junior committee of the New York City Opera, and that she too should have something to do.
''
        Although she later played Polly Peachum in Laurence Olivier's film of ''The Beggar's Opera'' and was in ''The Shooting Party'' with James Mason and John Gielgud, most of her acting was in the theater.

        Barbara Matera, a costumer who for five decades dressed the casts of the New York City Ballet, the Metropolitan Opera, movies and more than 100 Broadway shows, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center in New York.
Here, she became the archetypal costumer in the worlds of opera, ballet, theater and film, collaborating with the designers Irene Sharaff, her mentor; Theoni V. Aldredge; Patricia Zipprodt; Tony Walton; Julie Taymor; William Ivey Long; Freddy Wittop; and Desmond Healy.
The play has been revived frequently, and in 1974 it was transformed into an opera.
''This is a singer with temperament, an abundance of animal spirits and brains to boot,'' Harold C. Schonberg wrote in The New York Times in February 1957, during her debut season with the Metropolitan Opera.
She worked as a secretary until she was 28, and did not make her stage debut until 1942, when she sang Hänsel in Humperdinck's ''Hänsel und Gretel'' at the opera house in Remscheid.
After the war, in 1945, Miss Mödl performed at the opera house in Düsseldorf, where she took on such mezzo roles as Dorabella (''Così Fan Tutte''), Octavian (''Der Rosenkavalier'') and Carmen.
The role of Marie in Berg's ''Wozzeck,'' which she first sang in 1947, opened the way to 20th-century opera, in which she was later to specialize, and was also her first excursion into soprano territory.
In 1955 she sang Leonore in the ''Fidelio'' that opened the restored Vienna State Opera, which she later called ''one of the most memorable moments of my life.
Her Metropolitan Opera career was somewhat more circumscribed.
