Except for a brief stint as a first ballerina and choreographer with the Chicago Lyric Opera, she spent the rest of her career teaching, and she become known as a gifted trainer of female dancers.

        Alberta Masiello, a longtime singers' coach at the Metropolitan Opera and a regular panelist in the Saturday afternoon Metropolitan Opera Quiz, died on Christmas Day at her Manhattan apartment.

        Alberta Masiello, a longtime singers' coach at the Metropolitan Opera and a regular panelist in the Saturday afternoon Metropolitan Opera Quiz, died on Christmas Day at her Manhattan apartment.
Miss Masiello was born in Milan, Italy, into a family of singers; her mother, Josephine La Puma, had a subsequent career with small opera companies in New York City.
Gravitating to singing, she had a brief career as a mezzo-soprano, appearing in nightclubs during World War II and as Carmen and in other roles at the fledgling New York City Opera in the 1940's.
But she soon devoted herself to vocal coaching, working privately in Manhattan and at the Chicago Lyric Opera in the 1950's before joining the Metropolitan in 1959.
Miss Masiello was best known for her frequent appearances on the Metropolitan Opera Quiz, an intermission feature of the Metropolitan's nationally broadcast Saturday matinee performances.
She began her Broadway career in the production of "Billy Budd" in 1951, when she was also costume director for the City Center Opera's 1951-52 season.

        Miriam Burton Holman, a soprano and actress who appeared on Broadway and in opera, died last Sunday at High Ridge House, a Christian Science nursing facility in the Bronx.
She was a soloist at Carnegie Hall with the Symphony of the Air and the Dessoff Choirs, and appeared in several operas, including Gershwin's "Porgy and Bess" and the premiere of Carlisle Floyd's "Passion of Jonathan Wade" with the New York City Opera in 1962.
Dame Margot, then 30 years old, stunned the audience in the Metropolitan Opera House with her performance as the youthful Aurora.
On May 30, 1990, the Royal Ballet offered a gala performance of "Romeo and Juliet" in her honor at the Royal Opera House at which Sylvie Guillem and Jonathan Cope portrayed the young lovers and two of Dame Margot's former partners were seen in supporting roles.
"
        She had roles in the Off Broadway production of "The Threepenny Opera" in 1954, in "Are You Now or Have You Every Been" in 1978 and in "A Conflict of Interest" in 1979.
"
        She had roles in the Off Broadway production of "The Threepenny Opera" in 1954, in "Are You Now or Have You Every Been" in 1978 and in "A Conflict of Interest" in 1979.
She also appeared in Leonide Massine's "Sacre du Printemps" at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1930.
Mrs. Boissevain appeared, as Jean Tennyson, with several leading European and American opera companies, including La Scala in Milan, the Chicago Civic Opera and the San Francisco Opera Company.
Mrs. Boissevain appeared, as Jean Tennyson, with several leading European and American opera companies, including La Scala in Milan, the Chicago Civic Opera and the San Francisco Opera Company.
Mrs. Boissevain appeared, as Jean Tennyson, with several leading European and American opera companies, including La Scala in Milan, the Chicago Civic Opera and the San Francisco Opera Company.

        Margaret Kalil, a soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal.
Miss Kalil was a soloist with the Metropolitan Opera from 1965 to 1973.
She appeared in opera houses around the world, danced at the coronation of Emperor Hirohito of Japan in 1928 and gave programs in the Soviet Union in 1930.
Their success prompted her to found the Chicago Opera Ballet in 1956, a touring company that featured ballets inspired by operas and operettas.
Jack Lang, the French Minister of Culture, personally decorated her in 1984 with the Legion of Honor at the Paris Opera.

        Emily McLaughlin, an actress who was a star in the television soap opera "General Hospital" for nearly three decades, died of cancer on Friday at her home here.
She also helped run benefit concerts for the Metropolitan Opera National Council audition for several years.
Mrs. Kemper was a member of the Women's Board of the Lyric Opera of Chicago.
Dutton, 1941); "Lunacy Becomes Us," quotations from Hitler and other top Nazis (Liveright, 1939); "Jean de Reszke and the Great Days of Opera" (Minton, Balch, 1934).
She was a board member of the East Side Settlement House and the New York City Opera Guild and chairwoman of the benefit for the American Foundation for AIDS Research.
Her theater work included sets for John Moran's multi-media opera "The Manson Family" and collaborations with XXY Dance/Music, a multi-media dance company.
She was an actress who appeared in more than 60 movies and a soprano with the London Opera Company and, under the name Maria de la Hull, with the Columbia Opera Company in Washington.
She was an actress who appeared in more than 60 movies and a soprano with the London Opera Company and, under the name Maria de la Hull, with the Columbia Opera Company in Washington.
In 1963 she founded the American Opera School, which awarded scholarships to aspiring singers.
She was also a familiar figure in companies as diverse as the Paris Opera Ballet, the Stuttgart Ballet, the National Ballet of Holland, Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, Tulsa Ballet Theater and the Dance Corps of the State University of New York at Purchase.
She made her debut with the Olga Spessivtzeva Ballet in 1930 and, adopting Nijinska as her professional surname, danced during the 30's with the ballet ensemble of the Opera Russe a Paris, the Ida Rubinstein Ballet, the Theatre de la Danse, Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes and the Polish Ballet.
Last Performance in 1937
        The ballerina, who occasionally shortened her name to Spessiva, also appeared with the Paris Opera Ballet, the Colon ballet in Buenos Aires and the Camargo Society, a London organization that was one of the forerunners of the Royal Ballet.
She performed with the Israel National Opera and Bat-Dor in the early 1970's, coming to New York City in 1974 to study at the Merce Cunningham Studio.
Ms. Moorman was arrested on Feb. 9, 1967, by two policemen who interrupted her performance at the Cinematheque in Manhattan of "Opera Sextronique" by Nam June Paik, a composer, video artist and performance artist.
Mrs. Kriendler was a longtime contributor to the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera and helped raise funds for them.
