Ms. Wasserstein also wrote a children's book, ''Pamela's First Musical,'' which she adapted for the stage in collaboration with Cy Coleman and David Zippel, and wrote the libretto for ''The Festival of Regrets,'' one of three one-act operas presented under the collective title ''Central Park'' at the New York City Opera.
She had also completed a libretto for another opera with music by Deborah Drattell.

        Muriel Costa-Greenspon, a mezzo-soprano who was a fixture at the New York City Opera for 30 years, died on Dec. 26 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan.
After making her City Opera debut as Olga Olsen in Kurt Weill's ''Street Scene'' in 1963, she went on to sing everything from Augusta in Douglas Moore's ''Ballad of Baby Doe'' to the three mezzo roles in Puccini's ''Trittico'' to the Old Lady in Leonard Bernstein's ''Candide.
At City Opera, her Menotti roles included parts in ''The Consul'' and ''The Saint of Bleecker Street.
from the University of Michigan, and began her opera career singing arias in a restaurant.
Her husband, Giorgio Costa, a carpenter at the Metropolitan Opera and on various Broadway shows, also survives her.
Ms. Costa-Greenspon continued to appear at City Opera until 1993.
No dramatic soprano truly approached her stature thereafter, and in the roles of Isolde, Brünnhilde and Sieglinde, she began her stately 30-year procession around the opera houses of the world.
Three years later she made her debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing Isolde under Karl Böhm, and some listeners treasure the memory of that performance as much as they do her live recording of the role from Bayreuth in 1966, also under Böhm.
Ms. Nilsson made her debut at the Royal Opera in Stockholm in 1946, replacing the scheduled Agathe in Weber's ''Freischütz,'' who was too ill to go on.
From there, it was a short hop to the Vienna State Opera and then to Bayreuth.
Ms. Nilsson was suspicious of opera's recent youth culture and often remarked on the premature destruction of young voices brought on by overambitious career planning.
''
        In today's opera culture, the best managed voices tend to mature in the singer's 40's and begin to deteriorate during the 50's.
Her stage name came from the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley and from her mother, Rose Winter, an amateur soprano who had once won a Municipal Opera contest in St. Louis.
'' Charmed by the brash Brooklyn girl who had no idea she was auditioning for an opera, the director gave her a small comic role, which he kept enlarging.
Although her career spanned several decades and included a stint on the soap opera ''Another World,'' Ms. Meacham is probably best known for her work in the plays of Tennessee Williams, who once praised her in an article for The New York Times, saying, ''There's nothing she won't say or do onstage without any sign of embarrassment.
She went on to a career in administration at institutions like the Welsh Opera, the Cambridge Theater Company and the Royal Shakespeare Company.
When the Sadler's Wells Ballet made its sensational United States debut at the Metropolitan Opera House in September 1949, ticket buyers knew Ms. Shearer from ''The Red Shoes'' and thought she would be seen in ''The Sleeping Beauty'' on opening night.

        Herta Glaz, a mezzo-soprano who performed regularly at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's and later taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on Jan. 28 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95.

        Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland.

        Sarah Caldwell, one of America's best known and most adventurous conductors and opera directors and the founding director of the Opera Company of Boston, died Thursday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland.
Ms. Caldwell, who was also the first woman to conduct at the Metropolitan Opera, lived in Freeport, Me.
In 1990, 32 years after its founding, facing debt and disarray, the Opera Company of Boston went out of business.
''Some of the most creative work that many of us artists have done has been with Sarah,'' Beverly Sills, the soprano and former chairwoman of the Metropolitan Opera, said yesterday.
The opera was ''La Traviata,'' starring Ms. Sills, who had cajoled the company into engaging Ms. Caldwell.
Ms. Caldwell also staged the United States premiere of ''Boris Godunov'' with Mussorgsky's original orchestration nine years before the Metropolitan Opera did.
The year her company began, 1958, the long-neglected 50-year-old Boston Opera House was torn down, and the new company was forced into a nomadic existence, performing at the Donnelly Theater (razed in 1968), then the downtown Shubert Theater and then a series of unlikely places, like a university gym and a South End cyclorama.
It was her summers in the Berkshires at the Tanglewood Music Institute that shifted her toward opera.
During this period she became an assistant to the conductor Boris Goldovsky, who ran an opera program at the New England Conservatory.
She started her own company, initially called the Opera Group, in 1958 with just $5,000 in seed money.
By 1965, renamed the Opera Company of Boston, it had won an important place in American opera.
By 1965, renamed the Opera Company of Boston, it had won an important place in American opera.
And she was a pioneer of colorblind casting in opera.
She agreed to develop an opera program in the Philippines, signing a contract with Imelda Marcos, the wife of the country's repressive president, Ferdinand E. Marcos.
But for a while, as the British critic Andrew Porter wrote in The New Yorker, she was ''the single best thing about opera in America.
Awarded a Fulbright fellowship, she went to Rome to study voice, master the Italian language and train for opera.
Ms. Moffo made her stage opera debut in 1955 as Norina in Donizetti's ''Don Pasquale'' in Spoleto.
In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis writes of a now infamous 1969 Saturday afternoon broadcast performance of ''Lucia'' at the Met.
Ms. Jones also directed the D.C. Public Schools Dance Program and choreographed for the Washington Opera Society and the Washington Civic Opera.
      
Ms. Jones also directed the D.C. Public Schools Dance Program and choreographed for the Washington Opera Society and the Washington Civic Opera.
      
Ruth Page, a prominent Chicago choreographer, cast her in ''La Guiablesse,'' a ballet based on Martinique folklore that was performed at the Chicago Civic Opera House in 1933.
In 1963 she became the first African-American to choreograph at the Metropolitan Opera since 1934, startling audiences with her lusty dances for a production of Verdi's ''Aida.
Yet she had had a public bout with breast cancer some years ago, which caused her to withdraw from, among other major performances, the premiere of Kaija Saariaho's opera ''L'Amour de Loin'' at the Salzburg Festival in 2000.
If she rarely spoke of her private life, few artists have brought such emotional vulnerability to their work, whether it was her sultry portrayal of Myrtle Wilson, the mistress of wealthy Tom Buchanan in John Harbison's ''Great Gatsby,'' the role of her 1999 Metropolitan Opera debut, or her shattering performances several years ago in two Bach cantatas for solo voice and orchestra, staged by the director Peter Sellars, seen in Lincoln Center's New Visions series, with the Orchestra of Emmanuel Music, Craig Smith conducting.
She met Mr. Lieberson in 1997 when he selected her to sing in the premiere of his opera ''Ashoka's Dream'' at the Santa Fe Opera.
She met Mr. Lieberson in 1997 when he selected her to sing in the premiere of his opera ''Ashoka's Dream'' at the Santa Fe Opera.
She continued her three-pronged career in the 1980's, acting in films that included ''Creepshow'' and ''Hello Again,'' in regional and Off Broadway productions and, briefly, on the soap opera ''The Guiding Light,'' before her character fell into a pit of quicksand.
It was not until after her formal training, in 1938, when she began singing with the Berlin State Opera, that Miss Schwarzkopf came into her own vocally.
Still, if she had hoped that party affiliation would quickly advance her career at the Berlin State Opera, it did not work as planned.
Miss Schwarzkopf was soon engaged by the Vienna State Opera.
She also toured with the Vienna State Opera in 1947, traveling to London, where she performed in ''Don Giovanni'' and ''Fidelio'' at Covent Garden.
Miss Schwarzkopf's American operatic debut came in 1955 with the San Francisco Opera as the Marschallin.
''
        Her debut at the Metropolitan Opera did not occur until October 1964, again as the Marschallin.
''
        Outside the Metropolitan Opera House, there were scattered protests over her wartime career, and Miss Schwarzkopf had a chilly relationship with the Met's general manager Rudolf Bing, an Austrian-born Jew.
The picture, supplied by the Salzburg Festival, showed Anneliese Rothenberger, not Miss Schwarzkopf, in the role of Sophie from a 1962 film adaptation of Richard Strauss's opera ''Der Rosenkavalier.
It showed Anneliese Rothenberger -- not Miss Schwarzkopf -- in the role of Sophie from ''Der Rosenkavalier,'' a 1962 film adaptation of the Richard Strauss opera.
The obituary also misspelled the surname of a music critic for The New York Times who reviewed Miss Schwarzkopf's debut at the Metropolitan Opera in 1964.

        Astrid Varnay, the charismatic dramatic soprano whose distinguished 55-year career began at 23 with a last-minute debut at the Metropolitan Opera, singing the role of Sieglinde in Wagner's ''Walküre'' for an indisposed Lotte Lehmann, died in Munich on Monday.
The cause was a pericardial infection after a long illness, said the writer Donald Arthur, who collaborated with Ms. Varnay on her autobiography, ''Fifty-Five Years in Five Acts: My Life in Opera'' (2000, Northeastern University Press).
But to opera buffs and insiders, Ms. Varnay was a comparably excellent artist.
In a phone interview yesterday, James Levine called Ms. Varnay ''one of the truly unique singers'' and recalled working with her in 1979 when, at 61, she sang the role of the hard-bitten Widow Begbick in John Dexter's gritty production of the Weill-Brecht opera ''The Rise and Fall of the City of Mahagonny.
''
        Though opera was the family business, Ms. Varnay was a latecomer to singing.
At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
Her father, who was working as a director at the Manhattan Opera House, died suddenly in 1924.
Still, the opera world took notice.

        Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song she identified as Blotz's ''Schlumpf'' to demonstrate what it is like to sing with ''no voice but great art,'' died on Wednesday in Bateman's Bay, New South Wales, Australia.
Merely by telling the plot of Wagner's ''Ring of the Nibelungs'' in a voice laced with Edwardian-era class and postwar-era sarcasm, Ms. Russell affectionately sullied opera's most devotional experience.
Similarly, her instructions about ''How to Write Your Own Gilbert and Sullivan Opera'' seemed to deflate the reputation for wit and effervescent fantasy the operettas had acquired.
She was seen on television, Broadway, in film and on the opera stage, including appearances as the Witch in a New York City Opera production of ''Hansel and Gretel.
She was seen on television, Broadway, in film and on the opera stage, including appearances as the Witch in a New York City Opera production of ''Hansel and Gretel.
''
        Correction:  October 28, 2006, Saturday  An obituary on Oct. 20 about Anna Russell, the parodist of opera, incorrectly rendered her claim of how she began her career.
She said she had been the ''prima donna of the Ellis Island Opera House'' -- not the ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company.
She said she had been the ''prima donna of the Ellis Island Opera House'' -- not the ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company.
The texts they chose were taken from both classical sources (Pierre Corneille for ''Othon,'' 1969) and modern ones (Arnold Schoenberg's opera ''Aaron and Moses,'' filmed in 1975).
