Mrs. Goodman, who dreamed of being an opera star as a girl, brought operatic flourishes to gospel.
Ms. Lewis, considered a doyenne of black culture in Boston, was a no-nonsense mentor to generations of young dance, opera and theater students at the Elma Lewis School of Fine Arts, which she founded in 1950 in a Roxbury apartment before moving it permanently to a former synagogue and school in the same area.
Mr. Sternberg, who appeared on Broadway in a number of George Gershwin's shows, was also a basso profundo in the Metropolitan Opera chorus for 40 years.
When Uta was 7, the family moved to Madison, Wis., where her father was head of the department of art history at the University of Wisconsin (her mother was an opera singer).
The council soon found itself coordinating a host of cultural groups, including the Bronx Opera Company, the Bronx Experimental Theater, the Festival of Poetry and the Bronx Showcase of the Visual Arts.
In 1927 she appeared in two one-reel Vitaphone shorts filmed in the New York Opera House and released by Warner Brothers.
She trained at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and seemed headed for the opera stage.

        Sonya Haddad, who did opera translations for the Metropolitan's seat-back subtitling system, died on June 15 in the Bronx.
In addition to working for the Met, which she did through the 2003-04 season, she wrote surtitles or subtitles for the Washington National Opera, La Scala and the Public Broadcasting series ''Great Performances.
At the end of her career she was on the staff of Opera News, the magazine of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
At the end of her career she was on the staff of Opera News, the magazine of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
A Japan Opera Foundation official announced her death to The Associated Press but did not give a cause.
Miss Watanabe gave recitals until she was 18, but she was already thinking about the opera stage.
''I knew immediately that I wanted to sing opera,'' she told The New York Times in 1988.
It was as Cio-Cio-San that she made her debuts with the Royal Opera in 1983, the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1986, and the Metropolitan Opera in 1987.
It was as Cio-Cio-San that she made her debuts with the Royal Opera in 1983, the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1986, and the Metropolitan Opera in 1987.
It was as Cio-Cio-San that she made her debuts with the Royal Opera in 1983, the Lyric Opera of Chicago in 1986, and the Metropolitan Opera in 1987.
After all, this is a very dramatic opera.

        Semiha Berksoy, the first lady of Turkish opera as well as one of the most colorful figures in contemporary Turkish art, died Aug. 15 in Istanbul.
She was asked to sing in the first Turkish opera, ''Ozsoy,'' in the presence of Mustafa Kemal Ataturk, the founder of modern Turkey, who said he was stunned by her voice.
She sang the leading role in "Ariadne Auf Naxos" in 1939, the first Turkish opera star to take the stage in Europe.
Despite her success in Germany, she chose to return to Turkey that year and assist in establishing the first opera house in Ankara.
''She was determined to raise Turkish opera among the leading opera houses in the world,'' Zeliha Berksoy said in a telephone interview.
''She was determined to raise Turkish opera among the leading opera houses in the world,'' Zeliha Berksoy said in a telephone interview.
A foundation named after her, started by her artist friends, is planning a memorial event for next year to commemorate the 75th anniversary of her career at the State Opera.
      

        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced.
''
        Dame Alicia, who had occasionally made guest appearances in the ballet sequences of works in the repertory of the Metropolitan Opera, astonished the dance world in 1963 when she accepted an invitation to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
''
        Dame Alicia, who had occasionally made guest appearances in the ballet sequences of works in the repertory of the Metropolitan Opera, astonished the dance world in 1963 when she accepted an invitation to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
The Met's dance troupe had never been considered important and the opera management had seldom shown much interest in ballet.

        The soprano Renata Tebaldi, one of the most beloved opera singers of all time -- Arturo Toscanini, hard to please, said she had ''the voice of an angel'' -- died yesterday in the Republic of San Marino, where she had a home, her doctor told The Associated Press.
But most opera buffs and critics found it impossible to have a cool head when listening to Renata Tebaldi.
After a deeply affecting and vocally exquisite performance as Desdemona in Verdi's ''Otello'' one night at the Metropolitan Opera, the audience kept her coming back for so many curtain calls that she finally appeared wearing her coat around her costume, to signal that she needed to go home.
In roles like Violetta from the Verdi opera ''La Traviata,'' Callas could sing with vocal elegance and vulnerability; in roles like Verdi's Aida, Miss Tebaldi could be fiery and impetuous.
Her opera debut was in 1944, in the smaller role of Elena in Boito's ''Mefistofele'' at the regional theater in Rovigo, Italy.
'' This led to a career-making appearance in a concert to reopen the La Scala opera house, heavily damaged during the Second World War.
Today's opera buffs can only swoon looking at the cast list that night, with Mario Del Monaco as Otello, Leonard Warren as Iago and Fritz Stiedry conducting.
In the 1960's, she had a recurring role on the soap opera ''The Edge of Night.
