Her television credits ranged from a role on the soap opera ''Ryan's Hope'' to an appearance on the acclaimed PBS special ''Baryshnikov on Broadway'' to game-show contestant on ''Match Game.

        Mary Ellis, the young opera singer for whom Rudolf Friml wrote ''Rose-Marie'' in 1924 and who later became the queen of musicals in London, died there on Thursday at her home on Eaton Square.
Her name, considered too German sounding, was changed when she joined the Metropolitan Opera.
Miss Ellis's parents wanted her to be a painter, but after hearing Geraldine Farrar sing, she once said, ''there was nothing in my mind but opera.
Gifted with a large, opulent voice, Miss Barbieri was of the same generation of opera stars as Cesare Siepi, Giuseppe di Stefano, Boris Christoff and Jussi Bjorling.
Her 1950 New York debut itself entered opera history, coming on the night Rudolf Bing first faced his audience as the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.
Her 1950 New York debut itself entered opera history, coming on the night Rudolf Bing first faced his audience as the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.
She also conducted master classes at the Juilliard School and the Manhattan School of Music, and sat for an interview at the Mayflower Hotel with Stefan Zucker, the director of the Bel Canto Society, a nonprofit marketer of vintage opera videos.
      

        Nadine Conner, who sang on the radio with Bing Crosby and Gordon MacRae before a lengthy career as a lyric soprano at the Metropolitan Opera, died March 1 in Los Alamitos, Calif. She was 96.
It was the first complete opera recording made in this country, according to the Met archivists.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
She was one of the New York City Opera's original board members.

        Janet Collins, prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House in the early 1950's and one of a very few black women to become prominent in American classical ballet, died on Wednesday in Fort Worth.
''What she did by dancing the way she did -- to be prima ballerina at the Metropolitan Opera House -- gave everybody hope.
Correction:  June 7, 2003, Saturday  An obituary last Saturday about Janet Collins, a former prima ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera House, misstated the precedent for black artists there.
She also designed for opera, notably for the Metropolitan Opera's 1977 production of ''Lulu,'' for which her sets and costumes evoked a world touched by the Bauhaus, Art Moderne and German bourgeois styles.
She also designed for opera, notably for the Metropolitan Opera's 1977 production of ''Lulu,'' for which her sets and costumes evoked a world touched by the Bauhaus, Art Moderne and German bourgeois styles.
Beginning in the late 1960's she designed opera for several institutional clients.

        Susan Chilcott, a leading British soprano who had a winning Metropolitan Opera debut last year as Helena in Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and received glowing reviews last June for her Royal Opera at Covent Garden debut as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades,'' opposite Plácido Domingo, died on Thursday at her home in Timsbury, near Bath.

        Susan Chilcott, a leading British soprano who had a winning Metropolitan Opera debut last year as Helena in Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and received glowing reviews last June for her Royal Opera at Covent Garden debut as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades,'' opposite Plácido Domingo, died on Thursday at her home in Timsbury, near Bath.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.
''It is rare to come across an opera star who is as good an actress as she is a singer,'' Mr. Pappano said in The Times of London on Thursday.
Among the other roles she sang with the Brussels company were the Composer in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Hermione in the 1999 world premiere of Philippe Boesmans's ''Wintermärchen'' and Desdemona in Verdi's ''Otello,'' a part she also performed in a new production of that opera at the Glyndebourne Festival in July 2001.
She made her United States debut in 1996 as Donna Elvira in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' at the Santa Fe Opera.
After surgery and chemotherapy, she had to withdraw the next year from a production of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace'' at the English National Opera.
She made her professional debut in 1926 with the Ravinia Park Opera Ballets in Chicago, leaving after a year to join the Carina Ari Ballet in Paris.
Beautiful, headstrong and born to privilege in London, Mrs. Bielenberg spurned a scholarship at Oxford to study opera in Hamburg, Germany, where she fell in love with a dashing law student, Peter Bielenberg.

        Katharine Thomas O'Neil Bidwell, a patron of music and education who headed the Metropolitan Opera Guild in the 1980's, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Bidwell was born in Dayton, Ohio, and started a musical career when she joined the St. Louis Municipal Opera at 18.
She joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Guild in 1966, became first vice president in the late 1970's and was president and chief executive from 1979 to 1986.
For many years Mrs. Bidwell also headed the advisory council at the New York City Opera.
Mrs. Love, who briefly pursued a career in the theater in her youth, was a lifelong patron of the opera.
She contributed to the construction of the Metropolitan Opera in Manhattan.
On an evening only days before her death, she was in her front row seat for a production of ''La Traviata'' by the Florida Grand Opera, which she had helped finance.
In 1956 she took over Lotte Lenya's role in ''The Threepenny Opera.
Mrs. Goodman, who dreamed of being an opera star as a girl, brought operatic flourishes to gospel.
