
        Patricia Brooks Mann, a lyric soprano who helped fashion the modern standard for opera performers, died on Friday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 59.
In an era when audiences and critics began demanding that opera performers display dramatic as well as musical talent, Ms. Brooks, who performed under her maiden name, arrived with a non-operatic training that fit the bill.
Her opera performances won praise for her beauty, acting ability and graceful movements, as well as for her voice.
Some classified her as a singing actress rather than an opera singer.
"The public was clamoring that opera performers had to look and act the part, not just sing it, and she was the new wave," said Beverly Sills, her famed contemporary at the New York City Opera.
"The public was clamoring that opera performers had to look and act the part, not just sing it, and she was the new wave," said Beverly Sills, her famed contemporary at the New York City Opera.
Command Performance
        Ms. Brooks starred in numerous City Opera productions in the 1960's and 1970's, when she was in her 30's and 40's.
" When she co-starred with Placido Domingo in "La Traviata" in 1966, Harold C. Schonberg's review praised her for "acting with a delicacy of detail rare in opera.
While singing in the chorus of nuns in "The Sound of Music" in 1960, Ms. Brooks decided to leave that Broadway hit and switch to opera.
In her youth, Ms. Wood studied singing in the West and at the Metropolitan Opera.
She worked for a time as an assistant stage manager at La Scala in Milan, Italy, and as an assistant to several opera directors.
She was the founding president of the Friends of the Vienna Philharmonic and served on the boards of the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Community Arts Music Association of Santa Barbara.
She joined the Metropolitan Opera board in 1989.
For the past seven years, Ms. Garrett played the role of the mother figure Jo Johnson on the NBC daytime soap opera "Days of Our Lives.
" Previously she had performed for a year on another daytime soap opera, "The Young and the Restless," on CBS.
Opera was one of her few diversions.
Her work was also shown at many galleries, at Tufts University, and at the Metropolitan Opera House and Avery Fisher Hall.
And when she made her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1955, she became the first black singer to perform there.
Even America's opera houses remained closed to her until Rudolf Bing invited her to sing at the Met near the end of her career.
Because opera was denied her for most of her career, Miss Anderson's reputation rests on the considerable communicative power that she brought to the recital stage.
"
        Miss Anderson continued to tour as a recitalist, but made no headway in the opera world until Mr. Bing invited her to sing Ulrica in Verdi's "Ballo in Maschera.
Her many television roles included Aunt Bessie on the soap opera "All My Children" and, most recently, Gram Tee on "The Cosby Show.
That year she designed sets and costumes for "Il Trovatore" at the Metropolitan Opera.
She was in Bermuda with her family to celebrate her 40 years of marriage to Martin Feinstein, general director of the Washington Opera.
From 1976 until two years ago, she taught courses on the history of Western music and opera history.
The cause was bone cancer, said her husband, Schuyler G. Chapin, who is dean emeritus of Columbia University's School of the Arts and a former general manager of the Metropolitan Opera.

        Arleen Auger, an American soprano who was renowned for both her commanding presence on the opera stage and the subtlety of her song interpretations, died on Thursday at the home of a friend in Leusden, a suberb of Amsterdam, in the Netherlands.
Miss Auger (pronounced awe-ZHAY) had exactly the right flexibility, coloring and vocal weight for Mozart opera roles and concert works, and they were the vehicles with which she had her biggest successes.
She made her operatic debut as the Queen of the Night in a 1967 Vienna State Opera production of "Die Zauberflote.
" Nine years later she made her New York debut in the same role at the New York City Opera.
And when she auditioned for the Vienna State Opera, she knew only one role, the Queen of the Night.
The world of opera and art song opened for her in 1965, when she was teaching in Chicago and began studying voice with Ralph Errolle.
"
        As it turned out, the soprano Lucia Popp had just withdrawn from a production of "Zauberflote" at the Vienna State Opera.
During her first two years she added a dozen roles to her repertory, and she remained with the company until 1974, when she began to find the State Opera's repertory expectations too constricting.
By the early 1980's, Miss Auger's European career was thriving, though her concert and opera appearances in the United States had been relatively few.
Miss Auger made nearly 200 recordings, documenting a vast repertory that ranged from her Bach, Mozart and Handel specialties to a series of both standard and offbeat opera and song projects.
SELECTED RECORDINGS
        Arleen Auger's recordings document her talents as opera singer, recitalist and soloist in oratorios and symphonic choral works.
Her students ranged from classical recitalists and opera singers to musical theater performers.
Ms. Rubstein made her Carnegie Hall debut in 1988 as Barena in an acclaimed concert version of Janacek's "Jenufa" by the Opera Orchestra of New York.
Her father, also named Ariel, was a Russian-born pianist, the director of the Portland School of Music and a founder of the Portland Opera.
Ms. Rubstein performed with the Opera Company of Boston, the Houston Grand Opera, the Portland Opera and other ensembles throughout the United States.
Ms. Rubstein performed with the Opera Company of Boston, the Houston Grand Opera, the Portland Opera and other ensembles throughout the United States.
Ms. Rubstein performed with the Opera Company of Boston, the Houston Grand Opera, the Portland Opera and other ensembles throughout the United States.
She also worked on special assignments for the Metropolitan Opera and the Robert Shaw choral organization.
She performed in two "Ring" cycles, as Waltraute in the Metropolitan Opera's "Gotterdammerung" and Fricka in the Lyric Opera of Chicago's "Rheingold.
She performed in two "Ring" cycles, as Waltraute in the Metropolitan Opera's "Gotterdammerung" and Fricka in the Lyric Opera of Chicago's "Rheingold.
" In May she gave what James R. Oestreich called in The New York Times "a searching, almost harrowing reading" of the Mahler Third Symphony with the Boston Symphony Orchestra at Carnegie Hall, and last month she sang Clairon in the San Francisco Opera production of Strauss's "Capriccio.
It was only during her high school years, when she began to listen to Maria Callas recordings and attend Metropolitan Opera performances as a standee, that she decided to study singing.
Her first break was in 1963, when Julius Rudel signed her to the New York City Opera roster.
"
        In 1965, following Heinz's suggestion that she would benefit from experience at a European house, she joined the Hamburg State Opera, where she made her way through a large part of the mezzo-soprano repertory in her decade there.
In addition to her opera appearances, Miss Troyanos was an eloquent recitalist.
Her recent San Francisco appearance in "Capriccio" was taped for video release; other video performances include a memorable Sesto in the Jean-Pierre Ponelle production of "La Clemenza di Tito" (Deutsche Grammophon) and, with the Metropolitan Opera, Venus in Wagner's "Tannhauser" and Dido in Berlioz's "Troyens.
She also served on the boards of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, the Cincinnati Ballet, the Cincinnati Opera and the American Symphony Orchestra League.
Her daughter Patricia Brooks Mann, a soprano with the New York City Opera, died in January.

        Josephine Jablons, a board member of the New York City Opera Company, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Jablons helped found the City Opera Guild in 1959 and for six years served as its president.
She led it when the opera celebrated its new home at Lincoln Center with a lavish gala in 1966.
She had been on the board of the City Opera since its days at City Center on West 55th Street.
She was elected a director of the City Opera Company in July.
In her long career, Miss de Mille proved equally at home on Broadway and on the stage of the Metropolitan Opera House.
Speaking at the 50th-anniversary gala of American Ballet Theater, in January 1990 at the Metropolitan Opera House, Miss de Mille tried to distill the essence of American dance in these words: "Ours is an up beat, a hurried, hasty beat.
The same year she made her debut as Barbarina in Mozart's "Marriage of Figaro" at the Vienna State Opera, and remained a mainstay of that company's roster for the rest of her life.
A debut at Covent Garden followed in 1966, and in 1967 she made her Metropolitan Opera debut as the Queen of the Night.
Miss Raedler's company, which began as Masque and Lyre Light Opera in 1939 and became the American Savoyards in 1952, was a highly regarded fixture in the New York musical world through the late 1960's.
In the 1960's, she directed productions for the City Center Gilbert and Sullivan Company, the New York City Opera and the Baltimore Civic Opera.
In the 1960's, she directed productions for the City Center Gilbert and Sullivan Company, the New York City Opera and the Baltimore Civic Opera.
She lived in St. Croix for 25 years and occasionally directed performances there, including a production of Scott Joplin's opera, "Treemonisha.
She was 50 and practiced in Manhattan and Mount Kisco, N. Y.
        Mrs. Fisher was a founder of Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine, a benefactor of the Metropolitan Opera and a board member of the Make a Wish Foundation.
She also served on the boards of the New York Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera and the Juilliard School of Music.
In 1922, after studying voice in New York for three years, she went to Paris for seven years of study with Jean Perier, the baritone who created the role of Pelleas in Debussy's opera "Pelleas et Melisande," and with Miguel Fontecha and Therese Leschetizky.
Six years later she made her operatic debut at the Hippodrome in New York, singing Santuzza -- her best role, by her own estimation -- in a Salmaggi Opera production of Mascagni's "Cavalleria Rusticana.
"
        She also sang the title role in a production of Bizet's "Carmen" at the Manhattan Opera House in 1935, and through the late 1930's she performed frequently as a recitalist in Europe and the United States.
After chamber music and art songs, her love was opera, particularly Wagner, and well into her 80's she regularly traveled to Europe to see new productions, keep track of singers and directors, and serve on competition juries.
