Although she committed more than 100 operatic roles to memory, she never appeared on an opera stage; there were no such opportunities for a black artist  in the late 1930's and the 1940's, when she was in her prime.
(Miss Anderson, the first black singer to appear at the Metropolitan Opera, did not make her debut there until 1955.
Although she never appeared on the opera stage, she recorded the role of Leonore in "Fidelio" under Arturo Toscanini.
In 1975, she became the first black member of the Metropolitan Opera board.
At one point, she sang an opera aria  standing on her head.
Miss Bishop once hoped to become an opera singer.

        Isabel Kambert, an opera singer who escaped Nazi Germany with liverwurst sandwiches stuffed with folded 10,000-mark notes, and who later in New York became known as Mme.
She was well known in German and Paris opera houses in the 1930's until, unwilling to join the Nazi party, she was banned from performing.
When she reached New York shortly after, suitable opera roles were in short supply and she took a job for a time decorating cashmere sweaters, using embroidery, beading or ribbons as embellishment.
During her years in Grosse Pointe, Mich., she was active in the support of the Detroit Institute of Art and the Metropolitan Opera Association of Detroit.
At age  12, she danced with the Philadelphia Opera Company ballet.

        Ilka Tanya Payan, the Dominican-born soap opera star and New York civic leader who played a reluctant but eloquent role in raising AIDS awareness after  disclosing that she was infected with the H.I.V.
Although she won wide popularity with her portrayal of the villainous Carmen Delia in the Spanish-language television soap opera "Angelica, Mi Vida" ("Angelica, My Life"), Ms. Payan, who came to New York in 1956 and had appeared  in Spanish-language theatrical productions in New York and elsewhere, had already moved onto a broader stage by the time she made her startling announcement in 1993.
Miss Toumanova astonished balletgoers in 1929, at the age of 9, when she appeared at the Paris Opera in "L'Eventail de Jeanne," a ballet with a cast of children.
After leaving Ballet Theater, she became a freelance ballerina, appearing with such companies as the Paris Opera Ballet, London Festival Ballet and the Marquis de Cuevas Grand Ballet.
She created two notable roles with the Paris Opera Ballet.
Seeing her  at the Paris Opera in 1950, the American critic Edward Denby wrote in "Dancers,  Buildings and People in the Streets" (1965) that he was distressed by her "careless feet, limp and wormy arms, brutally deformed phrasings" but that his objections vanished when she offered "a few terrifying extensions, a few incisive strokes that counted phenomenally.
"
        Although she sang with orchestras and opera companies all over the world, and made recordings with many conductors and ensembles, she was unusual in that she  considered a single company, the Berlin Deutsche Oper, her artistic home.
Miss Lorengar made her debut there in Orff's "Carmina Burana" in 1958, when the company was called the Berlin City Opera, and quickly became a favorite of Berlin audiences and critics.
She also performed often at the Metropolitan Opera, where she made her debut  as Donna Elvira in 1966.
She made her international opera debut, as Cherubino in "Le Nozze di Figaro," at Aix-en-Provence, in 1955.
She made her American operatic debut as Liu in Puccini's "Turandot" at the San Francisco Opera in 1964, and maintained a close relationship with that company over the next 25 years.
Her vocal works included an opera, "Fortunato" (1958), a set of Shakespeare  settings for voice and orchestra (1951), several song cycles on natural and philosophical themes, including "Questions on Nature" (1964), "The Seasons of Time" (1969) and "Creature to Creature" (1985), and song settings in French, Japanese, German, Greek, Latin and Hebrew.
"Peggy Clark's lighting gives the production a cool appearance," Mr. Atkinson noted in a 1958 review of  "The Threepenny Opera.
Her repertory encompassed show tunes, jazz songs, novelties (like her first major hit, "A-Tisket A-Tasket," recorded in 1938), bossa nova, and even opera ("Porgy and Bess" excerpts, recorded with Louis Armstrong).
It can now be revealed that when she died in bed at her Fifth Avenue apartment on July 5, Anne Hummert, the woman widely credited with creating the radio soap opera and spinning out many of the classics of the 1930's and 40's, was a 91-year-old multimillionaire who had maintained a vigorous life almost to the end.
By the time she met E. Frank Hummert in 1927, the former Anne Schumacher had  lived something of a soap opera herself.
Although a short-lived 1930 program, "Painted Lives" by Irna Phillips, is regarded as the first radio soap opera, it was "Just Plain Bill," which began at night in 1932, that created the cultural juggernaut that would eventually be  nicknamed for the product that often sponsored it.

        Harriett Heywood Patton, a founder of Recording for the Blind and a managing  director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild, died on Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville.
Mrs. Patton is credited with contributing significantly to the growth of Recording for the Blind, which she served as president in 1954, and of the Opera Guild.
Eleanor R. Belmont, founder of the Opera Guild and a friend, persuaded Mrs. Patton to turn her attention in that direction and become managing director.
She was a fervent partisan of the Lyric Opera, for example, and of the conductors Fritz Reiner and Eugene Ormandy.
She also choreographed for theater and opera with various directors, including Wilford Leach, Michael Kahn and Edward Berkeley.
She also taught and choreographed at the Ballet West summer school in Aspen, Colo.
        During the past three years, she taught at the Aspen Music Festival and was the resident choreographer of the Aspen Opera House.
Ms. Talma's opera, ''The Alcestiad,'' a collaboration with Thornton Wilder, became the first work by an American woman to be presented by a major European opera company when it had its premiere at the Frankfurt Opera in 1962.
Ms. Talma's opera, ''The Alcestiad,'' a collaboration with Thornton Wilder, became the first work by an American woman to be presented by a major European opera company when it had its premiere at the Frankfurt Opera in 1962.
Ms. Talma's opera, ''The Alcestiad,'' a collaboration with Thornton Wilder, became the first work by an American woman to be presented by a major European opera company when it had its premiere at the Frankfurt Opera in 1962.
In ''Three to Make Ready,'' one of three Nancy Hamilton revues that she did on Broadway, she spoofed women shopping for shoes, learning Russian and trying to explain Wagnerian opera.
She was an artistic consultant to the Houston Grand Opera in 1975 when it staged Joplin's opera, ''Treemonisha,'' and to Deutsche Grammophon when it recorded the production the same year.
She was an artistic consultant to the Houston Grand Opera in 1975 when it staged Joplin's opera, ''Treemonisha,'' and to Deutsche Grammophon when it recorded the production the same year.
She danced with the Berlin State Opera Ballet during World War II until Nazi doctors measuring her body decided that she must be Jewish (she was not) and sent her to a labor camp.

        Ljuba Welitsch, the flame-haired Bulgarian-born soprano whose career was highlighted by her debut at the Metropolitan Opera in ''Salome'' in 1949, died on Monday in a hospital in Vienna.
Miss Welitsch's performance in the title role of the Richard Strauss opera on Feb. 4, 1949, was regarded as one of the most memorable in Metropolitan Opera history.
Miss Welitsch's performance in the title role of the Richard Strauss opera on Feb. 4, 1949, was regarded as one of the most memorable in Metropolitan Opera history.
Besides Salome and Aida, her Metropolitan Opera roles included Donna Anna in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' the title role in Puccini's ''Tosca,'' Rosalinde in Johann Strauss's ''Fledermaus'' and Musetta in Puccini's ''Boheme.
''
        But most of Miss Welitsch's career was spent in Europe, where she was coached by the composer when she made her Vienna Opera debut in a special performance of ''Salome'' that celebrated Richard Strauss's 80th birthday in 1944.
Even when her career in grand opera faded, Miss Welitsch's love of performance kept her busy into the early 1980's in operetta, films, radio, television and on the stage.
She began her professional career in 1936 with the Graz Opera Company, which played a 10-month season that enabled Miss Welitsch to build her repertory.
In 1943 she also joined the Vienna Opera, where she made her noteworthy debut in ''Salome'' the next year.
That summer, while abroad, Edward Johnson, the general manager of the Metropolitan Opera, heard Miss Welitsch and engaged her to sing in New York the following year.
'' June was a lusty, cigar-smoking soap opera actress whose role as a rural nurse named Sister George was being excised from a long-running radio serial.
Away from the supermarkets, Mrs. Waldbaum was devoted to opera and the theater and was a benefactor of many charities.
In 1947, Ms. Alvarez danced the lead ballerina role in ''Carmen'' at the Metropolitan Opera and performed with the opera ballet for three years.
In 1947, Ms. Alvarez danced the lead ballerina role in ''Carmen'' at the Metropolitan Opera and performed with the opera ballet for three years.
She performed and choreographed on television in the early 1950's in such series as ''NBC Opera'' and ''Voice of Firestone.

        Alma Kitchell, a pioneering radio singer who became a pioneering talk show host, sang in the first televised opera and capped her career by presiding over the first television cooking show, died on Wednesday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 103.
After singing regularly on the local station for a year, she moved up to NBC's old Blue network, spending two years with the NBC Opera Company and five years as the soloist on a weekly program with the NBC concert orchestra before increasing her schedule to three nights a week for a seven-year run.
In 1937, she turned down an opportunity to join the Metropolitan Opera in order to stay in broadcasting.
In 1939, when RCA began the first experimental television broadcasts from its Rockefeller Center headquarters, she sang the part of Ruth, the piratical maid of all work, in the first televised opera, Gilbert and Sullivan's ''Pirates of Penzance.
She performed with the San Francisco Opera Ballet and the Eugene Loring Players, but she was best known as a dancer and choreographer on Broadway.
Ms. Leporska also worked with Hal Prince, Shirley MacLaine and Gwen Verdon on revues and helped set dance sequences for productions by Frank Corsaro at the New York City Opera, where she appeared as Mrs. Winemiller in ''Summer and Smoke.
Mrs. Albright was also a supporter of the Pentangle Theater in Woodstock, the River City Arts and White River Opera House in White River Junction, Vt., the Hood Museum in Hanover, N.H., and the Art Institute of Chicago.
Mrs. Davenport's first novel, "Of Lena Geyer" (1936), was recalled by one reviewer in the 1980's as a "a vivid portrayal of a great opera singer.
She was the designer for George Balanchine's ballet "The Crystal Palace" at the Paris Opera in 1945 and she worked at the Comedie Francaise, for Jean-Louis Barrault's theater company, and at La Scala opera house in Milan.
She was the designer for George Balanchine's ballet "The Crystal Palace" at the Paris Opera in 1945 and she worked at the Comedie Francaise, for Jean-Louis Barrault's theater company, and at La Scala opera house in Milan.
