Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
Among the performers Miss Singleton, herself an opera singer, introduced to the network were Eileen Farrell, the soprano, and Perry Como.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.

        Stella Roman, a soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera Company, died on Wednesday at Mt.
Miss Roman was known for her interpretations of the great Italian spinto roles, including Aida, which she sang at her Metropolitan Opera debut in 1941, Tosca, Mimi in "La Boheme," Amelia in "Un Ballo in Maschera" and Desdemona in "Otello.
She became a member of the Rome Opera four years later, and sang in Florence, Berlin and Salzburg, Austria, and in many other European cities.
In her 10 seasons with the Metropolitan Opera, she appeared in 126 performances, singing 13 roles.
She also sang with the San Francisco, Cincinnati and other American opera companies, and appeared frequently in Brazil, Cuba, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
Mrs. Hoving pursued her music career alone and had wide-ranging success, from musical comedy to opera and nightclub engagements as well as her own shows on NBC radio and ABC television.
Mrs. Hoving pursued her music career alone and had wide-ranging success, from musical comedy to opera and nightclub engagements as well as her own shows on NBC radio and ABC television.
Miss Vosseler performed in Balanchine's first American ballet, "Serenade," in his "Alma Mater," and in dances he created for two opera productions at the Metropolitan.
Miss Vosseler performed in Balanchine's first American ballet, "Serenade," in his "Alma Mater," and in dances he created for two opera productions at the Metropolitan.

        Quaintance Eaton, a writer of books and articles on opera, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
Miss Eaton was born in Kansas City, Mo.,and became a devotee of opera long before moving to New York City in the 1920's.
She frequently wrote on the subject for Musical America, eventually becoming an associate editor, and was a contributing editor to Opera News.
In 1957, her book "Opera Caravan," an anecdotal history of the Metropolitan Opera on tour, was praised by Howard Taubman, then chief music critic of The New York Times, as "both diverting and informative.
In 1957, her book "Opera Caravan," an anecdotal history of the Metropolitan Opera on tour, was praised by Howard Taubman, then chief music critic of The New York Times, as "both diverting and informative.
"
        In the 1960's, she published two histories that have become standard works: "The Boston Opera Company" (1965) and "The Miracle of the Met" (1968).
She was also executive secretary of the National Federation of Music Clubs and of the New York City Opera Guild.
Miss Eaton was known among opera audiences for the chinchilla coat she wore and for her collection of stylish hats, said to number 250.
In the 1930's she was commissioned to do busts of Anna Roosevelt, the daughter of Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt; Lily Pons, the opera singer, and Rubin Goldmark, a composer who taught in the 1930's at the Juilliard School.
The last three Dietrich-von Sternberg films were "Blonde Venus" (1932), a mother-love soap opera; "The Scarlet Empress" (1934), an opulent and visually stunning melodrama about a lascivious Catherine the Great, and "The Devil Is a Woman" (1935), an erotic tale about a soldier-corrupting vamp in turn-of-the-century Seville.

        Helen Olheim, a mezzo-soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Friday at the Beneva Nursing Pavilion in Sarasota, Fla. She was 87 years old.
She died of natural causes, said her sister, Dorothy Dry of Berwick, Pa.
        Miss Olheim, whose name was Oelheim off the stage, was a member of the Metropolitan Opera from 1935 to 1944.
She sang with the American Opera Company and was a member of the Community Concert Series, which presented concerts around New York City.
She was also a stage manager for many productions of Gilbert & Sullivan and other light operas for the Westchester Music Conservatory Opera Company.
" Even Lenya Was Pleased
        From jazz, she turned to acting, appearing on British television in "Mother Courage and Her Children" and, in 1955, in "The Threepenny Opera," by Kurt Weill and Bertolt Brecht, in London.
Mrs. Douglas raised more than $100 million for the Metropolitan Opera and a few times more than that for all her other causes, said John O'Keefe, a longtime friend who worked with her for Lincoln Center.
Mrs. Hunnewell was a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and a trustee emeritus of the Berkshire School.

        Lillian Libman, a manager, press agent and personal representative for many leading instrumentalists, opera singers and dancers, died on Monday at her sister's home in Larchmont, N.Y. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
She was also a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and was an amateur painter, sculptor and writer.
She performed at Radio City Music Hall, with the St. Louis Opera Company, on the Rudy Vallee and Chase & Sanborn radio shows and in concerts nationally and in Canada and Europe.
She also sang with the New York Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera and the NBC Symphony.
In 1976, Mrs. Wagner founded the Light Opera Theater of New Jersey.

        Dorothy Kirsten, an American lyric soprano who sang leading roles at the Metropolitan Opera for 30 years and was particularly renowned for her performances of Puccini heroines, died yesterday morning at the U.C.L.A.
At the height of her career, in the 1950's and 60's, Miss Kirsten appealed not only to opera fans, who knew her as an attractive, intelligent, thoroughly musical singer and a fine actress, but also to a broader public that knew her from her frequent radio and television appearances or from her performances in the films "The Great Caruso," with Mario Lanza, and "Mr. Music," with Bing Crosby.
On the opera stage, her repertory ran from staples like Mimi in Puccini's "Boheme" to comparative rarities like the title role in Charpentier's "Louise.
" In her concert and television appearances, she sang not only opera arias but theater and popular songs as well, and she co-starred with Frank Sinatra on the radio show "Your Hit Parade.
She was also reunited with Miss Moore, who recommended her to the Chicago Grand Opera, where Miss Kirsten made her operatic debut as Pousette in Massenet's "Manon" in 1940.
In 1942, Miss Kirsten began to sing leading roles with the San Carlo Opera Company, in Washington and New York City.
She made her New York City Opera debut in 1943, and by 1945 had performed with the San Francisco Opera, the New York Philharmonic and other major orchestras.
She made her New York City Opera debut in 1943, and by 1945 had performed with the San Francisco Opera, the New York Philharmonic and other major orchestras.
Miss Kirsten's Metropolitan Opera debut, as Mimi in "La Boheme" on Dec. 1, 1945, was a critical success, and was the start of a 30-year association with the house.
There, besides giving recitals, she sang Violetta in a Bolshoi Opera performance of "La Traviata," to considerable acclaim, even though, as she said later, she had to go on without the benefit of a stage rehearsal.
"
        In an article she wrote for Opera News just before that performance, Miss Kirsten attributed her vocal longevity to her refusal to accept roles that she felt were too heavy for her voice.
" She choreographed and directed the opera "The Ballad of Baby Doe" in 1956 in Central City, Colo., and Gluck's "Orfeo ed Euridice" for the second annual Vancouver International Festival in 1959.
