She was managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a member of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
She was managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Association and a member of the board of trustees of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
A refined, elegant woman who loved opera, collected art, spoke eight languages fluently, traveled the world with confident ease and made millions in the stock market, she was an intensely private person of such shadowy origins that the United States Chess Federation lists her birthplace simply as Europe, and until recently her best friend had no idea she had once been married.
Ms. Costello joined the faculty of the Curtis Institute in 1962, and taught harpists who eventually took positions in many of the world's great orchestras, including the Berlin Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra, the St. Louis Symphony and the National Symphony.

        Harriet Van Horne, a pioneer radio and television critic whose tough-minded crusades for educational programming and against ''women's chatter programs, the vulgar outpourings of the soap opera and the bad taste of commercials'' attracted a wide following in The New York World-Telegram and other Scripps-Howard newspapers for a quarter of a century, died on Thursday at New York Hospital.
In the 1950's she also worked as a choral conductor for the New York City Opera and the American Opera Society.
In the 1950's she also worked as a choral conductor for the New York City Opera and the American Opera Society.
Revered in Russia from the moment she made her debut in Leningrad's Maryinsky Ballet in 1928, she riveted the Western world in 1956 when she traveled with the Bolshoi Ballet to London's Royal Opera House.
It was during Ms. Rysanek's final performances at the Metropolitan Opera in late 1995 and early 1996 in a new production of Tchaikovsky's ''Pique Dame'' that she received confirmation of her cancer diagnosis.
'' Her American debut was in 1956 with the San Francisco Opera as Senta.
But when Maria Callas, who had been scheduled to sing Verdi's Lady Macbeth in the Met's first production of the opera, was fired by the general manager Rudolf Bing during a bitter contractual dispute, Bing asked Ms. Rysanek to take over the role.
By the late 1960's, she was giving most of her services to her two favorite companies: the Vienna State Opera, where she sang a total of 532 performances, and the Met, where during 37 years she sang 299 performances of 24 roles.
At the Vienna State Opera in 1977, and later at the Met, in one of her most renowned portrayals, Ms. Rysanek sang the Empress in Strauss's operatic fable ''Die Frau Ohne Schatten,'' with Ms. Nilsson as a dyer's wife.
Ms. Rysanek is survived by her husband of nearly 30 years, Ernst-Ludwig Gausmann, a former journalist; a stepson, Marcus Gausmann; a brother, Kurt, and sister, Lotte Rysanek, who was a lyric soprano with the Vienna State Opera.
Maybe not what she had in mind when she was studying opera at the Mannes College of Music in Manhattan, but not at all bad for a Queens-born daughter of a Ukrainian virtuoso who wanted her to play the violin.
By the time she graduated she had switched to classical voice training, won encouraging praise for roles in student opera productions, and sung  ''Rigoletto'' in Ghent on a New York State scholarship in Belgium.
For all her promise, Miss Cisyk, whose father died when she was 17, was drawn away from opera and into the world of jingles by the pressing need to make a living.
Miss Cisyk, whose given name was Kvita (Ukrainian for flower), adopted the professional name Kasey from her initials, intending to reserve Kvita for an opera career that never happened.

        Barbara Burton Elliott, the founder and executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell'Opera, a small New York opera company that gave performances in Brooklyn and Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
Notable productions of the company include Puccini's ''Villi,'' Britten's ''Rape of Lucretia,'' ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and ''Noye's Fludde,'' Weill's ''Threepenny Opera'' and an annual staging for children of Menotti's ''Amahl and the Night Visitors.
Correction:  April 27, 1998, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Barbara Burton Elliott, executive director of Il Piccolo Teatro dell' Opera, misidentified a church in Manhattan where the company has performed.
Over the years, she staged ballets by Joffrey, Leonide Massine and Antony Tudor for the Vienna State Opera Ballet, the Royal Ballet of Flanders and Ottawa Ballet Theater, among other companies.
She came to New York with that company, and later danced with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet.
She also was ballet mistress for the New York City Opera and a member of the dance panel of the New York State Council on the Arts.

        Anna Kaskas, a contralto who had an association with the Metropolitan Opera from 1936 to 1950, died on March 19 at her home in Wellsboro, Pa. She was 91.
She acted in the soap opera ''Capitol'' in 1986, but also spent part of the year at the Betty Ford clinic fighting an addiction to prescription painkillers.
She acted in the soap opera ''Capitol'' in 1986.
For a woman who was the toast of Paris in the 1920's, dancing ballet with the Opera, dallying with a raft of admirers and posing nude for artists, Mrs. Maxwell made an abrupt change in her life: After a 12-year marriage to an Air Force officer ended in 1945 (''I married a lieutenant and divorced a brigadier general''), she headed to South America to visit friends in Bolivia, later saying that since she had never been attracted to Latin men, she hoped to avoid distracting entanglements.
Yearning for a career as an opera singer, she studied at the Settlement School of Music in Philadelphia, and at Temple University and New York University.
Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of dollars on many cultural, educational and medical charities in the Bay Area, including the Exploratorium, the World Affairs Council, the Conservatory of Music, the University of San Francisco, Stanford University and the San Francisco Opera.
Before the hall was built, the orchestra had to share the War Memorial building with the San Francisco Opera.
The completion of Davies Symphony Hall, next door to the opera house, allowed the orchestra to expand to a full 52-week season and add additional players.

        Sybil Harrington, a philanthropist from Amarillo, Tex., who besides supporting medical, education and arts charities was the largest individual donor to the Metropolitan Opera in the company's history, died on Thursday in Phoenix, where she kept a winter home.
Grand opera was her passion, Mrs. Harrington once told an interviewer from Town and Country magazine.
''
        And Mrs. Harrington liked her grand opera grand.
She also supported 13 ''Metropolitan Opera Presents'' television broadcasts, and provided funding for the company's computerized lighting board.
In 1980, Mrs. Harrington made a  gift of $20 million to the Metropolitan Opera endowment fund campaign.
Later, she loved listening to the first radio broadcasts of the Metropolitan Opera, which fired her love for the art form and the company.
'' She became a member of the Metropolitan Opera Association in 1968, a director of its managing board in 1970 and advisory director in 1978.
Earlier in her career, she had a four-year run on the NBC daytime soap opera ''Days of Our Lives.
She adored nights at the opera.
She received early dance training from her aunt, the choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, and at the Paris Opera Ballet School.
She received early dance training from her aunt, the choreographer Bronislava Nijinska, and at the Paris Opera Ballet School.
Her success with their dream was such that when the center turned 50 in 1993 and called itself ''a glorious home for dance, music, opera and dozens of extraordinary musicals and plays,'' there were many who thought the phrase an understatement of what Miss Dalrymple had accomplished.
'' ''I had an overwhelming desire to restore it to its original form and present it exactly as as George Gershwin and DuBose Heyward had created it, as an opera for the Metropolitan,'' she once recalled.
Among Miss Dalrymple's other warmly received revivals were ''The Beggar's Opera,'' ''Brigadoon'' (with Edward Villela as the villain), ''Pal Joey'' (with Bob Fosse in the title role), ''Guys and Dolls'' (with Walter Matthau as Nathan Detroit) and ''The Pajama Game.
''
        When her revivals turned a profit, Miss Dalrymple used the money to subsidize City Center's other companies, the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera, both of which moved to Lincoln Center in 1964.
After leaving Russia in 1921 he settled with his family in Paris, where Ms. Youshkevitch studied ballet with Olga Preobrajenska and Lubov Egorova, former ballerinas with the Imperial Ballet in St. Petersburg, and with Leo Staats, chief balletmaster at the Paris Opera Ballet.
Her lifelong association with Nijinska, sister of Vaslav Nijinsky and a leading experimental choreographer, began when Ms. Youshkevitch, then 10 years old, joined the corps de ballet of the Opera Russe de Paris.
''
        After a season with the Monte Carlo Opera Ballet, Ms. Youshkevitch rejoined the de Basil troupe for its 1936 Australian tour, when she portrayed the Princess in another Nijinska ballet, ''Les Cents Baisers.
She performed with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and toured with a company directed by Felix Sadowski.
The production was sponsored by the San Francisco Russian Opera and Ballet Association.
''
        Ms. Beriosova was born in Kaunas, Lithuania, where her father, the dancer and ballet master Nicholas Beriozoff, worked at the Lithuanian State Opera.
Miss Thomas had been playing Callie, an aspiring vocalist, in the CBS soap opera ''The Young and the Restless'' since August and began a medical leave late in October.
By the time she had finished it, Miss Lewis had all but abandoned poetry and embarked on what turned out to be three short historical novels, ''The Wife of Martin Guerre'' (1941), ''The Trial of Soren Qvist'' (1947) and ''The Ghost of Monsieur Scarron'' (1959), all based on actual cases and so compellingly imagined and told that she inspired the 1956 ''Wife of Martin Guerre'' opera by William Bergsman, who asked her to write the libretto.
The composer Alva Henderson was so impressed he got her to write the libretto for his 1976 opera, ''The Last of the Mohicans,'' and two others.
''
        Ms. Roberts was born in the Bronx, and studied at the Manhattan School of Music and Hunter College to become an opera singer.
'' Eventually, she became something of a diva in real life, and switched from opera to torch songs, which she often sang for friends.
''
        At her death, Ms. Arron was preparing to bring yet another performing space to Carnegie Hall, a below-ground area long occupied by the Carnegie Hall Cinema to be equipped with high-tech appurtenances and intended for smaller opera productions and experimental work.
Correction:  December 25, 1998, Friday  An obituary on Monday, and in some copies on Sunday, about Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, misstated the position of her husband, Ronald D. Arron, in the Metropolitan Opera  Orchestra.
