Thereafter, everything that was of true quality interested them, from Etruscan art to Cycladic sculptures, Byzantine bronzes, African tribal art, the Surrealist paintings of Max Ernst and the recent work of Cy Twombly, an American painter long resident in Italy.
Wills and the first of her two husbands, the financier Frederick Moody, invited Rivera and his wife, the painter Frieda Kahlo, to a celebratory tea after the mural's unveiling at the former San Francisco Stock Exchange.
In her private life, she was a pilot, a painter and a poet.
Her subjects tended to be relatives or art-world friends: her grandmother; the painter Helen Frankenthaler; Mimi Gross, the daughter of the sculptor Chaim Gross; and the mother of her first husband, Philip Graham Harden, shown in a work from 1931 titled ''My Nude Mother-in-Law.
An accomplished painter, Mrs. Goodman for many years managed Nena's Choice Gallery at Bergdorf Goodman and exhibited the work of promising young artists.

        Frances B. Sonz, a retired painter and art teacher in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died on April 12 at her home in Tiburon, Calif., where she had lived for 10 years.

        Loren MacIver, a painter of dreamlike, half-abstract landscapes, city views and close-ups of natural forms, and a close friend of many American poets, including Elizabeth Bishop, E. E. Cummings and Marianne Moore, died on May 3 at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan, where she had lived and worked since the early 1940's.
I never intended to be a painter.

        Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday.
She instructed generations of black artists, among them the contemporary sculptor Martha Jackson-Jarvis and the painter and collagist David C. Driskell, and some of whom, like Mr. Driskell, are also  teachers.

        Helen Soreff, a painter of subtly inflected Minimalist abstractions, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Early in life, when she realized she wanted to be a painter, she began studying at the Art Students League in Manhattan and later graduated from Cooper Union.
Ms. Katzen also studied with the abstract painter Hans Hofmann.
She began her career as a painter and as early as 1955 had a solo exhibition at the Baltimore Museum of Art.
Moving to San Francisco in 1954, she became a painter and poet.
Moving to San Francisco in 1954, she became a painter and poet and devoted herself to the expression of spiritual themes.
Although Gerald enjoyed a brief career as a painter -- his small output remains well regarded -- he and his wife were content to occupy backstage roles as bartenders, muses and sometime financial angels to the foremost writers, composers and artists of their age.
