
        Frances Godowsky, a prolific painter and sometime singer better known as George and Ira's little sister, Frankie Gershwin, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
Her documentary ''Art and Remembrance, the Legacy of Felix Nussbaum,'' about the German-Jewish painter who hid in Belgium during World War II but was caught by the Nazis and killed at Auschwitz, received a CINE award.
Sir John Everett Millais (1829-96) was a handsome British painter and a founder of the Pre-Raphaelite movement in Britain.
Mrs. Kingman was in Taiwan to attend a reception for her husband, the painter Dong Kingman, at the Taiwan Museum of Art in Taichung.

        Rummana Hussain, a painter and conceptual artist who was also active in Indian politics, died on July 5 at her home in Bombay.
Ms. Hussain, who came from a prominent Muslim family in Bombay, was for much of her career a painter of allegorical figurative subjects.
Ms. Fleming was born in 1925, the  daughter of the painter Augustus John and of Eve Fleming, the wife of a Maj. Valentine Fleming, Member of Parliament.
One of her most memorable roles was as the shy young visionary Hannah, a character inspired by the primitive painter Minnie Evans, in Jawole Willa Jo Zollar's 1990 ''Praise House.
Louise Thompson entered Harlem Renaissance circles through a friendship with the painter Aaron Douglas and his wife, Alta, and she married the writer Wallace Thurman.

        M. C. Richards, a poet, potter, essayist, translator and painter, who taught at Black Mountain College in the late 1940's and thereafter became an impassioned advocate of community in both art and life, died on Friday at Camphill Village, an agricultural community in Kimberton, Pa., where she had lived since 1984.

        Jeanne Miles, an American painter of luminous geometric abstractions, died last Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles.

        Regina Shoolman Slatkin, a dealer in old master drawings and a writer and specialist on the 18th-century French painter Francois Boucher, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
