Intending to be a portrait painter, she studied at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts, where she met Robert Gwathmey, who would become known for his social realist paintings.
Born in Thornhill, Canada, Ms. Wright was the daughter of Ivan Leonard Wright, a theater critic for The Toronto Globe, and Edith Stevenson Wright, a portrait painter.
In 1999 Mrs. Matisse established the Pierre and Maria-Gaetana Matisse Foundation, which is preparing a catalogue raisonne of the painter Yves Tanguy.
She was mentor to many American garden leaders like Marco Polo Stufano, who transformed Wave Hill, the public garden in the Riverdale section of the Bronx; Robert Dash, the painter who created the Madoo Conservancy, on the East End of Long Island, and Mr. Long.

        Maria Chabot, who in the 1930's began the popular Indian markets on the Plaza in Santa Fe, N.M., and later became a close associate of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe, died on Monday in an Albuquerque hospital.
She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
She became interested in art at an early age and enrolled in the New College at Columbia University, where the experimental program enabled her to study in Paris, in the studio of the painter André L'Hote, in 1934.
The marriage ended in divorce, as did a subsequent one to Norman Sachs Jr.
        She entered the New York art world as a painter, with her first solo show at the Laurel Gallery on East 57th Street in 1947.

        Fanny Brennan, an American painter of small, meticulously executed surrealist still lifes, who spent her childhood in the legendary circle of artists and writers gathered around Sara and Gerald Murphy in Paris, died on July 22 at a hospital in Manhattan.
Her father was a florist, and her mother was a painter who frequently took her daughter to museums.

        Jacqueline Hudson, a landscape painter, graphic artist and benefactor of the arts, died Wednesday at her home in Damariscotta, Me.
She had become a professional portrait painter when her husband, a banker, author, journalist and eventually an oil company executive, suggested she write a novel.

        Pauline Campanelli, a painter whose super-realist still lifes were so popular that their sales were rivaled only by those of Andrew Wyeth among living artists, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Pohatcong Township, N.J., a few miles south of Phillipsburg.
Her husband, Dan, also a painter, said she died of complications from childhood polio.
Her father, Ilya, was a painter, goldsmith and artist of Judaica.

        Mercedes Matter, a painter, teacher and the chief founder of the New York Studio School in Greenwich Village, died on Tuesday.
