Her own films included ''Thelonious Monk: Straight No Chaser'' (1989), which contained rarely seen clips of the brilliant and eccentric jazz pianist; ''Arshile Gorky'' (1982), a profile of the abstract painter; ''Sculpture of Spaces: Noguchi'' (1995); ''American Masters -- Ella Fitzgerald: Something to Live For'' (1999), a biography narrated by Tony Bennett; and ''Toru Takemitsu: Music for the Movies'' (1994), an examination of the Japanese composer.
Janice Miner was born on Oct. 15, 1917, in Boston, the daughter of a dentist and a painter.
Among them were the British painter Howard Hodgkin, whose first solo exhibition in this country sold out at the gallery in 1973.
She was surrounded there by remnants of the Bloomsbury group's heyday, including their books, one of them the letters of her friend Virginia Woolf, and their art, including the painter Dora Carrington's famous portrait of Lytton Strachey.
Ms. Partridge was actually on the fringes of the group, somewhat distantly connected by marriage to Duncan Grant, the Post-Impressionist painter and designer, as well as by her husband's first marriage, to Carrington.
As choreographer, actress, painter and writer as well as dancer, she tried to associate the different art forms in some of her performances.

        Elise Asher, a painter and a poet who blended images and poetry in her work, died last Sunday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She was married to the painter Nanno De Groot in 1949 and divorced in 1957.
A year later she married Mr. Kunitz, whom she had met through painter friends.

        Beatrice Riese, an abstract painter whose important collection of African art is now owned by the Brooklyn Museum, died on April 2 at the hospice at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
Interested in art since childhood, she received a bachelor's degree in fine arts from the California College of the Arts, where the painter Richard Diebenkorn was one of her teachers, and a master's degree in fine arts from Tulane University, where she studied with Mark Rothko.
In addition to her career as a soprano, in which her heavy makeup made her a symbolic image in Turkish culture, she was known internationally for her paintings, which often depicted a little girl, a personification of herself
        She was born in 1910 in Istanbul, where her father was an accountant who wrote poetry and her mother was a painter.
Although both a ceramist and a painter, Ms. Radi was best known for her book ''Baghdad Diaries,'' a vivid account of the texture of daily life during the first gulf war and its aftermath, when she found shelter from the bombing in the family orchard in a well-to-do neighborhood.
At a time when nearly all artists showing in New York galleries were white, she represented several black artists, most notably Jacob Lawrence, but also Raymond Saunders, Richard Hunt and Walter Williams, a little-known painter whose work she showed in her first gallery, which was in Atlantic City.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher.
Soon after Ms. Truitt began making these new works, the Color Field painter Kenneth Noland, a friend since her student days at the Institute of Contemporary Art, brought Greenberg to see her work, and they encouraged the dealer Andre Emmerich to pay a visit.

        Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said.
In addition to her son, a sculptor, who lives in Roosevelt, Ms. Shahn is survived by a daughter, Abby Shahn, a painter, of Solon, Me.
She is also survived by two stepchildren from Mr. Shahn's previous marriage, Ezra of Riverdale, the Bronx, and Judith Shahn Dugan, a painter, of Truro, Mass.

        Agnes Martin, an American painter whose luminous fields of pale color traversed by hand-drawn pencil lines preserved the Romantic spirit of Abstract Expressionism and prefigured the austerities of Minimalism, died yesterday in a retirement community in Taos, N.M.
        She was 92 and had lived in New Mexico for many years.
