Mrs. Jones-Pugliese's husband, Anthony Pugliese, a painter and sculptor, died in 1953.

        Judith Rothschild, an abstract painter whose works were shown internationally and who left a multi-million-dollar estate to support contemporary American artists, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.

        Ethel Magafan, a muralist and painter of semi-abstract Western landscapes, died on Saturday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 76.

        Ethel Magafan, a muralist and painter of semi-abstract Western landscapes, died on Saturday at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 76.

        Mary Spencer Nay, a painter and retired art professor, died on Saturday at her home in Provincetown, Mass.
Freya Madeline Stark was born in Paris on Jan. 31, 1893, to Robert Stark, a British sculptor, and Flora Stark, a painter and pianist.
Vera Neumann, who used only her first name professionally, was a painter whose work was exhibited in many countries, and her designs typically began as paintings.

        Beatrice Tobey, a painter known for her covers for The New Yorker, died on June 19 at her home in Manhattan.
Her first book, "A Good Man and His Good Wife," with illustrations by the abstract painter Ad Reinhardt, was published in 1944.

        Vivian E. Browne, a professor of art at Rutgers University and a painter whose work linked abstraction to nature, died on July 23 at her home in Manhattan.
An amateur painter, she served as administrator of the art school at the Museum at the Museum of Modern Art in the 1970's and held private art classes for children.
Seeing Blocks of Color
        Ms. Sharaff, who once wanted to be a painter, said she saw everything in blocks of color, "rather like painting a picture.
Starting in 1950, Mrs. Shwayder became a painter, doing large worksin acrylics and water colors that featured bright flowers and landscapes in an abstract style.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter, but she retained her original married name.
Starting in 1950, Mrs. Shwayder became a painter, doing large works in acrylics and water colors that featured bright flowers and landscapes in an abstract style.
Her husband died in 1981, and five years later she married Louis Gothelf, a painter.

        Bessie Boris, a painter of landscapes and portraits known for their rich colors and expressive distortions, died on Thursday at her home in Lee, Mass.

        Jennifer Howard Coleman, a painter and former actress, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles.
They were divorced in 1966, and in 1971 she married John E. Coleman, a painter, who died before her.
Mrs. Brackett, who studied at the Chicago Academy of Fire Arts, was also a painter who exhibited nationally, as well as a designer of books and rugs.
She is survived by her husband of 53 years, Ward Brackett of Westport, a portrait painter who also designs stamps for the Postal Service, and her son, Gordon Brackett of Ridgefield, Conn.
      

        Helen Marshall, an American painter and art teacher, died on Nov. 24 at her home in Lavenham, Sussex, England.
