She studied at the Art Students' League and with Guy Pene du Bois, and in the 1950's she worked with the painter Abraham Rattner.
She said her family still lives in Sarasota, where her father is a school principal, and her mother is a painter.
Mrs. Taylor was born on Jan. 8, 1933, in New York, the daughter of Theo von Bergen-Maier, an architect, and the former Martina Weincerl, a painter.
Mrs. Taylor was born on Jan. 8, 1933, in New York, the daughter of Theo von Bergen-Maier, an architect, and the former Martina Weincerl, a painter.
In addition to her son Christopher, book critic for The New York Times, she is survived by two other sons, Carl, a graphic artist and painter, and Alexander, a sound engineer, both of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Hollins wrote "On Gilbert Head," a critically praised journal of her life in the 1930's with her first husband, the painter Stephen Etnier, on an island in Maine.

        Candy Jernigan, a painter, sculptor and set designer, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City.

        Jane Piper, a prominent Philadelphia painter, died on Thursday at her home in the Center City section of the city.

        Jane Piper, a prominent Philadelphia painter, died on Thursday at her home in the Center City section of the city.

        Bena Frank Mayer, a painter best known for her portraits, died on Thursday at the St. Luke's division of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center.
She was the widow of Ralph Mayer, also a painter and an expert in the field of artists' materials and techniques, who died in 1979.
She studied at the Cooper Union and the Arts Students League, and also privately with the painter Stuart Davis.

        Princess Fahrelnissa Zeid, great-aunt of King Hussein of Jordan and an artist best known as an abstract painter of the Paris School in the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday after a short illness.
She is survived by a son, Prince Raad bin Zeid, and two children from a previous marriage: another son, Nejad Devrim of Warsaw, a painter, and a daughter, Sirin Devrim Trainer of New York City, an actress.
      
She left Germany in 1942 and moved to Lisbon, making a living as a painter, an illustrator and a pottery-maker.

        Mary S. Painter Garin, an American economist who was an important innovator in the use of statistical techniques during and immediately after World War II, died Monday in Toulon, France, near her home in Sollies-Toucas.
Miss Painter, as she was known professionally, was one of a small group of economists who made national-income analysis a powerful tool for government and military policy-making from World War II on.
She served in the Marshall Plan and at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris,
        A native of Minneapolis, Miss Painter graduated from Swarthmore College in 1942 with high honors and went directly to the Board of Economic Warfare and then to the Office of Strategic Services.
In 1948, Miss Painter went to Paris in the first wave of economists who set up the European headquarters of the Marshall Plan.
Miss Painter was also known as a remarkable cook.
Work in Restaurants
        When Miss Painter retired as an economist from O.E.C.D., she became, in the best French tradition of restaurateur's wives, la Patronne of Chez Garin, presiding over its cash register.
Mr. Garin died in 1979, and Miss Painter lived there the rest of her life.

        Ethel Halsey Blum, a painter, water colorist and former journalist, died on Wednesday at her home in Lakeville, Conn. She was 90 years old.

        Minna Citron, a painter and printmaker best known for her Social Realist images of New York City, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.

        Greta Kempton, a painter whose portrait of President Harry S. Truman hangs in the White House, died on Monday at her home in New York City.
By the mid-1930's, she was living in California and was well-established as a painter of commissioned portraits, with Hollywood studio heads like Louis B. Mayer and Adolf Zukor among her clients.
