Correction:  January 27, 2002, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about Anne Poor, a painter of dreamlike landscapes and World War II combat scenes, misidentified the town where she lived.
After a few years in Hollywood, she returned to Germany in 1950 to film ''Sinner,'' the story of a prostitute who falls in love with a painter who is going blind.
''She was just a great painter, period,'' said Jan Ramirez, director of the New-York Historical Society's museum.
But Ms. Laurier, who knew Ms. Bernstein's husband of 62 years, the painter and etcher William Meyerowitz, said he told her and others that his wife was two years older than he was; if so, she would have turned 116 in two weeks.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
She is survived by her children: the actor Miguel Ferrer; Maria, a designer; Gabriel, a painter married to Debby Boone; Monsita Teresa; Rafael, a voice-over actor, and her husband, Dante DiPaolo, a dancer.
In its heyday, the Holly Solomon Gallery represented an eclectic mix of talents, from the video artist Nam June Paik to William Wegman, the painter and draftsman better known as a whimsical photographer of Weimaraners.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
She is survived by her husband, Mr. DiPaolo; three sons, the actor Miguel Ferrer; Gabriel Ferrer, a painter and Episcopal priest married to Debby Boone; and the voice-over actor Rafael Ferrer; two daughters, Maria Murdoch, a designer; and Monsita Teresa Botwick; 10 grandchildren, her brother, Nick Clooney, and her sister, Gail Clooney Darley.
In 1992 she recalled how the painter Clyfford Still, about whom she had written unfavorably, sent her a pair of rubber baby pants with a card.
In 1992 she recalled how the painter Clyfford Still, about whom she had written unfavorably, sent her a pair of rubber baby pants with a card.

        Quita Brodhead, a painter of colorful figurative and abstract paintings for more than 80 years, died on Sept. 4 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 101 and lived in Wayne, Pa.
        She had a vibrant style that continued to evolve through her life.
