Her interests included interior decorating and antiques, and she was an amateur painter.

        Esther Annenberg Simon, a painter and supporter of the arts, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
A painter in the modern style for 25 years, she was a founding board member of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Skowhegan, Me.
She disclosed her findings in 1969 in the book "Ammi Phillips, Portrait Painter, 1788-1865," which she wrote with Barbara and Lawrence Holdridge, folk art collectors.
Miss Weiss was the author of "Ben Shahn: Photographer," a 1973 study of the photographic work of the American painter.

        Maria-Helena Vieira da Silva, a painter prominently associated with the School of Paris, died in Paris on March 6.
In 1939, at the outbreak of World War II, she and her husband, Arpad Szenes, a Hungarian-born painter she married in 1930, fled to Rio de Janeiro.

        Musa McKim Guston, a poet and painter who was the widow of the Abstract Expressionist artist Philip Guston, died on Monday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 83 years old and lived in Woodstock, N.Y.
        She died of congestive heart failure, said her daughter, Musa Mayer of New York City.
Mrs. Guston was born on Aug. 23, 1908, in Oil City, Pa. She studied at the Otis Art Institute in Los Angeles, where she met Mr. Guston, and had an early career as a painter.
She was married for 32 years to Francis Scott Bradford, a noted painter, until his death in 1961.
There she studied with the painter Elizabeth Murray and graduated with honors in 1981.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
Her marriage to Mr. Fisher ended in divorce in 1937 and that same year she married the painter Dilwyn Parrish, who died after a lingering illness in 1941.
A trip to Italy in 1922 exposed her to the work of the Renaissance painter Piero della Francesca, whose classical sense of form influenced her images of machine-age America.
Miss Driggs married the painter Lee Gatch in 1935 and lived with him in New Jersey until his death in 1968, when she moved back to Manhattan.

        Mai-mai Sze, a painter and author, died in New York Hospital in Manhattan on Thursday.
After college, she became a successful landscape painter, and her works were exhibited at shows in New York, London and Paris.
She was also a patron of the Metropolitan Opera and was an amateur painter, sculptor and writer.

        Esther K. Gayner, a painter, sculptor and printmaker, died on Wednesday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in New Hyde Park.

        Joan Mitchell, an American painter who was an important figure in the second generation of American Abstract Expressionists, died yesterday in a hospital in Paris.
This was reinforced by her meeting with the painter Jean-Paul Riopelle, who was to be her companion from 1955 until 1979.
With her father, she wrote a book on Luca Cambiaso, a 16th- century Genoese painter.
"
        Miss Holm's marriage to Reinhold Martin Kuntze, a painter and sculptor, ended in divorce.
