
        Louisa Matthiasdottir, an exemplar of the strain of painterly representation that runs through the history of postwar American art, died Saturday at O'Connor Hospital in Delhi, N.Y. She was 83 and lived in New York from 1942 until late 1999, when she moved to Delhi to live with her daughter, Temma Bell, who is also painter.
Within a year of her arrival she met Leland Bell, a tall, handsome painter who was as voluble as she was aloof.
She played a major role in developing modern dance in another country after 1939, when the Mexican painter Carlos Merida arranged for her to perform in Mexico City.
''Magritte, Magritte'' was based upon the Surrealist fantasies of the painter, ''Odes'' was filled with swirling movement patterns and ''Poem'' was lyrical.
After meeting the painter Romare Bearden, she turned her attention toward art as a career.
She was also a painter.

        Virginia Admiral, an American painter and writer who studied with Hans Hofmann, died on July 27.
She showed artists she knew from her school days in Boston, including the painter George Condo, the installation artist Jack Pierson and the photographer Mark Morrisroe, and fostered the careers of such older artists as the painter Mary Heilmann, the video artist Joan Jonas and the Conceptualist Lutz Bacher.
She showed artists she knew from her school days in Boston, including the painter George Condo, the installation artist Jack Pierson and the photographer Mark Morrisroe, and fostered the careers of such older artists as the painter Mary Heilmann, the video artist Joan Jonas and the Conceptualist Lutz Bacher.
In that period Mr. Hall also befriended the painter Isabel Whitney, who left him $2 million at her death in 1962, he said.
Biala was described by her niece, the New York painter Hermine Ford,  as a ''uniquely wonderful, widely beloved character'' whose house in Paris ''would fill in the late afternoon with all kinds of people -- writers, artists, next-door neighbors.
'' Her close friends included the photographer Cartier-Bresson, as well as the expatriate American painter Shirley Jaffe.
Her father soon left for New York, where he set up a shop on Ludlow Street in the Lower East Side; Biala, her mother and her older brother Jacob, who would become the Abstract Expressionist painter Jack Tworkov, followed in 1913.
While both nieces contend that Biala knew she wanted to be a painter from a very early age (before her brother did, in fact), all they know of her artistic education is that at the age of 18 or 19, after a brief period of study at the National Academy of Design, she went to Provincetown, Mass., to study with the painter Edwin Dickinson, whose painterly representation was especially influential on her work.
While both nieces contend that Biala knew she wanted to be a painter from a very early age (before her brother did, in fact), all they know of her artistic education is that at the age of 18 or 19, after a brief period of study at the National Academy of Design, she went to Provincetown, Mass., to study with the painter Edwin Dickinson, whose painterly representation was especially influential on her work.
Sometime in the mid-1920's she was briefly married to the painter Lee Gatch.
In 1943, having returned to New York, Biala married Daniel Brustlein, an Alsatian-born painter who contributed cartoons to The New Yorker under the name Alain.
Later she became a painter of portraits, animals and flowers and lived in Europe and in Los Angeles, where she was a director of local theater productions.
