At this time she married the distinguished painter Ye Qianyu.
In contrast, the New York poets shared a concern with language as pure form, using words much as a painter uses paint.
Guest's first marriage, to John Dudley, a painter and writer who was a close friend of Henry Miller's, ended in divorce.

        Stella Snead, a British Surrealist painter and collage artist who fled wartime Europe to work in the United States and later became a photographer noted for her books on India, died on March 18 in New York.
Though not well remembered as a painter today, Ms. Snead exhibited her work frequently in the United States and Europe during that decade.
It was not until she was in her mid-20's that she decided to become a painter.
She studied with the French abstract painter Amédée Ozenfant, who had opened an art school in London in 1936.
The English Surrealist painter Leonora Carrington was a fellow student and a close friend.
Rather than comply with the dictates of the fascist government, Ms. Valli retreated into hiding and in 1944 married Oscar de Mejo, a Surrealist painter and composer, whose most successful song was ''All I Want for Christmas Is My Two Front Teeth.
Alliance and Estrangement
        In Rome, she met the painter and sculptor Penelope Jardine, who became her secretary and later her companion.
''
        In her later years it became clear that she and her son, Robin, a painter who lives in Edinburgh, were irreconcilably estranged over various issues, including what he referred to as her abandonment of him, as well as her opinions about his ability as an artist and his public statements about their heritage.
In 1990 she established the Art Kaleidoscope Foundation, which was co-producer, with the independent filmmaker Christian Blackwood, of her first widely known film, the award-winning 1992 documentary ''Joan Mitchell: Portrait of an Abstract Painter.
'' The film presented an unusually intimate view of this famously private, intractable painter, whom Ms. Cajori first met when she was 9.

        Andrée Ruellan, a noted painter of the 1930's and 40's whose complete body of work spans almost the entire 20th century, died on July 15 in Kingston, N.Y. She was 101 and lived for many years in Shady, N.Y., near Woodstock.
In 1914, when she was 9, the Ashcan School painter Robert Henri invited her to join a group show in the East Village; she contributed watercolors and drawings of urban street life.
The same year she was awarded a scholarship to the Art Students League of New York, where she studied with the noted painter Maurice Sterne.
There she met John W. Taylor, a painter, whom she married in 1929.

        Buffie Johnson, a painter whose work spanned much of the 20th century and ranged from Surrealism to Abstract Expressionism to larger-than-life hyperrealism, died on Aug. 11 at her home in Manhattan.
''
        Perhaps Ms. Holmes's most famous image is of the abstract painter Jackson Pollock, taken at his home studio in East Hampton, N.Y., for the issue of Aug. 8, 1949.
She also supported herself by cataloging private collections, including those of Alfred H. Barr Jr., the first director of the Museum of Modern Art, and the independently wealthy painter William N. Copley.
Ms. van Stockum was a painter as well.
