''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
So, when she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''Black people in my community crucified me,'' she recalled.
He said to me, 'What are your people going to say?
'' ''It used to be that people poked fun at getting shrunk.
You say 'Phoebe,' and 50 million people know what you mean.
In ''Fleas, Flukes & Cuckoos: A Study of Bird Parasites,'' which she wrote with Theresa Clay in 1952 (Philosophical Library), she argued that most people misunderstood fleas.
''Only nine black people have been elected to Congress, and those nine should be used as effectively as possible.
When she decided to run for the New York State Assembly in 1964, she said the decision was straightforward: ''The people wanted me.
''Black people in my community crucified me,'' she recalled.
He said to me, 'What are your people going to say?
''She could make people fall into line by lifting an eyebrow,'' he added.
''She had a profound impact on the way people think about how kids develop,'' said Dr. John Spencer, a psychology professor at the University of Iowa, a friend and former colleague of Dr. Thelen's.
''She exposed and explained the civil rights movement in ways that the daily press either couldn't or wouldn't,'' said Julian Bond, chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Six more novels followed, among them ''Daisy Kenyon'' (Doubleday, 1945), which was made into a movie starring Joan Crawford; ''Leaving Home'' (Doubleday, 1953; reissued by CUNY, 1987); and ''Accident'' (Harper & Row, 1964), as well as several books for young people and collections on writing that she edited.
''We are a people that sings naturally,'' she said in a 1980 interview, adding, ''When we have a sorrow, it is a wonderful sorrow; when we have a happiness, it is a wonderful happiness, it is a big happiness.
She was stricken at the office of Nos Quedamos/We Stay, the community group she helped found in the early 1990's to prevent the eviction of hundreds of people who lived and worked in the neighborhood.
''If this area deteriorated, it wasn't because of the people -- it deteriorated because of poor city planning,'' Ms. Garcia told The New York Times in 1993.

        Simone Simon, the French actress of near-feline beauty best known to American audiences for her haunting role in the 1942 RKO horror film ''Cat People,'' died on Tuesday in Paris.
In ''Cat People'' Ms. Simon played a Serbian-born wife who fears that when her passions are aroused she will turn into a panther that kills.
Her casting in this film and its mostly unrelated sequel, ''The Curse of the Cat People'' (RKO, 1944), was probably inspired by her role as the devil's emissary in ''All That Money Can Buy'' (RKO, 1941), an adaptation of Stephen Vincent Benet's short story ''The Devil and Daniel Webster,'' in which Ms. Simon's character steals a good man from his wife.
''Why do you have to hit those people?
At one point they asked Ms. Derickson to sort through the passengers' passports to single out people with Jewish-sounding names.
The work, Mrs. Small wrote, was ''a life of people risking their own lives to help men and ships; a life of order and duty.
According to her friend the writer Ann Louise Bardach, ''She even turned important people down for treatment because, as she said, 'You can't change character.
As a result of the suit, the state made several changes, among them enacting annual hearings for all those who are confined, with the result that several other people were released from state institutions.
She was employed at a workshop for people with mental disabilities, and bought dolls to add to a collection she had started while confined.
In the same vein, Ms. Norton deplored people's embrace of technology.
Many of the people she helped were intellectuals, artists and anti-Nazi organizers.
Ms. Fittko and her husband, Hans, became part of the rescue mission of Varian Fry, an American who is credited with saving about 2,000 people, many of them artists and intellectuals, including André Breton, Marc Chagall and Max Ernst.
Miriam Hansen, a professor of English and cinema and media studies at the University of Chicago, said Ms. Fittko became well known in postwar Germany because Germans liked to find and honor people who resisted Hitler.
For years people suspected that it might have been his lost work on the Parisian arcades, iron-and-glass-roofed shopping corridors, which provoked penetrating philosophical insights on the part of Mr. Benjamin.
They pretended to be vineyard workers and took people across the mountains on what was called the F route (for Fittko) two or three times a week for seven months.

        Cushing N. Dolbeare, a leading expert on federal housing policy and a longtime campaigner for affordable housing for low-income people, died on March 17 at her home in Mitchellville, Md.
As Ms. Dolbeare explained in an interview with The New York Times in 1983, the lack of affordable housing was for poor people a chronic problem with limited available solutions.
''It completely changed the way people perceived Louisa May Alcott,'' Ms. Lustgarten said.

        Isabelle Goldenson, who worked for people with disabilities, including her oldest daughter, as a founder of United Cerebral Palsy, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84.
People with disabilities were often separated from their families and institutionalized at the time that Mrs. Goldenson and her husband, Leonard H. Goldenson, former head of ABC, were raising their daughter Genise.
''If we can put a man on the moon,'' she asked at a dinner party in 1971, ''why can't we develop a lightweight wheelchair for people with disabilities?
Through its network of affiliates, United Cerebral Palsy provides daily services to more than 30,000 people.
At a time when few people saw the use of educational programs for babies and toddlers, she directed money to studies that eventually convinced policymakers of the benefits of early child development.
In 1987 The Times of London asked several prominent people to compose a Valentine's Day verse.
''It's pretty clear that the church elite in the mainline denominations are to the left of the people in the pews,'' she told The New York Times last year.
John Green, a specialist in religion and politics at the University of Akron, credited Mrs. Knippers with changing people's ideas about what it meant to be a Protestant.
Ms. Messick hired other people to draw cars and other mechanical contraptions, animals and nature scenes.
''She thought to put in perfumed candles and potpourri at the entrances so that when people walked in, they got this wonderful aroma.
'' The government awarded her the order of Lenin and named her People's Artist of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics.
As slim as a stalk of celery and, as she proudly acknowledged, ''possibly one of the first people to have plastic surgery,'' Mrs. Kempner was a member of fashion's Hall of Fame and a Park Avenue hostess whose table was considered one of the best in Manhattan.
: Menus for Entertaining From People Who Really Know How,'' was published by Clarkson Potter in 2000, with the proceeds going to the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
' and he said, 'Because people stare!
''
        Then again, she once said: ''I tell people all the time I want to be buried naked.
During the zenith of her career in the 40's, Hildegarde's name appeared on best-dressed lists, and people were stunned when she said she spent $10,000 a year on clothes.
During the zenith of her career in the 40's, Hildegarde's name appeared on best-dressed lists, and people were stunned when she said she spent $10,000 a year on clothes.
''She came to us in the early 60's and met with people here who became hospice founders and pioneers,'' she said.
''She came to New York, Los Angeles and Boston and Yale, and met with people who had corresponded with her and were impressed with her passion, that it was the obligation of health-care providers to relieve suffering.
''They're always making me play well-bred ladies,'' she told People magazine in 1982.
Ms. Rossner, who was recovering from a car accident, found herself pondering the extent to which people are to blame for their own misfortunes.
Judge Motley was a tall, gracious and stately woman whose oft-stated goal was as simple as it was sometimes elusive: dignity for all people.
's Legal Defense and Education Fund, an affiliate of the National Organization for the Advancement of Colored People that Mr. Marshall and his mentor, Charles Houston, had created in 1939.
''Thurgood says that the only people who are safe in the South are the women -- white and Negro,'' she said in an interview with Pictorial Living, the magazine of The New York Journal-American, in 1965.
''The work I'm doing now will affect people's lives intimately,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times in 1977, ''it may even change them.
It is the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People -- not National Organization.
      
In her historical novels, readers could be assured that the characters spoke pretty much the way people in their time and place spoke, or as close to it as was humanly possible to determine.
''She believed that the key to understanding these people was in their words,'' said Starling Lawrence, her editor at W.W. Norton.
''I believe in individual rights and the absence of government interference in those rights,'' she told People magazine in 1983.
Randi Weingarten, who succeeded Ms. Feldman as president of the United Federation of Teachers, said, ''People remember her take-no-prisoners kind of attitude, but Sandy was far more pragmatic than people give her credit for.
She saw many people die of cholera.
''I thought if I were 10 years younger, I would love to do it,'' she told People magazine in 1987.
Ms. Segal told about the Kindertransport (Children's Transport) in her autobiographical novel, ''Other People's Houses,'' drawing a loving portrait of a charming and capable mother.
Teaching at the Tel Aviv Seminary for Music Teachers in 1948 and 1949, she joined forces with the Israeli composer Ovadia Tuvia and the Yemenite young people who sang in his chorales.
Parks clarified for people far beyond Montgomery the cruelty and humiliation inherent in the laws and customs of segregation.
Another had it that she was a ''plant'' by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
There, she later said, she ''gained strength to persevere in my work for freedom, not just for blacks but for all oppressed people.
But most black commuters -- 40,000 people -- walked, some more than 20 miles.
''There are very few people who can say their actions and conduct changed the face of the nation,'' Mr. Conyers said yesterday in a statement, ''and Rosa Parks is one of those individuals.
She would say that she hoped only to inspire others, especially young people, ''to be dedicated enough to make useful lives for themselves and to help others.
She held leadership positions in the Democratic Party, the National Women's Caucus and the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, among many other organizations.
Using solid-colored fabrics appliquéd onto stark backgrounds, they depict bold, stylized silhouettes of black people.

        Catherine M. Pessino, a naturalist and educator who spent more than three decades introducing young people to wildlife in the most inhospitable of places -- the sidewalks, sewers and catchment basins of New York City -- died on Nov. 5 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 80.
With Ms. Hussey, Ms. Pessino wrote three books for young people, all published by Thomas Y. Crowell: ''Collecting Cocoons'' (1953); ''Collecting Small Fossils'' (1970); and ''Collecting for the City Naturalist'' (1975).
As Laura Shapiro, the author of ''Something From the Oven: Reinventing Dinner in 1950's America'' (Viking, 2004), said in a telephone interview yesterday:
        ''Stove Top made it possible to have the stuffing without the turkey, probably something no cook would ever have dreamed of but people eating Thanksgiving dinner might well have thought of: 'Take away everything else; just leave me here with the stuffing!

        Marjorie Kellogg, who poured her personal experiences into the bestselling book ''Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon,'' her story of three disabled people keeping house together, died on Dec. 19 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 83 and was for many years a resident of Manhattan.
While she was collaborating on a play with Paula Fox, Ms. Fox challenged her to sit down and write a novel about the people she met at work at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital.
Founded in 1954, at a time when many Japanese people were exploring new freedoms, Gutai reacted to American Abstract Expressionism and the French Informel movement by advocating a radically nontraditional, experimental play with nonrepresentational materials.
She edited other work, especially travel books for young people, before writing her first book, ''One Little Drum'' (Follet Publishing Company, 1958).
