''With his body water-soaked and defaced, most people would have kept the casket covered.
More than 100,000 people saw his body lying in that casket here in Chicago.
Sometimes people thought her questions were off the wall, but other times, she hit them right in the eye.
'' ''It offers the best opportunity to serve one's country, the people and the public interest.
They came up with the name and the concept of having people come to hear Jean Nidetch rather than her visiting their homes.
Twenty-two people showed up at the first meeting, paying $2 each.
Her social circle included the expected royalty and celebrities, like her friend Greta Garbo, whom she called ''the loveliest woman you or I ever saw or will see,'' but she preferred that they be interesting people.
Many people with cystic fibrosis, a genetic disease that causes mucus to build up in the organs, mainly in the lungs and pancreas, die in young adulthood.
''Somewhere in the middle of doing all this technical research she realized that what she really wanted to do was not study computers but use computers to link people,'' said Brian Reid, who hired Dr. Borg into his research group at the Digital Equipment Corporation's Western Research Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.
But as new people, many of them Fort Worth socialites, took over the museum, Mrs. Formby's role declined.
Though she was best known as an interpreter of other people's music, she eloquently expressed her feelings about racism and black pride in those years in a number of memorable songs she wrote herself.
An earlier circuit for drag performers had been geared to white people, and black performers had sometimes whitened their faces to fit in.
The paradox was more bitter than sweet: performers strove to become the very people who would reject them.
She said hypnosis could induce an altered state of consciousness involving heightened awareness and focus in approximately 1 in 12 people.
Known in the advertising world as Frankie, Ms. Cadwell used her prominent position to press for changes in how women and older people appeared in advertising.
Hale also coached polo teams at Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo and at the Marine Corps Air Station El Toro in Santa Ana, Calif., and provided polo lessons for handicapped people.
In its citation, the foundation referred to a bomb explosion in a marketplace in Sarajevo in 1994 that killed 68 people.
'' He said there were ''few people who can claim as many accomplishments.
She worried, too, about the civil liberties issues raised by efforts to amass databases of people's DNA for crime-fighting purposes.
In 1951, with the help of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Bulahs sued not just for a bus ride; they also asked a state court for admission to the white school.
''
        Mr. Kluger wrote that many blacks in the area were upset with the legal action because they had no desire to associate with white people.
In 1999 the Mystery Writers of America gave her an Ellery Queen Award, which honors distinguished people in the mystery-publishing business.
''
        Of those early years, she said: ''I strike people as peculiar in some way, although I don't quite understand why.
Of course, I have an angular face, an angular body and, I suppose, an angular personality, which jabs into people.
''
        Thirty-five people ended up in a 26-foot lifeboat, a self-contained universe of fear, boredom and oddity.
'' They also produced ''Falsettoland'' Off Broadway and ''Other People's Money'' in Chicago.
''We don't let people roam around the store,'' Mrs. Koch said in an interview last year on WNYC radio.
)
        Mrs. Koch never stopped wondering why people kept asking her questions.
The magazine helped transform Ms. Heldman into an advocate for women's tennis and one of the most influential people in the game.
''I don't know how many people can say that.
''Being with the people that you love and enjoying life, that's really how you win at life.
By the time the Khmer Rouge won power in 1975 and undertook the revolution that led to the deaths of 1.7 million people, she was incapacitated by her illness.
''When people hear me sing,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times, ''I want them to be happy, happy, happy.
)
        Earlier Ms. Shields had built a following with her novels and stories about ordinary people in everyday situations.
''To me, it seems astonishing that people are as good as they are.
The club was an immediate success, but its name, the Body Shop, caused confusion: People thought it was an auto-repair business.
No heavy weights or elaborate machines were emphasized; classes were easy to follow and taught by people with less-than-perfect bodies.
Moving to Fifth Avenue, she went to the Dalton School, became friends with Oona O'Neill, the daughter of the Eugene O'Neill who later married Charlie Chaplin, and started meeting other people in the theater.
Her other books included ''The People vs. Baby: A Documentary Novel'' (Doubleday, 1967); ''Run, Shelley, Run!
In a 1995 interview with Daniel Goleman of The New York Times, Dr. Goldman-Rakic said that short-term memory appeared to hold vital clues to what goes wrong in the thinking of people with schizophrenia.
Think of it as organizing a party for a couple of million people, with 500 vendors selling everything from commemorative T-shirts to curried goat, and entertainment by two dozen bands and music groups riding flatbed trucks with speakers the size of refrigerators.
Both of my parents were very hyper people.
Around her a dozen people bustled in and out, some sorting papers and packages of information for the various events preceding the parade, checking vendor lists and forms, and tending to the never-ending file of people calling for last-minute applications and instructions.
Around her a dozen people bustled in and out, some sorting papers and packages of information for the various events preceding the parade, checking vendor lists and forms, and tending to the never-ending file of people calling for last-minute applications and instructions.
''No, I tend to enjoy it from the reviewing stand; you know, when the music pass and I see the people enjoying themselves,'' she said, looking a bit dejected.
She was one of the few people ever to maintain simultaneous friendships with Hitler and Churchill.
''People think that because it's a sunny day, a Realtor can drive people around and sell a house, just like that,'' she said.
She wistfully recalled the quaintness of the 1980's when ''you'd take people out, show them houses, and there was a leisurely process of negotiation.
''Through the weeks and months, you develop such a close relationship with people when you're selling a house,'' Mrs. Bronander said.
In 1960, when a plane crashed taking off from Logan Airport in Boston, killing all 62 people aboard, Ms. Laybourne, then a scientist at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, helped investigators conclude that the cause was a flock of starlings caught in one of its engines.
As she put it in her 1958 autobiography, ''I Always Wanted to Be Somebody,'' the club attracted ''the highest class'' of Harlem residents, people, she noted, who ''had rigid ideas about what was socially acceptable.
I don't consider myself to be a representative of my people.
Among more recent battles, Mrs. Foster was a leader in successful fights for public housing for poor people in Selma and the removal of a statue of the founder of the Klan from a public park.
Ms. Cross said that Candace and the Storches were reunited after Candace read an article about the documentary in People magazine.
''In those days, people were encrusted in prejudice,'' Mr. Storch said in an interview with People magazine in 1996.
''In those days, people were encrusted in prejudice,'' Mr. Storch said in an interview with People magazine in 1996.
She told People magazine that she felt only ''detached curiosity.
Nominations are made annually by fashion editors, many of whom have never set eyes on the women they are judging, and the list is then compiled by a smaller panel of editors and people of fashion.
Madame Chiang made several trips to the United States in the 1950's to oppose efforts by the People's Republic of China to win a seat at the United Nations.
Ultimately, that difference in perspectives was perhaps one reason that she fled an increasingly democratic Taiwan, where many people reviled her and where she felt less at home as native Taiwanese eclipsed the exiled mainlanders.
The Communist Party leadership called her the only true patriot in the Soong family, and appointed her honorary chairman of the People's Republic in 1980, a year before her death.
Edgar Snow, the American journalist, estimated that Chiang's forces had executed more than 5,000 people.
''I can ask the American people for nothing more,'' she said.
She was in a wheelchair, but was reported to be in good spirits, telling people there that she was very happy that day.
She said, ''I think that people who don't like cowboy music are often those who can't face reality.
In magazine articles, a recent book and interviews on ''The Oprah Winfrey Show'' and other television programs, Dr. Glass examined how the emotional intimacy of the workplace and the Internet had led even people in successful marriages to slip into emotionally intense relationships that could easily lead to affairs.
Their social circle comprised people who initially rejected Hitler's Nazis as boors and were too late to grasp the true dimensions of the horror that befell Europe.
''I can remember tearing out pages and sending it to my people and saying we ought to look at this or that,'' said Marvin Traub, former chairman of Bloomingdale's.
''She was very comfortable with all kinds of people, which is not common for a woman who's born to the purple, so to speak,'' her friend Eppie Lederer (the advice columnist Ann Landers) once observed.
''She was very comfortable with all kinds of people, which is not common for a woman who's born to the purple, so to speak,'' her friend Eppie Lederer (the advice columnist Ann Landers) once observed.
''
        Often she lets people speak for themselves, as she did with a woman left home while her husband traveled to Milan or Germany to find work.
But after she swam 23 miles in 8 hours 43 minutes, the people in a boat who were supposed to look after her thought she might be unconscious in the water.
She was not prepared for the ticker-tape parade that New York gave her through its financial district on Aug. 27, 1926, in which an estimated two million people turned out and chanted, ''Trudy!
Her encroaching deafness made her shy away from people.
''All my life, it seems, I have talked about how people can't be bad just because they're black, or Jewish or women,'' Dr. Konopka told The Minneapolis Star Tribune in an interview for an article published in 2000.
''I've never seen so many people with thermometers fussing over water and how long it had to be boiled,'' said the general manager, Gilbert Pilgram.
      
''I stood on the sidelines for half a century and watched other people receive Tony Awards,'' she said, ''and now at last I get my own.
Mrs. Pinkett ''served the people of Brooklyn with compassion, dedication and a fiery sense of purpose for nearly 30 years,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday in a statement.
Mrs. Kidder's wedding gown for Tricia Nixon in 1971 also became controversial, though less bitterly so, because it was sleeveless, which many people considered unusually revealing for that decade.
Former members of the groups or the anguished families of members, like some of the people who lost relatives among the Branch Davidians in the Waco, Tex., in 1993, would often seek her advice.
Several members of the People's Temple, with Dr. Singer's help, left that group before 900 people committed mass suicide in Guyana in 1978.
Several members of the People's Temple, with Dr. Singer's help, left that group before 900 people committed mass suicide in Guyana in 1978.
''Her testimony would help people understand the clinical impact of a cult's manipulation and exploitation,'' said Dr. Richard Ofshe, a sociology professor at the University of California at Berkeley who worked with Dr. Singer for 20 years.
''There was a constant stream of people who would go into these organizations and end up in psychiatric emergency rooms.
Dr. Pinker said in an interview: ''As much as we locked horns, I had a huge amount of respect for her intellect and for keeping people like me honest.
