She also was a past national Hadassah chairman for young people pioneering in Palestine and helped found Kibbutz Hasollelim to train young Zionists.
For the Cape Performing Arts Board, she created the roles of Millie in Mr. Fugard's "People Are Living There" and Lena in his "Boesman and Lena.
"Grace took every opportunity to challenge people young and old to consider the infinite possibilities of technology," said Kenneth H. Olsen, Digital Equipment's president.
In 1986, Ms. Samuel became director of the Office of School and Business Linkages to develop initiatives that involve people from the private sector and government with students, teachers and administrators.
When Dr. Chenitz-Manley learned she had AIDS in 1988, she quit her job at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in San Francisco and began speaking around the country for the National Association of People with AIDS.
Mrs. Sarcka and her husband, Wayne, established Spring Lake Ranch at Cuttingsville, Vt., in 1932 for people with mental and emotional problems and ran it for 30 years.
"
        "I don't understand it myself," she said in 1976, "but I have this effect on people, so when I walk onstage, they start laughing.
"
        "After that," she said, "people just kept writing parts for me.
"I've always thought people who are on, offstage, save very little for onstage," she said in 1976.
"
        "I don't understand it myself," she said in 1976, "but I have this effect on people, so when I walk onstage, they start laughing.
"
        "After that," she said, "people just kept writing parts for me.
"I've always thought people who are
        on
        , offstage, save very little for onstage," she said in 1976.
Her book of urban poems, "The Inner City Mother Goose" (Simon & Schuster, 1969), drew attacks from a judge, police officials and others who said it glamorized crime and denigrated people with lines like "Run, run father, go away; Welfare worker is due today.
After the Communist revolution in 1949, Ms. Kang became a leader of the Women's Federation and entered the National People's Congress.

        Edna Simon Levine, a psychologist who founded many programs to help deaf people, died on April 7 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Dr. Levine devoted her career to the problems of people with impaired hearing as an advocate, author, teacher, researcher, clinician and trainer of other professionals.
As a psychologist, Dr. Levine focused on helping deaf people cope with feelings of social isolation from hearing people.
As a psychologist, Dr. Levine focused on helping deaf people cope with feelings of social isolation from hearing people.
Miss Picon was particularly touched in 1946 when she and her husband were among the first entertainers to visit European camps for displaced people.

        Marlene Dietrich, the film star who embodied not only the fantasies of millions but also aspects of the complex German psyche, was buried today in her native Berlin, where people are still not sure what to make of her.
"I loved her because she was always her own person, and never did what people expected her to do," said a young man carrying a single red rose.
"That's the same reason why many people here don't like her.
Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany.
Hanna Schygulla, the German film actress, wrote in a tribute: "We, the ones born afterward, the postwar generation, are proud that there were people like you, people who during the Hitler period took the side of the enemy, and did it out of love for a better Germany.
She insisted on free admission and encouraged people to sample events and feel comfortable about leaving ones that did not appeal to them.
She was named by Mayor David N. Dinkins earlier this month as one of several recipients of the annual Mayor's Very Special Arts Awards for promoting the arts for people with disabilities.
And at the School of Performing Arts in New York, she supervised a program that prepared young people for professional careers.
When she left the publication in 1969, the staff, under her guidance, had grown from 4 to 15 people.
She was a close friend of many famous people, including Ernest Hemingway and Sir Alexander Fleming, the discoverer of penicillin.
"When you perform it's a one-to-one love affair with the people out there," she once said.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me":
        "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" She said she "spent hours in my kitchen cooking for people, trying to blast their safe, tidy little lives with a tureen of hot borscht and some garlic-toast and salad, instead of the fruit cocktail, fish, meat, vegetable, salad, dessert and coffee they tuck daintily away seven times a week.
In 1943 she wrote in her book "The Gastronomical Me": "People ask me: Why do you write about food, and eating and drinking?
" She said she "spent hours in my kitchen cooking for people, trying to blast their safe, tidy little lives with a tureen of hot borscht and some garlic-toast and salad, instead of the fruit cocktail, fish, meat, vegetable, salad, dessert and coffee they tuck daintily away seven times a week.
She managed to escape and to rescue a child whose parents were among the 52 people killed.
Only 17 people survived.
She became a skilled collector of art and of people and contributed some of her fortune to the beautification of New York and Jerusalem.
"The last thing I want to talk about is what people are wearing," she once told an interviewer.
She began to gather the most interesting people she knew at the Park Avenue duplex she moved into with her husband, Leon J. Livingston, in 1941.
"I admire people who are able to express themselves well and who grasp facts fast.
Ms. Serfling's clients in recent years included People, Sports Illustrated and McCall's magazines and the Chiat-Day advertising agency.
Last year she finished "Our Kind of People," an autobiographical play about a family of Greek-Jewish immigrants.
Jobs in Office Services
        In 1989, she and Dr. Greene founded Multitasking, a nonprofit organization selling office services to other businesses and employing people with AIDS as the workers.
The club is affiliated with the Hazelden Institute of Minnesota, a leading rehabilitation center for people dependent on drugs and alcohol.
Last year she finished "Our Kind of People," an autobiographical play about a family of Greek-Jewish immigrants.
She appeared on the cover of People magazine, Esquire named her woman of the year and her story was printed overseas.
"Unfortunately, a lot of people just flip by" AIDS reports about gay men and addicts, she said.
The procedure, the protein bound iodine test, and a later version called the butanol extractable iodine test, enabled the identification of people with abnormal thyroid functions.
She then befriended Dr. Horney and was so impressed with the analyst's work that she joined a group of people who decided to carry it on.
A creator of fantasy for children, Mrs. Norton enchanted readers of all ages with her stories of the ingenious family of Borrowers, people barely six inches high who own nothing, share freely and shamelessly borrow whatever they need from human beings.
Mrs. Norton once again turned to the little people 21 years later in "The Borrowers Avenged," a story laced with humorous observations on the human condition.
"Those people who told their friends were invariably recognized -- and embarrassed.
She was a former director of the Manhattan Center for the Living, a voluntary nonprofit organization for people with chronic illnesses.
During noon prayers that preceded the funeral, which was attended by several hundred people, the plain pine coffin was kept in the rear of the mosque amid a large group of women who had come to mourn.
I don't care what the part is as long as it's a person I'm interested in, someone I want to introduce to people.
"Personal and political agendas were pretty much put aside, and thoughtful people struggled with difficult issues.
"
        "I love this kind of work," she said between meetings with people who held the purse strings to grants for worthy causes.
"I'm good at finding people for boards because I know a lot of people.
"I'm good at finding people for boards because I know a lot of people.
Others included the New York chapter of the National Council on Alcoholism and Young Concert Artists, which helps talented young people to start a career.
Her 1973 collection, "From a Land Where Other People Live," was nominated for a National Book Award.
A scholarly work, it examined the underlying reasons for people's acceptance of gender-role playing.
Her "Capezio people" appeared everywhere; some critics complained that the ads did not picture the product, but they sold shoes.
One student accused Miss Adler of expecting too much of young people who "haven't gone out in the world and done all that experiencing she talks about.
"I knew that I had it in me to be more creative, had much more to give to people," she said.
Quoting the poet Langston Hughes, he concluded: "Beautiful also are the souls of my people.
He described her reluctance at first to appear with Mr. Reagan because the President, as Mr. Sutton put it, "was not being too kind to people in the neighborhood where she lived.
"I like to be with people who work -- English, French, or any foreign working people," she wrote, but "I am ill at ease with Americans.
"I like to be with people who work -- English, French, or any foreign working people," she wrote, but "I am ill at ease with Americans.
Over the years, Mrs. Gnichtel, whose surname is pronounced NICK-tell, was a member of the board of the Sheltering Arms Children's Service and the Katherine Herbert Fund, a foundation aiding people with lung ailments, and did volunteer work on behalf of the Welfare Trust Fund of the Junior League.
There she advised and represented elderly people until her health failed 18 months ago.
