An estimated 5,000 people attended the Mass, at the end of which they gave the fascist salute and shouted ''Franco!
After her husband's appointment as Secretary of Labor in the Kennedy Administration, Mrs. Goldberg organized Widening Horizons, a program to assist poor people seeking employment.
She moved to Washington in 1933 and wrote a column, ''These Charming People,'' for The Times-Herald until 1939.
It was intended to seize a moment, tell a tale, and give a renewed dignity to people for whom high art in this country had not often had a place.
The failure of this venture, and the experience of genteel poverty in Detroit, gave her a lifelong sympathy with underprivileged people.
Dinah Washington, the singer known as the ''Queen of the Blues,'' once called Mrs. Bryant ''one of the best rhythm-and-blues people I know.
Mrs. Hill joined the Department for the Aging in 1972, training people who work with the elderly.
She was one of just nine people given the honorary title of senator for life and remained active in Italian politics through 1983.
People in Germany responded, as they did everywhere, to her uproarious vitality, and for a time she worked in Berlin and Vienna as an extra in the movies.
People in Germany responded, as they did everywhere, to her uproarious vitality, and for a time she worked in Berlin and Vienna as an extra in the movies.
Such was her compulsion to work hard and move on that she seemed to be reliving in microcosm the trauma of enforced migration that was endured by hundreds of thousands of European refugees in the 1930's and was shortly to be experienced by even greater numbers of people.
Mrs. Nevelson was an artist of the first rank, and among the most arresting people of her time.
People in Germany responded, as they did everywhere, to her uproarious vitality, and for a time she worked in Berlin and Vienna as an extra in the movies.
Such was her compulsion to work hard and move on that she seemed to be reliving in microcosm the trauma of enforced migration that was endured by hundreds of thousands of European refugees in the 1930's, and shortly to be experienced by even greater numbers of people.
While sitting on the Court of Appeals in 1971, Judge Matthews ruled that disabled people receiving benefits from the Social Security Administration were entitled to hearings before their benefits were terminated.
As a child, she formed a singing group with members of the young people's choir at the New Bethel Baptist Church, where her father was the pastor.
Miss Weitzner was one of the few people to achieve curatorial status at the museum without a formal education in anthropology.

       Ana Aslan, a controversial gerontologist whose clinic in Rumania attracted thousands of people from around the world in search of renewed youth, died May 20 in Bucharest, according to reports from that city and Paris.
Ana Aslan, a controversial gerontologist whose clinic in Rumania attracted thousands of people from around the world in search of renewed youth, died May 20 in Bucharest, according to reports from that city and Paris.
Detractors asserted that it was simply a solution of procaine, which under the brand name Novocain is widely used by dentists to block pain and is administered to older people as an anti-depressant.
A Magnet for Wealthy People
        The institute developed into a magnet for wealthy and prominent people from Europe and other continents, all searching for a way to stave off the ravages of age.
A Magnet for Wealthy People
        The institute developed into a magnet for wealthy and prominent people from Europe and other continents, all searching for a way to stave off the ravages of age.
Among the famous people who took her treatments - or were widely reported to have done so - were Gen. Charles de Gaulle, Nikita S. Khrushchev, Indira Gandhi, Marshal Tito and Chancellor Konrad Adenauer of West Germany, as well as the actresses Lillian Gish and Marlene Dietrich.
'' Husband Interned in War
        In 1942, after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, President Roosevelt signed an order for the internment of people of Japanese ancestry.

       Margaret Ochs Palmer, founder in the early 1030's of a West Orange, N.J., workshop for people with disabilities, died yesterday at Shell Point Village, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla., after a long illness.
Margaret Ochs Palmer, founder in the early 1030's of a West Orange, N.J., workshop for people with disabilities, died yesterday at Shell Point Village, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla., after a long illness.
''She was a distinguished and an effective legislator, much loved by the people of St. Louis,'' Mr. Gephardt said.
Mrs. Snowden and her husband, Otto, began Freedom House in 1949 after calling 17 people to their home to discuss how black and white residents of Boston could unite on common problems.
Among the more than 250 people who attended were stellar figures from the worlds of art, fashion and the movies.
Despite her later success, he went on to say, Mrs. Nevelson ''remained extraordinarily independent of her reputation and other people's reputations.
In 1957, the first Alateen self-help group was set up, in California, for young people with alcoholism in their families.
She was director of a Fordham/Day Care Council program that trained people to run day-care centers.
For example, in ''The Rest of the Story,'' published in 1964, she wrote: ''Sitting at my typewriter, banging out the items, I sometimes laugh as I stir my witch's brew, putting in the onions and the herbs to give indigestion to people I don't like or to those I think have slighted me, the great me.
She felt at home in Hollywood, more so than she had in New York, she said, because ''Hollywood was notorious even in London for the ignorance of the people who made the films - no one could embarrass me with erudite conversation.
Because of her studies of the psychological origins of criminality, Miss Schreiber became interested in writing about Joseph Kallinger, a shoemaker who killed three people in Pennsylvania and New Jersey.
In bringing together people of differing backgrounds at encounter sessions, she sought to eliminate the causes of racism and bigotry.
