''
        The very name Beatrice Lillie could evoke memories of mirth and merriment for the hundreds of thousands of people she entertained in theaters, movie houses, vaudeville palaces and supper clubs and on radio and television, over a period of more than 50 years.
The trouble was that she had discovered early the pleasures of making people laugh while she sang.
Mrs. Low was an active member of Altro Health and Rehabilitation Services for emotionally disabled people until she was in her 90's.
But if you're an ordinary female housewife, people say, 'This is just something Barbara wanted to do; it's not professional.
Summing up her view of the historical process, she wrote in 1981, in the preface to ''Practicing History,'' a selection of her short writings, that she had arrived at ''a sense of history as accidental and perhaps cyclical, of human conduct as a steady stream running through endless fields of changing circumstances, of good and bad always coexisting and inextricably mixed in periods as in people, of cross-currents and counter-currents usually present to contradict too-easy generalizations.
'', a book published in 1934 about American young people, and a memoir, ''A Political Virgin,'' published in 1938.
The number of well-known writers, dancers, artists and theater people who were her customers, clients and friends made up an encyclopedia of 20th-century culture.
Bookstore people were continually helping her down from ladders in her 80's.
How could I, no matter what my education, ever have had the wonderful chance to have Thornton Wilder and other people talk to me personally, and right here in my shop!
People in doubt, people mystified, people groping their way from one situation to another, from childhood to middle age, from joy to sorrow - these are the figures in a true suspense novel.
People in doubt, people mystified, people groping their way from one situation to another, from childhood to middle age, from joy to sorrow - these are the figures in a true suspense novel.
People in doubt, people mystified, people groping their way from one situation to another, from childhood to middle age, from joy to sorrow - these are the figures in a true suspense novel.
She returned to the New York Botanical Garden in 1982, in its plant-information service, dispensing advice on dubious mushrooms and sympathy to people with terminal plants.
''Helping people to learn about, care for and enjoy plants has given me a joyous life,'' she said on her 90th birthday.
''Plants bring out the gentle side of people.
Discussing how she became an executive, Miss Ball said: ''My ability comes from fairness and a knowledge of people.
I ran my studio like I run my home, with understanding of people.
''Like Dickens, she's added people to the world who bear her stamp.
''My father had a hotel,'' she once told an interviewer, ''and people in show business used to stay there.
The best novels by Miss Tracy, who was born and educated in England and lived much of her life in rural Ireland, were hailed by reviewers for wittily dissecting the nonsense in which people allow themselves to be immersed.
'' Handing On the Best
        In an interview, Miss Tracy remarked, ''If something interests, pleases or amuses me, I imagine it may do the same for other people and I try to pass it on.
'' From the time in 1948 when she made her debut, at age 11, her songs cheered people left hopeless by Japan's defeat in World War II.
Thanks to Tillstrom and Miss Allison, who treated the puppets like people, their exploits and personalities made them family favorites on prime-time television for 10 years.
In her restaurant, she continued the art of pleasing people, attempting to explain sushi and educate diners.
After the success of the novel, Soho Press issued ''Come to Africa and Save Your Marriage,'' Mrs. Worrick's collection of short stories in which she told of the difficulties of various people -Peace Corps volunteers, foreign academics, Indians, American blacks and white hunters left behind by colonial empires - in finding their way in black Africa.
The same year, she pulled together an exhibition called Innovative Designers in Paris, and each year there followed another eye-catcher that drew not only fashion enthusiasts but also people captivated by the color and drama of romantic Hollywood clothes, stylish American women (including Irene Castle, Isadora Duncan, Josephine Baker and Elsie de Wolfe), Russian peasants, the costumes of the Ballets Russes, fashions of the Hapsburg era, Yves Saint Laurent's designs, equestrian costumes, Chinese mandarin robes and dance clothes throughout history.
''Fit people like themselves much better.
At a time when most people were concerned with the practical qualities of synthetic fibers, she could speak of ''the feel of a perfect piece of silk'' as the ''greatest projection of pleasure.
''
        ''It's odd that people remember me best for my evil roles,'' she said, ''since I played so many other kinds of characters.
Miss Lee moved to West Virginia 12 years ago and founded the Eco Theater, which her brother, John, described as ''suggestive of ecology, close to the people, based on oral history and using untrained actors.
''
        One of her books, ''Cry of the People,'' received the Sidney Hillman Foundation book award in 1981 and was cited by The New York Times Book Review as one of the most notable nonfiction books of 1980.
'' ''The Group,'' a chatty gossip sheet about the lives of eight Vassar women, was conceived as a study of the illusory idea of social and political progress that captivated so many young people in the 1930's.
She was a founder of the National Council of Negro Women, in 1935, and received awards from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Nurses Association.
Many of her pupils were the children and grandchildren of the people Cather immortalized in her Nebraska stories.
Later, she established a fund to encourage performing artists and composers and endowed an intern program at the Goodspeed Opera House, which aids young people starting theatrical careers.
''She embodied the concept of public service, and that her profession recognize its responsibility to people unable to represent themselves,'' said Alexander D. Forger, the current chairman of the Legal Aid Society and chairman of the Manhattan law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy.

       Margot Seitelman, executive director of American Mensa Ltd., a society of people with high I.Q.
Margot Seitelman, executive director of American Mensa Ltd., a society of people with high I.Q.
After World War II, she directed the Salvation Army's European relief staff, 150 people who worked with other church and relief organizations helping repatriate children displaced by war.
''I'd go from one set to another shooting people and stealing husbands.
''I forgive people, but I'll never understand it.
The New England Airlines plane, which had eight people aboard, was bound from Block Island to Westerly, R.I., a seven-minute flight.
She was an assistant news editor of People magazine at its inception in 1974.
