With more than 600 people in a space meant for 450, a club representative recalled later, ''we had to hire only skinny waiters.
Although Mrs. Lindgren produced more than 70 books for young people, she was best known as the author of the classic ''Pippi Longstocking,'' first published in Sweden in 1945 and in the United States five years later.
''She made poetry out of people and their places over half a century,'' Mr. Miller said.
Her feeling for places as reflected in images of Boris Pasternak's home, Chekhov's house and Mao Zedong's bedroom was so sensitive that some viewers insisted they could see invisible people.
''As always, the camera sees the past -- all it can see -- and here it speaks of a symmetry of action and thought and a revolution based on empirical common sense, when in truth these people watch the television news for the event on Wall Street, in Washington or Korea that will affect the price of fertilizer and crops,'' he wrote.
She skewered numerous famous people, including Steven Spielberg, David Geffen, Warren Beatty and Goldie Hawn.
''
        But Ms. Phillips was far more brutal about herself than about any of the people she scorned.
People behaved in an ugly and despicable fashion towards me.
'' She added, ''Nothing I did in my book is as mean as any of the people I wrote about.
''In the 70's people were making some great films.
''I thought people had a sense of humor.
A harsher criticism was that the book discussed physical flaws of numerous people.
''
        In later years, Ms. Phillips said, she sometimes went to restaurants and accidentally met some of the people she had written about.
''I always looked for people who had passion.
Five years ago, however, she found a home at Transy House, a private shelter for transgendered people in Park Slope, Brooklyn, patterned on STAR House.
Among her best-known works are ''The People Could Fly'' (1985), ''The Planet of Junior Brown'' (1971) and ''Many Thousand Gone: African Americans From Slavery to Freedom'' (1993).
At the time the few children's books about black people were mainly ''problem'' novels, which threw into sharp relief issues like segregation and poverty.
The fruits of her travels included ''The People Could Fly,'' which retells slaves' traditional tales in an accessible vernacular, without the ugly misspellings historically used to render black dialect.
After graduating from Queens College, she worked from 1986 to 1988 as a reporter for The Times Herald-Record in Middletown, N.Y. She was a reporter at The Daily News from 1989 to 1993, and at People magazine in 1993 and 1994, before joining The Times in December 1994.
Bowing to the demands of a moral code that a decade later would seem quaint to many people, she chose not to marry him.
The princess did not remarry, but her friendships with men, from prominent people like the actor Peter Sellers to less exalted ones like Roderic Llewellyn, an upper-class drifter 17 years her junior whose main accomplishment appeared to be a talent for gardening, hurt her reputation.
''
        To many people, Princess Margaret was the black sheep of her generation of royals.
''I have no intention of telling people what I have for breakfast,'' she once said.
Through the years the princess  had corresponded with Peter Townsend and in 1992, while he was on a rare visit to Britain, she invited him to lunch at Kensington Palace attended by several other people.
''Fashion is what people tell you to wear,'' she often said.
''Fashion is what people tell you to wear,'' she often said.
''
        She loved to paint groups of people.
Even as her palate exploded with inspired colors -- salmon skies and chartreuse cheeks -- her mission became one of breaking down the barrier between high art and everyday people.

        Eda J. LeShan, a psychologist and family counselor who brought psychoanalytic insights and common sense to two dozen books meant to guide people through life's challenges, died on March 2 at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx.
A reviewer in Publishers Weekly in 1978 wrote, ''Adults and young people have benefited from LeShan's fluent, sympathetic writing in books addressed to those in trouble.
Her life amounted to personal testimony to her message that people could continue to grow throughout their lives.
As she aged, she wrote more about older people.
''But I try to write the same way when I'm writing for older people, where I share my vulnerabilities and my aches and pains and my mood swings and so forth.
And when Buckingham Palace was bombed, she forever endeared herself to the nation by declaring herself in solidarity with the working-class people of London's bomb-ravaged East End.
Her knack has been to look for the best in people and offer a kind of looking glass to the virtues they would like to have.
''It isn't only your high position that matters; it is the fact that the vast majority of people think of you as a person who would speak the kindly word, and, if it fell within your power, would take the cup of hot soup to the needy person.
''
        In a biography of Elizabeth, the royal writer Anthony Holden called it ''a phrase which will reverberate through the history of the British monarchy's relations with its people.
Reveling in meeting and chatting to new people (''If we do not pass on, I shall soon pass out,'' her husband once said as Elizabeth persisted in chatting at a public appearance), she was also eternally tactful and diplomatic.
Nancy Barry, president of Women's World Banking, said that 25 million people, three-quarters of them women, had received microloans in more than 40 less-developed countries.
Does she have anything to say to people who want her just to move on?
People often joked that Barbie's measurements were not humanly possible.
On weekends I sang for the people,'' she told Mr. Heilbut in his 1971 book, ''The Gospel Sound: Good News and Bad Times.
) was executive director of Concern for Dying for 11 years beginning in 1976, a period in which thorny cases like that of Karen Ann Quinlan, who spent years on life support equipment, provoked deep questioning about how people die.
These documents, which millions of people in many states have prepared, can call for ending medical procedures that have been instituted in the patient's behalf.
The group also advocated allowing people to have ample pain medication at the end of their lives, if they wished.
''I don't think society should be in the business of killing people,'' she said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1986.
Much of her work involved bringing people from different disciplines together in seminars about death and dying.
She was interested in the conduct of living people.
On occasion, though, she was not above shooing away people who might share a photograph with her.
Bill Cunningham, who over four decades photographed her on numerous occasions, said: ''She liked clothes and people with spirit.
The Yiddish stage was the center of Mrs. Spaisman's life, from her girlhood in Poland to a Soviet labor camp to Paris and Montreal and finally to New York, where she became a principal force in maintaining the nation's only surviving Yiddish theater, the Folksbiene (People's Stage).
During her acting career, she won an Obie Award, a Drama Desk Award and a New York City People's Choice Award.
With her death, the three people who long steered the Folksbiene are now gone: Benjamin Schechter, managing director, died in 1994, and Morris Adler, president, died in December at 107.
She worked until the day she died, being taken to the hospital from her desk, where she had been working on her monthly column about older people.
Heads of government and ordinary readers in the United States and Europe, where she lived for much of her career, looked to Flora Lewis's columns not only for her access to people in high places, but also for the dogged reporting and the sophisticated analysis that resulted.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
''More and more people are coming to realize that they can choose their history.
At the University of California, Berkeley, where she was a professor of African-American Studies, she founded Poetry for the People, which trains undergraduates to take poetry to community groups as a form of political empowerment.
''You can't use these people's names,'' he told her.
''
        Mrs. Lederer assured him she really knew those people, and they had given their permission.
''
        Her office, which by the 1990's was receiving 2,000 letters a day, functioned as a de facto clearing house for people in need, maintaining computerized lists of support groups and social service agencies in hundreds of cities.
But, she added, ''We know exactly where to send people for every imaginable problem.
''There is enormous satisfaction in knowing that I've been able to touch the lives of millions of people.
''You can't use these people's names,'' he told her.
''
        Mrs. Lederer assured him she really knew those people, and they had given their permission.
''
        Her office, which by the 1990's was receiving 2,000 letters a day, functioned as a de facto clearing house for people in need, maintaining computerized lists of support groups and social service agencies in hundreds of cities.
But, she added, ''We know exactly where to send people for every imaginable problem.
''There is enormous satisfaction in knowing that I've been able to touch the lives of millions of people.
Heads of government and ordinary readers in the United States and Europe, where she lived for much of her career, looked to Flora Lewis's columns not only for her access to people in high places, but also for her dogged reporting and the sophisticated analysis that resulted.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
''More and more people are coming to realize that they can choose their history.
''
        Ms. Gray was credited with keeping the full house of 1,504 people calm as the fire was extinguished.
''I am in love with my dog,'' she wrote near the beginning of ''Pack of Two: The Intricate Bond Between People and Dogs'' (Dial Press, 1998).
With Mr. Solomon, her partner in the gallery until their separation in 1988, she gave lavish soirees at their East 57th Street apartment for hundreds of people involved -- or not -- in her world.
''She loved art and people.
In a statement released yesterday, Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones, said that Mrs. Cook ''was firm on principles, kind to people and ever modest about herself.
Ms. Thomas, who would go on to write best sellers like ''The Hidden Life of Dogs,'' wrote a well-received book on the Bushmen, ''The Harmless People'' (Knopf, 1958).
'' At that time, it staged more than 25,000 performances annually with a global audience of more than 2.5 million people.
Maritta Martin Wolff was born on Dec. 25, 1918, on a farm near Grass Lake, Mich., and grew up watching people, including those at the one-room country school she attended.
''My one hobby was developing, as far back as I can remember, an inordinate interest in people and anything and everything happening to them,'' she wrote.
''If somebody ever questioned the potency of art to reach and connect with people, they only need to look to the 'Tribute in Light.
Keith Robinson said his mother's influence lived on in the indigenous people who still speak Hawaiian and in the population of rare monk seals on the coastline.
Keith Robinson said the family totally cut off visits to Niihau in the 1930's because of the vulnerability of people to diseases to which they had never been exposed like measles, which had killed 11 children on the island.
She did not seem to care what people thought when, after years of playing well-to-do places for well-to-do crowds, she also took the stage at clubs like CBGB, on the Bowery, accompanied by the kitchen-drawer percussion of a man called Mr. Spoons, otherwise known as Joseph Jones Jr., whom Ms. Hellman put up in her town house after his third wife left him.
''She had money and she knew a lot of people and she got along with everybody,'' said Mr. D'Lugoff, whose club closed in 1994.
But most of Ms. Hellman's relationships with famous people were much more congenial and enduring.
''Some of the people there spoke Almond,'' she wrote.
In the words of Philip Hedley, the current director of the Theater Royal, she ''loved conflict, enjoyed provoking, and could demolish people -- and then make them a meal in the green room.
That ended her much-publicized plan to build a ''fun palace'' in East London where people from backgrounds like her own might join in cultural activities of every kind.
In 1967, in a speech before the House of Representatives, Ms. Mink argued against harsh punishments for people who burned the American flag.
''America is not a country which needs to demand conformity of all its people, for its strength lies in all our diversities converging in one common belief, that of the importance of freedom as the essence of our country.
''She never thought for a moment of not working with people who didn't agree with her ideologically.
''She had already been through that as a Japanese-American, seeing people put into detention camps on the basis of what they supposedly were as opposed to what they had actually done,'' Mr. Abercrombie said.
On her tour, she traveled with Mr. Williams by car, as the Amish faith permits people to use technology as long as it does not intrude on their lives, he said.
Ms. Velikanova, a mathematician by profession, became a dissident in 1968, when she went to Red Square with her husband, Konstantin Babitsky, who was one of only seven people to demonstrate openly against the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia that crushed the Prague Spring reforms.
Many people thought women should not dive at all because it would injure their health.

        Edith Tiger, the director of a civil liberties organization who fought for the rights of people ranging from the victims of McCarthyism to Haitian refugees to rebellious high school students, died on Oct. 22 in Brooklyn.
By 1998, the committee had lost many of its older anti-McCarthy members and had not replaced them with people with newer concerns.
''The old people who gave money are dying, and the younger people don't want to give.
''The old people who gave money are dying, and the younger people don't want to give.
She assisted the boards of many other museums, universities, foundations and the like in filling vacancies at the top, poring over the fine print in résumés and soliciting references from scores of people who worked with or for prospective candidates.
Mrs. Reed lost the first court battle because Idaho law said that when two people were equally qualified to be administrators, preference must be given to a man.
After their divorce, Mrs. Reed earned her living by ironing, baking, baby-sitting and looking after disabled people in her Boise home.
She liked to remember people by endowing lecture programs, like the one named for Barbara Jordan at the New School, or providing fellowships, like one for New School students from Poland, named for Katarzyna Kalwinska, a Polish Catholic who hid Jews who had escaped from concentration camps.
Ms. Stone was an early critic of the so-called technology gap between the rich and the poor and set out to narrow it by providing computers to people who otherwise might not have access to them.
With more than 1,000 community-based technology centers worldwide, the group tries to create ''a society in which all people are equitably empowered by technology skills and usage,'' according to its Web site, ctcnet.org.
She gauged how personal responsibilities, like caring for aging parents, affected people's lives.
I respect people who hate curtains.
Three or four times a year, she led educational tours of the dairy for the agricultural land trust, preparing the lunch for the 50 or so people who attended.
Mr. Gomez said the museum, which employs 60 people full time, is an anchor of the neighborhood.
''Then, as now, we hope that people will come to the museum so that it can help dispel stereotypes and fears,'' she said.
''To make sure that people know about us.
She helped thousands of people who had fled Eastern Europe begin new lives in America.
