''A lot of people heard about her and trusted her,'' said Dr. Bruce A. Chabner, director of the division of cancer treatment at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md.
Made famous by ''Weekend,'' Mr. Godard's 1966 classic about a group of people taking to the roads to escape a riot-torn Paris, Miss Berto went on to play a major role in Alain Tanner's ''Middle of the World'' (1974), to play Celine in Jacques Rivette's ''Celine and Julie Go Boating'' (1974) and to co-star with Bulle Ogier in Mr. Rivette's ''Duelle'' in 1976.
''India,'' he said, ''sometimes I think there are only two people who believe I will win.

       Susan D. Hanson, a project director for AmeriCares, an international relief agency based in New Canaan, Conn., was killed on Monday along with her mother, Phoebe Dunn, a commercial photographer, and 19 other people in the crash of a Costa Rican airliner near San Jose, the capital city.
She was 49 years old and lived in New
        Susan D. Hanson, a project director for AmeriCares, an international relief agency based in New Canaan, Conn., was killed on Monday along with her mother, Phoebe Dunn, a commercial photographer, and 19 other people in the crash of a Costa Rican airliner near San Jose, the capital city.
Friends said she was looking forward to her mission and had already approached American business people and universities about addressing Gambia's poverty and illiteracy.
Mrs. Hedgeman was honored for her work in race relations by, among others, the National Urban League, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Schomburg Collection of Negro Literature, the National Council of Negro Women and the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
''
        Stardom at 24
        Miss Gardner later attributed the brevity of the first marriage to the couple's youth and to other people's domination of their lives.
Asked about her reluctance to accept television roles, she replied: ''Television is a lovely thing for people of my age to watch, but it's for young people to make.
Asked about her reluctance to accept television roles, she replied: ''Television is a lovely thing for people of my age to watch, but it's for young people to make.
When she arrived in Australia to make ''On the Beach,'' she enraged many people by remarking, ''I'm here to make a film about the end of the world, and this sure is the place for it.
Her death leaves just eight people in the last active Maine community of Shakers, celibate Protestants who stress pacifism and the communal sharing of material goods.
''During my time, even if I danced in movie theaters, I made people, the everyday American public, love the dance,'' Miss Gambarelli said in 1988.
'' When she was nearing 80, she began spending several days annually with grandchildren at schools in the Boston area, an effort to understand the outlook and life style of young people.
Mrs. Sulzberger was also active in the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where she backed programs to train young people in restoring furniture and paintings.
Mr. Ochs introduced his daughter to other worlds - the pleasures of walking, the mysteries of the newspaper business and delight in the ideas of other people.
She instituted forums for young people, which became a weekly event broadcast by WQXR, the radio station of The Times, and were later carried on television.
With shifts of time and approach, the same incidents in the book are seen through the eyes of different people.
In an essay in The New York Times in 1969, Miss Johnson wrote angrily of those she saw as despoilers of the environment: ''A vast throng of people are working night and day, destroying all they still call their native land.
Who are these people.
Over the last three decades, Miss Crandall staged 186 productions with audiences totaling more than 1.5 million people.
''All the important people came to her shows,'' recalled Andrew Goodman, the former owner of Bergdorf's.
Dr. Wallsh's clients included people in the fashion and theatrical industries.
Dr. Wallsh's clients included people in the fashion and theatrical industries.
''She would push and agitate and cause trouble until people wouldn't speak to her,'' said Michael Kinerk, chairman of the Art Deco Weekend festival.
She developed another of her stories, ''The Horse Called Pete,'' into a children's book in 1948, the first of 28 books for young people.
''She was proud of her heritage and totally dedicated to the vision of Jesus Christ for love and growth of all people.
People were teaching us uniformity.
She recorded an album of 15 spirituals, ''Sister Thea: Songs of My People,'' in 1988.
Asked why she objected to visitors, she said: ''When people are watching, I'm just a woman making faces for the camera.

       Catherine M. Quigley, the Mayor of this Camden County community of about 5,000 people since 1986 died of cancer on Monday at her home here.
Catherine M. Quigley, the Mayor of this Camden County community of about 5,000 people since 1986 died of cancer on Monday at her home here.
''She never thought like other people,'' Mrs. Elias said.
In March she organized a benefit at the new Chanel boutique at the Willard Hotel in Washington for which 350 people paid $350 a ticket.
More than 800 people paid $150 to attend, including fashion designers like Bill Blass, Calvin Klein and Ralph Lauren from New York, Carla Fendi and Rosita Missoni from Italy and Jacqueline de Ribes and Thierry Mugler from Paris.
She also photographed street scenes in New York, nature scenes in New Hampshire, and people and landscapes in the Soviet Union, Central Asia and her native Germany.
''They're nice people,'' she said of her employers there.

       Sarah Wiener, a retired teacher who became an advocate for retired people, died on Monday at her daughter's home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
Sarah Wiener, a retired teacher who became an advocate for retired people, died on Monday at her daughter's home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn.
More than 1,000 people have participated in the program.
And I said to him that when I go out among the people and they see me, they'll say, 'My lord, they sent Pearlie Mae,' and they'll think, 'Somebody must be trying to do something.
''A lot of talented people showed up and what's wrong with them having a job?
''I love people; they can have everything I've got,'' she said.
''
        In 1935 she called for an increase in education programs for people mired in the Depression, and early in World War II she advocated day care so mothers could work in arms plants.
I laugh at people who call me an actress.
And I said to him that when I go out among the people and they see me, they'll say, 'My lord, they sent Pearlie Mae,' and they'll think, 'Somebody must be trying to do something.
''A lot of talented people showed up and what's wrong with them having a job?
''I love people; they can have everything I've got,'' she said.

       Mary Whitcomb DeGrange, the director of the Federal Music Project in New York City, which taught thousands of people during the Depression, died on Wednesday at the National Orthopedic Hospital in Alexandria, Va. She was 90 years old and had lived in Greenwich Village for more than 60 years.
Mary Whitcomb DeGrange, the director of the Federal Music Project in New York City, which taught thousands of people during the Depression, died on Wednesday at the National Orthopedic Hospital in Alexandria, Va. She was 90 years old and had lived in Greenwich Village for more than 60 years.
About 2,000 people filled the Deliverance Evangelistic Church while scores waited outside in cool, overcast weather.
Flowers from Lena Horne and Ella Fitzgerald were among those displayed in the church, but for the most part the mourners were friends, family and ordinary people.
Mrs. Hirsch and her husband established the Henry and Myrtle Hirsch Foundation, which provides grants in education and health care, mostly for young people and immigrants, primarily in the United States and Israel.

       Althea T. L. Simmons, head of the Washington branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People since 1979 and the organization's chief lobbyist in the capital, died Thursday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
Althea T. L. Simmons, head of the Washington branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People since 1979 and the organization's chief lobbyist in the capital, died Thursday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
''I want people to know we did have fun and plenty of it,'' she said in an interview.
Mrs. Margolin joined the council during World War II and was a leader in efforts after the war to bring displaced people from Europe to the United States.
Crossing Words With Buckley
        A decade ago Mrs. Marsh told an interviewer that she wrote to editors because ''it's important to let people know what you're thinking.
People of that age 'senile, incompetent, deteriorated'?
For 50 years Miss Martin projected the vitality of someone who loved her work and knew precisely how to make other people share in her happiness.
"Give me 4 people and I'm
        on
        .
To her astonishment, people stood on chairs and tables and shouted bravo.
Mrs. Sobieski's film credits include the scripts for John Huston's 1982 version of the Broadway musical "Annie," "Casey's Shadow" (1978), "Sylvester" (1984) and "Winter People" (1988).
In the "owner's manual," addressed to people who find living with an adolescent more painful than adolescence itself, Ms. Rinzler offered advice like: "An adolescent who is cheerful at breakfast should be kept home from school that day.
