As the daughter of Lee Strasberg, the director of the Actors Studio, and the acting coach Paula Miller, Ms. Strasberg spent her childhood surrounded by celebrated figures of the American theater, people who were, she said, ''supremely talented, alive, sensitive, eccentric, and some were neurotic and miserable.
She had an office in Harlem and was known to thousands of people only as ''Dr.
The sisters liked to say that Dr. Bessie was the acerbic one, who was convinced it was her duty to tell people the truth, whether it concerned race relations or their molars.
Sadie would say to her, ''Bessie, don't you realize that people don't want to hear the truth?
In ''Having Our Say,'' Sadie Delany wrote:
        ''I'll tell you how I handled white people.
If you were colored, you had to go in the back to try on shoes, and white people sat in front.
Years later, she remembered her students: ''They looked up to me and I showed them it was possible to live a better life, despite what white people were trying to do to us.
'' The Delanys had quite a few such talks over the years with people who did not understand them, and they always straightened out the mess.
People liked her cakes and candies so much that she rented a loft on 121st Street in the late 1920's and made homemade chocolate fondant, a soft, creamy affair.
They took vitamin supplements, boiled their water despite assurances that people could drink Mount Vernon water and live.
They ate milk shakes for dinner, watched the nightly news on public television, said their prayers (extra ones for the people Bessie didn't like) and went to bed.
''It must be fairly obvious to everyone who considers it that there is something profoundly wrong with the sexual life of people in general and particularly perhaps of married people,'' she said.
''It must be fairly obvious to everyone who considers it that there is something profoundly wrong with the sexual life of people in general and particularly perhaps of married people,'' she said.
She was not distracted from writing by all the people in her drawing room, and she once said she felt most creative when pregnant.
''  ''She was generally the least given credit because the other people are so loud and so famous.
The artist agreed to create the design for the stained-glass windows that were to be installed in the synagogue in the Ein Kerem hospital complex, saying, ''I have always looked forward to a call from the Jewish people.
She spoke of her moments of mental affliction with a grim appreciation, saying:  ''Many people feel depression is about emptiness, but actually it's about being so full that everything cancels itself out.
'' Her last play ''Crave,'' ends with a suicide, and, interviewed about the play recently, Ms. Kane said: ''Some people seem to find release at the end of it, but I think it's only the release of death.
''Weight shouldn't be a hindrance, but casting people are afraid of it,'' she said.
'' Ms. Gordon then quotes Mr. Bayley's memoir: ''In early days, I always thought it would be vulgar -- as well as not my place -- to give any indications of jealousy, but she knew when it was there, and she soothed it just by being the self she always was with me, which I soon knew to be wholly and entirely different from any way that she was with other people.
In response to the threat of extinction, the trade group has hired a marketing heavyweight, begun a national advertising campaign to encourage people to shop small and created its own on-line store, scheduled to open this summer.
''I told her, hatred destroys the people who hate,'' Mrs. Huckaby recalled.
Mrs. Huckaby is survived by a sister, Clara Doyle, of Danville, Calif., and a brother, Clifton Paisley, of Tallahassee, Fla.
        Mrs. Huckaby, who did not consider herself a social crusader, would recall having told Daisy Bates of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in Arkansas that ''since my field was education, my immediate goal was having the black children in school as just ordinary children.
The people were really passionate about their work.
Even at 3 in the morning you would always see people in the labs.
''Some people think it might be dangerous, that the trap might explode.

        Barbara Pfeffer, a photojournalist whose pictures appeared in Life, People, Town and Country and other magazines, died March 3 in her Manhattan home.
In ''Love in Exile,'' Ms. Anderson said that as a widow she considered returning to the United States with her daughter but was deterred by the imagined voice of Max: ''What right have you to deprive her of the Socialism for which so many people died or went into exile?
''She started to read an excerpt,'' Ms. Baldi said, ''but the people would not let her stop.
Throughout her life the Baroness fascinated people with her innocent grandeur.
But there's an important balance with what really goes on in life, which is sickness and suffering and people dying.
The proteins, part of the human leukocyte antigen system, may also lend insights into why some people are more susceptible than others to a range of autoimmune diseases, including diabetes and arthritis.
Some 1,200 people turned out that night, and one of the attendees  noted how vital Mrs. Rivkin appeared despite her illness.
She also leaves a veritable Who's Who of people in international theater -- playwrights, actors, directors, composers and designers -- whose careers were advanced by her daring and her confidence in young talent.

        Mary Jane Rathbun, who became known as the grandmotherly Brownie Mary who handed out brownies laced with high-grade marijuana to sick people to relieve their pain and nausea, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Francisco.
Ms. Adams described her family as ''three difficult, isolated people.
''It was a piece that really kind of blew the town apart because people were not supposed to write about the Gridiron and I wrote about how racist that particular dinner was,'' Mr. Wilkins said.
She did public relations work for Time Inc. and, until the early 1960's, for the Rockefeller family, then worked as an editor at People magazine.

        Rose Kryzak, an outspoken lobbyist for the rights of the elderly who was once credited with getting a utility charge overturned as unfair to older people, died on Thursday at her home in Queens.
She first came to the public's attention in 1976, when she argued at a Federal Power Commission hearing in Washington that utility companies should not be allowed to pass along to customers -- many of whom were elderly people with restricted incomes -- the cost of plants that were still under construction and not producing power.
''
        Richard B. Stolley, the first managing editor of People and now the senior editorial adviser at Time Inc., said that Mrs. Whitney's rare longevity in the magazine industry could be attributed to her forward thinking.
Her son, Philip, who survives her, was until last year an executive at Money magazine; his wife, Christina Ferrari, is the managing editor of Teen People magazine.
But being Jewish, it was unthinkable to compete in the Games in Nazi Germany, where my people were being persecuted.
You, Ms. Lawrence, are an example to young people.
Penicillin also saved the lives of an untold number of servicemen and civilians wounded in World War II; in earlier wars, people died by the thousands from bacterial infections resulting from their injuries.
Before Mrs. Miller's doctors succeeded in saving her life, only a few experiments had been conducted with penicillin in mice and people, with results mixed and largely disheartening.
''
        Still, enough people preferred its gothic habits to the supermarket efficiency of modern bookstores to keep its aisles filled, and Miss Foyle's personal wealth covered any operating losses.
Its quirky, anachronistic personality also turned it into a tourist destination, and it attracted as  many people as it infuriated.
She refused to let messages of regret be read out at her fetes, saying: ''The people who do come are the important ones; I don't bother about the others.
''
        Shaw complained after his meal that she had forgotten he was a vegetarian, but when she offered to invite him back with a promise of nothing but green fare, he declined in a note saying, ''I could not bear the noise of 2,000 people eating celery.
On Broadway, Miss Sidney appeared in Ben Hecht's ''To Quito and Back'' (1937), Irwin Shaw's ''Gentle People'' (with the Group Theater, 1939), Carl Reiner and Joseph Stein's ''Enter Laughing'' (1963) and Tennessee Williams's ''Vieux Carre'' (1977).
Despite a million-dollar budget, the assignment, Ms. Zipprodt said, was harder than her work on ''Sunday in the Park With George'' (1984), when the challenge was to design costumes that suggested pointillism without actually using dots; or on the 1977 Metropolitan Opera production of ''Tannhauser,'' which called for more than 200 people to appear onstage at one point.
Set in America in 1964, the story described the conflict between the Secretary for Humanity, a newly created Cabinet post, and a group of people who believed that moving to underground shelters would manifest ''prepared togetherness.
''Unfortunately, people continue dying in Chile without knowing the truth,'' Mr. Mladinic said.
''I was just captivated by their language, their speech and their character because I always liked the way black people talk,'' she said.
Their relationship was relentlessly chronicled in the tabloid press, but their wedding, in front of 40 people in a rundown church on a secluded island off Georgia, was carefully scripted to elude publicity.
Yet very often
        Through the double glazing
        I imagine people crying,
        Somewhere out there.
In the weeks before her death, she had been working on a book about the 55 people who most influenced her career.
Nearly 100,000 people from 148 countries have studied at the school in the last five decades, among them ambassadors, Israeli Army officers and Palestinians from the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
He said that another way to look at the show was as a pioneering infomercial -- ''one big advertisement for people to go to the studios.
As Soviet censorship eased, the Soviet people rushed to rediscover books and parts of their own history that had been buried under a rigid Communist ideology.
''She realized that people had been used to different women, different traditions, different leaders,'' said Ms. Telen.

        Judith Campbell Exner, who asserted in a 1988 interview in People magazine that she had been having an affair with John F. Kennedy when he was elected President, died late Friday at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles.
Kitty Kelley, who interviewed her for People, said Mrs. Exner received about $50,000 for the interview.
An only child who had outlived her relatives, she lived a solitary existence, surrounded by rows of clothes she made pretty for people who knew her only as the washerwoman.
She did not want any monuments, any proclamations, said people who  knew her.
People all over the world knew who she was and what she did.
People would see her in airports and flock to her.
Some people just wanted to touch her, as though she was good luck.
In time, people came to see her almost like an oracle and listened closely for pearls of wisdom at the little woman's knee.
In a world in which people are suspicious of things too good to be true, he said, Miss McCarty really was good and true.
      
She may be best known, however,  for her contributions to the understanding of mathematics by both students and lay people, especially as the editor of the Mathematical Association of America's New Mathematical Library Series.
''There is a misconception among people and schoolchildren about the nature of mathematics,'' she said in a 1979 interview.
To people who represented such forces, she denied passports and visas, and sometimes, when she was not permitted to do so by her superiors in the State Department, she went over their heads and complained to Congress.
Phyllis W. Curott, president emeritus of Covenant of the Goddess, a New York-based umbrella organization for witches, said that in recent years millions of people had been drawn to witchcraft, but that the words written by Ms. Valiente remain central in virtually every ceremony.
Her autobiography, ''Mirror People,'' was published in 1989.
      

        Wendy Scott, who had one of the most severe cases on record of a syndrome in which people feign illness or make themselves sick to get medical treatment, died on Oct. 14 at a hospice in South London.
In recent years, she tried to help other people with Munchausen syndrome, communicating with them by mail, telephone and Internet.
''She took games to the people,'' said Mr. Byrne, who is now editor of Toy Report, an industry publication.
Mrs. Bates, as Arkansas president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, was a central figure in the litigation that led to the confrontation in front of Central High, as well as the snarling scenes that unfolded in front of it.
The success of the Little Rock campaign, she later said, ''had a lot to do with removing fear that people have for getting involved.
But people who are sure of themselves don't bother with that.
As the national flag was lowered and buglers saluted, about 10,000 people paid their respects to Ms. Kamal at her funeral on Wednesday in Dhaka.
I made it a point to learn Bengali from people working in the house.
One poem, ''Our Language: The Language of Bengal,'' ends with the following lines:
        For our language many have died,
        drawn from the arms of our mother
        but down the road, smeared with their blood
        I hope freedom will come to this land:
        the simple language of a simple people
        Will meet the demands of this our land.
''Our people are courageous; our leaders are not,'' she said.
The legs on her dining table were splayed, for example, so that people sitting at the ends could stretch their legs.
The legs on her dining table were splayed, for example, so that people sitting at the ends could stretch their legs.
''She is one of the most talented people that ever lived,'' Mr. Brooks once said.
After flirting with a singing career, she made many movies in which she used her voice for comic effect and people remembered it.
I was one of the rootless people.
''Those 1-900 number people should be arrested,'' she said.
      
Bode's books were about interracial dating, teenage immigrants, rape, sibling rivalry, teenage parents, troubled love, friendship, eating disorders and other concerns of young people.
''I appreciate that some people within our state are impatient, impatient to see executions,'' Ms. Bird said after her removal.
''She allowed people to be intuitive about their knitting, rather than just being blind followers of the written word,'' said Nancy J. Thomas, editor of Knitter's Magazine.
