In 1988, she was able to resume public life in a way that astonished people.
People still wanted to tell her that  "Baby, you're the greatest.
"She loved people and she was fun," said Mary Lindsay, the wife of Mr. Lindsay and a longtime friend.
programs in her jurisdiction of 30 million people.
At a ball she gave at Ferrieres for 1,600 people, the chateau was covered in  white muslin to make it look like a huge diamond-studded cobweb.
"A good way of making people happy is to allow them to meet their opposites," she once said.
Older students plan and carry out individual programs aimed at purposes like "We work for safety" or "We help people through the arts.
"
        College-level students devote each semester to a more complex purpose in classes like "Values and Ethics," in which they study history, literature and government to extract ethical ideas, and "Self and Others," for the study of arts and writing, to develop productive relationships with people of all ages and cultures.
Her stories explore and reflect the patterns of her life: the return of the little girl from America to the strange, puritanical society of her mother's people" in Western Ireland.
Mrs. Bunce had been a legend in Watertown and in international church circles for decades, although until December only a few people knew she was the Mitten Lady whose anonymous handmade donations to an annual church clothing drive had spread her fame far and wide.
As word of Mrs. Bunce's work spread, people across the country began sending  her yarn in care of the church, and she kept a scrapbook of thank-you notes from children she had helped and photographs showing some of them wearing her handiwork.
She was introduced to the congregation as the  Mitten Lady, and the woman who had once explained that she labored anonymously because the purpose of her work was to help poor children and not to have people say, "Oh, that's wonderful," had to endure a five-minute ovation.
"I don't like tender people.
"Many people think I am Jewish, and that always pleases me.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
I don't think people think of her so much as a show business act as a friend.
The critic Richard Lingeman wrote that Miss Travers "has succeeded in creating a timeless world inhabited by real people and complete unto itself -- an immortal world that is summoned into being, unchanged whenever one opens a book.
She was a frail girl with chronic bronchitis who was comfortable with her many adult relatives but uneasy with people her own age.
It was a measure of the degree of social rejection of people with AIDS that her own three sisters stopped talking to her after she made her announcement.
Miss Frenaye was also a freelance critic, and she appreciated -- though sometimes grudgingly -- esprit and individualism in people as well as in literature.
She then joined Search and Care, a neighborhood group providing services for  people who were able to finance their own care.
She was active in the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Committee for a Sane Nuclear Policy and the American Civil Liberties Union.
Directing a staff of nine full-time and six part-time employees, Mrs. Loeb eased cultural shock and fostered amity in a foreign diplomatic community that numbered 35,000 people from 197 missions and 91 consulates.
"She seemed to know things  other people never found out.
That Ms. Price did just that was a tribute both to her ability as a storyteller and her knack for recreating a bygone era with such compelling and authentic historic detail that, according to the St. Simons's Chamber of Commerce, a substantial majority of the thousands of tourists who visit the island each year come there specifically to scout out the houses, marshes and other locales she used in her novels, not to mention the headstones of the actual people she brought back to life as fictional characters.
Seeing her  at the Paris Opera in 1950, the American critic Edward Denby wrote in "Dancers,  Buildings and People in the Streets" (1965) that he was distressed by her "careless feet, limp and wormy arms, brutally deformed phrasings" but that his objections vanished when she offered "a few terrifying extensions, a few incisive strokes that counted phenomenally.
"When I'm way up in the sky, walking on a thin line with a fake leg, people look up at me and really pay attention," Ms. Wallenda said.
When people think about that, it makes them think about themselves, and some of them see how much  better they can live their own lives.
"If I'd had a sheltered life  with people looking after me, I know I couldn't handle what's happened to me.
Another of her principal beneficiaries was Fountain House, which helps people with mental illness find housing, schooling and the way back to productive lives.
Insatiably curious about why people do what they do, and why relationships work or don't work, Ms. Howard specialized in profiling writers, including Saul  Bellow, John Updike and Truman Capote.
Ms. Howard interviewed about 300 people and traveled as far  as Australia and New Zealand to cull fact from legend.
She was one of the first AIDS experts to address the issue of workplace discrimination against H.I.V.-infected people, and provided education and training materials on the issue to corporations in San Francisco.
But when Norman Granz and I began recording the 'Songbook'  series in the mid-50's, it just seemed that more people began to like my singing.
The awards I started winning didn't make me feel important, but they made me realize people loved me.
At a time when commercial programming in the infant medium concentrated on working people who returned home to sit in front of their radios at night, advertisers were dimly aware that the housewives who stayed home all day were the nation's primary purchasing agents.
She crusaded across the country to get concerned people to band together in local chapters and open recording studios for volunteers to  do the readings.
B. Priestley's "People at Sea" and the British film "Jane Steps Out," returned to the New York theater.
She had a very caring attitude for the people who worked for her.
She worked for the World Jewish Congress until a few years ago, searching for people willing to testify at trials in West Germany and the United States.
''
        Ms. Rosenblum was so deeply involved in the affairs of her neighborhood -- from the decentralization of authority over the public schools in the 1960's to the development battles of the 1980's -- that many people regarded her as an irreplaceable force.
Ms. Rosenblum's most far-reaching impact may have been in her fight to maintain housing for low-income and middle-income people amid the massive urban renewal projects, including Mitchell-Lama apartments and public housing that  were built on the Upper West Side during the 1960's and 1970's.

        Sandra Isham Vreeland, a poet who was the director of an AIDS poetry project for young people, died yesterday at her home in Bridgehampton, L.I.
Working with the Poetry Society of America, she created her poetry project in 1994 to encourage young people to express their thoughts and feelings about H.I.V.
Within a few days, more than 7,000 people contacted the agency.
She was an advocate of homeless people's rights and worked with AIDS patients.
To her colleagues in the field of economic botany, the study of how people use plants, Mrs. Morton was an academic's academic, a founder and developer of the Morton Collectanea, an invaluable compilation of information about plants, and the author of 10 books on the subject.
But to the people of South Florida -- backyard gardeners, telephone line workers and ranchers, for example -- she offered practical advice, practically every day, on plants that can harm humans or animals.
''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.
But without a son in sight, people are openly discussing the succession.
It has not only cloistered  Princess Masako and the Crown Prince, but many say it has created a greater distance between the imperial family and the ordinary Japanese people.
''Unless they mix with the ordinary people, the imperial family will be forgotten.
Some people say that the cloak of silence the Imperial Household Agency has now wrapped around her may be an effort to play down her presence until the royal couple produce an heir.
It is still not clear what caused it, but many people blame Japan's gossipy magazines for triggering the Empress' breakdown with unflattering accounts of her.
Today 2,000 people marched three miles from the city center to a weed-choked cemetery in a working class suburb, bearing Mrs. Rico's coffin to a plot wafting with the scent of lily and lavender and heaped with scores of wreaths.
''Forty years ago, people knew very little about this stuff,'' Dr. Traut said.
After Mr. Lear acquired his own movie studio and founded his own civil liberties group, People for the American Way, she discussed her frustrations in an Op-Ed piece in The New York Times in 1981.
Her writings include ''Helping People: the Task Centered Approach'' (Macmillan, 1992).

        Janice A. Burns, a writer and speaker on AIDS who sought to awaken and educate a wider audience, especially young people, to its realities, died of the disease on Sept. 28 at St. John's Hospital in Yonkers.
Subsequently, she won more admirers in the United States and London through television, especially from her role opposite Alec Guinness in the dramatizations of John le Carre's ''Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy'' and ''Smiley's People.
Ms. Green's book, ''Golden Spark, Little Saint: My Book of the Hours of Saint Foy,'' which combines fiction with factual accounts of the Conques region and its people, is to be published by Random House next year.
I just gather the facts and if people don't like my work, they just don't like the facts.
''Manhattan has too many single people, rents are too high and there's no space for parking lots.
Although Senator J. William Fulbright of Arkansas cast his Foreign Relations committee vote against her and denounced her appointment as demeaning the Foreign Service, Senator Gale W. McGee of Wyoming said he was satisfied that Mrs. Farkas was innocent of any impropriety and laughed about the custom of making envoys of people who make generous campaign contributions.
Ms. Perez, who was born with cerebral palsy, spent her life trying to change the prejudices that disabled people often encounter or even impose on themselves.
of New York City, for which she directed the Networking Project for People With Disabilities.
''The project was founded to provide young people with disabilities with positive role models because, particularly for young women with disabilities, there tends to be a lack of visible, appealing role models,'' said Madeline F. Beusse, a consultant who worked with Ms. Perez on the financing of the project.
post in 1988, Ms. Perez was the educational counseling coordinator for the Mayor's Office for People With Disabilities, from 1983 to 1987.
Working to raise awareness of domestic violence against people with disabilities, she served on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's task force on domestic violence, giving a voice to some of the more vulnerable victims of abuse.
Reviewing Mrs. Eberhart's ''Next of Kin'' in 1982, Newgate Callendar wrote in The New York Times Book Review that the book ''contains all of the formulas she has so successfully conjured up through the years -- rich families, nice people, romance, something of a locked-room mystery, lots of suspects.
Her early advocacy of racial equality was inspired by her father, Earl B. Dickerson, a prominent Chicago civil-rights lawyer and 30-year board member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
The judge scolded the Mayor for his trouble, pointing out that he was lavishing his attention on a case involving ''little people.
Yes, she told the Mayor, little people become malefactors, too, but they have rights.
It was Mr. From who said, ''We have let you see us as we are, and now, it is your scientific duty to make a study of people like us.
''
        Another favorite cause has been the Manhattan Comprehensive Night and Day High School, which lets young people who have dropped out of high school and started working  get a high school diploma.
Mr. Gregorian said that one approach he and Mrs. Astor settled on to raise money was to convince people that being associated with the library was good for them.
Mr. Gregorian recalled that when Mrs. Astor gave a dinner for the library, she invited virtually the same people she had recently invited to a party for President Reagan.
''I adore people,'' she said.
People are missing a lot of satisfaction if they don't get pleasure from using their abilities to help others.
She always had good people.
She always had good people.
"But through the process of amendment, interpretation and court decision I have  finally been included in 'We, the people.
Affirm the civil liberties of the people of this country.
Mrs. Davenport wrote in her autobiography that her parents, whose marriage ended in divorce, "were part of the tidal wave of emigration from the Russian Pale and Eastern Europe which in a generation swept a million people, fleeing persecutions, pogroms and conscriptions, onto the shores of Manhattan Island.
Like the Rorschach inkblots, the Machover test is intended to serve as a sort of screen on which people project their thoughts, anxieties and conflicts.
Dr. Boggs was the principal architect of Federal legislation that expanded the definition of disabilities to include people with physical handicaps.
Previously, certain Federal programs served only people who were mentally retarded.
In 1953, she  joined the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, which assists Jewish people around the world.
While there she published a Jewish songbook for children, "Gateway to Jewish  Song," which was followed by other books of Jewish music and musical history for young people.
The smallest branch of Judaism, Reconstructionism views Judaism as what Dr. Eisenstein's father, Rabbi Kaplan, called the "evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people," emphasizing the cultural and moral heritage of the Jewish people but not traditional supernatural and theistic beliefs.
The smallest branch of Judaism, Reconstructionism views Judaism as what Dr. Eisenstein's father, Rabbi Kaplan, called the "evolving religious civilization of the Jewish people," emphasizing the cultural and moral heritage of the Jewish people but not traditional supernatural and theistic beliefs.
"Irish people are very funny but have this tragic sense.
