Ms. Plummer was featured in articles in Southern Living and People magazines and was visited and praised by well-known people like Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf.
Ms. Plummer was featured in articles in Southern Living and People magazines and was visited and praised by well-known people like Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf.
''She loved people and they loved her,'' Mr. Ferraro said in a prepared statement.
Neither revealed her age, but most people thought they were in their 80's.
Dr. Fromkin used the collection, which grew to more than 10,000 examples, to offer evidence of the unconscious knowledge of language structure that people draw on whenever they speak.
But Mrs. Devenney's upbringing among people of different races and creeds had taught her that the struggle against community destruction knew no color.
Banding together with members of the clergy and young community organizers, she began to haunt hallways and community centers, trying to shake people out of their complacency and into partnerships with residents of surrounding areas where the blight was setting in.
Coalition members picketed corporate headquarters, invaded annual meetings with proxies from stock-owning churches, and met personally with politicians and executives who knew little of the people living in those communities.
She studied architecture and went on to design structures including public housing for working people.
Ms. Wolf was already at most people's retirement age when a friend persuaded her to join the Audubon Society in the early 1960's.
Dr. Neer was widely known for her investigations into the ways a certain class of proteins helps people see and smell, lets brain cells communicate and makes the body respond to hormones and most prescription drugs.
''Women buy Cashin clothes because they are cozy and comfortable, not because they bowl people over,'' the fashion writer Bernadine Morris wrote in The New York Times in 1968.
She was meeting people like Robert Moses, the man behind the city and state's highways, bridges and parks.
At her death, Jacques Chirac, President of France, called her ''the incarnation of courage and modernity for the French people.
People gather around the piano and sing.
The people who crowd these pages are clear as snowcapped mountains on a bright sunny day.
'' She knew the stars as people, including one of her favorite subjects, Marilyn Monroe.
She told the magazine that people would have to read her autobiography to find out what happened.
Sympathetic to youthful rebellion, she became famous for her images of young people glaring confrontationally at the audience.
In an essay Mrs. de Regniers explained the deceptively simple style of her children's books, saying that ''a book for young people that honestly has its roots in the author's feelings as a child is not likely to seem old-fashioned or out of date.
But she is most noted for being in a lot of places with a lot of famous people.
In a 1971 review of ''Trelawney,'' Walter Kerr of The Times wrote that ''Miss Von Scherler was rather like a fine painting propped in one corner; the rest of the room might be filled with attractive objects and engaging people, but your eye kept wandering back to her.

        Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
It provides comprehensive neighborhood services to children, young people and families in Sunset Park, a generally poor, largely immigrant neighborhood.
Most of the people who live there are Hispanic, and part of the neighborhood has been mostly peopled by Chinese immigrants over the last seven or eight years.
And she hunted them down for scholars like Irving Howe and novelists like Leon Uris as well as for thousands of ordinary people trying to research their family histories.
''I think it is the survival instinct of a people trying to find out who they are.
She chose Africa when she realized that the continent, its people and their traditions remained terra incognita to American children.
Among her best-known books were ''Why Mosquitoes Buzz in People's Ears: A West African Tale'' (1975), and ''Bringing the Rain to Kapiti Plain'' (1981), which James Earl Jones read to inaugurate the PBS weekly program ''Reading Rainbow'' in 1982.
''
        People who watched Dame Barbara in action were not sure how she produced so much work.
Ms. Fitzgerald's characters were people fallen into difficult circumstances, struggling to cope.
''A lot of people would have gone down, too,'' Ms. Fitzgerald's daughter Maria told a writer for The New York Times magazine last year.
Those who see her blackout photographs understand ''the complexity of the situation and the urgency of what these committed people were trying to accomplish,'' Dr. Moholt said.
Feature films at RKO followed, including ''The People's Enemy'' (1935) with Melvyn Douglas and Lila Lee, and ''Keep 'Em Rolling'' (1934) with Walter Huston.
''I've probably had the biggest people in show business work for me,'' Ms. Sosenko once said, referring to her benefits and the galaxy of stars she enticed to participate, among them Julie Andrews, Rex Harrison, Liza Minnelli, Sid Caesar, Natalia Makarova and Douglas Fairbanks Jr. ''They know when I do a show, it's going to be a great show because I only do great things,'' she said.
Though aging British people, traditionally habitues of roast beef and Yorkshire pudding, are most apt to remember the numbing taste of questionable delicacies like dried eggs, nutritionists say the lean, mean diet was the most nutritious the English ever forced down.
Known for the twinkle in her eye, she kept generations of cats on her little farm, raised tomatoes, apples and bees, and ate lots of butter and eggs, which she considered good for people.
'' To deal with the lack of calcium in people's diets because of a cheese shortage during World War II, she and Dr. McCance successfully pressed the government to add chalk to bread.
She always shuddered at Hoess's reaction to her suggestion that 1.5 million people had been killed in Auschwitz.
In addition to writing many articles and book chapters, she was the author of ''Arkansas Government and Politics: Do the People Rule?
She was collecting songs from the people that learned them in the old country.
''
        Mrs. Rubin, whose books included ''A Treasury of Jewish Folksong'' (1950) and ''Voices of a People: The Story of Yiddish Folksong'' (1963), also performed the songs in concert and on records.
''Eastern European Yiddish folk song,'' Mrs. Rubin wrote in the preface to ''Voices of a People,''  ''reflects vividly the life of a community of many millions over a period of many generations.
In the songs, we catch the manner of speech and phrase, the wit and humor, the dreams and aspirations, the nonsense, jollity, the pathos and struggle of an entire people.
She was mainly interested in seeing that the song got out so that other people would learn it and sing.
''I'm always very uncomfortable with people.
But I love people.
And  when I'm on the stage, I can embrace people and still feel safe.
Miss Benson returned to South Africa in 1957, becoming secretary of the defense fund for the 156 people, Mr. Mandela among them, who had been charged with treason for opposing the country's apartheid laws.
They worked together organizing people who had had tuberculosis to fight for better treatment.
''When people like Puff Daddy were photographed for magazines, they'd say to the stylists, 'I'm wearing my own coat,' '' recalled her sister.
It was a period, Ms. Rhodes said, ''of shawls and prints and unusual textiles that you might have seen on the Beatles or the Mamas and Papas,'' or the titled people who indulged their escapist fantasies with what one critic referred to as Ms. Porter's ''peacockerie.
People who viewed the tapes ''have an epiphany,'' she said in a 1985 interview.
''They understand for the first time why people don't forget 40 years later.
That's mainly what people miss today.
It opened with family portraits of Ndebele people in tribal garb, particularly of mothers with infants, and other tribal groups at work, rest and play.
Finally, the show ended on a genteel note in Maryland, where she bred Norwich and Norfolk terriers on a farm and depicted the rivers and creeks, wildlife and people of her surroundings.
''Above all, we want to prove the strength, the good, really, of people.
Reflecting on that moment at the memorial, she would write, ''When Frieda Mae Hardin spoke, reminding us she couldn't vote when she signed up, saying to the young people, 'Go for it!
Often called the Queen of Standees by the hundreds of people who compliantly allowed her to take charge of the ticket queue, Ms. Quinn was a herself a veteran of standing-room lines at the Met.
''The Pavarotti people can be a little ferocious,'' she said.
''If I had to live with a group of people the rest of my life, I would pick the Wagnerites.
Domingo people are a close second.
The Pavarotti people are at the bottom of the list.
''But people kept saying to me:  'Helen, wise up.
That was the final straw for many people in Charleston.

        Lucy A. Wicks, a psychologist who worked with people infected with H.I.V.
It virtually equated the style with communism, or at least a foreign architectural invasion, and warned people not to be sure that ''it can't happen here.
She won an Emmy in 1993 for a young people's anti-smoking program, ''Know the Facts: Keep Your Power,'' and wrote and produced a traveling school program for the American Heart Association.
Mrs. Bandaranaike's final act was to vote in a parliamentary election she hoped would return the family's party to power leading a governing coalition known as the People's Alliance.
Biala was described by her niece, the New York painter Hermine Ford,  as a ''uniquely wonderful, widely beloved character'' whose house in Paris ''would fill in the late afternoon with all kinds of people -- writers, artists, next-door neighbors.
Soon  Music-Theater entered the stage lexicon, and more and more people became aware of the inventiveness of the artists who belonged to the group.
'' Through the years, people in the Music-Theater Group reaped awards (four MacArthur ''genius'' grants and more than 20 Obies, including one for the company for sustained achievement).
''She believed in flaying, and most people don't like to be skinned,'' Mr. Koch said yesterday.
Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and during World War II.
Mrs. Falk worked with Jewish refugees and other displaced people before and during World War II.
That belief inspired her concept of the Temple of Understanding as an educational platform and a meeting place for people to learn about one another's creeds: what Eleanor Roosevelt called a ''spiritual United Nations.
She had a religious view of suffering and grace, once telling an interviewer, ''I believe that to be with people who are suffering, whoever they are, makes one humble.
Soon after, she opened the first Sue Ryder Home, for disabled people.
There are residential centers and day-care centers that provide help for those with long-term illnesses and for those who need palliative care, and centers for people with neurological and degenerative diseases.
Each year in Britain, 3,000 people are cared for at the residential centers, 12,000 visits are made to the day centers, and more than 37,000 home visits are made by the nursing staff.
But Lady Ryder insisted that her work was about the people whom she helped rather than herself.
''
        But it was more than Ms. Brooks's ability to write about struggling black people, particularly black women.
Those young black writers ''seemed so proud and committed to their own people,'' she added.
''
        She later wrote: ''If it hadn't been for these young people, these young writers who influenced me, I wouldn't know what I know about this society.
Ms. Brooks worked at the real Mecca as a typist for a ''spiritual adviser'' when she was young and got to know the people in the building.
''My greatest interest is being involved with young people.
''I don't want to imitate these young people,'' she said.
''I think people said, 'She can even do that and survive.
One of her famous designs was for the Fragrance Garden at the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, which became a prototype internationally for gardens used by people with disabilities.
''If you do well in people's gardens, they keep coming back,'' was Mrs. Ireys's summation of her long career.
Next June, Mrs. Ireys was to receive the Brooklyn Botanic Garden's Better Earth Award, recognizing people who are engaged in important environmental work in the community that benefits the planet.
Another novel for young people, ''A Really Weird Summer,'' won an Edgar Award from the Mystery Writers of America.
People magazine in 1974 called her ''the biggest, loudest and, indisputably, the rudest mouth on the battleground where feminist activists and radical politics join in mostly common cause.
Justice Goodman said she answered, ''To my friends at the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, it all sounds the same.
In her autobiography, she wrote: ''I'm just a loud-mouthed, middle-aged colored lady with a fused spine and three feet of intestines missing, and a lot of people think I'm crazy.
Maybe you do too, but I never stopped to wonder why I'm not like other people.
The mystery to me is why more people aren't like me.
''
        But there was more to Ms. Brooks's talent than the ability to write about struggling black people, particularly women.
Those young black writers ''seemed so proud and committed to their own people,'' she added.
''
        She later wrote: ''If it hadn't been for these young people, these young writers who influenced me, I wouldn't know what I know about this society.
Ms. Brooks worked at the real Mecca as a typist for a ''spiritual adviser'' when she was young and got to know the people in the building.
''My greatest interest is being involved with young people.
''I don't want to imitate these young people,'' she said.
Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Marvel Jackson moved to New York in 1926 and worked as secretary for W. E. B. DuBois, editor of The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Later, she worked for The Amsterdam News and The People's Voice in Harlem.

        Pat Kauffman, whose blindness inspired her to help thousands of other blind people attend theatrical performances at no cost and with no fuss, died on Nov. 24 in Manhattan, where she lived.
Ms. Kauffman told her daughter that she was walking into a Broadway theater in the early 60's with a group of blind people when one of the group's leaders called out for ''all the blind people to put their hands on the shoulder of the blind person in front of them'' as they moved to their seats.
Ms. Kauffman told her daughter that she was walking into a Broadway theater in the early 60's with a group of blind people when one of the group's leaders called out for ''all the blind people to put their hands on the shoulder of the blind person in front of them'' as they moved to their seats.
The next day, she began her mission of creating a way for blind people to attend cultural events with greater dignity.
It usually had several hundred members and a long waiting list, and depended on donations of tickets and money, as well as volunteer help in raising money and assisting blind people at shows.
