'')
        Ms. Wasserstein, who grew up in New York, recalled attending Broadway plays as a young woman and being struck by the absence of people like herself onstage: ''I remember going to them and thinking, I really like this, but where are the girls?
''
        The conductor Erich Leinsdorf thought that her longevity, like Flagstad's, had something to do with her Scandinavian heritage, remarking that Wagner required ''thoughtful, patient and methodical people.
She landed a part in the national company of ''Meet the People'' in 1941.
I send people a postcard of myself in short hair and a checkered blouse that was taken 50 years ago.
She was one of only a few people alive proficient in the ancient language called Elamite and published a grammar in 1969.
When some suggested that many more people could view the cottages if they were moved from the edge of Crown Heights, just south of Bedford-Stuyvesant, she refused.
''It needs to be here, where many of the people have no knowledge of their own history,'' she told The Times in 1996.
She drew covers for Crisis, the publication of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, as well as comic book treatments of black history.
So, when she stood in for her husband at the Poor People's Campaign at the Lincoln Memorial on June 19, 1968, she spoke not just of his vision, but of hers, of gender as well as race.
''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.
''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.
''He used to always say, 'This restaurant should be for ordinary people on the street.
Along with friends, she founded the Society for the Revival and Preservation of Southern Food, dedicated in part to seeing that people did not forget how to cook with lard.
''If we experience any difficulties in mixing with Europeans, I shall throw in my lot with the colored people,'' she told The Sunday Express of London.
Richard Weight, a British historian who is making a documentary about interracial marriage, said: ''For a lot of people, it drew the line between those who thought Britain had an integrated postcolonial future and those who didn't.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
''When my father died 15 years ago, people asked her, 'When are you going home?
' Finally she bought herself a plot of ground to be buried in, so when people said, 'When are you going home?,' she could answer: 'I am not going home.
''We lived in the miller's house; the tide barn where corn was stored is a restaurant and what was the stable is the accommodation for the people working here,'' Mr. Sargant said.
At these times, she lay in a coffin with a glass window so people could gaze down at her.
''I think kids are one of the last groups of people to be recognized as having fully developed rights,'' she said in an interview in the alumni bulletin of her undergraduate school, Swarthmore College, in September.
It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963.
It was an experience, she would later say, that made her identify with people on the margins of society.
''Some people think I'm saying, 'Women of the world unite -- you have nothing to lose but your men,' '' she told Life magazine in 1963.
So I wanted to write a novel that would make others feel the history: the pain and fear that black people have had to live through in order to endure.
''The only black people you found were occasional characters or characters who were so feeble-witted that they couldn't manage anything, anyway.
The book centers on a rigidly stratified society ruled by telepathic people called Patternists.
They would sweeten deals by inviting music industry people by for a plate or two of her mother's delectable Southern cooking.
Until a few weeks ago, Mrs. Muscatine was appearing at book signings to promote her new book, ''The Vinegar of Spilamberto and Other Italian Adventures with Food, Places and People,'' which was published last year by Shoemaker & Hoard.
''She navigated the difficulties in their lives, so she decided she wanted to do something to help people living with paralysis and established the Quality of Life grants program,'' said Maggie Goldberg, spokeswoman for the foundation.
The program has awarded $8 million to nonprofit organizations that help people with disabilities, Ms. Goldberg said.
They arrived in the midst of the blitz in February 1941, and she joined a volunteer corps that collected people's scattered remains for identification and burial.
(She was not related to the actress Jean Stapleton, as many people have thought.

        Jane Jacobs, the writer and thinker who brought penetrating eyes and ingenious insight to the sidewalk ballet of her own Greenwich Village street and came up with a book that challenged and changed the way people view cities, died yesterday in Toronto, where she moved in 1968.
At a time when both common and inspired wisdom called for bulldozing slums and opening up city space, Ms. Jacobs's prescription was ever more diversity, density and dynamism -- in effect, to crowd people and activities together in a joyous urban jumble.
Whether neighbors or strangers, people are safer because they are almost never alone.
''I am afraid people who do not will always have it a little wrong in their heads, like the old prints of rhinoceroses made from travelers' descriptions of rhinoceroses.
From writing about how people functioned within cities, she analyzed how cities function within nations, how nations function with one another, how everyone functions in a world of conflicting moral principles and, finally, how economies grow like biological organisms.
''He wasn't concerned about its attractiveness to people.
''If more qualified people are up to the same thing, more power to them.
She had threats against her life, anonymous midnight phone calls, and people driving by her house throwing bricks and shouting obscenities.
' People who don't remember how they acted.
''Like a lot of people in the Depression,'' Mr. Dewey said, ''she was left with all the trappings, but not much money.
Spark's novel ''Reality and Dreams'' in The New York Times in 1997, described the author's approach as a recipe: ''Take a self-enclosed community (of writers, schoolgirls, nuns, rich people, etc.
''The National Party gave them an inferior education so those children were going to remain the slaves of white people.
She was primarily an adapter, most successful in her ability to make compelling dialogue out of other people's works.
'' and another declaring, ''The worst deed of the Jewish people was the murder of the Messiah.
''She was an incredible mentor to a lot of young people and acting students,'' Ms. O'Brien said.
Gay received the National Jewish Book Award for nonfiction for ''Unfinished People: Eastern European Jews Encounter America'' (W. W. Norton, 1996).
In East St. Louis, she found talented young people living in one of the nation's most destitute areas and turned them into dancers.
She also counseled disadvantaged young people, and her colleagues noted that she could calm the angriest of them through the sheer power of her presence, making her ordinarily soft voice even softer -- yet always firm -- as the counseling session proceeded.
About 10,000 people marched that day, a large turnout for the time.
She was also a founder of Mobilization for Survival, which on June 12, 1982, summoned an estimated 700,000 people to the streets of Manhattan, and Central Park, in a boisterous and festive call for the end of the nuclear arms race.
''Dust Bowl Ballads'' (1941), to songs by Woody Guthrie, depicted the endurance of people in the rural Southwest during the droughts and the Depression of the 1930's.
The cheerful ''Folksay'' (1942), based on Carl Sandburg's poem ''The People, Yes,'' blended dancing with songs and dialogue.
Referring to herself and her colleagues in the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, she said: ''We're popular, if by 'popular' you mean 'of the people.
' But this is the Age of the Common Man, and it is the common people who are the backbone and the strength and hope of our civilization and our culture.
We as artists, and above all as thinking people, are touched by problems of our fellow men because they are our problems.
More than 20 million people had taken Vioxx before Merck took it off the market in September 2004, and the company is facing 11,500 lawsuits in behalf of 23,000 plaintiffs.
In 1988, with Michael Scherker, she founded Preserve Inc., an organization that taught performing arts organizations and interested people how to create and maintain archives, and conducted workshops nationwide.
''Some of those folks on the Hill can't get it through their thick heads that as representatives in a democracy, they should care about the people who most need their help.
''I've always told people, you need better feet than brains to lobby,'' she told Women's Wear Daily in 1988, adding that a sense of humor, a smile and a nonthreatening manner helped, too.
who renounces violence after converting to Buddhism and inspires trust and generosity among his people.
''
        Asked about Mrs. Truman's role as first lady, Miss Odum said, ''After meeting so many people and shaking their hands at receptions, she would go to her room and soak her hand in paraffin.
Her latest incarnation was as leather-clad, bright-orange-haired punk rocker and occasional Elvis impersonator, belting out songs like ''Love Songs for People Who Hate Each Other,'' which she wrote herself.
''I feel like a child more than I did as a child,'' she said in an interview with People magazine in 2003.
She won two awards for bravery, but sometimes had an unusual perspective on people she arrested.
But Ms. Walker continued drawing up wills and preparing personal-injury claims for the men and women she described as the ''plain, ordinary, not elegant people'' of her Harlem community.
Mrs. Gray Adams said she learned in 1964 that there are two kinds of people in grass-roots politics, ''those who are in the movement, and those who have the movement in them.
''I felt sorry for the people who had to do the Pacific -- it was so much more complicated.
''If you knew Susan, you knew that she was a tremendous competitor, but she had this ability to connect with people that helped this race and this sport rise to a level it had never been at before,'' Chas St. George, spokesman for the Iditarod, said in a telephone interview.
''She lived more in 51 years than some people do in 100.
The theory holds that isolation is one of the most damaging human experiences and is best treated by reconnecting with other people.
Though she told few people, Ms. Shamash was battling cancer and had recently undergone radiation and chemotherapy when ''Floating Island'' entered its construction stage at a barge yard in Staten Island, where tons of dirt, trees and rocks were moved in under her supervision and that of Nancy Holt, Mr. Smithson's widow.
As she once explained, ''I learned early on that people liked you if you made them laugh.
Known in recent years for writing angrily against Islam, Ms. Fallaci became famous in the 1960's and 70's for her war journalism and her long, aggressive and revealing interviews with prominent people.
She devoted her energies to organizations that served the mentally disabled and those helping people with substance abuse problems.
Mrs. Lawford devoted her energies to organizations that served the mentally disabled and to those helping people with substance abuse problems.
The Ortners decided to make brownstones -- and Brooklyn -- appealing to many people who had never considered anything but apartment life in Manhattan.
''Because of her knowledge of interior design and her personal charm, she was able to convince large numbers of people that saving brownstones and saving neighborhoods were worthwhile causes,'' said Ronda Wist, executive director of the New York City Landmarks Commission.
She stole the records of people marked for execution, including Jews and resistance fighters, and stuffed them in her brassiere, her daughter said, then flushed them down the toilet.
''
        She added, ''It was not until the reviews came out (and the royalties came in) that I realized I had recorded universal emotions and joys -- and people would want to read about them year after year.
''She had a talent for extracting the best from people,'' said Bobbi Burrows, the director of photography for Life Books and an editor at the magazine for 40 years.
''She brought intimacy out of her subjects; people felt they were in good hands.
She wrote and illustrated ''Duncan Dance, A Guide for Young People,'' published by the Princeton Book Company in 1994.
She told The National Observer that when people brought intellect to humor, the enjoyment was lost.
''I was one of Emilio Pucci's best customers, but I got tired of seeing the same clothes I was wearing on other people, so I began making my own things,'' she once said.
''Most people would go to a marriage counselor, but they went to Africa,'' Ms. Halsey said.
She dispensed medicine to the people.
''Now I love it, because so many people liked it.
After she was released from prison in 1979, however, she was appointed a member of the National People's Congress standing committee, and she devoted herself to social causes.
She envisioned the foundation as a way to get money quickly to people with practical ideas for stopping the buildup of nuclear weapons.
In January 1990, Ms. Maxian began filing petitions against New York City police and correction officials questioning why people were being imprisoned for minor offenses for more than 24 hours without being formally charged.
At the time of the suit, people were typically being kept for 39 or 40 hours while they were being booked and fingerprinted, going through other police procedures and then waiting to appear before a judge to be charged and make a plea.
She won by convincing Justice Soloff that the city was wasting time at the expense of people who had been arrested but not charged with any crime.
She won a settlement in 2005 under which the city paid the arrested people and their lawyers $231,200.
''Police are still going to be able to arrest people for doing crimes, but they can't just arrest people for being suspicious,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press.
      
''Police are still going to be able to arrest people for doing crimes, but they can't just arrest people for being suspicious,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press.
      
New Yorkers inside and outside the theater were soon humming the town's geography à la Comden and Green:
        The Bronx is up and the Battery's down,
        The people ride in a hole in the ground,
        New York, New York,
        It's a helluva town.
As a hostess and occasional confidante, she hobnobbed with the most famous people of the day, including Frank Sinatra, William Faulkner and Truman Capote.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
''My mother was an incredibly gifted hostess, wonderful at putting people together,'' Jonathan Cerf said.
As a hostess and occasional confidante, she hobnobbed with the most famous people of the day, including Frank Sinatra, William Faulkner and Truman Capote.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
''In my dad's day, it was theater people mixing with book people,'' said Jonathan Cerf, her younger son.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
''My mother was an incredibly gifted hostess, wonderful at putting people together,'' Jonathan Cerf said.
Along with writers like Terry McMillan, Ms. Campbell was part of the first wave of black novelists who made the lives of upwardly mobile black people a routine subject for popular fiction.
Throughout her work, Ms. Campbell sought to counter prevailing stereotypes of black people as socially and economically marginal.
A walking encyclopedia on the standards of more than 400 breeds worldwide, she was one of only two dozen people licensed to judge all 165 breeds and varieties recognized by the American Kennel Club.
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
Her other books include a novel, ''The Far Family'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1966); a biography, ''Too Many People, Too Little Love: Edna Rankin McKinnon, Pioneer for Birth Control'' (Holt, Rinehart & Winston, 1974); and, with her husband, ''Highland Homeland: The People of the Great Smokies'' (National Park Service, 1978).
      
''She felt like she lived in a glass house and people were watching her.
''So many people talked to me about it so much that they finally persuaded me to consider it,'' she said in October 1987.
Ms. Webb's stable included, at one time or another, people from nontheatrical professions like Tonya Harding (the figure skater disgraced by her role in the attack on Nancy Kerrigan), Joey Buttafuoco (the auto-body shop owner known for his dalliance with the teenage Amy Fisher) and Sydney Biddle Barrows (the Mayflower Madam).
