''You often hear people say there is no American art, but this isn't so,'' she told an interviewer in 1980, according to a statement from the office of the chancellor at Berkeley.
In another book, ''The Disease to Please,'' she described a destructive propensity that drives people, usually women, to serve others to the detriment of their own well-being.

        Elma Lewis, a nationally recognized arts educator who was among the first people to be awarded a MacArthur Fellowship, died on Jan. 1 at her home in Roxbury, the Boston neighborhood.
Her track career upset people.
''I got very many bad letters, people writing that I must stay home with my children and that I should not be allowed to run on a track with -- how do you say it?
''I didn't know the Dutch people were so interested in track,'' she said in The Times.
When she was 64, her son said in The Times: ''I remember when I was growing up, there were always so many people greeting my mother on the street that I was embarrassed.
''Thanks to Miss Mitchell and 'Scarlett,' right now I can say any damn thing I want to, and people will listen,'' Ms. Ripley told those attending the 1991 Southeastern Booksellers Association convention.
''
        Ms. Frame created romantic visionaries -- eccentrics, mad people, epileptics -- and pitted them against the repressive forces of a sterile, conformist society.
She next traveled abroad on a grant from the New Zealand government, and in London a panel of psychiatrists determined she was not mentally ill, just different from other people.
Frame created romantic visionaries -- eccentrics, mad people, epileptics -- and pitted them against the repressive forces of a sterile, conformist society.
Ms. Oysher's brother, Moishe, was a major star in Yiddish theater and films and a cantor known as ''the master singer of his people.
''I was very lucky because I got some very famous people who had acne,'' Miss Klinger said in an interview with WWD in 1992.
People have such incredible memories of my performance.
Yet in 1993, people didn't take Ms. Wilson seriously when she had this notion to get parents to take their daughters to their workplaces to focus attention on their potential, not on their problems.
''These are things people are so concerned about that they are glued on the election.
''We never looked at color; we looked at people,'' Ms. Axton said last year.
''She saw the relevance of fashion for intelligent people -- saw it in its broadest cultural context.
''She was responsible for more than 60 books, and was one of the key people in building our editorial group,'' said Tim Zagat, the company's publisher.
''I would have thought people would find it rather dull, but they still seem fascinated,'' Ms. Partridge said in 1994, speaking of the events surrounding the ménage.
Dr. McCord believed that just as the government monitors the effectiveness of pharmaceuticals, the public should examine data to determine if well-meaning interventions to help people might, in fact, be harmful.
Born to privilege and wealth, Juliana made much effort, both as the queen and after she turned over her throne to her daughter, to bring the monarchy closer to the people.
She put people at ease, he said.
''Her goal was to come to New York and be surrounded by people, and play the piano,'' her son said.
People came in just to listen, tapping their toes in time to her music, and some may have opened accounts because of her.
Always elegantly dressed, Mrs. Scardino played what appealed to her, but she also took requests from her audience, which often included people from the neighborhood who did not have accounts at the bank.
''While there is no excusing some of the indelicate things she said, there was a kindness to Marge that made her a woman of the people.
Mrs. Schott called her purchase of the Reds a ''Christmas gift to the people of Cincinnati.
She at first snapped that people who criticized Mr. Lindsay were ignorant.
People referred to him as Dr. Schotz, although it is not clear that he had a doctorate.
But the New Way Laboratory, which he created in 1924, was hardly limited to the needs of the beautiful people.
Many socially prominent people invited her to their parties, among them the Begum Aga Khan, C. Z.
Unperturbed by the naysayers, Mrs. Lauder lived life vigorously, taking from it what she wanted and rejecting things that would take her away from the people and places she knew.
study program for retired people.
''Many people referred to her as a legend of the Soviet dissident movement,'' she said.
They are like people on New Year's Eve, determined to have a wild time, no matter the cost.
When she accepted her press club award in 1998, Ms. McGrory declared, ''I should confess that I always felt a little sorry for people who didn't work for newspapers.
She became chairwoman of the county chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1961 at the urging of her friend Medgar Evers, the N.A.A.C.P.
He called Mrs. Hudson ''a part of that very small network of people who not only survived but actually found ways to struggle.
''
        He continued, ''It is inconceivable that the movement could have happened the way it did in Mississippi without these people.
''The more they did to us, the meaner we got,'' she said in an interview for John Dittmer's 1994 book, ''Local People: The Struggle for Civil Rights in Mississippi.
When Northern civil rights activists arrived to join local people in the Freedom Summer of 1964, she let the visitors sleep in her house, even after it was bombed.
In a ballet that Ms. Pape choreographed in 1958, simple geometric shapes with people hidden inside moved about the stage.
Ten years later she created one of her best-known pieces, ''Divisor,'' a performance work in which dozens of people poked their heads through holes in a gridded arrangement in a large sheet of white cloth.
''This very small magazine, it reached key people throughout the country,'' Pete Seeger, a frequent contributor, said yesterday.
''She said, 'If people couldn't visit me alive, they have no business visiting me as a dirty old dead woman.
She was a powerful intellectual force behind creating a hospice system in the United States through which palliative care and psychological support are provided for many terminally ill people.
In the later part of her career, she embarked on research to verify the existence of life after death, conducting, with others, thousands of interviews with people who recounted near-death experiences, particularly of those declared clinically dead by medical authorities but later revived.
'' ''Actually, I have been pursued by people who have regarded me as the Death and Dying Lady.
Dr. Kübler-Ross changed that for many, though by no means for all, dying people.
She would become a psychiatrist to help people deal with death.
''Why won't people tell you the truth?
Moreover, she found, people who are experiencing traumatic life changes like divorces often experience similar stages.
Another conclusion she reached was that the acceptance of death came most easily for people who could look back and feel that they had not wasted their lives.
''
        When skeptics challenged her accounts of spirit guides, she said people in the modern age had difficulty accepting them, because they ''are no longer in touch with their own spirituality.
She severed ties with him, and years later acknowledged that she had been mistaken about him and that he had deceived many people.
Both as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times in Vietnam in the early 1970's and later as a writer of nonfiction books and a novel, Ms. Emerson wrote passionately about ordinary people and soldiers ground up by the machinery of war in places like Vietnam, Gaza and Algeria.
Emerson requested that she be sent to Vietnam because she had been in that country in 1956 and wanted to go back to write about the Vietnamese people and the immense unhappy changes in their lives, not a subject widely covered by the huge press corps who were preoccupied with covering the military story.
''
        Her articles from Vietnam, many reported with the help of Nguyen Ngoc Luong, her interpreter, brought alive for many readers people who had been an abstraction, the Vietnamese whose ''hearts and minds'' the United States went to war to win, but lost to communist adversaries who prevailed despite millions of casualties.
''
        Over the years, Miss Wray said, she came to feel that Kong had ''become a spiritual thing to many people, including me.
''For one thing, the people doing the complaining are not the decision-makers at this institution,'' she says, spoiling the hush in her third-floor office.
The Pattens then lived in Paris, socializing with people like the Rothschilds, Cecil Beaton and Ho Chi Minh.
''
        Furthermore, she added, people couldn't accept that this girl ''should know about her father's love affairs, discuss them with him, and thereby reach a kind of complicity with him on subjects that had until then been taboo between parents and children.
I think that people can be happy together for longer than I used to believe, but I still don't think it can be forever.
''Many people did not believe it was a real entity,'' said Dr. Mona Shangold, a former assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
But usually people who stage them take over the country afterward.
At roughly the same time, she began creating documentary films with humanitarian themes, often focusing on people with disabilities.
In the Hills' account, these traditional elements were transplanted to a modern but no less anxious time, the height of the cold war, when many people gazed nervously skyward.
She and her brother, Nathan S. Kline (author of ''From Sad to Glad,'' about depression), lived in a house full of art, books and music, with parents who wanted their children to be aware of people different from themselves.
''It's about people trusting that you are going to deliver what you say you're going to deliver.
Not only did live burials, castration, the carving of organs and the roasting of people become routine, but more diabolical tortures were practiced, such as hanging people by their tongues on iron hooks or burying people to their waists and watching them torn apart by German shepherds.
Not only did live burials, castration, the carving of organs and the roasting of people become routine, but more diabolical tortures were practiced, such as hanging people by their tongues on iron hooks or burying people to their waists and watching them torn apart by German shepherds.
Not only did live burials, castration, the carving of organs and the roasting of people become routine, but more diabolical tortures were practiced, such as hanging people by their tongues on iron hooks or burying people to their waists and watching them torn apart by German shepherds.
''Those early papers are a database that people have worked with ever since.
In recent years, she was called upon to defend her practice -- routine among anthropologists of her generation -- of opening the graves of indigenous people and removing their contents for study.
She was undoubtedly the only writer of her generation to win major literary prizes (among them a National Book Critics Circle Award, a National Book Award and a MacArthur Foundation genius grant) and to appear in films by Woody Allen and Andy Warhol; to be the subject of rapturous profiles in Rolling Stone and People magazines; and to be photographed by Annie Leibovitz for an Absolut Vodka ad.
''My greatest dream,'' she later wrote, ''was to grow up and come to New York and write for Partisan Review and be read by 5,000 people.
She gave people a vocabulary for talking about it and thinking about it.
People who look at my painting say that it makes them happy, like the feeling when you wake up in the morning.
