In recent years she had been concerned with the housing and care of the elderly in Greenwich and was a founder of the Merry-Go-Round, a center for the elderly, and the Mews, a residential hotel for older people.
She was also instrumental in starting the annual library luncheon, in 1981, and an advisory committee of people from the publishing industry.
I'm better at making it possible for other people.
"
        Her passionate interest in medicine was fueled partly by illnesses of people around her and by her own health; she repeatedly had ear infections during her Wisconsin childhood.
I don't visualize large numbers of people out there.
Among her other major hits were "The Gypsy" (1946), "The Anniversary Song" (1947), "Buttons and Bows" (1948) and "Dear Hearts and Gentle People" (1949).
She was an authority on the prehistoric incursions of Indo-European speaking people into Europe and how they changed society there.
She was the main proponent of the theory that languages like English, French, German and Iranian are all related because a warlike people speaking the tongue ancestral to all Indo-European languages conquered Europe and imposed their language on the conquered.
On film, Ms. Morris played the mistress of Danny DeVito's character in "Ruthless People," and had roles in "The Hotel New Hampshire," "Maria's Lovers," "Absolute Beginners," "18 Again," "Blue City," "Me and the Kid" and "A Sinful Life.
She termed it "a unified concept of human functioning" basic to understanding and treating people.
Her family's home was open to people from all classes, from scholars to beggars, and meals were shared by up to 100 guests.
"It feels better to care about other people's interests -- to be involved.
"I feel I'm a very serious person who wants to do things," she once said, "but people keep talking about refrigerators.
"When it comes to news, the audience wants credibility," she said, "and I think I have more at my age than people in their 20's.
's political shortcomings were mentioned -- stories about his liaisons with women were known only to insiders at the time -- Mrs. Kennedy seemed determined to "rescue Jack from all these 'bitter people' who were going to write about him in history.
"
        But Mr. White, an admirer of Mr. Kennedy, added that her characterization was a misreading of history and that the Kennedy Camelot never existed, though it was a time when reason was brought to bear on public issues and the Kennedy people were "more often right than wrong and astonishingly incorruptible.
But he wrote that she possessed a "fiercely independent inner life which she shared with few people and would one day be partly responsible for her enormous success.
" She also "possessed a mysterious authority, even as a teen-ager, that would compel people to do her bidding," he said.
Jacqueline seemed shy with individuals but would flower in large groups, dazzling people.
While she was finishing the work for her degree, she won Vogue magazine's Prix de Paris contest, with an essay on "People I Wish I Had Known," beating out 1,279 other contestants.
At the paper, she was an inquiring photographer assigned to do a light feature in which people were asked about a topic of the day; their comments appeared with their photos.
Her elegance and fluency in French captured their hearts, and at a glittering dinner at Versailles she seemed to quite mesmerize President de Gaulle, a man not easy to mesmerize, as well as several hundred exuberant French people named Bouvier, all of them apparently claiming some sort of cousinhood.
Some people said she went too far when she found some antique Zuber wallpaper on a wall in nearby Maryland, had it removed and rehung in the White House at a cost of $12,500, even though the original French printing blocks were still in existence and she could have had the same design on new paper for much less.
She brought people like Andre Malraux to the White House who never would have gone there.
She imitated people, heads of state, after everyone had left a White House dinner.
"
        John Russell, a former art critic for The New York Times and a longtime friend of Mrs. Onassis, remembered her as a shrewd judge of people, but one who was always mindful of their feelings and was careful not to hurt them if her judgments were negative.
"She had an absolutely unfailing antenna for the fake and the fraud in people," he said.
"She never showed it when meeting people, but afterwards she had quite clearly sized people up.
"She never showed it when meeting people, but afterwards she had quite clearly sized people up.
She never in public let people know she did not like them.
People always went away thinking, 'She quite liked me, yes, she was impressed by me.
She also headed a poverty law office for children, sat on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union and represented poor people in constitutional cases.
Dr. Woititz's "Adult Children of Alcoholics" offered insights into typical patterns in the families of alcoholics, like lack of self-esteem and difficulty relating to people.
The institute provides therapeutic counseling for people with family problems, overeating habits and other disorders.
She also was a drama editor and columnist for The People's Voice, a New York weekly newspaper published by Adam Clayton Powell Jr., her sister's husband at the time.
Impressed by this cheerful woman who told people to get happy by smoking a particular cigarette, the sponsor signed her to do the commercials and to be a featured singer when the show began its official run in October 1950. Letters From the Clergy
        In a 1979 interview, Miss Collins was asked if she liked her girl-next-door image.
In later years, she was the author of "Summer of the Burning" (1976) and contributed to "Katonah: A History of a New York Village and Its People," published by the Katonah Improvement Society in 1961.
Among her other books were "Rainbow Jordan," "Those Other People," "When the Rattlesnake Sounds," "Let's Hear It for the Queen," "Like One of the Family" and "A Short Walk.
"She was a devoted supporter of services to people with visual impairments in the Hudson Valley," said Judith Millman, the organization's regional director in White Plains.
She also wrote fiction for adults and young people.
"No matter how ingenious her design solutions, she never forgot that real people were going to eat, sleep and live in the rooms she created," said Dorothy Kalins, editor of Garden Design magazine.
In 1964 and 1965, she coordinated a conference for 27,000 people involved in Head Start, the early-education program for disadvantaged children.
The 1,500 people of Monona, a farming community in northeastern Iowa, gave her family "nothing but support," she said at the time.
"
        Mrs. Fassbinder traveled extensively, talking to people about AIDS and how to prevent infection by H.I.V., Dr. Osterholm said.
I think people trust me.
"
        She said theater people had contributed to the problem by removing the curtain.
"People come into the theater and they sit there watching the first scene and talking about what they've bought in Bloomingdale's that day.
She appeared in the television movies "The Story Lady" (1991) and "To Dance With the White Dog" (1993) and completed three more feature films: "Used People" (1992) and "Camilla" and "Nobody's Fool," which are to be released this fall.
In her later years, many people knew Miss Raye as the star of Polident commercials.
" She further confirmed her versatility in 1970 in Harold Pinter's "Landscape" and in 1971 when, at the age of 62, she made her debut in a singing role in a John Kander-Fred Ebb musical, "70, Girls, 70," as the disarming leader of a circle of elderly people seeking self-esteem by stealing furs.
From 1982 to 1987, she headed the nonprofit agency Working Organization for Retarded Citizens in Queens, which put handicapped people in group homes.
She left the agency to join SKIP, Sick Kids Need Involved People, of New York, which she helped to found.
The agency advises more than 2,000 clients on equipment, services and benefits for people with developmental disabilities.
Her belief that there was material for dance in the everyday lives of black people -- and her strong personality and early success -- had a profound influence on several generations of black choreographers and dancers, among them Donald McKayle and Alvin Ailey.
"I dance not to entertain but to help people better understand each other.
She also conducted leadership training activities for NOW, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Women's Political Caucus and other groups.
She became widely known in the late 1970's when she began to minister to a substratum of prostitutes, prisoners and rebellious artists, and later, to people with AIDS.
She opened a clinic at the church, but soon realized that mistrust kept away street people.
Ms. Carmen was an organizer of the People With AIDS Health Group.
"
        As Barbara Heilman wrote in Sports Illustrated, "She can command a look of mingled graciousness and hauteur that suggests a duchess, but in a crowd that is one part Skeeter and 5,000 parts people, young men and babies will come to her in 30 seconds.
People were jumping all over me, putting microphones into my face, pounding my back, and I couldn't believe it.
"I have chosen to write historical novels, chiefly, I think, because I enjoy sharing with young people my own ever-fresh astonishment at finding that men and women and boys and girls who lived through the great events of the past were exactly like ourselves, and that they faced every day the same choices, large and small, which daily confront us," she wrote in the New York Times Book Review in 1961.

        Katherine Elliott, an advocate for simpler and more practical methods of health care for poor people, died on Saturday at the Hospital of St. John and St. Elizabeth in London, where she lived.
Dr. Elliott, whose work took her to Pakistan, Thailand, Indonesia, Bangladesh and Iran, also advocated greater reliance on trained medical workers to see to the health needs of people in remote areas.
" She appeared in prime-time dramas, as well as in guest roles in the series "All in the Family," "Archie Bunker's Place," "The Jeffersons," "General Hospital" and "Farrell for the People.
In 1939, when Mount Holyoke College announced the closing of its Hartford campus, Mrs. Kneeland was among a small group of people that raised money to establish an independent college.
"
        Her clients, often the people closest to designers who work in couture, as Mme.
Some time ago I talked with the Duchess of Orleans, who was a customer of hers and a close friend, and she said she went to visit her in an old people's home.
"Maybe you wouldn't have told people if you were reclusive, but to create a fiction, a fabrication of her being alive?
It is now visited by some 500,000 people annually.

        Helen U. Phillips, a sociologist who researched group theory as a means to helping people solve their problems, died on Dec. 3 in the Broomall Presbyterian Nursing Home in Broomall, Pa, a Philadelphia suburb.
Her early career was in social services, with a focus on people with disabilities.
"Of all the people who gave of themselves to the political process," Mr. Bush said from his office in Houston, "Helen Walsh ranks right up there with those I admired the most.
"Elizabeth confronted the challenge of AIDS in her own life and lost her beloved daughter to AIDS at a time when our Government and our country were too indifferent to this illness and the people who had it," he said.
She appeared on "60 Minutes" and on the cover of People magazine.
"Elizabeth confronted the challenge of AIDS in her own life and lost her beloved daughter to AIDS at a time when our Government and our country were too indifferent to this illness and the people who had it," he said.
She appeared on "60 Minutes" and on the cover of People magazine.

        Aminda Badeau Wilkins, a retired welfare official and the widow of Roy Wilkins, longtime executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
