The house in Houston in which she and her husband lived and raised their five children was open to people of every age, nationality, color and religion.
When it was completed in 1948, people told them that there had never been a flat roof in Houston.
She was 76 and, until six months ago, had been getting up at 5 A.M. to stir the soup and poor people's spirits as the hands-on founding director of St. John's Bread and Life Soup Kitchen.
She died the next day, and two weeks later thousands of people gathered at Makaha Beach for a memorial service she had planned.

        Margaret Baltzell Kreig, who wrote about health and medicine and raised early alarms over drug abuse by American young people, died on Jan. 12 at her home in Washington.
They settled in Harlem in 1924, and Mrs. Lollis, who never forgot anything, always remembered the sounds of jazz and laughter and how neat and clean the streets and the people were.
''
        Over the years, Mrs. Lollis cooked and cleaned for other people and once worked for Western Union, but as she got older she mostly did volunteer work for the Mount Olivet Baptist Church and kept up with her grandchildren and her great-grandchildren, telling them stories about the old days.
People of all ages said they learned a lot about 20th century history listening to Mrs. Lollis, but it was the children whose eyes would get the widest and who would listen the hardest when Mrs. Lollis stood up and started telling stories about how things were in the old days.
Ms. Gellhorn was a cocky, raspy-voiced maverick who saw herself as a champion of ordinary people trapped in conflicts created by the rich and powerful.
''
        Though best known for her groundbreaking journalism, Ms. Gellhorn was also an accomplished fiction writer, author of 5 novels, 14 novellas and 2 collections of short stories, many of which were based on people and incidents she encountered during her prodigious travels.
Later, she met Harry Hopkins, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's confidant, and talked her way into a job with the New Deal, wandering America and writing about the effects of the Depression on ordinary people.
''A friend describes the disease as me being on a raft alone while the people who love me keep trying to pull me toward shore.

        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital.
Even when people, both black and white, during the integrationist movement of the 1940's and early 50's, questioned the need for a separate archive devoted entirely to black experience, Mrs. Hutson championed it.
A Government commission found in the mid-1980's that at least 9,000 people had been killed or disappeared during the right-wing military Government's crackdown on political opponents.
''When the bomb was dropped on Hiroshima, I realized that something enormous had happened, something that had never happened before and that people should take responsibility about what to do about it, for the world would be a really different place from now on,'' she said in a videotaped history of the academy, which is based in Manhattan.
I told him my ideas that an international peace academy could be really useful, but I did not know the right people to start such a thing and how would you suggest I go about it.
Professor Stamler was also involved in other research projects, including a survey of more than 10,000 people worldwide that reaffirmed sodium as a factor in high blood pressure.
''On many occasions people tried to push us into conflict,'' Maya Plesetskaya, who replaced her in 1960 as the Bolshoi's leading female dancer, wrote two years ago in her memoirs.
In his book, Mr. Grafton quoted a friend of hers as saying, ''The Jock Whitneys are just about as 'down-to-earth' as any people can be with a quarter of a billion dollars.
But she was also known for the inspirational message she spread as a guest on national talk shows or to people she met on the Boardwalk with whom she formed close relationships.
But she told few people about it.
Ms. Beechman became an advocate and role model for people with cancer.
''The perception people have of cancer,'' she told The New York Times, ''is that you're cured or you die, and that's not necessarily how it works.
The movie and the attendant publicity made Mrs. Shuman such a sought-after celebrity that she changed her telephone number to an unlisted one after getting as many as 10 calls a day from people wanting to hear her recollections about the Titanic or simply to speak with someone who had survived the disaster.
In 1938, while living in Los Angeles, she married Steve Hoag, an engineer, after a house they owned together in North Hollywood was swept away in a flood, on the correct theory that married people were likely to get Red Cross relief more easily.
She once recalled: ''When I was a young lawyer, I would go to people's offices and they would always say: 'Sit here.
Later, exasperated with her Congressional aides, she wrote: ''I just don't understand young people today, quite frankly.
She also represented people accused of Communist activities by Senator Joseph McCarthy's Congressional committee and its counterpart in Albany.
''Outside of Martin and the kids, I don't feel very related to most people at this point,'' she wrote in 1971.
'' But he was, she said, her best friend and supporter, and ''one of the few unneurotic people left in society.
''
        Corrosive Ambition Hampers a Career
        Ms. Abzug's own ambition was too corrosive for many people, even -- or, perhaps, especially -- for her fellow New York Democrats.
A flamboyant, warmhearted woman who listed her hobbies in Who's Who as ''playing with children and animals,'' Lady Lestor relished adversarial politics and was not shy about telling people what she thought, in the plainest possible language.

        Felicie Young Cormier and Marie-Louise Febronie Meilleur, who lived through more tumultuous history, saw more social and technological change and endured more late-life congratulations than any two people known to be alive, died within two days of each other this week, ending their rival reigns as the world's oldest living person.
For all the public interest in longevity, the deaths of the two women suggest a trend: the world's oldest people do not seem to be as old as they used to.
Plants, animals, natural patterns on rock faces and people she encountered on her travels engaged her interest and were captured with a touching refinement in many of her pictures.
They were also seen as a blissfully peaceful people, whose fabled cities lacked even rudimentary fortifications.
Over the next dozen years, Dr. Schele and others deciphered and interpreted inscriptions throughout the Mayan realm, but it was not until 1986, when Dr. Schele helped organize an exhibition at the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth that the world learned the full implications of the work: Far from being an ethereal peaceful people, the Mayans were a warring nation who tortured and sometimes sacrificed their captives, whose nobles engaged in blood-letting rituals to placate their gods and whose king was required to stick a rod through the shaft of his own penis on ceremonial occasions.
''
        ''In those studies,'' he added, ''we saw that most people did not want to accept everything an employer or the Government said.
She employed a novel approach that ''pushed to the limits the explorations of the unconscious, with the goal of devising a clinical method for liberating people from the intergenerational 'phantoms' that haunt their memories and the buried 'crypts' that limit their freedom,'' said Dr. Rand, her English-language editor.
The book became a best-seller and transformed public perception of the wetlands, which were then considered by most people to be useless swamps that should be drained and developed for farming and housing.
Of the people of South Florida, she said, ''They could not get it through their heads that they had produced some of the worst conditions themselves, by their lack of cooperation, their selfishness, their mutual distrust and their willful refusal to consider the truth of the whole situation.
''
        She added that unless people acted more responsibly, ''overdrainage will go on'' and ''the soil will shrink and burn and be wasted and destroyed, in a continuing ruin.
Because of who she was, people accepted that.
She was able to get people's attention because she was a scholar as well as an activist.

        Mary Bancroft Boulton, a psychotherapist who helped introduce to New York City the practice of transactional analysis, which tries to help a patient correct self-destructive behavior patterns in relationships with other people, died at her home in Greenwich Village on May 30.
Transactional analysis became popular after Dr. Eric Berne published ''Games People Play'' in 1964 (reissued in paperback by Ballantine Books in 1996).
Dr. Boulton married Schroeder Boulton in 1965, and their home in Greenwich Village became a gathering spot for people in civil rights and antiwar work, Mr. Bancroft said.
In one case last year that drew international attention, she prosecuted three people accused in the theft and attempted sale of more than $10 million worth of valuable drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Albrecht Durer.
Not long after moving to New Haven with her family in 1983, Mrs. Kennedy became aware of the lack of nursing centers and services for people with AIDS.
''He could hold 10 people on his shoulders but failed to hold Galina too long,'' NTV television observed tonight.
She was a Strasberg protegee, said Ms. Lodge, who added that Strasberg counted her among the few people he considered able to carry on his work as a teacher.

        Geraldine Owen Delaney, a nutritionist who founded a highly regarded New Jersey treatment center for people recovering from alcohol and drug addictions, as she had, died on July 9 at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. She was 91 and lived in Frelinghuysen Township.
She was known for her approach to the long-term treatment of people who resisted such help.
The former First Lady called Mrs. Delaney ''a front-runner in the field of alcohol and drug treatment'' who had helped thousands of professional people.
''There were stories about people flying to Europe to buy them.
Her second, ''The  Wedding,'' about the aspirations and anxieties of black people living on Martha's Vineyard, appeared in 1995.
The memory of how she learned she could not was still painful decades later: the white doctor telling her briskly, ''There are already enough black people in the world.
''It shows a world that most people have rarely seen, a world where black  families are all highly educated, very successful, living in Martha's  Vineyard,'' Miss Winfrey said.
'' Instead, she often said: ''Color is nothing when you know people.
The first four, including treating people with respect and serving the impoverished, sounded like familiar religious principles.
In the 1940's and 50's she was married to the founder of the company, Dale Carnegie, who wrote the classic American self-help book ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.
Even the most retiring people can learn to wow a crowd, he wrote.
Look people in the eye, shake hands firmly, flash a winning smile and remember names.
Never complain or blame other people.
Her improvement so impressed Carnegie people that the company offered her a job in New York.
She pressed for the right of a woman to have an abortion and, when her granddaughter Vicky was born mentally disabled, she became involved in work for people with mental disabilities.
She pressed for the right of a woman to have an abortion and, when her granddaughter Vicky was born mentally disabled, she became involved in work for people with mental disabilities.
''The survival of this culture depends on people playing it and living the life.
There was a period where, in jazz, the music sent people away.
But it's now back to making people feel better, putting happy smiles on their faces.
It was about how happy you could make people.
The characters in 'White Rose' were people one could identify with.
'' Then she would explain, ''We never talk to each other as nonsexual people.
Attended by sociologists, religious leaders, educators and public health professionals, the conference highlighted the suffering of thousands of people because of ignorance about frigidity, impotence, homosexuality and contraception.
She was an unstinting advocate for the acceptance of masturbation as a wholesome, normal and almost universal practice for people of all ages.
Her theatrical training, coupled with her carriage, poise and authoritative voice, helped her to get her message across that children are born sexual beings and remain so until they die and that people of all ages need and deserve a proper sexual education.
Ms. Murphy, known as Dee, went to New York in 1988 to be an assistant city editor and was later deputy metro editor at New York Newsday, where she helped supervise the paper's coverage of a subway crash that killed five people, caused by a motorman who was drunk.
She brought in influential Japanese people ignored by earlier administrations -- intellectuals, writers and leaders of citizens' groups.

        Kathleen Lukens, a more or less ordinary woman whose life had such an ordinary focus on her children it is a wonder how much people made of what she saw as routine maternal devotion, died on Tuesday at her home in Tappan, N.Y. She was 67 and had been executive director of Camp Venture, a Rockland County service organization for the developmentally disabled that she founded in 1969.
''She certainly was one of the best negotiators I've ever met,'' said the developer William Zeckendorf Jr. ''Perhaps in the beginning, people didn't take her seriously enough.
Ms. Rolle met with many of her old friends and cast members of the two television shows just last week in a gathering here for a People magazine article.
''Now people can only see me as a very old person who had a mythical life,'' she said in a recent interview with a French writer.
'' She continued: ''Well, I'd like people to remember me for my best moment.
''Her subjects are the same ones that keep most people searching beyond and beneath the surfaces of their daily lives; love, life, emotions and the unfilled longings of the disabled.
''Kingfishers Catch Fire,'' a 1953 novel, concerned a widow and her two children living in Kashmir among people so poor that even a nail is worth stealing.
The multifaceted organization has its headquarters at 27 Barrow Street, employs 250 people and also carries on its programs at seven other sites in and near Greenwich Village.
In the years since 1986, Ms. Gulkin set into motion new Greenwich House programs for recovering alcoholics, other substance abusers and people with H.I.V.

        Mary Benjamin, an autograph dealer with such an authoritative eye for authenticity and such a sure sense of value that for decades she virtually dictated prices United States collectors paid for the writings of Presidents, poets and other prominent people, died on Monday at her home in Hunter, N.Y. She was 93 and had been so widely recognized as the nation's leading document authority that she regularly received mail addressed simply to ''The Autograph Lady.
In 1942, she became the first black writer to win the Yale Series of Younger Poets competition, edited by Stephen Vincent Benet, for her poem ''For My People'' from a compilation by the same name.
Let a second generation full of courage issue forth; let a people loving freedom come to growth.
Dr. Alexander later became a professor at Jackson State University, where she founded the Institute for the Study of the History, Life and Culture of Black People in 1968.
''I don't know anybody who has captured the heart and soul of black people any more than she did,'' Alferdteen Harrison, who became the director of the institute when Dr. Alexander stepped down, said.
To Honoria and her brothers, these artistic titans were simply the adored tall people of their enchanted childhood.
She looked for the thousands of dogs and cats abandoned every year by people who, having tired of their pets, thought not of bringing them to an animal shelter but of leaving them in a cemetery.
The people who knew her and loved her were not sure yesterday about her next of kin.
''They are my response to the way everything is mixed up together in this world -- people and microbes and elephants and cassowary birds.
In her autobiographical sketch, written in her later years, she said, ''I am flattered when people ask me how I know so much about how children think and feel.
In 1978, she became an adjunct professor at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan in a program preparing young people for careers in cosmetics.
Roll collaborated with Dr. Abel in studies of Mexicans and Indians, including the Mescalero and Jicarilla Apaches, the Navajo, and the people of the Laguna, Taos, Santo Domingo and other pueblos in northern New Mexico.
'' As round as she was short, and fond of wearing large red hats, Ms. Roberts was one of the most colorful people in the American theater, bursting with energy and with a gravelly voice that approached that of a basso profundo.
When she received a script of ''The Gin Game,'' she wondered who would want to do ''a two-character play about old people,'' then noticed a photograph on her wall of Hume Cronyn and Jessica Tandy in ''The Four-Poster.
