She said she fought with officials "and anybody else who stood in the way of getting homes built for the people.
PLAYS  Gigi 1951
        Ondine 1954 FILMS One Wild Oat 1951
        Young Wives' Tale 1951
        Laughter in Paradise 1951
        The Lavender Hill Mob 1951
        Monte Carlo Baby 1951
        The Secret People 1952
        Roman Holiday 1953
        Sabrina 1954
        War and Peace 1956
        Funny Face 1957
        Love in the Afternoon 1957
        Green Mansions 1959
        The Nun's Story 1959
        The Unforgiven 1960
        Breakfast at Tiffany's 1961
        The Children's Hour 1962
        Charade 1963
        Paris When It Sizzles 1964
        My Fair Lady 1964
        How to Steal a Million 1966
        Two for the Road 1967
        Wait Until Dark 1967
        Robin and Marian 1976
        Bloodline 1979
        They All Laughed 1981
        Always 1989
      
Dr. Bernstein argued that the welfare system's major failing is in fostering continued dependency for people receiving aid, instead of guiding them off the welfare rolls to independence.
Some accused her of being unsympathetic to poor people and minorities, which she denied.
"
        But during her term more than 100,000 people were pared from the welfare rolls.
"Her work essentially has shown that people who donate kidneys adapt better psychologically and sociologically than most people had thought they would," he said.
"Her work essentially has shown that people who donate kidneys adapt better psychologically and sociologically than most people had thought they would," he said.
The Nazis occupiers sealed off the ghetto and eventually marched a steady stream of people to their deaths.
I seem always to have reminded people of someone in their family.
Other theater people had doubts about casting Miss Hayes in the part, but when the curtain rang down on opening night, she received thunderous applause.
She became a board member of the Metropolitan Center for Mental Health, a psychiatric clinic on the Upper West Side that helps people unable to afford private treatment.
Dedicated in 1960, the center was designed to be a place where Jewish and Arab children could learn about their own and other people's cultures.
The World Union is the international body of Reform, Progressive, Liberal, and Reconstructionist Jews linking 1.5 million people in more than 20 countries.
Festivals With a Purpose
        She developed a widely copied technique called group conversation that uses a common experience, like spring festivals, for people to learn about each other's customs, which often prove similar.
She developed a widely copied technique called group conversation that uses a common experience, like spring festivals, for people to learn about each other's customs, which often prove similar.
Some 75,000 people attended the concert, and millions more listened to the radio broadcast.
She gave benefit concerts for the Congress of Racial Equality, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the America-Israel Cultural Foundation.
A Hero's Welcome
        Finally rescuers found the crew, and they returned to a hero's welcome in Moscow, hailed as "daughters of the people.
Dame Freya's books about the Middle East and nearby countries were called lucid, spontaneous and elegant and were lauded for imparting an inspired sense of both history and people.
"
        Commenting on Mrs. Nixon's death, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said, "Pat Nixon was an extraordinarily supportive First Lady, particularly good in her judgment of people.
Oh no, I've stayed interested in people, I've kept working.
all those people who had it easy.
Despite the early traumas and Mrs. Nixon's wish that her husband retire from politics, she was enthusiastic enough on the eve of his nomination as the Republican Presidential candidate in 1968 to say, "This really is the American dream, where people from humble circumstances can, through sheer hard work, go up the ladder.
"
        "People frequently said it was a shame Warner Brothers typecast me," she said.
Dr. Woodard also published pioneering papers on radiation-induced osteogenic sarcomas in people who painted radium dials on watches.
She sang Mozart's "Exsultate, Jubilate" as part of the ceremony at Westminster Abbey, which was televised globally and seen by some 500 million people.
"The only theater people I can think of who have it are Audrey Hepburn and Betty Bacall.
At the time, the university's Regents cited her ultimate mission as apolitical and purely educational: "She sought to elicit the truth about old people, especially those distressed in mind, body, or estate.
These experiences prompted her first book, "Half the World's People" (Apoleton-Century-Crofts, 1965).
That inquiry forced the Central Intelligence Agency to acknowledge in 1975 that her husband, a civilian chemist for the Army, had been an unwitting participant in an experiment in which people were given varying doses of LSD to observe their reactions.
Beyond her expertise in 17th-century English literature, she was known for her belief in the need of a firm footing in the humanities for young people to help them learn self-discipline and integrity.
"
        In a related genre of work, she also took real people and events from history and weaved them into fictionalized mystery plots.
"
        In a related genre of work, she also took real people and events from history and weaved them into fictionalized mystery plots.
"
        Her most recent research was in nutrition and aging, particularly the role of carotenoids, including beta carotene, in the protection of the immune systems of older people.
She found that moderate doses of beta carotene can protect people from the harmful effects of ultraviolet light on the immune system.
After 1949, she worked primarily as a journalist at The Daily Worker and The People's World.
Last year, about 33,000 people requested copies of the recordings.
The disease, which develops in only a small percentage of people who are exposed, can produce coughing, shortness of breath, weight loss and scarring of the lungs.

        Mary E. Clark, a lawyer who successfully campaigned for a change in Florida law so that people with major illnesses would not lose a large part of their medical insurance coverage, died here on Saturday.
Statewide Campaign
        For four years she traveled across the state, arguing before newspaper editorial boards and at legislative meetings that insurance companies should not be able to reduce the medical benefits of people forced to retire because of illness.
"Most people in Mary's position do not have the time, energy, financial resources or legal resources to contest this sort of inequity," Mr. Westerberg said.
She was the managing attorney with Gulfcoast Legal Services, providing legal aid to people who were unable to afford lawyers.
But Mayor David N. Dinkins stopped the program shortly after taking office in 1990, fearing, he said, that the sanctioning of a needle-exchange program might encourage drug use and send the wrong message to young people.
The Duke millions also attracted cranks and photographers and ordinary curious people, and to avoid them Miss Duke lived a partly secluded life in her later years.
"It saves trouble," she once said, "and keeps people from paying more attention to me than to anyone else.
Visiting Agra, the Indian city that is the site of the Taj Mahal, the bride told a a questioner happily, "I'm a married woman now," and remarked that she did not like it when people called her "the world's richest girl" and "the tobacco queen.
I feel I'm doing something worthwhile, earning the right to be friends with a lot of swell, interesting people that I've somehow missed before.
Miss de Mille's childhood was spent partly in New York City, where her father wrote plays for the Broadway producer David Belasco, and partly in a summer colony called Merriewold in Sullivan County, N.Y. Miss de Mille described life at this vacation site for writers and theater people in her memoir "Where the Wings Grow," in which she recalled how, as a girl, she danced by herself in the woods and felt that she was destined to be an artist.
' She has selected some delightful young people to dance for her, and she has built her dances directly and most unorthodoxly upon them.
As a result, they emerge as people and not as automata -- warm and believable people made larger than life and more endearing by the formalized movement through which they project themselves.
As a result, they emerge as people and not as automata -- warm and believable people made larger than life and more endearing by the formalized movement through which they project themselves.
"Everywhere she went, people sought out Heather.
Two of her more popular books are "The People in Pineapple Place" and "The Prisoner of Pineapple Place," both written in Washington, where she was then living.

        Phyllis Van Buren Richard Gerrity, a philanthropist and sportswoman who was prominent in nonprofit institutions involving children and young people in the Albany area, died on Saturday at her home in Loudonville, outside Albany.
It became one of the early American traders doing business with the People's Republic of China.
"
        Miss Blake had a following of hundreds, if not thousands, of people who believed that listening to a live musician at 3 A.M. in a smoke-filled cafe was a major part of what living in Manhattan was all about.
The Songs She Felt
        Miss Blake once said of her style: "When you sing a song, you have to sort of act it, too, to put it over to the people.
