When the restaurant was sold in 1989, La Famille, which opened with seating for 40, had spread into three dining rooms, where 300 people could dine while listening to jazz bands that Mrs. Murray helped make a Sunday night fixture.
"
        Though Mrs. Smith seemed to many people a champion of women's rights, she said she did not regard herself as a feminist.
Mrs. Pittman is credited with putting a human face on the struggle for redress waged by the more than 1,000 people in Canada who contracted H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, through tainted blood and blood products.
"She made a difference in a lot of people's lives," said her lawyer, Ken Arenson.
The only people she wanted around her were those who felt for art the way she did.
"
        Speaking about the "rewards of a solitary life," she said, "Loneliness is most acutely felt with other people, for with others, even with a lover sometimes, we suffer from our differences -- differences of taste, temperament, mood.
Anger lights the fire when I see some people hanging their heads, allowing themselves to be persuaded that government cannot concern itself with the poor, the disabled, the old, the children.
We have got to warm ourselves back to the certainty that it is only when we lose the connection between ourselves and other people that we begin to freeze up into despair.
Loneliness is most acutely felt with other people, for with others, even with a lover sometimes, we suffer from our differences -- differences of taste, temperament, mood.
Her father was an early civil rights leader; in 1916 he formed the Lincoln League to register and organize voters, and in 1917 he founded Tennessee's first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
After much wheedling and cajoling by Mrs. Weinberger, her chopped liver caught on -- so much so, Mrs. Weinberger once recalled, that when she put up a sign, "Mrs. Weinberger's chopped liver with a smile," "People used to say, 'Keep the smile, just give me the liver.
Yes, most of them were sexually abused as children, but that can't be an excuse to go out and abuse other people.
When she was a child growing up on a ranch near Red Lodge, Mont., her father regularly gave her wild horses, knowing that by the time they got tired of trying to dislodge his tenacious daughter, they would be tame enough for regular people to ride.
The tiny, soft-spoken woman who gave her name to Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics liberated students, professionals and business people from the habits that shackled them to the average American's reading rate of 250 to 300 words a minute.
"So many people are dubious about trying my method because they think they're liable to miss a lot," Mrs. Wood said in an interview a quarter of a century ago.
"
        In years of research ignited by a professor who read her 80-page term paper at an astonishing rate while retaining its content, she found people from all walks of life who could read from 1,500 to 6,000 words a minute and sometimes more.
But it was clear that many people could be taught to read faster and more effectively.
"
        The answers led her to 53 people whose traits came to inform her teaching.
Her screen credits include "The Seventh Cross" (1944), "The Snake Pit" (1948) and "People Will Talk" (1951).
Nearing drew a parallel between the people who immigrated to New England in the 1700's and "the many young people of today who find no satisfactory way to exercise or develop their talents and interests in modern city or suburb.
Nearing drew a parallel between the people who immigrated to New England in the 1700's and "the many young people of today who find no satisfactory way to exercise or develop their talents and interests in modern city or suburb.
But they might miss the people who Ruth Simmons believes are the most important -- those responsible for her becoming the first black president of one of the country's most elite women's colleges.
"When she would do day's work, she would sometimes take me with her to white people's houses when I was a little girl.
She's extremely creative in terms of solving other people's problems.
She was on Monday through Friday from 2 to 6 A.M.
        Ms. Steele loved to work hours that most other people find good for sleeping.
"Lita Hazen was a wonderful patron of pure science, who enjoyed bright and unusual people who would say things that she wouldn't expect," said Dr. James Watson, the Nobel laureate who is director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
For years, most people at home saw Ms. Graves as "some sort of space alien,"  she said, what with her exotic notions of becoming an opera singer.
"This was not just a move for myself, but for my people, my family," the 30-year-old mezzo-soprano said.
"Carmen sings songs,  but these are set pieces involving other people," she said.
An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.
Before she joined the Newark law center she represented such organizations as the American Civil Liberties Union of New Jersey, the Urban League and the National  Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

        Pamela Ann Shaw, who used her battle with AIDS to warn young people about the risks of unprotected sex, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital.
She also worked as a volunteer with Friends Indeed, a New York organization for people with AIDS.
Georgia Neese was born in Richland, a rural community of about 200 people 15 miles southeast of Topeka, where her father, Albert, had founded the Richland State Bank in 1892.
More than 300 people showed up.
The medical center, which has served the people of Greenwich Village and Chelsea since 1849, is operated jointly by the New York congregation of the Sisters of Charity and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis once sent her a note praising "the bright path you cut through an age where so few people have grace and imagination and the virtues of another time.
"The French would say that a salon is like- minded people getting together to converse on literature, art, history and politics.
"
        Although Ms. McQueen's role as Prissy earned her fame, it also brought her criticism in later years from people who considered the role stereotypical and demeaning.
She was the recipient of several awards, including the Order of Distinction bestowed by the Prime Minister of Jamaica and two Image Awards from the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
They have never been published, her daughter-in-law said, partly because "people wanted gossip about Grace Kelly, but she wouldn't write that.
"I'm one of the most fortunate people in the world," she told an interviewer.
"I'm one of the most fortunate people in the world," she told an interviewer.
She later adapted it for people with AIDS in workshops at the Judson Memorial Church.
"
        Ms. Highsmith's tales often involved people whose lives intersect briefly and who become involved in apparently harmless games that lead to violence: a man who buys and furnishes a house for a woman happily married to another man, a loner in New York City who finds a man's wallet on the street and invades the man's life.
A review of her work in The London Times Literary Supplement in 1975 said that she used Ripley as a means to map the moral consciousness of the immoral, to portray people who obsessively examine their motives and morals but for whom there is always something basic missing.
In her 1975 short stories "The Animal-Lovers Book of Beastly Murder," the people were killed by animals.
"
        Ms. Highsmith's tales often involved people whose lives intersect briefly and who become involved in apparently harmless games that lead to violence: a man who buys and furnishes a house for a woman happily married to another man, a loner in New York City who finds a man's wallet on the street and invades the man's life.
A review of her work in The London Times Literary Supplement in 1975 said that she used Ripley as a means to map the moral consciousness of the immoral, to portray people who obsessively examine their motives and morals but for whom there is always something basic missing.
In her 1975 short stories "The Animal-Lovers Book of Beastly Murder," the people were killed by animals.
Hundreds of people who had congregated in the cold drizzle watched as she was rushed off in a police car, surrounded by officers.
She spent the last 25 years leading people young and old in the fight against age discrimination and other forms of what she saw as social injustice and stereotypical thinking and just two weeks ago she had joined striking transit workers on their picket line.
"
        Miss Kuhn, whose opposition to the war in Vietnam made her a hero to many young protesters, had a disarming argument in recruiting younger people to her cause: "Everyone of us is growing old.
Anna Kisselgoff, the chief dance critic of The New York Times, said yesterday: "Ginger Rogers was a better dancer than most people gave her credit for.
True, we were never bosom buddies off the screen; we were different people with different interests.
Looking back, she said, "We made happy pictures that people enjoyed seeing, not the kind the audiences have to go through trauma to see nowadays.
Beginning in 1917, Mrs. Foster was for 40 years the director of the Home Service Department of the Red Cross's Brooklyn chapter, finding help in times of need for the families of men and women in the armed forces and aid for people in distress after floods, storms, train wrecks and much smaller crises.
In 1991, Ms. Hermanson helped found the Jewish Healing Center in New York, an organization that provides spiritual assistance to people coping with serious illnesses.
