She founded the nonprofit center in 1971 to help people who could not otherwise afford such treatment, and remained its director until a few months ago.
Her daughter and successor, Dr. Kathy Fryer, estimated yesterday that the center had served more than 10,000 people and their families.
She soon had an opportunity to indulge her love of travel: Huxley, a grandson of the humanist Thomas Henry Huxley and a cousin of Aldous, the author, was appointed head of the Ceylon Tea Propaganda Board, a job that required him to travel around the world, encouraging people to drink tea.
'' In a review in The New York Times, Michiko Kakutani wrote, ''It makes us appreciate the peculiar mixture of courage, rashness, perseverance, idealism and opportunism that brought such a varied group of people to this beautiful, dangerous land.

        Marie Collins McGuire Thompson, who worked to improve the design of public housing for the elderly and low-income people as the Public Housing Administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died last Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md.
And a Dickens could even have contrived for her father's second wife to be the stepdaughter of Clarence Barron, the short, rotund powerhouse owner of The Wall Street Journal who encouraged his step-granddaughter to meet and study people of all walks of life, ''even gamblers and crooks,'' and who gave her what became her credo as a sometime journalist and spy: ''Facts are not the truth but only indicate where the truth may lie.
Up to 50 people got in as it swung perilously over the side.
She wanted, she said in a 1986 interview, to ''offer people the opportunity to take chances.
The assumption is that unless otherwise identified, people in general -- including doctors and beggars -- are men.
''Those were the people I met,'' she said.
''
        The Startling Remaking Of a Country Girl
        ''It's almost incredible to people I work with today,'' she said last year, ''to realize I was born in a world where a woman was totally controlled by men.
The amount of people that I read about that I've slept with that I've never slept with -- I mean it's extraordinary!
What annoys me, especially in this world where women are equal with men, why do they all take the same tack, that people didn't marry me?
Ms. Halsey's letters home complaining of the eccentricities of English people, their food and the drudgery of their life, caught the attention of her brother-in-law, who commissioned her to write what became ''With Malice Toward Some.
''Both of us are enormously and extremely opposed to the state killing people,'' Mr. Morris said yesterday.
So the next year, she convinced her employees to stay open on the holiday, and the people were in the store, not on the street.
''The fans -- people all over the world who regard me as a friend!
As she later put it, her life developed around both a desire ''to advance both art and action'' and an interest in people actively involved with either.
Concise and beautifully composed and lighted, they include some of the last images of Stieglitz and his gallery, as well as portraits of other people she was close to, among them Lewis Mumford, Theodore Dreiser, John Cage, Jawaharlal Nehru and his daughter, Indira Gandhi.
An intense yet restrained woman, Mrs. Norman was adept at mixing people and objects from different spheres.
As she later put it, her life developed around a desire ''to advance both art and action'' and an interest in people actively involved with either.
      
After setting up free legal clinics and discovering that poor people were often frustrated by their inability to collect small debts, she conceived the idea of a small claims court and lobbied hard until the first was signed into law by her old friend and suitor, Mayor La Guardia.
Preschoolers were taught by people in gold and black fake-fur bee costumes to Do-Bee a milk drinker and Don't-Bee a spoilsport.
The couple settled in Harlem, and Mrs. Petry held a variety of jobs, including writing advertising copy for The Amsterdam News and working as a reporter and editor of the women's pages of The People's Voice, a weekly started by Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
When The Crisis, a magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, paid her $20 for one of her stories, ''On Saturday, the Sirens at Noon,'' it came to the attention of an editor at Houghton-Mifflin and led to both a $2,500 literary award and a contract for what became ''The Street.
Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, the Maria Moors Cabot Professor of Biology emeritus at Harvard University, said the alterations that Dr. Sager achieved ''in the way people thought about extranuclear genetic material, that is, genes in the cell outside the nucleus,'' had proved to be highly significant.
Suddenly there were people I'd never seen, telling me I owed them something.
Listen, I've given my money away, where I thought it would help, but I don't want 'yes' people around me.
In Africa, as she once put it, ''I felt the lash on the backs of my people.
Out for an afternoon flight with her daughter and four other people, Mrs. Monroe's small propeller plane stalled on takeoff and plunged to the ground.
Although some people called for an investigation get to the bottom of the dispute, there appears little chance of that.
''There's a pattern here of someone who sees things that other people don't,'' Mr. Catterson said in an interview.
She won praise for her portrayal of a matriarchal Mississippi grandmother in Leslie Lee's 1990 play ''Ground People.
''She could spot very early people's genius and people's talent,'' Mr. Weil said.
''She could spot very early people's genius and people's talent,'' Mr. Weil said.
She was a great person to put together people as if she ran a salon in New York which combined the writers of post-World War II European literature with the needs of American publishers.
In the civil rights field, she was a founding member of the Congress of Racial Equality, an officer of the Chicago chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union.
In 1990, she went to London and reaffirmed a Bush Administration pledge that the United States would help to settle half of all new Vietnamese boat people -- refugees who fled their country by sea and mostly went to camps in the British crown colony of Hong Kong.
''Circus people didn't believe that a woman could take pratfalls, get slapped and kicked and be ridiculous,'' she recalled in 1977, arguing passionately that women could be acclaimed clowns.
''There are so many people with good ideas and good intentions.

        Elizabeth Jennings Howell, a fund-raiser and volunteer at such New York institutions as Goddard Riverside Community Center and International House, died on Monday at her home in Washington Crossing, Pa. She was 84 and a former resident of Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.
        Betsy Howell, as she was known, was a director of Goddard Riverside, a community center for people in need, for five decades.
During a remarkable life in which she formed enduring intimate relationships with George Gershwin, Randolph Churchill, W. Averell Harriman, Joseph P. Kennedy, Walter Lippmann, Buckminster Fuller and scores of other diverse figures, Miss Halle demonstrated such a flair for friendship and a knack for bringing people together that it is a wonder she found time for anything else.
A product of a fairy-tale union between a wealthy German-Jewish merchant and an Irish-Catholic working girl, Miss Halle, whose father was a founder of the old Halle Brothers department store in Cleveland, grew up in an ecumenical, intellectually charged atmosphere that left her without prejudice or pretension and with an eclectic range of interests, especially in people.
As a result, Miss Halle, who was an old friend of Franklin D. Roosevelt and campaigned for him in 1932, became one of the few people to be on intimate family terms with the two wartime leaders.

        Janet Good, a longtime civil rights worker who cooperated with Dr. Jack Kevorkian to help terminally ill people die, ended her own life yesterday in her home in suburban Detroit.
''Some of the best people had worked for The Times for years before Times Talk revealed that they were actually first-rate reporters,'' he wrote.
Her marriage to Prince Charles, heir to the British throne and 12 years her senior, on July 29, 1981, was one of those events that people remember as a timepost in their own lives, a moment of old fashioned romance and royal splendor seldom seen in this century.
Fifteen million people in Britain alone watched it on television.
A prominent theme in these articles was ''the vast international connections and kinships'' that she viewed as binding together people of different nationalities.
Not all these people remained her clients, but they generally continued to feel a great indebtedness.
Mr. McGovern said: ''I was calling key people in the campaign to decide what to do, and I can remember almost her exact words.
She said, 'It's painful for me to do anything that might hurt Senator Eagleton, but if his staying on the ticket endangers our election chances, that hurts all the millions of people we want to serve, so I think he should step down.

        Mary Weinberger, a lifelong advocate for the rights of people with muscular dystrophy, died on Sept. 8 at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 89 and had lived in Long Beach, N.Y.
        Mrs. Weinberger had been hospitalized since June, when a coronary infection was diagnosed, a niece, Susan Dick of West Long Branch, N.J., said.
She rallied for the rights of people with physical and mental disabilities to live in their own homes instead of  institutions.
''I became more interested in people than abstractions,'' she said.
For the living, Mother Teresa set up orphanages, schools in slums and Pure Heart Homes for sick and dying homeless people.
By 1988, her order was operating 600 mobile health clinics where almost four million people received treatment.
Aid and Tribute, But No Pity
        Mother Teresa often paid tribute to the stricken people she cared for.
''
        She said some people used to advise her that her order should have fans in some rooms used by its nuns.
Mother said there should be a place where people can die with dignity and know that they are wanted.
There was a home for abandoned children, a leper colony and an old people's home.
It was soon moved to the Bronx, where, on a visit to the United States in 1980, Mother Teresa helped open a soup kitchen and declared her thanks to the poor people of New York ''for allowing themselves to be taken care of'' by her order.
The exhibit's main feature was a 30-foot-wide, three-dimensional panorama depicting an ideal, two-square-mile community for 20,000 people with such then-modern features as pedestrian overpasses at main thoroughfares, and garden apartment houses and office buildings, both built low to give residents a feeling of country living.
''
        Ms. Dickerson often acknowledged over the years that her success came partly from knowing people.
The people on her ''A'' list who attended her parties included Ronald and Nancy Reagan, Averell and Pamela Harriman, Walter Annenberg, Senator Charles Percy of Illinois, Senator Mark Hatfield of Oregon, Edward Bennett Williams, Joseph Califano, Elliot Richardson and other prominent figures in administrations from John F. Kennedy's to Mr. Reagan's.
She was also responsible for developing what had been a house newsletter into Hadassah Magazine, and she assembled and arranged publication of the book, ''Great Ages and Ideas of the Jewish People.
For all her accomplishments, people seem to remember her as the woman next door.
She also helped many people obtain medical attention after generations of reliance solely on tradition.
''From my childhood,'' she said later, ''I have been aware of the problems of my tribe and have wanted to help make our people aware of them.
She conceded that the medicine makers performed much good work among the people, especially in family matters.
Serving during the Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, she sponsored measures to settle displaced people after World War II and refugees from Russia and Eastern Europe.
Dr. Weiner complemented his pioneering studies of their indigenous people by showing the importance of women in structures of authority and social relationships.
''There were people coming from all over the globe who were either cooking there or sharing food thoughts, and you saw this riot of tastes and flavors settle down into this kind of signature cuisines,'' said Joshua Wesson, the wine writer and merchant who was the sommelier at Huberts from 1983 to 1986.
''When I got the call 21 months ago from the doctor about Dawn's condition,'' said Mr. Roven, ''I was told that 97 percent of the people who had this die within the first six months.
She hired women as executives, women as producers and directors, women as marketing people.
Inc., she said, ''because when I said I was in the toilet-paper business, people would say, 'Oh Dawn!
Not a lot of people can do that.
At a party marking Mrs. Peterson's 90th birthday last year, Lynda Johnson Robb recalled the help that her father, President Johnson, got from Mrs. Peterson, and said, ''She had a velvet hammer and talked people into doing what was right, even if we didn't know it at the time.
Mrs. Peterson later was hired by the National Association of Professional Insurance Agents as its consumer adviser, concerning herself particularly with the problems of older people, and she continued to keep a foot in both camps, serving on the board of Consumers Union.
The rally, attended by thousands of people, helped defuse what might have been a tense situation in the state.
