She became part of the company of Walter Hampton, a prominent Shakespearean actor, and also had a small part in the Broadway production of ''Cynara,'' which opened in 1931, before her father strongly discouraged her from acting because she might be taking jobs from poor people.
The vaccine was tested among millions of people in what was then the Soviet Union.
''Other people saw it and said, 'I ought to have one of those.
People pay $35 to join and a $15 annual fee.
People were not writing that way.

        Florence Tyson, an early practitioner of creative arts therapy who for many years led a clinic for emotionally troubled people in Manhattan, died on Jan. 18 at her home on the Upper East Side.
To buttress her belief in it, she liked to quote Friedrich von Schiller, the poet and dramatist, about art ''bringing people to their senses.
Sideshows in the middle years of the last century were popular, and by far their best-paid performers were people with intriguing deformities.
But Miss Pushnik also personified what Dick Zigun, the impresario of the sideshow tribute Coney Island U.S.A., calls ''the hot-button issue of sideshows,'' the showcasing of people with physical abnormalities.
Mr. Zigun's show at Coney Island features what are known as working acts, meaning normal-seeming people who have learned to do freakish things.
''To have a politically correct society where people would be hidden away, living on welfare?
''
        Robert Bogdan, a sociologist at Syracuse University who wrote the 1998 book ''Freak Show: Presenting Human Oddities for Amusement and Profit,'' said that Miss Pushnik came along during the transition between the old it's-all-right-to-stare attitude and a newer view that people with deformities should be looked at, if at all, as medical case studies.
In 1944, when the Big Top caught fire in Hartford, killing 167 people, a performer in the circus's minstrel show rushed on stage, grabbed her chair and carried her to safety.
' And she said, 'I can't play, because people are dying when I'm not working.
Besides killing more than 490 people, the blaze left others with permanent brain damage.
People from business and publishing and advertising and popular culture may have been starting to mix in society late in her career, but they never made it into ''Jennifer's Diary,'' where the exclusivity of prewar family background was remorselessly maintained.
She was wary of people who paraded by too often in search of a mention, and she made sure they did not receive one.
The authors used a question-and-answer format to deal with things people might be shy about asking their doctor, like whether the fetus is aware that the parents are having sex.
)
        Mrs. Eisenberg said the book responded to a fragmented society in which people often live far from relatives who could reassure them about pregnancy.
Many of the stores were clustered within blocks of each other on Broadway, a reflection of a time before supermarkets when people walked to bakeries for their daily loaves.
Hundred forty-six people in a half an hour.
But they thought they were better than the working people.
''Well, certain people who had no knowledge of blacks have maybe -- maybe -- learned something because of 'Mannix's' Peggy Fair,'' she said in a 1972 interview.
''Blacks were pretty much alien objects on TV as recently as 10 years ago, you know, and now we're people.
''We are acutely aware of how devastating this news will be to millions of people,'' Ms. Letheren said at the time.
''Because of the injustices and contradictions nothing made much sense'' in the camps, she wrote in 1983, but in them she had the opportunity ''to see what happens to people when reduced to one status and condition.
''
        The sisters received 54 replies from people as desperate as they were.
A frequent tactic, she told CNN in 1995, was to lobby people who had relatives or acquaintances with the disease.
The disease still affects 1 in 1,000 people in the United States.
Both had a fear of crowds and nothing, even Lindbergh's 1927 landing in Paris, had prepared them for the carnival of reporters, photographers, con artists, curiosity-seekers, vandals and  crazy people who had invaded their lives after their baby was kidnapped.
the church steeple, and cut across the dull satin water of the lake to the little group of people on shore.

        Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Ms. Roth, a television producer, contracted multiple sclerosis 30 years ago and died of complications of the disease, her husband, Michael Tompane, said.
For her book, ''Easy Access to National Parks: The Sierra Club Guide for People With Disabilities'' (Sierra Club, 1992), Ms. Roth and her husband drove 32,000 miles and visited 41 states to examine 37 national parks, as well as national historical parks, national monuments and national parkways.
The book offered practical advice to make visiting the parks as pleasant as possible for disabled people -- advice that Ms. Roth and Mr. Tompane pointed out was also relevant to older people and for parents visiting with children.
The book offered practical advice to make visiting the parks as pleasant as possible for disabled people -- advice that Ms. Roth and Mr. Tompane pointed out was also relevant to older people and for parents visiting with children.
In their travels, the couple found that some of the most popular national parks, including the Great Smoky Mountains National Park in Tennessee and the Grand Canyon, had limited access for disabled people, while some they had imagined would not be particularly accessible, like Big Bend National Park in Texas, could accommodate the disabled.
She was the author, with Rachel Bernstein, of ''Ordinary People, Extraordinary Lives'' (New York University Press, 2000), a book of photographs and oral histories of working New Yorkers that grew out of an exhibition of the same name at the Museum of the City of New York.
At her death, Dr. Bernhardt was at work on Labor Arts, a Web site devoted to the art and artifacts of working people, scheduled to make its debut in May.
She described her work as ''documenting the undocumented,'' a phrase that neatly encapsulated the particular challenge of public history: how to chronicle the lives of people not in the habit of generating collections of personal papers, boxed and ready for posterity.
But what these people did have was stuff -- leaflets, lapel buttons, picket signs and photographs -- and part of Dr. Bernhardt's job was to persuade them that each of these dusty artifacts was a window on a bygone union election, organizing drive or strike; she would acquire many of them for the Tamiment Library, a research collection devoted to radical movements in the United States from the Civil War onward, as well as for the Wagner Archives, dedicated to labor studies.
''No one realizes that the eight-hour day was won by working people on these streets, in this park,'' Dr. Bernhardt told The New York Times in 1998, as she sat in Union Square, once ringed by union halls and threadbare left-wing publishers and now by upscale restaurants and chain retailers.
''We wanted to celebrate the fact that ordinary people were able to express their rights to free speech and assembly on this spot.
Mr. Pike, who went to South Vietnam in 1960 as a Foreign Service officer, said Dr. Hammer wrote one of the few books that people arriving in that era found valuable: ''The Struggle for Indochina'' (1954), which examined the struggle for freedom from France.
According to the Web site of the National Museum of American History (www.americanhistory.si.edu), Santa Clarans use the same word for clay and for people: nung.
''
        When she was cast in the mime role of Giselle's mother in 1944, Mr. Martin wrote, ''Who should turn up but Maria Karnilova, of all people, playing delightfully and obviously having the time of her life.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.
''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians.
The most common type she called drifters, people who willingly changed their beliefs because they lacked adequate knowledge of the arguments pro or con.
Another category she characterized as people who had definite and unpopular beliefs that they kept to themselves for fear of the consequences of speaking out.
For Dr. Jahoda the project demonstrated that work met a basic need for most people, giving them personal worth, social coherence and structured time.
All my feel was for the music and the people who played things you wanted to hear.
'' Yet people who aren't even enthralled with her music respond to her rawness and passion, her intellectual curiosity.
''I don't necessarily foresee myself being able to permeate our present culture, but if I keep doing my work, it will be there for people who seek it and need it.
We like people to get greedy, because greedy people make mistakes.
We like people to get greedy, because greedy people make mistakes.
''They had shifts, there was a set scale of who got paid what whenever you were a lookout, whether you were an actual dealer that handed drugs to people, whether you were a runner, whether you were a cooker,'' she said in the New York interview.
Four years ago, Modjadji said no one any longer asked her to make rain; young people, she complained, had lost touch with religion.
From 1949, when they began tickling television audiences in the ''Admiral Broadway Revue,'' the forerunner of ''Your Show of Shows,'' to 1954, when they split up, Ms. Coca and Mr. Caesar were one of television's most hilarious and successful combinations, reaching peak audiences of more than 25 million people that swamped the competition.
But her favorite people were gardeners.
Louise Mayer Blumenthal, who was born in New York and educated at Miss Jacobi's, a private school, founded and directed the Yorkville Neighborhood Club, a recreation center for older people.
She founded and directed the Yorkville Neighborhood Club, a recreation center for older people.
As part of her daily routine, she stood in the main lobby greeting people by name.
''
        The Saturday markets for Indian crafts eventually became a daily event, and today they draw more than two million people a year, spending millions on pottery, jewelry and other items made by Indians.
She noticed that many people felt good about paying higher prices for Indian arts.
'The Tail to His Kite'
        Washington, in 1939, was full of young people converging on the capital to work for The New Deal.
''And you are free -- or freer -- to turn down the things that bore you and spend time on matters and with people you enjoy.
The company is listed on the Frankfurt stock exchange, employs 1,000 people and runs strings of boutiques and cinemas, a mail-order house and a film studio.
''In the early days,'' said her son, Richard L. Gelb, ''the way you got people to look with favor on hair color was through the beauty salons.
''It had been startling and disappointing to me to find out that storybooks had been written by people, that books were not natural wonders, coming up of themselves like grass,'' she wrote.
She was troubled and fascinated by the people she saw and took hundreds of snapshots with a cheap camera, developing her prints in her kitchen at night.
In my own case, a fuller awareness of what I needed to find out about people and their lives had to be sought for through another way, through writing stories.
I knew this, anyway: that my wish, indeed my continuing passion, would be not to point the finger in judgment but to part a curtain, that invisible shadow that falls between people, the veil of indifference to each other's presence, each other's wonder, each other's human plight.
The yellow cat was waiting to go in with us, the door handle was as hot as the hand, and on the step, getting under the feet of two people who went in together, the Mason jars with the busy cuttings in water -- ''Watch out for Mama's!
We grew up in the fact that we live here with people about whom we know almost everything that can be known as a citizen of the same neighborhood or town.
We know what the place has made of these people, what they've made of the place through generations.
There had been so many stories about such a character in the stock manner, written by people who didn't know the South, so I wrote about the murderer intimately -- in the first person, which was a very daring thing for me to do.

        Dr. Bernice L. Neugarten, an authority on aging who identified a growing trend among older people to pursue more active lives and introduced the concept of the young-old and the old-old, died on July 22 at her home in Chicago.
Arguing against such ideas, she pointed to a steadily declining retirement age and explained that people 55 and older were quitting work, once they were financially secure, to seek more healthful and more active lives.
A new generation of older people, whom she called the young-old, could be distinguished from the middle-aged primarily by retirement and from the old-old by vigor and social involvement, she wrote.
''
        Dr. Neugarten's work showed that instead of retiring and stagnating, older people had become more likely to move from the suburbs back to the city in search of opportunities, self-enhancement and more education.
Older people should not be seen as the expendables of society but instead as the social contributors as well as the self-fulfilled, she wrote in The Times.
''
        In her later work, she wrote of an increasing antagonism toward older people for occupying ''a growing number of power positions,'' and she urged fellow social scientists to explore ways to avoid such resentment.
Then the university asked her to teach a course on aging -- one of the first at the university level -- and to work on a study of middle-aged and older people in the Midwest.
The many honors she received include the Hans Christian Andersen Medal from the International Board on Books for Young People in 1966 for her contribution to children's literature.
      
She also wrote an autobiographical trilogy and biographies of some strong-willed people.
Portman in turn declared, ''I don't go bashing people in the face,'' but Ms. Stanley was gone for good.
'' She and Mr. Lewis shared a love, she said, ''for clowns and crazy people.
'' He cited the book's example of a pit bull named Belle, who, he wrote, was ''capable of sizing people up 'not as bite prospects, but as problems in moral philosophy and metaphysics.
In an opinion article for The Times, she noted that an untrained eye could not always make the distinction between a pit bull and related breeds and, further, that, despite myths about lethal double jaws, pit bulls bit people less often and less seriously than many other common pets like Labrador retrievers and cocker spaniels.
''It gave me time to find my identity apart from my skiing so that when I came back to skiing it was something I wanted to do for me and not because I needed that image from other people,'' she said.
''You think about women,'' she said, ''and people used to pat us on the back and say: 'Isn't that sweet?
People treat us with dignity.
Like when people introduce you as courageous.
After being invited in her early 20's by Nelson Rockefeller to be a member of the museum's fledgling Junior Advisory Committee, she soon began to seek out and enlist energetic young people, many of whom were to be part of a new generation of informed and active supporters of the museum.
'' She noted that people who accused her of exploiting family ties ''forget I was a Republican before the president was.
That's in the hands of certain people on the senior staff, who have never really accepted that there is a political power of women and that has to be addressed.
''The readiness to challenge and then contradict official wisdom was supposed to be an American tradition,'' she wrote, ''but that kind of autonomy was rare in the 1950's, and I was fortunate to come of age among people who took their independence for granted.
''
        Reviewing ''Previous Convictions,'' David Caute, a historian of anti-Communism, described Ms. Sayre as ''an essayist whose light touch masks the formidable weight of her judgments'' and whose ''natural province is not so much history as people's consciousness.
People in other cities began turning to Ms. Cincotta and her colleagues for advice, and she became head of National People's Action, a network of 30 groups from 110 cities.
People in other cities began turning to Ms. Cincotta and her colleagues for advice, and she became head of National People's Action, a network of 30 groups from 110 cities.
National People's Action combined with other neighborhood groups to persuade three large Chicago banks to commit themselves to making $173 million in low-interest loans for housing and industrial development in poor neighborhoods.
She later described the repeated shuffle she performed in this solo as ''the effort that just living might seem to mean to black people.
Herpes takes many forms, infecting large numbers of people but often causing no discernible health problems.
Even if herpes is definitively established as a factor in heart disease, experts say, it would not mean that cholesterol levels play no role or that people should stop paying attention to their diets.
Upon receiving that award, Mrs. Wheeler said: ''It is rare that two people have so fully enjoyed a career in a profession and a hobby in a sport such as Kenny and I have been privileged to.
Although I've been told I have influenced some people to become directors.

        Doris Howes Calloway, a nutritionist whose studies helped set standards for the dietary needs of people, died Aug. 31 at a nursing home in Seattle.
Ms. Perkins was educated in Switzerland, France and Italy, traveled widely and was introduced to the famous people in her mother's and grandmother's social world.
Ms. Raines sometimes was at odds with people who complained that drug prices were too high.
''Ninety percent of the time we were on the opposite sides, but you had to have the utmost respect for her,'' said Abbey Meyers, president of the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an advocacy group for people with rare diseases.
she said, she felt sorry for all those people''who had to pay and didn't have enough to eat.
''  In 1999 she appeared in ''Beautiful People,'' a film about Bosnian immigrants in London.
Mrs. Ash boned and cooked chicken for 200 people, made the jalapeno dressing and Jell-O salad herself and served it all on paper plates.
Mrs. Ash boned and cooked chicken for 200 people, made the jalapeno dressing and Jell-O salad herself and served it all on paper plates.
His wife, who as co-director of the division directed five separate laboratories, studied how people changed physiologically and behaviorally when under the influence of drugs.
She documented the opulence of the 1980's and ushered in the next decade by photographing the trendiest clothes on people in their 90's.
She and Bill Blass, a frequent escort, fell out in 1993 when Ms. Donovan excluded him from a published list of 50 people who had influenced fashion in modern times.
Mrs. Rawson conducted one of the longest-running studies of people with neurological language problems, tracking the lives of 56 children from the school for more than 50 years.
Later she enjoyed visits from the ghosts of other celebrated people, including Shakespeare, Van Gogh and St. Paul.
''I've always had the ability, ever since I can remember, to see and hear people who are thought of as dead,'' she said in an interview with Newsweek.
She was supported by contributions from people who believed in the occult.
She suggested putting the ''s'' in italics to make people think.
''Betty had an amazing logical mind, and she solved more problems in her sleep than other people did awake,'' recalled Jean J. Bartik, another of the Eniac programmers.
Many people agreed with her.
Ms. Hubley once said that the central thread that runs through her impressionistic, dreamlike and often whimsical films is ''human development, with a strong emphasis on the importance of children as people and on the environment people live in.
Ms. Hubley once said that the central thread that runs through her impressionistic, dreamlike and often whimsical films is ''human development, with a strong emphasis on the importance of children as people and on the environment people live in.
Their third, in 1966, was for the buoyant ''Herb Alpert and the Tijuana Brass Double Feature,'' in which the band plays on as more and more people crowd into its automobile.
