''
        Mrs. Sheean, whose nickname was Dinah, wrote several books, including ''The Battle of Waterloo Road'' (1941), illustrated by Robert Capa's photographs, about the people in Britain during the war; ''War Letters From Britain'' (1941), edited with Roger W. Straus Jr.; ''A Cat and a King'' (1949), a novel about the theater, and ''My Aunt Maxine'' (1964), a biography of her aunt, Maxine Elliott, the American actress.
She later was dismissed from a teaching job in Charleston for being a member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
''I love people, to a certain extent,'' she told Newsweek in 1969.
She was an advocate for poor people, education, the environment, and arms reduction.
She also worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to end discrimination in employment and housing.
She was an advocate for poor people, education, the environment and arms reduction.
She also worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to end job and housing discrimination.
In 1921 she married her first cousin, a Rhodes scholar and lawyer who founded the People's National Party in Jamaica and helped lead his country to political independence in 1962.
However, she praised it for honestly depicting her life story and for bringing joy and hope to millions of people.
But so many people write about how much the film has helped them in restoring their confidence in God.
However, she praised it for honestly depicting her life story and for bringing joy and hope to millions of people.
But so many people write about how much the film has helped them in restoring their confidence in God.
On any important legislation, such as women's rights or education or dealing with minorities or poor people, she could switch people's votes on the floor through the power of her intellect and her ability to persuade.
On any important legislation, such as women's rights or education or dealing with minorities or poor people, she could switch people's votes on the floor through the power of her intellect and her ability to persuade.
People listened because when Edith Green spoke, she spoke from the heart as well as the mind.
And I use familiar themes because it's an easy way to communicate with people.
Chance founded the Edwards, Owens Employment Agency, which specialized in finding jobs for people from the Caribbean.
Dedicated to Mr. Jackson, the center continues to serve young people through the efforts of senior citizens.
'' The Telling Moment
        At a cocktail party held by Leonard Bernstein for the Black Panthers in 1970, when a Panther field marshal stridently outlined his tenets before a small group that included Mr. Bernstein, principal conductor of the New York Philharmonic, Miss Curtis caught the telling moment:
        '' 'If business won't give us full employment, then we must take the means of production and put them in the hands of the people.
That's always what seems cruelest of all, to hold up a mirror to people that way.
While the controversial strip scene dazzled tens of thousands of young males, it upset more conservative people across the nation.
''A lot of people say I always play neurotic women,'' she said.
She was one of the first Japanese journalists to tackle the topic of cancer, and shocked some people with her forthright descriptions of how the disease had affected her life.
She wrote 10 books, including ''The Land and People of Central America'' (1965), ''Brazil Today: A Case History of Economic Development'' (1972) and ''Kingdom of the Sun'' (1975).
They learned sign language from deaf people at the society.
Humble Origins
        Mrs. Nash worked for many years as an interpreter for deaf people at religious services on Ellis Island as well as for deaf patients in state mental hospitals and psychiatrists' offices.
Under her stewardship, the society provided a social setting for deaf people and helped them in such practical matters as finding jobs.
She lived in a world of people who came to sit at her feet -and stand at the barre but be imaginative.
She also held posts in other civic and political organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; the National Democratic Committee; the Salvation Army Advisory Committee, and St. Mary's Hospital.

       Dorothy Ryan, who was one of the victims of her son in the nation's worst mass murder, was buried today after a simple funeral attended by about 50 people.
Dorothy Ryan, who was one of the victims of her son in the nation's worst mass murder, was buried today after a simple funeral attended by about 50 people.
Mr. Ryan, who shot himself after killing 16 people in his hometown on Aug. 19, will be buried separately and not in Hungerford.
She was president of the Queens branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in the late 1950's and early 1960's.
In ing the ordeal, Mrs. Hodges ripped up her undergarments so she could give people damp cloths to put over the face to filter the smoke.
Soon after the trial, throngs of people hailed her courage when she toured with screenings of ''Dodsworth.
''
        In ''A Life on Film,'' Miss Astor deplored a ''poverty of spirit'' in many contemporary movies, writing that ''whatever we did - we old moviemakers - we gave people a lot of fun.
She was a member of the National Council of Negro Women, the National Organization for Women, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and the American Civil Liberties Union.
''I had the privilege of working as a dancer and assistant with what I call the masters, people like Jerome Robbins, Danny Daniels, Don Saddler, Jack Cole.
'' Her disputes with neighbors and local officials over the animals ended when local people pitched in to help her clean up the property.
      
More than 40,000 people attended.
