Her father, Dr. John E. T. Camper, a physician in Baltimore, was a founder of the first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in that city, where she was born and reared.Regular visitors to the home included Thurgood Marshall, who was to become the first black Justice of the United States Supreme Court, and the singer Paul Robeson, who was her godfather.
Mrs. Frum was 6 years old when she and her family fled to a hilltop and watched a wall of water roar through Johnstown on May 31, 1889, killing 2,209 people.
She was a member of the Central Jersey Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
An advocate of textbooks reflecting the contributions of women and minorities, she was the producer of a video directed toward people of Hispanic descent, "Breaking Through -- Portraits of Winners.
But, Miss Hayes said, there was Miss Martin "looking at me with a sort of half-smile, and she said, 'For some people, they
        sing.
Other people smiled, and she smiled back, Ms. Henderson recalled, adding that "she was
        carrying
        the walker.
"
        She described Miss Martin as "truly the purest soul that I have ever known," adding, "She was so generous; she always let people into her circle of light.
Between marriages, while she was at the Parsons School, she became close to two people who taught there: the antiques expert William Odom, who first taught her to appreciate fine French furniture and was known as her silent partner, and the designer Grace Fakes whose flair for architectural detail was to account for much of Mrs. Brown's reputation.
Literature on Tape
        In 1961 she founded Choice Magazine Listening in Port Washington for people who are unable to read regular print.
Mrs. Louchheim was also a poet, and the Louchheims' house in Georgetown soon became a meeting place for people in politics and the arts.
In World War II she served in the Office of Foreign Relief and Rehabilitation and helped form its United Nations counterpart, the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Administration, for which she went to Europe in 1945 to arrange press relations at camps for displaced people.
The daughter of a Manhattan stockbroker, she grew up in Republican surroundings; when she moved to Washington in Roosevelt's first term she was a prime example of what people called "a traitor to one's class.
I favor people who are fighting for things.
But there are magnificent people there, so much good will, so many whites and blacks who are determined to change the situation.
Among the productions she worked on were the mini-series "Hemingway"; the NBC television movie "The Great Wallendas"; a young people's series for CBS, "Henry Winkler Meets William Shakespeare," and "Secret of Charles Dickens.
The Associated Press reported that Louis Martins, a friend of Dame Margot, said she did not want people to know she had cancer.
In "Apparitions" (1936) she was an artist's unattainable vision, while in "Nocturne" (1936) she portrayed a poor flower seller wistfully watching rich people at a ball.
She appeared on Broadway in "The Shop at Sly Corner," a 1949 thriller starring Boris Karloff, and in "The Gray-Eyed People," a 1952 comedy with Walter Matthau.
Their books included "City People's Guide to Country Living" (Macmillan, 1973), "Vacation Houses" (Dial, 1973) and "Your Barn House," to be published this spring by Henry Holt & Company.
Casita Maria was founded in 1934 by Mrs. O'Keeffe and her sister Elizabeth as the first settlement in New York City for Hispanic people.
During the Depression, she focused on depicting the lives of working people.
Study of Islanders
        The result of her 18-month inquiry was "The People of Alor," a social and psychological study published in 1944 that won acclaim for its thoroughness and lucidity.
People in the fashion industry described her as "a dynamo" and "a woman of simple dignity and pride.
In 1976, Mrs. Taylor said, "I think we'll be a great success, because we have a superb collection and people are becoming more and more aware of how design relates to the quality of life.
In 1976, Mrs. Taylor said, "I think we'll be a great success, because we have a superb collection and people are becoming more and more aware of how design relates to the quality of life.
People were poor in money, but no one felt poor otherwise.
Its purpose was to help bring people together through the arts.
Although her busts of people received praise, she won the most recognition for animal sculptures.
But with Ms. Bozzo's encouragement, local organizations used the show as an opportunity to raise money and educate people about hunger.
She had a weekly radio show on WOR and analyzed the handwriting of thousands of people.
She developed an injection to prevent the sometimes fatal allergic reaction of people susceptible to shock from bee and wasp stings.
With uncommon ease she worked closely with new generations of theater people and in later years played Shakespearean matrons and roles created by Edward Albee, Marguerite Duras, Harold Pinter and Beckett.
Her research included the psychology of people of superior intellect, alcoholism and its effect on creative artists and creativity in scientists.
"Miss Le G.," as generations of theater people called her, came closer than any other person to endowing the United States with a permanent company performing repertory in the manner of the Old Vic, the Comedie Francaise and the Moscow Art Theater.
Few people have been so hated in modern Chinese history, and after her fall she became a symbol of the excesses and brutality of the Cultural Revolution.
Those are precisely the complaints that young people have about some of today's leaders.
Mao kept that bargain for decades, even after the Communist victory of 1949 established him as the leader of the People's Republic of China.
As a novelist, Ms. Vogan was best known for her portrayal of troubled people and their relationships.
Her characters ranged from Vietnam War veterans to people with AIDS.
Starting with 20 cows milked by hand, the business grew to employ 350 people and include a fleet of 300 trucks, processing more than a million gallons of milk a week and selling the milk and other dairy products and juices to supermarkets and small stores from Maine to Virginia.
On another occasion she said: "People tell me that I have a special quality in films, but if I do I take no intellectual credit for it.
One of her best-known projects involved studying the literacy of the Vai people of western Liberia, who invented an original writing system.
Wherever she went, Irina Nijinska amazed people with her inexhaustible vitality.
But more importantly, she cared deeply about the world, the nation, this city and its people.
In 1990, she won praise for her portrayal of a blues singer in "Ground People," an Off Broadway play about a black minstrel troupe in the 1920's.
"
        The writer Arthur Sainer, in the book "Contemporary Dramatists," described Ms. Bovasso as "a kind of mad mathematician, marshalling people and events into lunatic propositions and hallucinatory equations.
When she learned she was infected with AIDS, she became an advocate for better medical and social treatment of people with the AIDS virus.
Ms. Mason founded Kentuckiana People With AIDS Coalition, the first Kentucky-based advocacy organization for those stricken with AIDS.
'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
"When people talk to me now, they see the disease first.
Nor, she wrote, did she want people with AIDS to be barred from entering the United States.
"Mr. President, doctors don't give people AIDS -- they care for people with it," she wrote.
"Mr. President, doctors don't give people AIDS -- they care for people with it," she wrote.
"The blanket screening of health-care workers will create the false illusion that people with AIDS are a threat to others.
"
        The academy also added that "her continual involvement on behalf of literature and free speech in a police state where censorship and persecution of books and people exist have made her 'the doyenne of South African letters.
Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu, who was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1985, said he was "over the moon" about the award to Miss Gordimer: "She's an outstanding artist, has a way with words but more than anything else she has had this tremendous commitment and caring about people, caring about justice.
Ambiguity of a Title
        The decisive part of her work, for the Swedish Academy, was her novels, particularly "July's People," published in 1981.
"The ambiguity of the novel's title quickly etches itself -- July's people are the white family he still serves but also the members of his tribe," the academy's literary critique said.
More than 20 years later, it banned "Burger's Daughter," a novel described by the academy today as one of her masterpieces, along with "The Conservationist" and "July's People.
In a preface to the book, Miss Ginzburg wrote: "Possibly some people may not be pleased to find themselves described in the book under their own names.
"When you are the youngest in the family, people are always telling you to hurry up, to get to the point, say what you mean.
She once conceded that her columns were sometimes "silly" and that the people she wrote about were sometimes "shallow.
Remarking on Ms. Lilly's skills in meeting rich people, Ms. Adams wrote that "when the rest of us were in camel's hair," Ms. Lilly received a prized sable coat from a male admirer "who was a little bit married.
Even in her youth as a contract actress for Cecil B. DeMille, she had an eye for up and coming people.

        More than 2,000 people, including Prince Edward and many of Britain's best-known theatrical figures, attended a memorial service today at Westminster Abbey in honor of Dame Peggy Ashcroft, who died in June at age 83.
In February 1977, a decade after the arrest, Ms. Moorman and Mr. Paik staged a re-creation of their original presentation, called "The People of the State of New York Against Charlotte Moorman.
'Changed People's Attitudes'
        "Mastering the Art of French Cooking," a two-volume set published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1961 and 1970, was a seminal work in the development of cooking in the United States.
"The book changed people's attitudes totally, toward cooking as a real worthwhile pursuit," said Nach Waxman, owner of Kitchen Arts and Letters, a culinary bookshop in New York.
'Born a Democrat'
        "I was born a Democrat," she said before the 1976 convention, "like most people were born into religion.
Occasionally she included people in the pictures, but her primary emphasis was on the physical structure of the city.
