In the 1930's, Miss Trout was a flying instructor and commercial photographer.
In working on advertising for Ralph Lauren, Mrs. Tarlow often collaborated with Bruce Weber, the prominent photographer who shot many of the images used in Mr. Lauren's ads.
''This is the end of the golden age,'' said Brian Lantelme, a photographer who has covered the balls.
She also worked as a professional photographer and editor, and she appeared in lead roles in movies with Cary Grant and Gary Cooper.
Richard Avedon, the photographer, called her ''my most challenging and complicated of muses.
''Suzy Parker didn't stop talking when I first tried to take her picture,'' Horst, the photographer, said.
In the mid-1950's she temporarily abandoned being a cover girl for several years to be a photographer herself, apprenticing with Henri Cartier-Bresson in Paris and working for the French edition of Vogue.
Written by Leonard Gershe and directed by Stanley Donen, the 1957 film depicted a high-fashion photographer not unlike Mr. Avedon, played by Fred Astaire.
Mr. Rogovin, an optometrist, lost his practice and became a nationally known documentary photographer; Mrs. Rogovin, refusing to sign the mandatory loyalty declaration, was unemployable in the Buffalo school system.

        Gertrude Samuels, a writer and photographer whose 50-year career took her from the displaced-persons camps of postwar Europe to the blight of drug addiction in America's cities, died Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side.
Beginning in the wartime 1940's, she worked as a writer, photographer and editor on the staff of The New York Times Magazine.

        Rollie McKenna, a photographer best known for her portraits of Dylan Thomas and other lions of English literature, died on June 14 in Northampton, Mass.
She also published ''Portrait of Dylan: A Photographer's Memoir'' (1982).
She also took pictures of scenes in the American South and West and set up shop in New York as a commercial photographer.
Two years later, she met Paul Hesse, a professional photographer whose work appeared regularly in The American Magazine.
When Mr. McCrary returned from the war after service as a photographer and public relations officer for the Army Air Corps, he courted Miss Falkenburg and they were married in June 1945.
Then, in the late 1960's, perhaps out of frustration, she reinvented herself as a photographer and, within a decade, she had made her name in a new visual art form.
Her first Sudan book, ''Last of the Nuba,'' published in the United States in 1974, won her recognition as a photographer and to some extent rehabilitated her as an artist.
Dahl-Wolfe often requested Mrs. Russell, according to Irving Solero, the photographer of the museum of the Fashion Institute of Technology, which houses Dahl-Wolfe's color archive.
