Ms. Cashin was born on Sept. 28, 1915, in Oakland, Calif., the daughter of Carl Cashin, a photographer and inventor, and Eunice Cashin.

        Jean Howard, who rode the comet of her extraordinary beauty, ethereal glamour and insouciant intelligence to become a Ziegfeld girl, a Hollywood starlet, a legendary hostess and the house photographer of the film colony, died at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif., on Monday.
She became acquainted with a local photographer, who had discovered several child stars, including Ginger Rogers, and believed she had a bright future.
So she changed her last name to that of the photographer, Mahoney, even though her father continued to foot the bills for her fashion shows and beauty contests.

        Gisele Freund, the German-born photographer who was best known for her portraits of France's literary elite and was a founding member of Magnum Photo Agency, died today in Paris.
The name was changed in 1966 to Trahey/Wolf after she formed a partnership with Henry Wolf, the photographer and art director.
Mrs. Wilcox, known as Libby, was a professional photographer known  for her medical photographs, but her work at the hospital, in the Washington Heights section of Manhattan, was done as a volunteer; her husband, Dr. Herbert B. Wilcox Jr., was long affiliated with the center.
She also worked as a freelance photographer for national magazines like Time and Newsweek.
She said Mrs. Wilcox ''was a very perceptive photographer and, through photography, drew out the essence of a situation or of a person.
After Peggy Jo Kienast gave birth to quintuplets in 1970, Mrs. Wilcox was the only photographer permitted to take official pictures of them at the medical center.

        Judy Angelo Cowen, a photographer who specialized in portraits of children, died on Tuesday in Manhattan.

        Constance Stuart Larrabee, a photographer who recorded the vanishing tribes of southern Africa, the World War II battlefields of Europe and her life on Maryland's tranquil Eastern Shore, died on July 27 at her home in Chestertown, Md.
Her exhibitions drew national attention and led to her appointment as a war photographer.
She showed artists she knew from her school days in Boston, including the painter George Condo, the installation artist Jack Pierson and the photographer Mark Morrisroe, and fostered the careers of such older artists as the painter Mary Heilmann, the video artist Joan Jonas and the Conceptualist Lutz Bacher.
She also appeared on ''Mystery Hall,'' ''Casey, Crime Photographer'' and ''Suspense.
'' Her close friends included the photographer Cartier-Bresson, as well as the expatriate American painter Shirley Jaffe.

        Sonja Bullaty, a photographer noted for lyrical composition and startling use of color and light in a vast body of work created during a five-decade collaboration with her husband, Angelo Lomeo, died on Oct. 5 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Eventually, she sought out the well-known Czech photographer Josef Sudek and over time became what he called his ''apprentice-martyr,'' mixing chemicals for the darkroom, filing negatives and absorbing the unwritten rules of composition as she watched him print his dark, moody, almost abstract works.
''Every great photographer wanted to work with her.
George Hurrell, a distinguished fashion photographer, called her one of the three most beautiful women he ever photographed.
Mrs. Stark honed her sense of fashion in the college shop at Lord & Taylor and as a fashion photographer for the B. Altman department store in New York.
