
        Inge Morath, a photographer who brought a whimsical, lyrical touch to her images from travelogues to reportage to portraits, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan.
In 1955, after working two years as a photographer, she became a member of Magnum, which functions as a cooperative.
Elliott Erwitt, a veteran photographer for Magnum, remembered her as a wonderful hostess.
'' When she introduced herself to an editor or a photographer, she said: ''I'm Jean Patchett.
In May 1960 she married Anthony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer who was himself the child of divorced parents.
A photographer who made a successful career out of photographing the rich and famous, Mr. Armstrong-Jones also enjoyed the the Bohemian side of London life.
Then in February 1976 a news photographer's picture of the couple together on the island caused a scandal.
The princess gave up her beau, married the photographer Anthony Armstrong-Jones five years later, and ended up divorcing him 15 years after that.

        Shelley Mydans, a journalist who with her husband, the photographer Carl Mydans, covered the war in Asia in World War II and later wrote a novel based on their 21 months in a Japanese prisoner-of-war camp, died on Thursday in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 86.
She met Mr. Mydans, a Life photographer, and they were married in 1938.
Mrs. Handler, who once described herself as a ''marketing genius,'' was often known during those years to open her blouse at interviews and ask a reporter or photographer to feel her breasts to determine which was real.
After studying ballet, she began reviewing dance in 1939 in the Marianne and then collaborated with her Russian-born husband, the dance photographer Serge Lido.
In its heyday, the Holly Solomon Gallery represented an eclectic mix of talents, from the video artist Nam June Paik to William Wegman, the painter and draftsman better known as a whimsical photographer of Weimaraners.
She then moved to Florida and became a portrait photographer.
Ms. Pasternak is married to Michael Starn, an arts photographer who collaborates with his identical twin brother.
When she joined Aperture in 1976, it was still associated with the aesthetic of its founding editor, the photographer Minor White.
