She is survived by her husband, Geoffrey Biddle, a photographer and  assistant chairman of photography at the Parsons School of Design; a daughter, Eve; her parents, William and Dorothy Unger of Tenafly, N.J., and a brother, Christopher Unger of Milwaukee.
      
A newspaper photographer took a picture of her as she collapsed at the sight; Mr. Kosslyn said his mother kept that newspaper picture throughout her life.
She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines on May, 8, 1933, are the sole visual record of the great Diego Rivera's ill-fated Rockefeller Center fresco with its doomed depiction of Lenin.
Realizing his work was doomed, Rivera hired a photographer to take pictures of the mural, but Rockefeller, determined that there be no record of what the family regarded as desecration of their property, had guards at the building thwart the effort.
It was she, after all, on the night after Rivera's hired photographer had been thwarted, who slipped a camera under her blouse and walked boldly into the RCA building with Mr. Dimitroff and Kahlo, who distracted the guards while Miss Bloch climbed up on the scaffold and proceeded to photograph the mural.
In her youth, Ms. Lee was the constant companion of her first cousin Richard Avedon, the photographer.
The cause was cancer, said the photographer Ram Rahman, a friend.

        Diane Erickson, a model who was on the cover of Self magazine's first issue in 1979 and who later became a fashion photographer, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York.

        Marilyn Silverstone, who left a career as a top photographer for the simple life of a Buddhist nun with the name Ngawang Chodron, died of cancer in a monastery near Katmandu last Tuesday, her sister Susan Darer said.
''
        Ms. Silverstone's personal transformation, from a stylish photographer in Dior suits to a nun with a shaved head and running shoes dyed purple to go with her maroon robes, struck friends and colleagues as remarkable.
In 1955, she became a freelance photographer.
Her reputation as a photographer grew, and in 1967 she became a full member of Magnum, which is organized as a photographer-owned cooperative.
''
        Correction:  October 6, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary of the photographer and Buddhist nun Marilyn Silverstone on Monday misstated the given name of a photojournalist whose work, along with hers and others', will be exhibited at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery in Edinburgh beginning Nov. 5.
