They returned to Japan during the war and later divorced, and she eventually married a photographer, Masaya Nakamura.
''
        Incensed by the fatal overdose in 1997 of Davide Sorrenti, a promising young fashion photographer, Ms. Spindler chided magazine editors for glamorizing ''heroin chic'' by depicting models in a drugged stupor.

        Eileen Darby Lester, a photographer who helped immortalize theatrical productions, taking pictures of more than 500 Broadway shows and photographing stars like Olivier, Dietrich and Brando, died on March 30 at a nursing home in Long Beach, N.Y. She was 87.
Through a Life magazine photographer, she met Roy Lester, who eventually took over management of the agency and whom she married in 1944.
Correction:  May 18, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on April 13 about Eileen Darby, a photographer of Broadway productions, misstated Alfred Eisenstaedt's role at Pix, a photo agency where she worked.
He was an early photographer there, not the founder.

        Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf.
From 1929 to 1933 the two women collaboratively produced advertising, still lifes and studio portraits that reflected the energetic, experimental style of their mentor, Walter Peterhans, a professional photographer who taught at the legendary Bauhaus design school.
Mrs. Auerbach continued her career as a photographer through the 1950's, although she gave up the rigors of the studio for more anecdotal and lyrical forms of documentation.
Mrs. Auerbach and her future husband, Walter Auerbach, a stage designer and photographer, moved to Tel Aviv, then part of Palestine, and opened a studio specializing in portraits of children.
After the second fire, she moved to Scottsdale to be near her son, Kenneth, a freelance photographer.
Dr. Yocom also wrote songs and was a dance photographer.
