Ms. DeWitt had cancer for the last year and a half, said her brother, the photographer Bruce Weber.
When a young society photographer, Antony Armstrong-Jones, approached at a function, she said, ''My photographers never speak to me at parties.

        Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., said her son, the architect Charles Gwathmey.
Like the photographer Doris Ulmann, who found grace and simple beauty in a South Carolina black community in the 20's and early 30's, Mrs. Gwathmey focused on black life in her hometown, Charlotte, N.C., and in Rocky Mount, N.C.
In another photograph a barefoot sharecropper stands at a doorway, his steady gaze on the photographer, his checked shirt and patched trousers somehow all of a piece with the bold wood planks on an exterior wall festooned with garlands of peppers.
She studied there with the photographer Luke Swank.
She was Miss Transit and Miss Black New Jersey and Miss Press Photographer.

        Mfon Essien, a Nigerian-born American photographer, died on Feb. 13 in New York.
She studied literature and art at Morgan State University in Baltimore, then moved to New York, where she worked as a fashion photographer.

        Dare Wright, a photographer and children's book author whose best-known work is ''The Lonely Doll,'' died on Jan. 25.
She graduated from the Laurel School in Cleveland in 1933 and moved to New York, where she worked briefly as an actress and model before a successful career as a photographer.
Mrs. Lindbergh suffered from depression and in defiance of her husband had daily psychotherapy sessions for a time, wrote Susan Hertog, a freelance journalist and photographer, in her biography ''Anne Morrow Lindbergh'' (Doubleday, 1999).
In another, Ms. Coca was a wife posing for her amateur photographer husband, who could not quite satisfy himself about her face.

        Berry Berenson Perkins, a photographer and eclectic fashion plate of the 1970's before she settled into marriage with the actor Anthony Perkins, was killed on Tuesday, a passenger on American Airlines Flight 11, which was the first jetliner to strike the World Trade Center, a spokeswoman for the family said.
Miss McGuire was married to John Swope, a photographer and producer who died in 1979.
''
        The Daily Telegraph reported that in 1931 she met Niall Rankin, a wildlife photographer, and they soon announced that they intended to marry.
Mr. Rankin built a reputation as a wildlife photographer and ornithologist and in 1935 received the Wild Life Photography Award of the Year from Hermann Göring.
She laid the foundations of the center's collections as the wife of Cornell Capa, an international photographer and its founding director emeritus.
She organized and maintained the negatives and archives of Mr. Capa and his brother, Robert Capa, another renowned photographer.
The photographer was Jesse Frohman.
She was fascinated with the way her father, Joseph, a professional photographer, could condense three-dimensional reality into two-dimensional images, but she was not initially interested in art.
Léger introduced her to Herbert Matter, the Swiss graphic designer and photographer, whom she married in 1939.
