When a photographer told her she looked like a dove, she remembered the description and later adopted it as her professional surname.

        Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby.
In the 1950's, she and her husband, Otto Hagel, also a photographer, refused to appear before the House Un-American Activities Committee and were blacklisted.
She enjoyed both giving and going to parties and, as an avid amateur photographer, almost always had a small camera slung around her neck at the many social occasions in which she took part.

        Esther Bubley, a documentary photographer who was noted for her sober, no-frills portrayal of post-World War II middle America, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
As a young married woman, Betsey Cushing Roosevelt ''could be imperious,'' the fashion photographer Horst P. Horst later told Mr. Paley's biographer, Sally Bedell Smith.
The only professional photographer in Paris in the 30's to work exclusively with the Leica, Ms. Bing mastered the use of this small camera as well as darkroom techniques to show the subtleties of light and movement against the inky blacks of Paris at night.

        Linda Eastman McCartney, the wife of the former Beatle Paul McCartney and a photographer whose portraits of 1960's rock stars have become classics, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif., where the McCartneys were vacationing.
Besides her work as a photographer, Ms. McCartney performed as a keyboardist and backup singer in two of her husband's post-Beatles bands, Wings and the unnamed ensemble that toured in 1989 and 1993.
Correction:  April 21, 1998, Tuesday  The obituary of the photographer Linda McCartney yesterday gave an incorrect name in some copies for the most recent studio album by her husband, the former Beatle Paul McCartney.
Once when an avid photographer of exotic birds gushingly exclaimed that she must be very familiar with the birds of South America, Mrs. Maxwell acknowledged that she was, ''mainly by taste.
''
        Dr. Calderone, the daughter of the photographer Edward Steichen, was a woman of many talents and diverse interests who did not find her true calling until midlife.
In the years that followed, she worked as a photographer's model and in 1934 did some fashion reporting for radio station WBBM in Chicago.
