Alexander Liberman, the editorial director of Conde Nast Publications, which publishes Vogue, said the Penns represented "an extraordinary relationship between a photographer and a model.
"
        In addition to modeling, she also pursued careers as a ballet dancer, a photographer, a fashion designer and a sculptor.
Pictures of her appeared in Vogue and Harper's Bazaar and after moving to the United States with her husband in 1939, she worked both as a model and as a photographer.
Miss Weiss was the author of "Ben Shahn: Photographer," a 1973 study of the photographic work of the American painter.
In the 1960's, Miss Weiss worked on an important series of exhibitions entitled "Photography in the Fine Arts," organized by the photographer Ivan Dmitri and sponsored by the Saturday Review.

        Barbara Morgan, the photographer whose portraits of Martha Graham captured the essence of that choreographer's art, died on Monday night at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 92 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Mrs. Morgan was best known for her photographs of American modern dancers, among them Graham, Jose Limon, Doris Humphrey, Pearl Primus, Charles Weidman, Erick Hawkins and Merce Cunningham.
On the stage she was a gangster's moll in "Three Men on a Horse" (1935), an inquisitive photographer in "The Philadelphia Story" (1939), a caustic writer in "My Sister Eileen" (1940), an anti-fascist teacher in "Tomorrow the World" (1943) and an exuberant gossip columnist in "Hollywood Pinafore" (1945).

        Janet Viertel, an underwater photographer, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco.
At the age of 50, when her children had grown up, she decided to become an underwater photographer, learned to dive and moved to St. Croix with her husband.
In addition to her husband, Stephen, an architect and photographer who contributed to her articles, Mrs. Carter is survived by two brothers, Dr. Thomas Killip, of Manhattan, and Colbeth Killip, of Ogonquit, Me., and an aunt, Priscilla Balaban, of Wilmington, N.C.
      
