
        Marion Savage Rosette, a pianist, teacher and composer of children's songs, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday.
Trained as a pianist at the Milan conservatory, Miss Masiello moved to the United States with her mother in the late 1930's, where she studied further at the Juilliard School.
Her initial title was rehearsal pianist, but in 1967 that was upgraded to assistant conductor, although she never conducted a performance at the Met.
There her store of knowledge and imperious manner beguiled listeners for more than 30 years, from her first appearance in 1959 as an accompanying pianist, to her last, in the spring of 1990.

        Esther Fisher, a classical pianist, died here last Tuesday.
Ferruccio Busoni, the Italian pianist and composer, encouraged her to study with Isidore Philipp in Paris.

        Esther Fisher, a classical pianist, died here on Feb. 12.
Ferruccio Busoni, the Italian pianist and composer, encouraged her to study with Isidore Philipp in Paris.
"
        Miss Page was born in Indianapolis on March 22, 1899, the daughter of Dr. Lafayette Page, a brain surgeon, and Marian Heinly, a pianist.
Besides her sister, the widow of the pianist Vladimir Horowitz, she is survived by her daughter, Emanuela Castelbarco, and a grandson.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Claudette, a concert pianist and a professor of music at the State University of New York at Fredonia, of Manhattan.
      
She began playing the piano as a child, and she trained as a classical pianist.
To support herself, she worked as a cocktail pianist, and built a reputation as a pop singer.

        Virginia Hoff Greenburg, a pianist, music teacher and co-founder of the prestigious Hoff-Barthelson Music School in Scarsdale, N.Y., died on Friday at the Hospice of the Central Coast in Carmel, Calif. She was 91 years old.
The school, which is for many a hub of Westchester musical life, now has 65 faculty members and 1,200 students and gives more than 200 concerts and recitals yearly, including those by the Philharmonia Virtuosi and the pianist Peter Serkin.
An accomplished pianist as well as teacher, she and Ms. Barthelson gave many two-piano recitals at the school and elsewhere.

        Dorothy Berliner Commins, a concert pianist and author, died on Monday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 102 years old.

        Gabriella Pessl Sobotka, a harpsichordist, pianist and organist who performed as Yella Pessl, died on Sunday at her home in Northampton, Mass.
