By then she had fallen in love with one of George's poker cronies, Leopold Godowsky Jr., the son of the celebrated Austrian pianist.
Correction:  January 27, 1999, Wednesday  An obituary last Wednesday about Frances Gershwin Godowsky, an artist and the sister of George Gershwin, misstated the nationality of her father-in-law, the pianist Leopold Godowsky.
As a girl, she trained to become a concert pianist; as a teen-ager, she founded a theater troupe, for which she wrote songs and sketches.

        Jeanne-Marie Darre, a French pianist whose interpretations of Chopin and Liszt solo works and the Saint-Saens Concertos were admired for their sophistication and interpretive inventiveness, died on Jan. 26 in Port Marly, France, where she lived.
''
        Ms. Roche also performed and recorded with the pianist Earl Hines, the trumpeter Clark Terry and the singer and pianist Charles Brown.
''
        Ms. Roche also performed and recorded with the pianist Earl Hines, the trumpeter Clark Terry and the singer and pianist Charles Brown.
Last week the Danish comedian and pianist Victor Borge performed in Boston for two straight hours -- and it was hilarious -- even though he is 90 years old.
Ms. Pfeffer, a New York City native, graduated from the Juilliard School of Music as a pianist before turning to photojournalism.

        Melba Liston, a trombonist and arranger who worked with some of the best bands in jazz, died on Friday after a series of strokes, said a friend, the pianist Randy Weston.
Ms. Fleming lived a colorful life, partly because she was born into a family with both pronounced creative abilities and strong social connections, but also because of her own musical abilities, which drew her into the orbits of the pianist Artur Schnabel, the violinist Joseph Szigeti, the cellists Pierre Fournier and Pablo Casals, the conductor Sir John Barbirolli and the guitarists Julian Bream and John Williams.

        Claudette Sorel, a pianist who was at her best in music that demanded delicacy and lyricism but who also gave highly regarded performances of difficult contemporary works and big Romantic showpieces, died on Friday at her home in Hampton Bays, N.Y. She was 66.
Ms. Sorel was born in Paris in 1932, and was already a promising pianist when her family fled France just before the German invasion in 1940.
When her family settled in New York, Ms. Sorel became a student of the Hungarian concert pianist Sari Biro.

        Katie Webster, the blues and boogie-woogie pianist and singer known as the Swamp Boogie Queen, a mainstay of Gulf Coast rhythm-and-blues recordings in the 1950's and 60's and a popular touring artist in the 80's and early 90's, died on Sunday at her home in League City, Tex.
Ms. Webster, born Kathryn Jewel Thorne, was reared by musicians: her father was a ragtime pianist who turned to gospel music when he became a minister in the Sanctified Church of God in Christ, in Houston, and her mother, who played spirituals and classical music, was responsible for her keyboard training.
At 15 she married the pianist Earl Webster, and around that time the guitarist and singer Ashton Savoy tookMs.
Redding was so taken by the heavy and exact timekeeping of her left hand that he hired her immediately; for the next three years she was both his opening act and the pianist in his band.
Moving to San Diego, she was reunited with Freddie Slack, Dorsey's pianist, who had quit the band to strike out on his own as a leader.

        Gaby Casadesus, a pianist and teacher whose specialty was the 19th- and 20th-century French piano repertory, and who often performed in a piano duo with her husband, Robert Casadesus, died on Nov. 12 at her home in Paris.
