She was also the manager of the pianist Alfred Brendel, starting early in his career, and was instrumental in his success in the United States.
Her mother showed promise as a concert pianist before her marriage.
Trained as a pianist and passionate about the harpsichord, Mrs. Augustine often said that she did not much care for the guitar and its repertory.

        Jutta Hipp, a jazz pianist from Germany who had a short, celebrated career in the 1950's playing in New York nightclubs and making records for the Blue Note label, then turned her back on jazz to become a dressmaker, died on Monday at her home in Queens.

        Rosalyn Tureck, a pianist and harpsichordist who played an important part in the revival of interest in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach, and who devoted more than six decades to performing, researching, teaching and writing about his works, died on Thursday at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx.
And because she studied as a child with Jan Chiapusso, a Dutch-Italian concert pianist born in Java, she was introduced to the sounds of the gamelan and a variety of Asian and African instruments decades before the current interest in world music.
Her first teacher was Sophia Brilliant-Liven, a Russian pianist who had been a teaching assistant to Anton Rubinstein.
''
        Ms. Tureck's first public performance in New York was not as a pianist, but as a soloist on the theremin, an electronic instrument played by moving one's hands through an electronic field, usually between two metal poles.

        A memorial service for the pianist and Bach scholar Rosalyn Tureck will be held on Tuesday at 5 p.m. in the Lowenstein Auditorium at Temple Emanu-El, 10 East 66th Street, Manhattan.
Among the speakers will be Sharon Isbin, a guitarist who studied with Ms. Tureck, and Kevin Kleinmann, president of the Tureck Bach Research Institute in New York, which was founded by the pianist two years ago.
      

        Marie Marcus, a jazz pianist who was a protégée of Fats Waller and appeared on Manhattan's 52nd Street, the prewar epicenter of jazz, before becoming a summer fixture in nightclubs on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Hyannis, Mass.

        Friede F. Roth, a personal representative for classical musicians, most notably the pianist Claudio Arrau, died on Friday in Manhattan, said Josephine Hemsing, a friend of Ms. Roth.
In recent decades Ms. Roth devoted herself entirely to the career of Arrau, the Chilean pianist, and after his death in 1991 she fought tirelessly for the reissue of his dozens of recordings.
