A classical pianist, she was an adviser to the Yale University Institute of Sacred Music and the Arts.
She shot to fame in 1937 when she recorded ''Loch Lomond'' in an arrangement by Claude Thornhill, the pianist, who led a small accompanying group on the recording.
Two of her future husbands, the bassist John Kirby and the pianist Cliff Jackson both first heard her singing there.
Educated as a pianist and music theorist, Ms. Auerbach began her stage career at the Manhattan School of Music, where she at first taught music theory and then founded the school's children's opera program in 1969.
Early in her career, she was a concert pianist.

       Natalie Hinderas, one of the first black artists to establish an important career in classical music and a pianist who played with most of the major American orchestras, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Philadelphia.
Natalie Hinderas, one of the first black artists to establish an important career in classical music and a pianist who played with most of the major American orchestras, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Philadelphia.
Mrs. Brimberg, a great lover of music and an accomplished pianist, was born in Brooklyn and married Mr. Brimberg in 1919.

       Dora Zaslavsky Koch, a pianist and teacher at the Manhattan School of Music for over half a century, died Monday at her apartment in Manhattan.
Dora Zaslavsky Koch, a pianist and teacher at the Manhattan School of Music for over half a century, died Monday at her apartment in Manhattan.
In the same year, 1941, she was a ruthless, egocentric concert pianist battling Bette Davis in ''The Great Lie,'' for which Miss Astor won an Oscar as the best actress in a supporting role.
During the late 1960's and early 1970's, Miss du Pre and her husband, the conductor and pianist Daniel Barenboim, seemed a charmed couple.
Among the participants were the violinist Pinchas Zukerman, the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, the pianist Eugene Istomin and several others.
She was also a pianist, and appeared as soloist in many of her own works.

       Marie Kryl, a concert pianist who appeared with the Chicago, Cincinnati and St. Louis Symphony Orchestras, died Sunday in Orlando, Fla. She was 90 years old.
Marie Kryl, a concert pianist who appeared with the Chicago, Cincinnati and St. Louis Symphony Orchestras, died Sunday in Orlando, Fla. She was 90 years old.
Miss Kryl was born in Philadelphia on July 4, 1897, but lived most of her early life in Chicago, where she studied with the well-known pianist and teacher Rudolph Ganz.

       Naomi Henry Sebner, a former concert pianist who helped develop day-care programs, died of breast cancer Tuesday at White Plains Hospital.
Naomi Henry Sebner, a former concert pianist who helped develop day-care programs, died of breast cancer Tuesday at White Plains Hospital.
Mrs. Sebner, who was born in Philadelphia, began her career as a pianist and arranger for the Miami Symphony Orchestra in the 1930's.
They were divorced in 1932, and in the next year she married the pianist Michael Raucheisen, who died in 1984.
