Ms. Keane is best known for her business relationship with the pianist Bill  Evans, whom she represented from 1963 until his death in 1980.
She was rehearsal pianist for the original production of "South Pacific" and musical director for "You're  a Good Man, Charlie Brown.
One of the artistic high points of the Decca years was a 10-inch long-playing record, "Ella Sings Gershwin," which she  recorded with the pianist Ellis Larkins in 1950.
These 20 songs recorded in the 1950's with the pianist Ellis Larkins exemplify elegant simplicity and ideal teamwork.
Originally released in 1960 under the title "Ella Fitzgerald Sings Songs From the Soundtrack of 'Let No Man Write My Epitaph,' " the collection of 13 ballads recorded with the pianist Paul Smith is a neglected masterpiece.
Ms. Clark, whose original name was Autilia Ventimiglia, was born in Scranton, Pa. She studied at the Juilliard School, intending to become a classical pianist.
As a student, she won prizes both as a pianist and for her compositions, and her ambition at first was to be a pianist.
As a student, she won prizes both as a pianist and for her compositions, and her ambition at first was to be a pianist.

        Vera Brodsky Lawrence, a pianist, editor and historian of American music whose research helped bring the works of Scott Joplin and Louis Moreau Gottschalk to the attention of contemporary performers, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Music history was actually Mrs. Lawrence's second career; she did not begin to devote herself fully to it until 1965, when she gave up a 40-year career as a concert pianist.
She was a staff pianist at CBS radio from 1939 to 1946.

        Genia Robinor, a pianist and teacher, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.

        Rebecca LaBrecque, a pianist who championed new music and new ways of using the keyboard in a classical concert setting, died on Sunday at Calpary Hospital  in the Bronx.
She next moved to New York and married Israel Citkowitz, an American composer and pianist, and a student of Aaron Copland, 20 years her senior.
