) Trained as a concert pianist, she wrote the original Spanish lyrics for ''Bésame Mucho'' when she was 25 and, as she liked to say, had never been kissed.
The death was announced by the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization in Manhattan.A pianist and composer, Ms. Rittmann was first hired by Lincoln Kirstein in 1937, played piano for George Balanchine's American Ballet Caravan -- a forerunner of the New York City Ballet -- and was a concert pianist for the choreographer Agnes de Mille.
The death was announced by the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization in Manhattan.A pianist and composer, Ms. Rittmann was first hired by Lincoln Kirstein in 1937, played piano for George Balanchine's American Ballet Caravan -- a forerunner of the New York City Ballet -- and was a concert pianist for the choreographer Agnes de Mille.

        Moura Lympany, the colorful and elegant British concert pianist whose career lasted more than 65 years, died on March 28 in Menton, France.
''
        In 1944 she married Colin Defries, a colonel, engineer and amateur pianist; they were divorced in 1950.

        Ruth Laredo, a pianist equally at home in chamber music and solo works who was known for landmark recordings of Scriabin and Rachmaninoff, died on Wednesday at her apartment in New York.
''
        Ms. Laredo was a pianist in the Romantic mold, a dynamic performer concerned with texture and color.
''Every time we did interviews in those early days, she was asked how does it feel to be a woman pianist,'' Mr. Murtha said.
''She wanted to be a pianist, period.
''
        Correction:  June 17, 2005, Friday  An obituary of the classical pianist Ruth Laredo on May 27 referred imprecisely to the label that issued her recordings of the Scriabin piano sonatas in 1970.

        Grete Sultan, a pianist and teacher who was both a performer of Bach and Schubert and a mentor to John Cage and his contemporaries, died in her sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital last Sunday morning.
So was the American pianist Richard Buhlig, who introduced her to the composer Henry Cowell and the music of other contemporary composers.
But a more important mentor was the pianist and conductor Edwin Fischer, teacher of Alfred Brendel, Paul Badura-Skoda and Daniel Barenboim, with whom she began private lessons after graduation.
Frances Langford was born April 6, 1913, in Lakeland, Fla., the daughter of Vasco Langford, a carpenter, and his wife, Anna, who was an accomplished pianist.
She was the jazz columnist for the Simmons student newspaper and Mr. Wein was an aspiring jazz pianist when they met at a jazz concert in Boston in 1947.

        Shirley Horn, a jazz singer and pianist who drew audiences close with a powerfully confidential, vibratoless delivery, died yesterday at a nursing home in Cheverly, Md.

        Constance Keene, a pianist and teacher whose recordings of the Romantic keyboard repertory were highly regarded, died on Dec. 24 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
But in 1934, when she was 13, she became a student of Abram Chasins, the pianist, composer, writer and broadcaster.
