Ms. Costello was born in Cleveland and began her musical studies as a pianist.

        Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan.
The pianist and conductor Ossip Gabrilowitsch heard her perform as a child and engaged her for a debut with the Detroit Symphony when she was 7.

        Paulina Ruvinska, a pianist known for her vigorous technique and the breadth of her repertory, died on Jan. 17 at her home in Manhattan.
The pianist and conductor Ossip Gabrilowitsch heard her perform and engaged her for a debut with the Detroit Symphony when she was 7.
But she turned down the offer because her future husband, Konrad Wolff, a pianist and musicologist, lived in Paris.
But even after her cancer was diagnosed in 1992 and she began the long, painful ordeal of therapy, Miss Cisyk, who is also survived by her older sister, Maria, a concert pianist and teacher who lives in Ridgefield, Conn., continued to work, singing her last professional jingle just a few months ago.

        Dorothy Donegan, a jazz pianist who brashly mixed swing, boogie-woogie, vaudeville, pop, ragtime and Bach -- sometimes within a span of 10 minutes -- and who was known for an outrageous sense of humor, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles.
She played blues and boogie-woogie piano, even recording for the  Bluebird label in 1942, but she aspired to be a classical concert pianist.
Time magazine covered the concert, and word about a pianist with a wide repertory and blizzard-fast fingers reached the jazz piano virtuoso Art Tatum, who came to her house to hear her play.
'' She appears in a duet scene with another pianist, Gene Rodgers, and the band behind them was Cab Calloway's.
For Mrs. Whaley, an accomplished pianist and ballroom dancer who helped start the Cotillion, a dancing school that has become a Charleston social fixture, and once taught chess, gardening came more than naturally.
The daughter of a St. Louis jeweler, Ms. Thompson was a pianist with the St. Louis Symphony in 1928.
She was the daughter of Abraham B. Hurwitz, a college professor who doubled as a magician, and Ann Hurwitz, a music coordinator for the New York City Board of Education and an accomplished pianist.
But Ms. Lewis said often that she was not a natural pianist and that her passion for music began the day she tucked a violin under her chin.
That same year she released ''Look What I Got!,'' which won a Grammy, and in 1994 she recorded an album, ''Feed the Fire,'' with the pianist Geri Allen, the bassist Dave Holland and the drummer Jack DeJohnette.

        Berenice Lipson-Gruzen, a pianist with a long international career, died on Sept. 3 in Bad Wiessee, Germany.
