After playing in a classical trio, she was a rehearsal pianist for the 1927 show "A Connecticut Yankee.

        Laura Dubman Fratti, a child prodigy whose expertise as a classical pianist won her critical acclaim in the 1930's and 40's in San Francisco, New York and Paris, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
She married Frank Bishop, an American concert pianist, and moved to the United States.
She had a long association with the pianist Rudolf Serkin, the founder of the Marlboro Music School and Festival, and often appeared in chamber performances with Music from Marlboro, both in Vermont and on tour.
Freya Madeline Stark was born in Paris on Jan. 31, 1893, to Robert Stark, a British sculptor, and Flora Stark, a painter and pianist.
When osteoarthritis prevented a career as a pianist, she became an apprentice to a throat surgeon in Paris to study the mechanism of the singing voice.
Her father, also named Ariel, was a Russian-born pianist, the director of the Portland School of Music and a founder of the Portland Opera.

        Madeleine Marshall Simon, a singing coach and concert pianist who taught English diction at the Juilliard School of Music for over half a century, died on Sunday at St. Lukes-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
She began her career as a concert pianist and performed as soloist with the New York Philharmonic under Arturo Toscanini and other conductors.
She graduated from the Philadelphia Conservatory of Music and was an accomplished pianist.
Both her parents were singers, and she sang in school and church choruses, but her first serious musical training was as a pianist.
Her 1934 novella "The Accompanist," about a young woman pianist who accompanies and competes with a soprano, was made into a film this year by the French director Claude Miller.

        Tatyana Nikolayeva, a Russian pianist widely respected for her interpretations of the music of Bach and Shostakovich, died on Monday in San Francisco.

        Marie Blake, a scat singer and stride pianist whose renditions of show tunes and jazz entertained lovers of popular music for 40 years in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Michael J. Spencer, a pianist who founded Hospital Audiences, which provides access to the arts for the disabled, said yesterday that when he began playing concerts in state mental hospitals in the 1960's he sought funds everywhere and only one organization responded.
Later she continued her studies at the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn.  A Recital Inspired Her
        Miss Tully often said that she decided to devote herself to music when she was 14 or 15 years old, after hearing a recital by the pianist Josef Hofmann.
