
        Aniela Mlynarski Rubinstein, the widow of the pianist Arthur Rubinstein and a patron of charities and the arts in New York, died on Monday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
But she first wed, and divorced, another renowned pianist, Mieczyslaw Munz.
She was a pianist by training, a multilingual political scientist and a writer of fiction and of oceanic yearbooks.
Her father was a textile manufacturer and her mother an accomplished pianist.
Her godfather was Bill Robinson, the tap dancer known as Bojangles, and her music teacher was the jazz pianist and composer Eubie Blake.
But she also began performing as a recitalist and in a chamber ensemble, the Stuyvesant Trio, which included her sister Nellis, a cellist, and Helen Brainard, a pianist; and she toured Latin America as a member of Leopold Stokowski's All-American Youth Orchestra.
Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in the school system of Great Neck, N.Y., for 29 years as well as in Vermont and elsewhere.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.

        Nellie Monk, who as the wife of the jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk was the prime supporter and muse of a troubled genius, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist.

        Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29.
Miss Lynn was named Margaret Eleanor Linskie at her birth in Dallas on April 24, 1921, and she originally intended to be a concert pianist.
She claimed, for example, to be the first person ever on television and radio; that Ignace Paderewski told her mother she would be the finest pianist in the world; that she was kicked out of a German music conservatory for being overqualified.
Ms. Pamela was born in St. Louis, and her mother was a concert pianist and composer.
From 1963 to 1973 she was married to Grant Johannesen, an American concert pianist, with whom she toured.

        Hadda Brooks, the smoky-voiced torch singer and pianist who was known in the 1940's as the Queen of the Boogie and came out of retirement in the late 1980's to gain new popularity with younger audiences, died on Thursday at 86.
Trained as a classical pianist, Ms. Brooks began recording boogie-woogie instrumentals in 1945 for Modern Records, which soon became the West Coast's premier rhythm-and-blues label.
''
        Correction:  November 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the singer and pianist Hadda Brooks in some copies on Sunday misidentified the film in which she sang to Humphrey Bogart.
Her father, Samuel Chotzinoff, was a pianist, critic, general music director of NBC and founder of the NBC Opera Theater (1949-52).
Her mother, Pauline Heifetz, a pianist, was a sister of the violinist Jascha Heifetz.
