The memorial service, which is open to the public, is to include performances by the soprano Renée Fleming and the tenor Anthony Dean Griffey, who studied under Ms. Johnson, and the pianist Ken Noda, who worked in her studio.
Miss Evans was no señorita -- at the time, she was married to her second husband, Robert Dale Butts, a pianist.
After leading classes under the sponsorship of René Garmy, a luthier in Aix, Mrs. Krakauer, her husband and Jeaneane Dowis, the pianist, founded their own summer music program in Vaison-la-Romaine, France.
She performed in the musical ''Sophisticated Ladies'' in the early 80's as understudy to Phyllis Hyman, and on her own, playing an Ellingtonian repertory with the trombonist Art Baron, the pianist Lloyd Mayers and her brother, the flutist Bernard Moore.
In 1935, as head of the Chicago Rhythm Club, a fan organization that  booked concerts, she persuaded Benny Goodman to hire the pianist Teddy Wilson, and to bring Goodman's group to play in April 1936 at the  Congress Hotel in Chicago.

        Yaltah Menuhin, a pianist and the younger sister of the violinist Yehudi Menuhin, died on Saturday, The Times of London reported.
She began her musical studies as a pianist at the Paris Conservatory.
''
        One early composer who took an immediate liking to the ondes martenot was Olivier Messiaen, who married Jeanne's sister Yvonne Loriod; she became a renowned pianist.
''
        Though she toured with several other productions, she only returned to Broadway last fall in ''The Full Monty,'' playing Jeanette Burmeister, a tough-talking, tough-loving pianist.
She is survived by a son, John Parkinson III, who was appointed a trustee of the museum in 1976 and is its treasurer; a daughter, the pianist Zaidee Parkinson; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      
Her mother was a concert pianist, and Ms. Gurney soon found herself drawn to the arts, taking classes at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art and later gravitating to London's West End.
