
        Pilar Barbosa de Rosario, a revered Puerto Rican historian and political authority who served as teacher, mentor and mother confessor to generations of Puerto Rican politicians, scholars and intellectuals, died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in San Juan.
In a career in which, in 1921, she became the first woman to teach at the University of Puerto Rico and later established the departments of history and social studies there, Dr. Barbosa became such an authority on Puerto Rican political history, from the movement for autonomy from Spain in the late 19th century to the drive for statehood in the 20th, that she was named the commonwealth's official historian in 1993.
The only reason a state funeral was not planned was that Dr. Barbosa had asked for private ceremonies, and as virtually any political figure in Puerto Rico would attest, Dr. Barbosa's wishes had long been treated as commands.
Indeed, long after she retired in 1967, Dr. Barbosa remained an influential figure in Puerto Rican politics -- a gregarious and vivacious woman with such a magnetic personality and wide-ranging knowledge of political history and current events that students, politicians and government officials trooped to her door for her counsel and her company.
''
        To Kenneth McClintock, a 40-year-old member of the Puerto Rican Senate, her wealth of political and historical knowledge was understandable.
Over the next decades Dr. Barbosa researched and wrote numerous books, pamphlets and papers on Puerto Rican political history, some based on her father's papers.
By the time many of them had risen to high positions in the government, Dr. Barbosa, who also maintained friendly relationships with members of other parties, had acquired so much influence that she operated almost as a political boss -- a boss who seemed so blind to her own power that she may not have realized that an off-hand criticism delivered in a private conversation would soon be altering party policy.
''
        Born in Boston, Ms. Roberts attended Hunter College in Manhattan, graduating in 1931 with a degree in political science.
Indeed, she could have been any American's English cousin writing chatty but shrewdly observant letters that illuminated passing political foibles and great events alike through their reflection in the lives of bus drivers, housewives, shop girls and farmers.
While in China, Ms. Hahn had an affair with Sinmay Zau, an aristocratic intellectual whom she described as her ''cultural and political guide to China.

        Nora Beloff, a gifted political writer and foreign correspondent who was a trailblazer among women in British journalism, died on Feb. 12.
After her death, a former editor of The Observer, Donald Trelford, wrote in The Guardian that she was ''the first female political correspondent of a major British newspaper'' and ''had one of the most distinguished careers any woman has had in British journalism.
''
        She was The Observer's political correspondent from 1964 to 1976 after being its correspondent in Paris, Washington and Moscow, and also worked as a freelance writer.
She was in the political intelligence department of the British Foreign Office in London from 1941 to 1944 and on the staff of British Embassy in Paris in 1944 and 1945.
To resuscitate the Democratic Party, they agreed to form their own political action committee, which quickly became known as PamPAC.
She built up her political curriculum vitae, giving speeches and, with the help of friends, writing Op-Ed pieces for The New York Times and The Washington Post.
She resigned in April 1962 to return to California politics and helped fellow Democrats that year thwart Richard M. Nixon's initial bid for a political comeback, in the race for governor.
After obtaining a doctorate in public law from Columbia University, she taught sociology and political theory.
She wrote his speeches, helped develop his strategic positions and political initiatives and orchestrated his legendary informational hearings.
At a time when Senator Jackson was a Senate legend for the quality of his staff, Dr. Fosdick was in command of the ''bunker,'' so called partly because of the cramped staff quarters and partly because Senator Jackson and his staff were so often at odds with the prevailing political winds of detente.
In collaboration with her husband, she presented Mr. Soyinka's ''Trials of Brother Jero'' and ''The Strong Breed'' during a time when the playwright was a political prisoner in Nigeria.
The coalition Ms. Katz headed was created in 1974, after the United States Supreme Court issued its ruling in Miller v. California, which broadened the reach of censorship, allowing the banning of any work that lacked ''serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.

        Ruth Clark, a pollster who left her mark on the newspaper industry with a landmark newspaper study that encouraged editors to offer more information that readers could use in their daily lives and who helped define changing American attitudes on issues from the political to the personal, died on Feb. 20 in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Clark was also widely known for directing many of the surveys that defined American public opinion during a time of great social and political turmoil in the 1970's, and she was part of the team that introduced exit polls into American politics and journalism.
He said the two next weeks until the official vote tallies were complete was ''the loneliest time of my entire political career.
Mrs. Clark got a chance to address political issues more broadly when she moved to Yankelovich, Skelly & White around 1970.

        Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan.
Howard Dodson, the head of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, said in 1995 that her career constituted ''a link between the best elements of the nationalist and radical left political traditions in Harlem over the past five, six decades.
''
        Her outrage over the suffering of blacks in America led to years of political action.
Earlier, she had worked in political campaigns for Herbert H. Lehman and Franklin D. Roosevelt.
Making the most of her family connections and even more of those she formed on her own, Miss Halle got her start in political society early.
When she made her decision known, she urged Republicans to avoid ''destructive division'' and ''a fatal lurch to either extreme of the political spectrum.

        Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years.
A native Mississippian, Mrs. Howorth spent much of her life in the political arena, including a turn as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1932.
Lucy Somerville graduated from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in 1916 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and went on to study at Columbia University, where she attended political rallies and meetings and regularly visited settlement houses.
In 1972, after receiving a degree in political science from New York University, she found she could not get a teaching job, and worked as a proofreader as a member of the International Typographical Union.
Mother Teresa earned her Nobel Prize despite a political climate in India that was unfavorable to foreign missionaries.

        Angenette Martin, who specialized in grass-roots organizing and consulting for political campaigns and others, died last Saturday at her home in Sausalito, Calif. She was 50.
She heard that CBS was looking for somebody to produce a radio show about the political scene in Washington called ''The Leading Question,'' and talked her way into it.
A veteran political journalist who covered four Presidents, Ms. Devroy had a reputation for tough reporting that prompted discomfort among politicians and late-night phone calls to competitors from editors hoping to match her articles.
In 1985 she joined the Post as as political editor and directed the newspaper's coverage of Congress, the White House and national politics for the next four years.
She worked with public agencies and private groups and in political circles to help the immigrants create new lives.
Her formal education ended in the 11th grade, when she began tending to the needs of her tribe at the side of her father, who had become head of the Tribal Council and her political mentor.
She lectured in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before moving to the Fletcher School, where she advanced to a full professorship and served as academic dean from 1985 to 1987.
She settled in the United States in 1958 and earned a doctorate in political science at M.I.T.
Mrs. Kelly herself had no political agenda initially, but her husband was killed in a car accident in 1942 and she later said she became active to carry on in his tradition.
The book depicted Walt Disney as a political reactionary, anti-Semite and a Hollywood informer for the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
Michiko Kakutani described Ms. Acker's style in a 1987 review in The New York Times: ''Characters exchange identities with the ease of snakes shedding their skins; and bits of myths, folk tales and older novels also turn up transformed -- juxtaposed, in a sort of post-modernist collage, with political screeds, dream-like hallucinations and strange, comic exchanges.

        Denise Levertov, a poet of intense emotion and fervid political conviction, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle, where she lived.
As a poet and political activist, Ms. Levertov was ''a touchstone, a maintainer for our generation,'' the poet Robert Creeley, one of her first publishers in the United States, said yesterday.
She always had a vivid emotional response and also a completely dedicated sense of political and social need.
More and more, her work conveyed her political awareness and social consciousness.
Both she and her husband frequently spoke out on political issues, particularly regarding the Vietnam War.
She felt compelled to clarify and justify the uses of poetry in a world of political crisis.
''
        Ms. Levertov was a masterly juggler of words, images and feelings, as well as a defender of artistic and political liberty.
Dr. Weintraub, who also kept a home on Fire Island in Seaview, was a professor of political science at Hunter from 1951 to 1972.
She earned a Ph.D. in political science at Columbia University in 1939.
Dr. Weintraub was also chairwoman of the department of political science until 1960 and then associate dean of graduate studies at City University of New York until 1968.
She was president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the first woman to head that political science honor society, which has chapters at 107 institutions of higher education nationwide.
She was rarely seen in public from that point on, and was reported by old acquaintances in Port-au-Prince to be pining for Haiti and eager to return to her homeland when political conditions allowed.
President Clinton, one of his successors in Little Rock, said Mrs. Rockefeller had helped to take the ''New South'' to Arkansas and to lead women into the mainstream of political and public life.
