But she laid a foundation for her eventual political career, working as a clubhouse volunteer and with organizations like the Bedford-Stuyvesant Political League and the League of Women Voters.
But she laid a foundation for her eventual political career, working as a clubhouse volunteer and with organizations like the Bedford-Stuyvesant Political League and the League of Women Voters.
A year later, she confirmed her reputation for independence when she endorsed John V. Lindsay, who was running for re-election as mayor of New York
        as the Liberal Party candidate.By 1982, the political climate had changed, and Mrs. Chisholm left Washington after seven terms in the House, saying that ''moderate and liberal'' lawmakers were ''running for cover from the new right.
She mentioned her hospital visit to George C. Wallace, the Alabama governor who built his political career on segregation, after he had been wounded in an assassination attempt in 1972.
'' She said she spent her time reading biographies -- political biographies.

        Marjorie Williams, a Washington Post columnist and contributing editor for Vanity Fair who was known for sharp observations on the political elite, died yesterday at her home in Washington.
Some told her she should think about a political career.
By 1982, the political climate had changed, and Mrs. Chisholm left Washington after seven terms in the House, saying that ''moderate and liberal'' lawmakers were ''running for cover from the new right.
She mentioned her hospital visit to George C. Wallace, the Alabama governor who built his political career on segregation, after he had been wounded in an assassination attempt in 1972.
'' She said she spent her time reading biographies -- political biographies.
She was a member of the Student Non-Violent Coordinating Committee in the 1960's and in later years organized benefits for social causes and political candidates.
One, ''Escape Through the Pyrenees,'' which was first published in West Germany in 1985, won that country's award for the political book of the year.
Ms. Dolbeare earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Swarthmore College in 1949 and began her career as a housing advocate in 1951, as associate executive secretary of the Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore.
''
        Barbara Denning was born on Feb. 26, 1929, in Pueblo, Colo. After graduating from Stanford with a degree in international relations, she received a master's degree in political science from the American University of Beirut.
''There are things we may have in common and on which we could become political and cultural allies,'' she told an interviewer in 2003, ''defending the unborn, upholding marriage, caring for refugees, advocating religious freedom.
Six weeks before her death, she appeared in Washington to promote a book of which she was co-editor, ''Toward an Evangelical Public Policy: Political Strategies for the Health of the Nation.
I want Christians to be salt and light -- a strong influence -- across the political landscape.
Among her best-known books are ''Pornography: Men Possessing Women'' (Putnam/Perigee, 1981), ''Intercourse'' (Free Press, 1987) and ''Heartbreak: The Political Memoir of a Feminist Militant'' (Basic Books, 2002).
She later moved to Europe, where she married a Dutch political radical.

        Ludmilla Nikitina Shapiro, a Russian-born journalist and photographer who with her husband amassed a collection of Soviet-era political porcelain considered the most comprehensive in North America, died on May 8 in Madison, Wis., where she lived.
Mrs. Talmadge was married to Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat and the scion of a powerful Georgia political family, from 1941 until their divorce in 1977.
She began her political career as a member of the Westchester County Board of Legislators, only the second woman, and at the time one of the few Democrats, to win a seat there.
They moved to New York and joined the rarefied circles in which the city's cultural and political worlds mingled.
When Fiorello H. La Guardia took office in 1934, political appointees were removed and replaced through civil service examination.
But as tributes poured in from across the political spectrum on Friday, the prime minister called Ms. Mowlam ''one of the shrewdest political minds I ever encountered'' and said she was ''great company, utterly irreverent, full of life and fun.
But as tributes poured in from across the political spectrum on Friday, the prime minister called Ms. Mowlam ''one of the shrewdest political minds I ever encountered'' and said she was ''great company, utterly irreverent, full of life and fun.
But even as she worked hard to build good relations with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, she alienated unionists, who want it to remain united with Britain and who accused her of being too sympathetic to the republican cause.

        Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del.
Founded in 1971, the National Women's Political Caucus is a bipartisan group that seeks to foster women's participation in the political process.
Founded in 1971, the National Women's Political Caucus is a bipartisan group that seeks to foster women's participation in the political process.
She founded several chapters of the women's political caucus, including its Northern Virginia chapter, before becoming involved with the national organization.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
She was previously the organization's political director.
She graduated in 1933, with a bachelor's degree in political science.
'' He transferred to Wayne State University in Detroit and graduated with a bachelor's degree, having studied political science and police administration.
'''
        Her arrest was the answer to prayers for the Women's Political Council, which was set up in 1946 in response to the mistreatment of black bus riders, and for E.D.
She started the first Commission on the Status of Women in Pennsylvania and helped found and led the National Political Congress of Black Women.
At her funeral on Oct. 21, former Vice President Al Gore, one of many political leaders in attendance, called Mrs. Tucker ''a four-star general in the battle for righteousness.
When Mrs. Tucker later inherited some of those properties, political opponents accused her of being a slumlord.
Though a product of a traditional, affluent family from the Antioquia province of Colombia, Ms. Arango produced work that pushed the bounds of decorum, vividly touching on delicate and troubling subjects like Colombia's political violence, poverty and brutality.
In another, a boxcar is filled with bodies, a reminder of the relentless political violence that has marked Colombia for decades.
