Ms. Tully was also a founder and past co-chairwoman of the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy and a founding member of the New York State National Women's Political Caucus.
In 1960, she received a doctorate in journalism and political science from the University of Minnesota, where she began her teaching career.
Maybe it's the good political hair.
'' As president of the five-year-old White House Project, she hopes to recruit and train 1,000 women to become political leaders, and to enlist 25,000 women to get out the vote this year.
She recognized that fashion was as important a cultural barometer as music or art and that it should be -- demanded to be -- covered as rigorously as a political campaign.
''That fear, perhaps justified in some quarters, would be like blocking publication of damaging effects of Celebrex, thalidomide, or estrogen because the publication could slow work in disease prevention,'' she wrote in the May 2003 issue of The Annals, the publication of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.

        Jane Wood, a longtime tenant advocate and political radical in New York who once pressured her landlord to replace a broken elevator by sleeping on an air mattress in the lobby, died on Wednesday at her apartment in Manhattan.
The prince contended that the healer had a dangerous influence on his wife and, after a political furor, ensured that all contacts between the two women were broken.
It was the year women running for political office across the nation had named ''the year of the woman,'' and Mrs. Goodhue, who was 71, was the only woman in the State Senate's Republican majority.

        Mary Lindsay, who as John V. Lindsay's accomplished, blue-blood wife brought casual elegance and political acumen to his campaigns for New York City mayor and other offices while fiercely protecting the family's limited privacy, died yesterday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 77.
Reflecting her political sagacity, she explained that locally made clothes were a critical part of the city's economy.
He called her ''a political force more powerful than patronage.
She said that meant moving beyond acquiring facts to the mastery of subjects like advanced mathematics, political and economic theory and classical philosophy.
She was a founder of the National Women's Political Caucus and was the unofficial head of a group of women who helped persuade Walter F. Mondale to name Geraldine A. Ferraro as his running mate on the 1984 Democratic ticket.
After helping create the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971, she became a leader on the Democratic Party committee that ensured that half the delegates to its 1980 convention were women.
Patricia Schroeder, a former United States representative from Colorado, said, ''Millie is the political godmother for many of us.
In 1986, Ms. Bogoraz helped start a campaign to free all political prisoners.

        Mary McGrory, an unapologetic liberal who chronicled 50 years of scandal, war, Congressional turmoil and political heartbreak as a columnist for The Washington Star and The Washington Post, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital.
Her columns captured some of the greatest political characters of the era -- their loyalty, treachery, weaknesses, sacrifices, high causes and low moments.
But he was blithe and determined and wherever he went he was surrounded by young men who felt with him that the Irish had something more to give to American political life than a last hurrah.
Her path to political reporting was not easy.
Works like "Man Kicking World" (2002), in which a seated man pushes an enormous globe with his foot, imply broad political themes.

        Susan Mary Alsop, who proclaimed that she saw ''no future in being an ordinary person'' and became a celebrated political hostess and later an author, died on Wednesday at her home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington.
At 1:46 a.m. on Jan. 21, 1961, John F. Kennedy, after attending his five inaugural balls, showed up, supposedly unannounced, at the doorstep of the Georgetown house then belonging to Mrs. Alsop and her husband, Joseph, the political columnist.
Her work ranged from popular novels to searingly political works like ''Massacre in Mexico'' (Viking, 1975), by the French-born Mexican journalist Elena Poniatowska, whose book is a reconstructive collage of the night of Oct. 2, 1968, when the Mexican army fired on a crowd of unarmed students and other protesters.
''
        While not overtly political, Ms. Radi had no love for either the government controlling Iraq or for the United States for repeatedly causing destruction in Baghdad, her native city.
Political events always made their way into the presentations.

        Susan Sontag, the novelist, essayist and critic whose impassioned advocacy of the avant-garde and equally impassioned political pronouncements made her one of the most lionized presences -- and one of the most polarizing -- in 20th-century letters, died yesterday morning in Manhattan, where she lived.
