Ms. Lawry's political skills were evident throughout her career.
''
        Some friends said that the above-the-battle stance that she evidenced in ''The Last Wave'' and in other writing -- her diaries during the mid-'30's made scant mention of the large political and social questions of the day -- was a reflection, in part, of her privileged, sheltered upbringing.
Her movie career was essentially over, too, although she had solid parts in Gore Vidal's satirical political drama, ''The Best Man,'' and the Olivia de Havilland thriller ''Lady in a Cage,'' both in 1964.
Two weeks after resigning, Dr. Payton told The Washington Post that Mr. Brown was trying to turn the corps into an ''arrogant, elitist'' political organization intended ''to meddle in the affairs of foreign governments.
She tackled the delicate issue of loyalty in the political atmosphere of the 1950's by studying the impact of federal security measures on government employees.
Mrs. Robb, a political independent who had had training to become a legal secretary, was married to Gene Robb, who was the publisher of Capital Newspapers, including The Times Union of Albany.
After a lifetime of using money to make political points, Ms.
For many years, she scoured the morning mail weighing requests for money for political causes.
Their political sensibilities moved ever leftward.
He was not the first political visitor.
Mrs. Graham was one of the most powerful figures in American journalism and, for the last decades of her life, at the pinnacle of Washington's political and social establishments, a position this insecure wife and mother never imagined she would, or could, occupy.
Mr. Graham was immersed in building up The Washington Post, conducting negotiations to buy the rival Times-Herald and merging it with his paper, and waging political battles as The Post took on Senator Joseph McCarthy and his brand of anti-communism.
It eventually proved that what the Nixon administration characterized as a ''third-rate burglary'' was, instead, a scheme directed from the White House to illegally gather intelligence on the Democratic Party, discredit opponents of the administration and subvert the democratic political process.
In Washington she started to entertain the political elite at her home in Georgetown and an invitation from her came to be seen as second only to an invitation to the White House.
That's in the hands of certain people on the senior staff, who have never really accepted that there is a political power of women and that has to be addressed.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
Her personal and political creed was perhaps best summed up in a 1982 interview.
Ms. Sayre was proud of having covered every presidential political convention from the time she returned to this country, and she continued to work eight hours a day up until the time she entered the hospital.
Graham often commented on political and social issues, including the Depression and the Spanish Civil War.

        Barbara K. Olson, who was killed on Tuesday on the commercial jetliner that was hijacked and flown into the Pentagon, was well known to television viewers across the nation as a combative and confident political commentator representing the conservative Republican point of view.
Although Mrs. Olson was generally a take-no-prisoners advocate, Mr. Olson recalled on Tuesday that she recently told him she had come to believe that the national political debate had become too acrimonious.
While in college, where she studied political science, she worked one summer as a clerk at The Washington Post.
Because of John Hubley's political activism, they were blacklisted.
