In addition to being a beloved cultural figure in Sweden, she was also a powerful political force, successfully lobbying on issues like tax reform and improved conditions for farm animals.
Ms. Rivera often tangled with gay political leaders who favored a more conventional public front.
''
        The book's carefully worded subtitle, ''American Black Folktales,'' was itself a political statement, Ms. Hamilton later recalled.
From 1943 to 1945, she was a political adviser to Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell.
Moreover, in the early 1950's, the political storm surrounding Edward VIII's abdication in December 1936 to marry a twice-divorced American, Wallis Warfield Simpson, was a not-so-distant memory.
Despite her sophistication, she never lost a sense of delight and wonder at the friendships she enjoyed with many of the illustrious names in the fashion, arts, business and political worlds.
Despite her sophistication, she never lost a sense of delight and wonder at the friendships she enjoyed with many of the illustrious names in the fashion, arts, business and political worlds.
She was a pianist by training, a multilingual political scientist and a writer of fiction and of oceanic yearbooks.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.

        Robin Anderson, an Australian filmmaker whose award-winning documentaries ranged from examinations of tribal life in Papua New Guinea to social and political controversies in Australia, died here on March 8.
The film's success led the team to make ''Joe Leahy's Neighbors'' (1989), about the political and cultural struggles of a mixed-race coffee planter, and ''Black Harvest'' (1992), about land and money disputes and their escalation into tribal warfare.
Their best-known work, assembled from hundreds of hours of candid film, was ''Rats in the Ranks'' (1996), an often hilarious close-up look at small-town political infighting.
A best-selling novelist, diarist, short-story writer and political essayist, Ms. Rinser published about 30 books.
The other prisoners ranged from Jehovah's Witnesses to petty thieves, from discarded wives and mistresses to political prisoners.
A political prisoner herself, she suffered separation from her two fatherless children and endured near starvation and constant abuse.
Born in Madras on Oct. 30, 1943, Lakshmi grew up in a home filled with music and dance but studied political science at college before she asked her mother to give her formal lessons.
In 1946, she joined the political staff of the fledgling Die Zeit, newly licensed by the British occupation authority.
In 1955, she was promoted to head the political department of the weekly, which is noted as much for its coverage of culture and the economy as for its scrutiny of government.
She inherited much of her mother's political philosophy, becoming a member of the Jewish Labor Bund, an organization founded in Czarist Russia to promote a brand of Marxist socialism that would provide cultural autonomy for Jews.

        Barbara Anne Castle, a onetime Labor cabinet minister and determined socialist whose radical, ill-timed attempt to tame Britain's mighty trade unions doomed her political career, died yesterday.
Three years later, despite a lifetime's opposition to British membership of the European Common Market, as it was then called, Ms. Castle left the House of Commons and embarked on a second political career as a member of the European Parliament, where she spent the next 10 years fighting European federalism but supporting efforts to establish Europe-wide social standards.
Soon afterward she met Ted Castle, a political journalist, and married him in 1944.
''
        In 1952, Mr. Bevan published a personal political testament called ''In Place of Fear'' that greatly influenced Ms. Castle's thinking and largely explains how a self-proclaimed leftist like herself could set out to discipline Britain's powerful unions.
I'll write about a gastronomic binge, I'll write about NATO, I'll do an interview with Nureyev, I'll do a political piece.
In a spacious apartment near the French Parliament, Miss Lewis, a stylish but conservative dresser with memorably blue eyes, entertained the political and journalistic elite of Paris for more than a quarter of a century.
At the University of California, Berkeley, where she was a professor of African-American Studies, she founded Poetry for the People, which trains undergraduates to take poetry to community groups as a form of political empowerment.
I'll write about a gastronomic binge, I'll write about NATO, I'll do an interview with Nureyev, I'll do a political piece.
In a spacious apartment near the French Parliament, Miss Lewis, a stylish but conservative dresser with memorably blue eyes, entertained the political and journalistic elite of Paris for more than a quarter of a century.
Rosemary and her sister Betty began to sing publicly, at first for political rallies for her grandfather, who was mayor of Maysville, later at amateur contests throughout northern Kentucky and southern Ohio.
Rosemary and her sister Betty began to sing publicly, at first for political rallies for her grandfather, who was mayor of Maysville, later at amateur contests throughout northern Kentucky and southern Ohio.
Friends suggested that the government was at fault for failing to cover the rather modest renovation costs as it was supposed to, but that Mrs. Olmedo refused to make any public statements that might hurt her political relationships or cast her as too stingy to foot the bill.
After the war this evolved into Theater Workshop, which toured with plays of social or political significance both in Britain and on the Continent.
But her political problems did not reignite.

        Elizabeth Longford, the best-selling biographer and political activist who was the widow of the social reformer Lord Longford and the matriarch of a family that bred other well-known writers, died on Wednesday at her home in Sussex.
She wrote about royals and political figures into her 90's, publishing her last book, a brief history called ''Queen Victoria,'' in 1999.
Or they don't give to political movements.
The previous year, she had married Kurt Neumann, a political scientist.
But her purpose was more than a matter of presentation: she sought to demonstrate how books of artistically bold pictures could also yield social and political meanings beyond the purview of art and thus appeal to broad audiences.
She was also a founder and trustee of the League of Women Voters Education Fund, the organization's educational arm, and was president of the league's Overseas Education Fund, which encourages political activity among women abroad, from 1959 to 1964.
Born Anne-Marie Huth Jackson to titled English parents in Savoie, France, she graduated from Oxford University in 1930 and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science in 1932.
