Dr. Baumgartner was an early advocate of the Salk vaccine to immunize the public against polio, and one of her last achievements as health commissioner was to win a political battle to fluoridate the city's water supply to prevent tooth decay.
Her autobiography, "By the Political Sea," came out in 1970.
Miss Carter was a professor of political science at Smith College from 1943 to 1964, where she held the Sophia Smith Chair from 1961 to 1964.
"I don't believe in inevitability," she said in an interview about the political struggle in South Africa.
She was the author of "The Crisis of the English Constitution" (Rutgers University Press, 1949); "The Political Thought of Sir Henry Vane the Younger" (University of Pennsylvania, 1969); "From Tradition to Political Reality" (Archon Books, 1980); and "Breaking the Barrier: A Professional Autobiography by a Woman Educator and Historian Before the Women's Movement" (Rutgers Univesity Press, 1984).
She was the author of "The Crisis of the English Constitution" (Rutgers University Press, 1949); "The Political Thought of Sir Henry Vane the Younger" (University of Pennsylvania, 1969); "From Tradition to Political Reality" (Archon Books, 1980); and "Breaking the Barrier: A Professional Autobiography by a Woman Educator and Historian Before the Women's Movement" (Rutgers Univesity Press, 1984).
Served on Rights Panel
        In the 1960's, she was a member of the Kennedy and Johnson Commissions on the Status of Women, serving on the committee on political and civil rights.
She was a political associate of Gov.
Moon was also the founder of the Camden County chapter of the National Political Congress of Black Women.
Miss Payne joined The Chicago Defender in 1951 as political correspondent.
She criticized apartheid in South Africa and protested the sentencing of a Soviet dissident, Vladimir Bukovsky, and political arrests in Czechoslovakia.
"What sustains interest in the long run is political power.
Tiananmen Date Passes Quietly
        In fact, the Tiananmen anniversary passed quietly today, and Ms. Jiang's death seems unlikely to have any major impact on the Chinese political scene.
Apparently because of indignation at the divorce of the second wife and a sense of impropriety that Ms. Jiang was just 24 years old while Mao was 45, party officials reportedly insisted that Mao could marry Ms. Jiang only if she never exercised any political power.
Even Prime Minister Zhou Enlai, revered by many Chinese, bent with the political winds, but after she was arrested and faced the possibility of a death sentence, Ms. Jiang did not renounce her fervent Maoism.
Actors were then scorned in China, but the theater was dominated by leftist politics and increased her political awareness.
Center of Political Uproar
        Fala became the center of a political uproar in the 1944 Presidential campaign, when Republicans charged that the Navy had sent a warship to rescue the dog after he had been left behind during a visit by President Roosevelt to the Aleutian Islands.
Center of Political Uproar
        Fala became the center of a political uproar in the 1944 Presidential campaign, when Republicans charged that the Navy had sent a warship to rescue the dog after he had been left behind during a visit by President Roosevelt to the Aleutian Islands.
in political science from George Washington University.
Under the Local 237 retiree program, which Mrs. Feinstein founded in 1980, more than 5,000 members participate in classes, community projects and political activities as well as the customary social activities, trips and health-care seminars offered by labor unions.
Before joining Local 237, she was director of legislation and political education for the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees in New York State.
In politics, in addition to her work with Mr. Patterson, she helped organize the New York City Black Political Convention in 1982.
From 1936 to 1939, she attended the University of Pennsylvania, where she concentrated in political science.
"I work in the political field because I believe that everyone in a community has duties as well as rights," Mrs. Tree said in 1961.
She died of pneumonia, said Charles Peters, editor in chief of the magazine, which specializes in investigation and analysis of political and governmental affairs.
In politics, in addition to her work with Mr. Patterson, she helped organize the New York City Black Political Convention in 1982.
She was a graduate of Vassar College and of Columbia Law School, and she had received a master's degree in political science from New York University.
In 1961 she worked for George Hinman, a political adviser to Rockefeller when he was Governor of New York, and became the Governor's executive assistant in 1965.
At the same time as she feels a political involvement -- and takes action on that basis -- she does not permit this to encroach on her writings.
"The Nobel Peace Prize is a political award," Professor Allen said, "and it will be announced in Oslo.
Her works have a political basis, but her writing is different.

        Roberta Strauss Feuerlicht, an author of 18 books of history and biography who frequently espoused liberal social and political causes, died yesterday of congestive heart failure, her husband said.
