Her newsletter became required reading in the industry for information on explorations, refining, supplies, prices and political trends.
From 1948 to 1950 she was a political officer for the United Nations Department of Security Council Affairs.
She graduated from Antioch College in 1964 and received her master of science and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Chicago.
Under her leadership, the organization became a strong advocate for peace and national unity, fighting against religious, racial and political bigotry.
Ms. Kang was not active in political power struggles, but she appeared periodically to greet children or to congratulate the Women's Federation on various achievements.
Germany's senior political leaders were lavish in their tributes to Miss Dietrich this week.

        Grace T. Hamilton, a pioneer in racial integration who worked to give blacks a political voice in Atlanta, died on Wednesday at the Briarcliff Haven Nursing Home in Atlanta.
She worked to consolidate the antiquated system of diverse state and local courts, give proper financing and modern management, provide for discipline in instances of judicial misconduct, eliminate political abuses and promote merit selection of jurists.
"She was always at the center of the movement to improve the system, someone we and political leaders and other groups always looked up to.
Broad Spectrum of Causes
        Among the issues she championed were liberalized voter registration laws, permanent political primary schedules, equitable welfare benefits and education aid, impartial legislative redistricting, an improved automobile insurance system and the release of mental patients from state institutions to local residences with support services.
She worked to consolidate the antiquated system of diverse state and local courts, give them proper financing and modern management, provide for discipline in instances of judicial misconduct, eliminate political abuses and promote merit selection of jurists.
"She was always at the center of the movement to improve the system, someone we and political leaders and other groups always looked up to.
Broad Spectrum of Causes
        Among the issues she championed were liberalized voter registration laws, permanent political primary schedules, equitable welfare benefits and education aid, impartial legislative redistricting, an improved automobile insurance system and the release of mental patients from state institutions to local residences with support services.
She was a member of the Presidium of the National Liberation Front, the political form of the Vietcong.
The Group infused its work with new psychological insights, naturalistic style and political content.
The Group infused its work with new psychological insights, naturalistic style and political content.

        Millicent H. Fenwick, a retired Republican Congresswoman renowned for her political independence and championing of liberal causes, died yesterday at her home in Bernardsville, N.J. She was 82 years old.
Watchdog of Helsinki Accords
        On her substantive record, she won the respect of her political peers, sometimes grudgingly, for her advocacy on a wide variety of issues, including civil rights, peace in Vietnam, aid for asbestos victims, help for the poor, prison reform, strip-mining controls, reduction of military programs, urban renewal, campaign spending limits, gun control and restrictions on capital punishment.
"
        Mrs. Fenwick's political career flourished with age.
She placed her assets in a blind trust to avoid political conflicts of interest.
Professor Shklar specialized in 18th, 19th, and 20th century political and intellectual theory.
From 1989 to 1990 she was president of the American Political Science Association, the first woman to head the nation's largest professional organization of political scientists.
From 1989 to 1990 she was president of the American Political Science Association, the first woman to head the nation's largest professional organization of political scientists.
Her father, Loren G. Disney, was a lawyer and a local political figure.
"Personal and political agendas were pretty much put aside, and thoughtful people struggled with difficult issues.
She was active in many literary and political organizations and a founding member of Women of Color Press and Sisterhood in Support of Sisters in South Africa.
The campaign led to international sanctions against South Africa and ultimately to President F. W. de Klerk's offer of political change and to Mr. Mandela's release in 1990.
It was colored by years of living in different parts of Europe -- she moved to Brittany in 1923, then lived in Paris and elsewhere -- and by social and political concerns.
Professor Lorwin specialized in the psychological analysis of political violence.
