
        Beth Fallon, a political reporter and columnist whose thrice-weekly columns in The Daily News and The New York Post brought an irreverent eye to city life in the 1970's and 80's, died Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
In an era of fiscal crisis and political unrest, she was an indomitable presence at City Hall.
''She was known for being a popular, funny playwright, but she was also a woman and a writer of deep conviction and political activism,'' Mr. Bishop said.
''My work is often thought of as lightweight commercial comedy,'' she told The Paris Review in 1997, ''and I have always thought, No, you don't understand: this is in fact a political act.
She was an advocate for women's rights, the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, and other social and political issues.

        Peggy Appiah, who as a daughter of a British chancellor of the exchequer defied the conventions of her time by marrying an Ashanti political leader and who went on to become an author and a revered figure in her adopted homeland, Ghana, died Saturday in Kumasi, Ghana.
Nkrumah was Ghana's first president, and Mr. Appiah was a close associate and his choice for vice president, until political differences led Nkrumah to imprison him several times.
She received her undergraduate degree with honors in political science from Swarthmore in 1986 and a law degree from New York University School of Law in 1989.
With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
With Gloria Steinem, Bella Abzug and others, she founded the National Women's Political Caucus in 1971.
But by the end of the decade, the spotlight had shifted to poets like Denise Levertov and Adrienne Rich, whose work was overtly political.
When her mother married Henry Alexander, a political scientist at the University of Arkansas, the family moved to Fayetteville.
Ms. Caldwell's constant search for financial support led her into a political quagmire in 1982.
But in reality Mrs. Marcos was financing the center to help build her political power base.
Ms. Gaines earned a bachelor's degree in history and political science from Hunter College in 1944, a master's from New York University in 1947 and a doctorate in education from Harvard in 1969.
While working full time, she attended Columbia University's School of General Studies for two years and took courses in geology, zoology, law, political science and economics.
She captivates her students and enriches their lives while exerting unnatural control, grooming them to serve her will, whether in the bed of one of her lovers, as her personal spy or as a martyr to one of her political causes.
''The Left Coast of Paradise: California and the American Heart,'' a collection of essays published in 1987, included pieces on the political philosopher Herbert Marcuse, on a neurotic elephant and on a philosophically minded pimp.
Her published verse originated mostly as print or radio journalism, and her monologues often referred to the news, with shrewd social and political commentary.
Before long, by dint of reading self-improvement books, Ms. Walker had learned to ''join everything, give everybody a card, join a political club,'' as she told The New York Times in 1989.

        Victoria Jackson Gray Adams, a key figure in the struggle by Mississippi blacks to win their political and civil rights in the 1960's and the first woman to seek a seat in the United States Senate from her state, died Aug. 12 in Baltimore.
The time had come, she said, to pay attention ''to the Negro in Mississippi, who had not even had the leavings from the American political table.
''We had women, men, African-Americans, whites,'' Mrs. Gray Adams said of the party in a 2004 interview for the Virginia Organizing Project, a grass-roots political group she helped found.
It was the beginning of the end of an old political tradition.
''
        She continued: ''We eliminated the isolation of the African-Americans from the political process.

        Alice Stone Ilchman, an economist and political scientist who was president of Sarah Lawrence College for nearly 20 years, died on Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 71.
If one Mr. Bush closed out her political career, another figured into her rise, as a target of her barbs.
''
        Her saucy, plain-spoken keynote address, borrowing from the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory, was one of the year's political highlights.
After entering rehabilitation, she stopped drinking in 1980 and later said that the decision to seek help had saved her life and salvaged her political career.
Loyalty issues were becoming a national political flash point, although mainly in the context of the cold war, and the American Legion and the powerful columnist and broadcaster Walter Winchell had spoken out against Mrs. D'Aquino.
Ms. Holmes's son-in-law, Mr. Koshel, said he once showed her the picture and suggested that it was an indication of her political point of view.
''
        Her acidic, plain-spoken keynote address was one of the year's political highlights and catapulted the one-term Texas governor into a national figure.
''We're gonna tell how the cow ate the cabbage,'' she said, bringing the great tradition of vernacular Southern oratory to the national political stage in a way that transformed the mother of four into an revered icon of feminist activism.
In 1976, Ms. Richards defeated a three-term incumbent to become a commissioner in Travis County, which includes Austin, and held that job for four years, though she later said her political commitment put a strain on her marriage, which ended in divorce.
She also began to drink heavily, eventually going into rehabilitation, a move that she later credited with salvaging her life and her political career.
''
        Her encounters with feminism in college became the basis of a political activism that permeated much of what she did.
She endured political turmoil most Westerners fled.
Her eldest son, Lt. Gen. Liu Yuan, was appointed a political commissar of the Academy of Military Sciences, a rank equivalent to a cabinet minister, according to Reuters.
''
        Ms. Lilienthal was involved in other political and philanthropic causes.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
A newspaper and magazine columnist, movie actress, publisher, writer of radio soap operas, advertising executive and civic fund-raiser, she lived at the center of Manhattan social life, entertaining successive generations of the city's artistic and political elite, first as the wife of the Random House co-founder Bennett Cerf, then as the wife of former Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
''In Bob Wagner's day, it was political people mixing with powerful people from the private sector.
As a writer, she was best known for her political essays, which appeared in The Nation, Dissent and elsewhere.
In an essay in The New York Times in 1999, Ms. Willis wrote:
        ''The Lewinsky scandal has prompted an impassioned national conversation on the relationship of the political to the personal, public authority to private behavior; on sexual privacy versus 'family values'; on female sexual autonomy and victimization.
) She also took some members of the American left to task for what she saw as anti-Semitism thinly veiled as political animus toward Israel.
Her public diplomacy made her a national political figure.
She changed her political affiliation after leaving the Reagan administration and thought hard about seeking the Republican nomination for president.
Ms. Kirkpatrick was a political science professor with no diplomatic experience when she arrived at the United Nations in February 1981.
Fifteen years her senior, he was a veteran of the wartime Office of Strategic Services, and he soon became the head of the American Political Science Association.
The next year, she earned a doctorate in political science at Columbia University.
