Her political career began in 1930 with her election to the Maine House.
At the same time, she was, as the wife of one of Jamaica's leading political figures, Norman Washington Manley, a major patron of the arts.
In 1921 she married her first cousin, a Rhodes scholar and lawyer who founded the People's National Party in Jamaica and helped lead his country to political independence in 1962.
As an associate editor of The Times in charge of the Op-Ed page from 1974 to 1982, she brought an eclectic approach to a broad range of commentary and analysis on major social, economic and political issues of the day.
She covered a number of national political conventions, including the violence-wracked Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, as well as Presidential campaigns and inaugurations.
Describing his eldest son, Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, she wrote about the heir to a political dynasty:
        ''Down the swaying train he went, putting out his hand in 19 of the other 20 cars saying, 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' while outside in the early afternoon sun, the old men of Linden, N.J., stood silently in their undershirts and the women held handkerchiefs to their faces.
Her political career, which ended in 1983 when the at-large Council seats were abolished, was devoted largely to education and consumer causes.
She also held posts in other civic and political organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; the National Democratic Committee; the Salvation Army Advisory Committee, and St. Mary's Hospital.
She was born on Staten Island, was a graduate of Hunter College and Columbia University and received a doctorate in political philosophy from Fordham University in 1935.
Many of her often oversized sculptures of heads or figures in stone, bronze and clay reflected her social and political concerns.
''
        Her penthouse apartment on East 57th Street, Manhattan, drew the social, artistic and political types who peopled Vanity Fair's pages.
She became managing editor, injecting more political material in an effort to revive the magazine.
