'', a book published in 1934 about American young people, and a memoir, ''A Political Virgin,'' published in 1938.

       Anne Ackerman, a political worker whose support was courted by candidates for condominum board member to President, died of cancer Monday at her home.
Anne Ackerman, a political worker whose support was courted by candidates for condominum board member to President, died of cancer Monday at her home.
Her political activity was honed in Chicago in the campaigns of Mayor Richard J. Daley and accelerated when she moved to a Florida waterfront condominium in 1969.

       June Watkins, a former actress who was active in civic and political affairs, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Providence, R.I. She was 73 years old.
June Watkins, a former actress who was active in civic and political affairs, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Providence, R.I. She was 73 years old.
Weston writes seriously, carefully compassionately; she is not interested in the glamorous East or in the boosting of this or that political creed; she writes for those who are emotionally involved in the country and who love it.
Ms. Lernoux, who had lived in Latin America since 1962, was a knowledgeable interpreter of religious and political changes in the Catholic Church.
But her notoriety in literary circles stemmed less from the scandal quotient of her fiction than from her adversarial literary and political stands.
'' ''The Group,'' a chatty gossip sheet about the lives of eight Vassar women, was conceived as a study of the illusory idea of social and political progress that captivated so many young people in the 1930's.
'' 'To Know How to Adapt'
        In what may have been her last major statement, Mrs. Ibarruri reflected her own political mellowing late in life when she told the 12th Party Congress in February 1988: ''Life doesn't stop.
''
        The burial ceremony is sure to be a major political event here.

       Maria C. Sanchez, a Connecticut State Representative who built a political base from a small convenience store in Hartford, died on Saturday at her home there.
Maria C. Sanchez, a Connecticut State Representative who built a political base from a small convenience store in Hartford, died on Saturday at her home there.
In the early 1950's political critics and members of Congress charged that she was a Communist Party member.
