She was 52 and the founding editor of Newsline, Pakistan's most influential political monthly.
In the political turmoil of Pakistan and the violent chaos of Karachi, Mrs.  Bhatti and her magazine represented a consistent voice for democracy, social improvement and the freedom to publish unpopular views.
After attending school in Saigon, Miss Duras moved to France at the age of 18 to study law and political science.
Yet perhaps her strongest political stance was her contempt for Gen. Charles de Gaulle.
Ms. Gilbert, a graduate of Syracuse University in political journalism, was  a founder and co-director of the City University Law School's Defender Clinic, a member of the board of directors of the National Conference of Black Lawyers and past chairwoman of the conference's Section on Criminal Justice.
By 1992, she had become so prominent in Hispanic political and civic circles  that Mayor David N. Dinkins named her to the city's Commission on Human Rights,  a position she relinquished when Mr. Dinkins left office.
She joined Reuther in squashing a notion that labor should chart its own political course rather than stick to its alliance with the Democrats.
She selected college and in 1948 graduated from Swarthmore College with a degree in political science.
A competitive writer with a streak of indignation -- "Mary had the kind of anger that made abolitionists," said a former colleague, Jerry Tallmer, the writer -- she wrote extensively about organized crime and political corruption and was among the loudest critics of the Lower Manhattan Expressway and then Westway.
She was born in Jersey City and graduated in political science and urban studies from St. Peter's College.
Her father was a political reporter for The Chicago  Tribune.
Born June 30, 1925, on Manhattan's Lower East Side, and raised in the South Bronx, she first engaged the political establishment of the Upper West Side when she moved there in 1959 with her husband, Paul, a printer for The New York Times and a scholar in African history.

        Guillermina Rico, a lemon peddler who bargained her way to wealth and power as the head of a political machine she forged from the ranks of Mexico City's itinerant vendors, died on Wednesday of a cerebral hemorrhage.
Ms. Lear made a name for herself among feminists, working in political campaigns, including Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign in 1968; with the National Organization for Women on behalf of the Equal Rights Amendment, which was not ratified; as a partner in an executive search firm specializing in placing women, and as a writer, producing articles for a number of national publications.
Despite the uproar that surrounded Mrs. Farkas's appointment and a delay in her Senate confirmation, her posting caused little stir in the tiny grand duchy of Luxembourg, which was accustomed to Americans whose path to ambassadorships was paved with political contributions.
She maintained close ties with the Government, gave quiet and unpretentious parties and, unlike many envoys, avoided making political statements about United States policy.
The cause was cancer, said Jan M. Johnson, executive editor of City News in Plainfield, N.J., for which Mrs. Woodruff wrote political commentary until her illness was diagnosed in the spring.
Her writing bears out her interest in the relationship between esthetics, morality and society and her determination to express moral judgments -- her critics said moralistic judgments -- on literature and the political issues of the day.
Perhaps it was this disaffection that led her to think of herself as a rationalist bent on exposing empty slogans and ideas -- political, literary and cultural.
She and her husband operated a small hotel cum cafe until Mrs. Knutson, a populist inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt, got the political bug and made a successful run for the Minnesota Legislature in 1950.
A tireless campaigner who accompanied herself on the accordion while singing her own campaign song in a lilting soprano, she stunned the Minnesota political establishment when she won the 1954 Congressional election, and when she got to Washington she stunned Congress even more.
Mrs. Knutson was an independent-minded woman, and she made her share of political enemies along the way.
Once the resulting ''Coya, Come Home,'' newspaper headline was carried across the country, it created a firestorm of publicity that accepted Mr. Knutson's story as the plaintive truth and portrayed his wife as an uncaring wife who had abandoned her family for political ambition.
'' There was never any doubt that the ''Coya, Come Home,'' campaign had cost Mrs. Knutson the election, and as it turned out, her political career.
With her distinctly personal style of journalism, she rendered detailed observation with a sense of political urgency.
Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party.
And her home, which had been a literary and political social center in the 1930's, was hopping once again.
Miss Donovan began her career in the Foreign Service in 1948, serving in the Philippines, Italy and Japan, where she was a political liaison officer.
Beginning in 1912, when she began working as a secretary and reader at The American Magazine and met such writers as John Reed, Ida Tarbell and Walter Lippmann, she combined literary zeal with political advocacy.
Ms. Jordan, the first black elected to Congress from Texas after Reconstruction, retired from the House in 1979 after three terms to teach political ethics at the university's Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs, never losing her potent talent for public speaking even from the confines of a wheelchair.
A consummate politician from her earliest days in the Texas Legislature, Ms. Jordan won a seat on the House Judiciary Committee though only  a freshman by importuning her political mentor and friend, former President Lyndon B. Johnson, to pull some strings.
Ms. Jordan's political prowess saw her ascend to the post of Speaker pro tem  in the Texas Senate six years after having arrived there as a political oddity and an outcast.
Ms. Jordan's political prowess saw her ascend to the post of Speaker pro tem  in the Texas Senate six years after having arrived there as a political oddity and an outcast.
"She was most concerned that the Constitution not be distorted for political reasons.
Even amid the political turmoil of 1974, when Congresswoman Jordan contended  that the Watergate conspirings had put the nation "on the edge of repression and tyranny," the outspoken Texan still led with her optimism.
