
        Carole Kent Kneeland, vice president for news at KVUE-TV in Austin, Tex., and one of the first television news directors to de-emphasize sensational crime and introduce ''truth tests'' in news reports about political advertising, died on Monday at her home in Austin.
' ''
        In 1990 she initiated a ''truth test'' format for political advertising, in which the station would prepare news reports analyzing candidates' claims in such ads.
She is survived by her husband, Dave McNeely, political columnist for the Austin American-Statesman; her parents, Sandy and Lorrainne Kent of Austin; two stepdaughters, Michelle Mueller of Houston and Candace McGriffy of Austin; and a brother, Gale Kent of Littleton, Colo.
      

        Dorothy Hart Hirshon, a glamorous figure in New York society from the 1920's through the 40's who later became active in social, human rights and political causes, died Thursday in an automobile accident while driving near her home in Glen Cove, on Long Island.
''
        Over the years, Mrs. Smith wrote, Mr. Paley's wife had an impact on him -- ''her political leanings, appetite for news, taste in art and sense of style.
Through her long work with the Saints Peter and Paul Antiochian Orthodox Church in Bethesda, Md., Mrs. Haje had gotten to know and impress many of Washington's leading Arab-American figures, and in 1972 when a group of them formed the National Association of Arab-Americans as the first political Arab-American organization, Mrs. Haje suddenly found herself in the forefront of a movement.
''On the other hand, it is often serious in a political sense and therefore, not entirely right for the women's page.
Ms. Gellhorn sometimes took criticism from political conservatives, who painted her as a left-leaning dilettante whose writing was often didactic and sentimental.
A Government commission found in the mid-1980's that at least 9,000 people had been killed or disappeared during the right-wing military Government's crackdown on political opponents.
She inherited the bulk of one of the great American fortunes when Jock Whitney -- sportsman, financier, publisher of The New York Herald Tribune, philanthropist, political mover and shaker, and Ambassador to Britain -- died in 1982.
Five hundred leaders of the social and political worlds of Boston and New York watched the bride, in a floor-length gown of silver lame, exchange vows with the son of the Governor of New York and his wife.
But much of what Ms. Abzug agitated for -- abortion rights, day care, laws against employment discrimination -- was by that time mainstream political fare.
Of her time in the House, Ms. Abzug wrote in a journal that was published in 1972 as ''Bella,'' ''I spend all day figuring out how to beat the machine and knock the crap out of the political power structure.
A founder of Women Strike for Peace and the National Women's Political Caucus, she spent a lifetime prodding for change, with a lawyer's enthusiasm for political channels, through organizations from the P.T.A.
A founder of Women Strike for Peace and the National Women's Political Caucus, she spent a lifetime prodding for change, with a lawyer's enthusiasm for political channels, through organizations from the P.T.A.
Our struggle was political, ideological and economic, and we felt we couldn't make something of ourselves unless we bettered society.
Campaign Became A Women's Crusade
        At this point, Bella Abzug became national news, a flash of local color in a political year.
Though she eventually took 55 percent of the vote, she had genuine Republican opposition, unusual in an era when New York's main political action consisted of various Democratic factions knifing one another.
I'm always thinking about other things, about Congress, about the issues, about the political coalition I'm trying to organize.
In an interview in 1970, he murmured, while his wife was out of the room, ''The political bug is a curious bug.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Newton College of the Sacred Heart in Newton, Mass., and a master's degree in political science from Rutgers University.
The author of many short stories, novels and works of nonfiction, Mrs. Douglas was best known for her 1947 call to arms, ''The Everglades: River of Grass,'' which was at once a natural and political history and a  warning of what was to come if developers and other commercial interests were permitted to have their way with the unique wetlands that cover much of southern Florida.

        Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
In 1937, she received a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.
Attracted to the political left since college, she raised money for the Spanish loyalist cause from fellow passengers on the voyage over, and after a heady tour of the continent returned to the United States eager to attend graduate school.
She set up housekeeping in Cambridge, Mass., while he completed his doctorate at Harvard and she plunged into the local leftist political scene, campaigning for Henry Wallace in the 1948 Presidential race.
A high-spirited woman with an engaging manner, Dr. Lansing made a powerful impact on at least one political associate.
According to family legend, after a single political meeting in Boston, the actor Zero Mostel was so taken with Dr. Lansing that he followed her to a bus stop, pretended he was her abandoned husband and in an impromptu performance worthy of the Broadway stage made an impassioned plea that she return to him and their babies.
In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.
By the time she obtained her doctorate in 1970, Dr. Lansing had come up with the findings that would make her reputation in feminist political circles.
One reason for the delay between the dissertation and the book was that after her husband died in 1970, she concentrated on her teaching at Eastern Michigan while stepping up her political activities, unsuccessfully running for several offices, including a House seat.
She fared better as a scholar, analyzing a variety of political opinion and exit polls to establish that women's voting patterns were different from men's and that the differences were statistically significant.
''
        Correction:  June 27, 1998, Saturday  An obituary on May 11 about Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist, misstated the location of her alma mater, Florida State College for Women.
Her eclectic, academic work, in a career spanning nearly 70 years, ranged from impressionistic landscapes to political allegories, and from cubistic depictions of African sculptures to realistic portraits.
She waged an eight-year struggle against  financial and political obstacles to establish the home.
Coming in the early years of reform under Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Churbanov case sent an important political signal: that no one was above the law.
Her work was not overtly political, tending to more lyrical depictions of vanity, longing, love and misunderstanding.
An energetic conversationalist and inveterate storyteller who was less than five feet tall, Miss West kept her distance from the political upheavals of her lifetime.

        Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman during political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died today at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis.

        Muriel Humphrey Brown, who grew from a shy girl from South Dakota into a confident woman in the political campaigns for her first husband, Hubert H. Humphrey, and then was named to fill his seat in the Senate at his death in 1978, died on Sunday at Abbott Northwestern Hospital in Minneapolis.
Ms. Kay wrote ''Political Constructions'' (Cornell University Press, 1988), which examined the political history, moral philosophy and fiction between the English civil war and the French Revolution.
From 1952 until 1964, she and her husband ran The Times's bureau in Ottawa, where they became prominent figures in Canada's political and journalistic circles.
Correction:  November 10, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Oct. 25 about Dr. Mary S. Calderone, who battled political and religious groups to take sex education to schools, misstated her political affiliation.
Correction:  November 10, 1998, Tuesday  An obituary on Oct. 25 about Dr. Mary S. Calderone, who battled political and religious groups to take sex education to schools, misstated her political affiliation.
She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1942 married Warren Goff, a law student who became a lighting consultant.
A native of Havana, where her father was a prominent doctor, she attended a convent school in Key West, Fla., then moved to New York with her mother during a period of political instability in Cuba in the 1920's.
''
        Her death, which prompted a wave of tributes from French political and cultural figures, came less than one week after that of Jean Marais, the handsome, swashbuckling French actor who played opposite Ms. Feuillere in Jean Cocteau's 1947 film ''L'Aigle a Deux Tetes.
