Her articles often dealt with political matters, and she interviewed national and international figures.
"
        In four terms in the House, from 1941 to 1949, then four in the Senate through 1975, Mrs. Smith won friends and earned foes across a wide political spectrum.
"I don't want to see the Republican Party ride to political victory on the four horseman of calumny -- fear, ignorance, bigotry and smear," Mrs. Smith said.
"
        Shortly before his assassination, President Kennedy called Mrs. Smith a "formidable political figure" against whom he would not like to campaign.
Miss Teng was especially famous in China, where for much of the 1980's she was a litmus test of the political winds: when the authorities eased controls, her music sold briskly in stalls in the tiniest towns; when the hard-liners clamped down, her music was banned.

        Jeanne-Marie Ruth-Rolland, an official of the Central African Republic who served as its Minister of Social Affairs in 1992 and 1993 after being imprisoned for five years for political reasons, died on June 4 in a hospital in Paris.
Mrs. Sawyer's husband, David H. Sawyer, a media and political consultant, died at 59 on July 2 while under treatment for a brain tumor.

        Eleanore Griffin, a Hollywood writer who shared an Academy Award for a story that became part of a political debate more than half a century later, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 91.
It was a story whose uplifting message reverberated through the political atmosphere last year when Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, cited the movie as evidence that private philanthropic efforts could make up for cuts in Government spending on social benefits.
Back in Houston, she renewed her political contacts and expanded the circulation of The Post, where she was an executive vice president and a director of KPRC, which came to include not only the AM station but also FM and television outlets.
Miss Brooks was active in promoting her husband's political career and that of Kennedy, who was their elder son's godfather.
Had it not been for the political division between the Nationalist and Communist Chinese, he said, she would have almost certainly won a Nobel Prize.
The Social Science Institute, formed in 1953 to print political and economic pamphlets written by Mr.
Her father, George, had already set a precedent for political opposition through the press -- he was jailed by a series of Greek Governments for his discourse, and refused to cooperate with Nazis when they took over one of his papers in 1941.
And Mrs. Fisher's campaign, which had won wide backing from the state's college teachers and students, had changed the political climate in Oklahoma.
A former Republican campaign worker who had translated her political skills into a job peddling songs for a local songwriters, Mrs. Greenberg, who had been  married to an accountant, had already become a familiar figure on Tin Pan Alley, hobnobbing with music-industry hopefuls at the old Turf restaurant on Broadway at 51st Street.
"History isn't just great political events," she said in 1955.
Ever restless and determined, Ms. McQueen, who had never completed college, graduated with a degree in political science from City College in 1975 at the age of 64.
      
Mrs. Miller was born in Highland Park, Ill. She received a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College in 1921, a diploma in economics from Oxford University in 1922 and a doctorate in political science from the University of Chicago in 1928.
Many of her stories focused on men and women living in black neighborhoods in big cities or small Southern towns -- as  one reviewer put it, "young women and men who formed their political convictions in the fury of the 60's and find themselves gasping for air in the torpor of the 70's, manicurists, singers and students struggling to trim the rhetoric of their wishes to the smaller, tighter fit of reality.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
But she chose Joseph Kennedy, a political lieutenant of her father.
After the war, as John's political career began, Mrs. Kennedy took to the campaign trail with extraordinary zest and considerable effectiveness, speaking at women's functions and shaking hands and chatting at rallies and other functions.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
" Early Introduction To Political Life
        Rose Fitzgerald was born in Boston on July 22, 1890, the oldest of six children of an exuberant politician and his wife, the former Josephine Mary Hannon.
But she chose Joseph Kennedy, a political lieutenant of her father.
After the war, as John's political career began, Mrs. Kennedy took to the campaign trail with extraordinary zest and considerable effectiveness, speaking at women's functions and shaking hands and chatting at rallies and other functions.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy's church, children and grandchildren today celebrated the enduring Catholic faith of the founding mother of a political dynasty at funeral services in the church where she was baptized 104 years ago.
She was the political director at the Democratic National Convention in 1988, as well as director of candidate and Congressional relations at the 1992 national convention.
She became a political advocate as a college student in Calcutta, returned to her native area and worked with Surya Ben, a pro-independence militant who became an anti-British rebel leader and eventually was hanged in 1933.
Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Futas was a political science graduate of Brooklyn College.

        Ruth Caridad Silva, a political scientist and authority on Presidential succession and legislative apportionment, died on Saturday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. She was 74 and lived in State College.
