Before she was 20, she enrolled in the Wuchang Central Political and Military School.

        Margaret Hart Ferraro, a New York stripteaser who went on to become a savvy real estate investor, political wife and society matron in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday after a long illness.
They were married in 1960 and teamed for several of his political campaigns, including the senator's 1988 stab at the Democratic presidential nomination.
She is survived by her half-brothers, the political writers Alexander, Andrew and Patrick Cockburn.
''
        The result was that her husband gave up flying, while she dropped out of the social and political life to devote herself to it.

        Polita Grau, a member of a prominent Cuban political family who helped to spirit thousands of children out of Castro's Cuba, which later jailed her for nearly 14 years as a C.I.A.
Both got 30-year sentences, but Ms. Grau was freed in 1978 when Mr. Castro released a large number of political prisoners as part of a relaxation encouraged by President Jimmy Carter.
As a university student studying sociology in Frankfurt, she became a political activist protesting the rise of Hitler's National Socialism.
Her husband, Joseph J. Sisco, a former under secretary of state for political affairs and a former president of American University, joined the firm in 1981.
Harpers issued a statement from Mr. Williams saying the book had ''no political significance.
At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
in political science at the University of Arkansas in 1967.

        Jane Prizant Gilman, a lawyer who was long active in civic, civil  rights and political organizations, died June 7 in Middletown, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in Hudson, N.Y., and Middletown.

        Mary Benson, an author, journalist and political campaigner who wrote passionately about the struggle for racial equality in her native South Africa,  died at home in London on Monday, her literary agent, Felicity Bryan, said.
'' In 1964, after reporting on the political trials that resulted in long prison terms for the A.N.C.
Though their political influence is marginal, such groups play a significant role in bringing social issues to the attention of member states.
He was forced to leave the United States because of his political views, said Dr. Martin's third and last husband, Robert J. Schwartz.
In the 1960's Ms. Admiral was active in the antiwar movement, often contributing work to shows based on political themes.
Her death from a heart attack on Election Day seemed poetically timed for a woman whose family business is politics and whose political career spanned four decades.
She also became the matriarch of a political dynasty.
She was a shrewd political leader with a wide base in the Sinhalese majority.
But the political family she had nurtured splintered in her later years.
But both the son, as a leader of the opposition, and the daughter, as president, have carried on the family's political tradition.
      
For two decades, Ms. Logan was the dean of the City Hall press corps, a diminutive figure in black with an encyclopedic knowledge of the city's social and political history.
''
        In her City Hall reporting, she earned a reputation for saving every scrap of news about the political figures she covered and forgetting nothing they had said.
Ms. Logan's writing often pierced political rhetoric.
But by the end of the decade she had transformed herself and her poetry -- a reflection of the new political dynamics that were sweeping across all the Bronzevilles of America.
Much of the talk was devoted to ways of merging the concept of black art with the political concept of black power.

        Florynce Kennedy, a lawyer and political activist whose flamboyant attire and sometimes outrageous comments drew attention to her fierce struggle for civil rights and feminism, died on Thursday in her Manhattan apartment.
She fought in the courts and on the streets for abortion rights, represented Black Panthers, was a founding member of the National Women's Political Caucus and led a mass urination by women protesting a lack of women's restrooms at Harvard.
Within a few years, she was involved in her first political protest, helping organize a boycott when the local Coca-Cola bottler refused to hire black truck drivers.
''
        She turned to political activism, setting up an organization called the Media Workshop in 1966 to fight racism in journalism and advertising.
''
        Increasingly, her legal cases were almost always political.
But by the end of the decade she had transformed herself and her poetry, a change that reflected the new political dynamics that were sweeping across all the Bronzevilles of America.
Much of the talk was devoted to ways of merging black art with the political concept of black power.
