
       Coral Eaton Kinsolving, a former advertising and newspaper executive who was active in New York City community affairs and the management of Democratic political campaigns, died of cardiac arrest on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Coral Eaton Kinsolving, a former advertising and newspaper executive who was active in New York City community affairs and the management of Democratic political campaigns, died of cardiac arrest on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Figurehead of Movement
        When her husband died, Mrs. Franco became the figurehead of a loosely formed organization of Franco's political followers, called ''El Movimiento.
She said later that the Somoza aide, Gen. Reynaldo Perez Vega, was to have been abducted, interrogated and exchanged for 59 political prisoners.

       Hester R. McCullough, whose denunciation of two entertainers as Communist supporters became a nationwide political issue in the late 1940's, died of renal cancer Sunday at her home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 71 years old.
Hester R. McCullough, whose denunciation of two entertainers as Communist supporters became a nationwide political issue in the late 1940's, died of renal cancer Sunday at her home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. She was 71 years old.
Meanwhile, the charges had become a cause celebre among political columnists of the period.
In later years, she remained active in union and political work.
Mrs. Sullivan, the former Leonor Kretzer, began her political career after she married Representative John B. Sullivan in 1941.
She met her husband when she was a first-grade teacher at a school in Washington, where Mr. Bunche was a political science professor at Howard University.
''
        Given special responsibility for the arts in 1965 by Prime Minister Harold Wilson, she played a crucial political role in starting the Open University, which provided higher education by correspondence, over radio and television and at evening classes to many students who had had no other university-level studies.
Mrs. Cafritz combined wealth, effervescence and numerous contacts in business and government into a potent concoction of lavish entertainments that, in Washington, are as much a part of political life as sessions of Congress.
