Together they traveled for four decades and wrote several books on political, economic, social and cultural developments in Asia and Africa and on the islands of the Pacific and the Indian Ocean.
From 1961 to 1972, Mrs. Adloff taught political science at the University of California.
Campaigning With Truman
        Mrs. Edwards accompanied Mr. Truman, her political hero, on his 1948 campaign tour, where she repeatedly expressed her confidence in his victory at the polls.
She took part in the 1934-35 Long March, the Red Army's epic escape from the ruling Nationalists to northern China, and held political positions in the army.
She served as director of the Political Department of the Chinese military force in Korea during the Korean War.
      
She was also noted for her ''Ins and Outs'' column on New Year's Day, which covered political and social trends as well as fashion.
At all three networks, Miss Frederick had her own news programs, and she reported on political conventions, the United Nations and world affairs.
She majored in political science at American Unversity in Washington, where she received a master's degree in international law.
Miss Frederick made her first network broadcast from Washington in 1939, her first overseas broadcast from China in 1945, and her first network television broadcast from the national political conventions in Philadelphia in 1948.
In his 14 years in the House, she was closely associated with him in political campaigns and in legislative programs.
in political science from Columbia University in 1917.
Mrs. French was born into Philadelphia's Main Line society but spent most of her adult life in New York, where she was active in political causes and civic affairs.

       Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
Mary Abigail McCarthy, a professor at Yale University Law School who was highly visible in the political campaign waged by Eugene J. McCarthy, her father, in 1968, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 41 years old and lived in Branford.
She was an adviser on Latin America to many organizations and political leaders and was a member of a several organizations, including the Council on Foreign Relations, the Women's Economic Roundtable and the Society for International Development.
Mrs. Haris joined the Advertising Bureau in 1986 and was responsible for its national travel, tobacco and political advertising accounts.

       Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.
Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.

       Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best-known political families, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 51 years old.
Barbara Boggs Sigmund, the Mayor of Princeton and a member of one of the nation's best-known political families, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 51 years old.
The eye was removed and she continued with her political career.
Mrs. Sigmund was a graduate of Manhattanville College in Purchase, N.Y. She married Paul E. Sigmund, a professor of political science at Princeton, in 1964.
''There's no way to plan a political life,'' she said at the time.
'I Do What I Can'
        Mrs. Hirsch also worked on behalf of many political candidates and frequently wrote to legislators on issues about which she or her organizations were concerned.
Throughout a long literary career Mrs. Marsh was an inveterate writer of letters to editors, authors, political figures and government agencies.
She was a sharp critic of political polls (''fortune telling''), she opposed Sunday parades on Fifth Avenue (she lived a few steps off the avenue), and she was ever alert to catch misuse of the English language in print (she had taught English in her youth).
In recent years, because of political and moral objections to the sale of art, she became involved in public art projects and made an effort to withdraw her work from the market.
Mrs. Blake was active in civic and political circles, in particular the World Federalists, founded in 1938.
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.

        Ruth Catherine Lawson, a professor of political science at Mount Holyoke College for 34 years, died Friday at Linda Manor Extended Care Facility in Leeds, Mass.
