''
        Born in 1912, Mary Farmar attended Queens College in London and the London School of Economics and Political Science before marrying Charles Swinfen Eady, a baron, in 1937.

        Françoise Giroud, a widely admired French journalist who co-founded the political weekly L'Express and later served as France's first minister of women's affairs, died Sunday in the American Hospital of Paris.
In 1981, her own political views moved to the left: rather than backing either Mr. Giscard d'Estaing or Mr. Chirac, she endorsed the Socialist candidate, François Mitterrand, in his successful effort to win the presidency.
Ms. Giroud never returned to politics, but her weight as a commentator gave her considerable political influence.
She also became a prolific author of biographies, including those of Marie Curie and Alma Mahler, and of books of political and personal reflection.

        Evelyn Abrams Mauss, whose lifelong political activism began when she organized the Junior International League for Peace and Freedom as a 14-year-old in 1929, died on Saturday at the Peninsula Hospital Center in Queens.
While attending Yale, where she received a bachelor of arts degree in 1988, she organized gay and lesbian cultural and political events.
In 1992, she joined Michael Goff in creating Out magazine, where she extended the magazine's cultural and political focus, and attracted a range of advertisers, including Calvin Klein and General Motors, that had not previously appeared in gay publications.
She also studied issues like altruism and political ideology, and wrote psychobiographical works on historical figures including Nathaniel Hawthorne and Karl Marx's daughter Eleanor.
After the war, she moved to the San Francisco area, where for 12 years she was a secretary for Charles Garry, a lawyer whose clients included leading political dissidents and radicals.
Governor Blanchard's decision to replace her on his ticket in 1990 caused political furor in Michigan.
She was born on June 15, 1956, in Quincy, Mass., and grew up in Wilton, Conn. She graduated from Cornell and received a master's in political philosophy from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
She was born on June 15, 1956, in Quincy, Mass., and grew up in Wilton, Conn. She graduated from Cornell and received a master's in political philosophy from the London School of Economics and Political Science.
Soon she went back to Mayer with another script, ''Woman of the Year,'' the story of the unlikely romance between a hotshot political columnist and a sportswriter.
'' Her other films with Tracy included the political dramas ''Keeper of the Flame'' (1942) and ''State of the Union'' (1948).
By marrying sisters who shared their political goals they cemented that bond with family ties.
She and her husband, Milton Rogovin, suffered professionally in the 1950's as activists of the political left who protested the trial and sentencing of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg.
While many of her contemporaries drifted to the political left, she explored the mystique of Celtic history, magic and astronomy.
For political reasons, the wedding took place in Palermo the next year, with other European royalty and throngs of French royalists in attendance.
She joined the United Nations in 1970, at the same time beginning studies at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in political science and international relations in 1973.
But her revolutionary film techniques deeply influenced later generations of documentary makers and television commercial makers, keeping alive the debate over whether her talent could be separated from her prewar political views.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun Yat-sen.
        Madame Chiang became a true political partner to her husband, traveling with him, advising him on military and political matters, turning her charm on allies and foes alike.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun Yat-sen.
        Madame Chiang became a true political partner to her husband, traveling with him, advising him on military and political matters, turning her charm on allies and foes alike.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun Yat-sen.
        Madame Chiang became a true political partner to her husband, traveling with him, advising him on military and political matters, turning her charm on allies and foes alike.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
He also printed political pamphlets secretly for Sun Yat-sen, then working to overthrow China's last emperor.
Chiang Kai-shek, a severe-looking military aide to Sun who established a school for officers in southern China, may have been as attracted to the Soongs' financial and political connections as he was to their youngest daughter.
A small Christian ceremony was held at the Soong mansion on Seymour Road, followed by a political ceremony at the Majestic Hotel, beneath a portrait of Sun.
As a political partner to her husband, Madame Chiang developed what she called the New Life Movement, a series of principles for modernizing China through social discipline, courtesy and service.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
Ms. Ruderman was active in feminist and political causes.
in public administration from Syracuse in 1945 and a Ph.D. in American political institutions from Columbia in 1951.
She started as a lecturer at City College and the New School and returned to Hunter as an instructor in political science in 1956.
She was the academic dean at Yeshiva until 1981 and a political science professor until 1993.
Ms. Gustafson, the author of ''The Agony of the Leaves: The Ecstasy of My Life with Tea'' and ''The Green Tea User's Manual,'' even organized tea parties in Berkeley, a center of political radicalism, at which she requested that women wear gloves and hats.
