The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political tracts, book reviews and magazine articles ranged over the successive enthusiasms of her life: ancient Greece, socialism, genetics, science fiction, space, fascism in Spain, home rule for Scotland and independence movements in Africa, where she became the honorary mother of a tribe in Botswana.
Her survivors include two sons, Dr. Matthew Freund of Miami Beach; and Harry I. Freund of Harrison, N.Y. and Manhattan; 5 grandchildren; 10 great-grandchildren and 2 stepdaughters, Midge Decter of Manhattan, the political writer, and Connie Fields of St. Paul.
      
In the ruling, she said that voter residency requirements could be satisfied by ''homeless individuals identifying a specific location within a political community which they consider their home base, to which they return regularly, manifest an intent to remain for the present, and from which they can receive messages and be contacted.

        Vivian Hallinan, the striking matriarch of one of San Francisco's best-known and most colorful political families, died on Tuesday at a granddaughter's home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 88.
Her profits financed her political causes, which included leftist movements like the Sandinistas in Nicaragua.
''
        ''Low-end political scandal and movie star books don't go here,'' she said.

        Edith Anderson, an American writer who defied postwar ruin and harsh political realities to resettle in divided Berlin with her German Communist husband and lived just long enough to see her cold war memoir published and praised as a literary event, died on Tuesday at her home in Berlin.
Although clearly enamored of Marxism since youth, Ms. Anderson was not overtly political, said her childhood friend, the writer Helen Yglesias, a classmate at James Monroe High School in the Bronx.

        Shirley Katzander, a public relations consultant who specialized in promoting cultural and political figures, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
In her role as the newspaper's editorial-page editor for the last 20 years and as a columnist for Newsweek magazine for 25 years, Miss Greenfield pored over the details of policy with the passion of a political scientist and wrote of the complex architecture of democracy with reverence.
''
        As an editorialist, she was both a judge and a connoisseur of the foibles of the city's political and intellectual elites.
''
        Though missing in action from the televised punditry that began to dominate the nation's political discussion in the 1980's and 1990's, Miss Greenfield wielded her influence in many other venues, from the dinner parties of the powerful to the Columbia University offices where, from 1986 to 1995, she sat in judgment on her colleagues' work as a member of the Pulitzer Prize Board.
''But when it became apparent that his inclination and his own studies were leading him not to a love of Clinton or even to a degree of political solidarity with him, let alone any sympathy for what he did, but rather to conclusions about the Constitution that would be advantageous to Clinton, all that quickly changed.
The piece focused on the raw humor featured at the dinner, which is an annual off-the-record event that brings the city's journalistic and political elites together for assorted high jinks.
Dr. Allen came to social and political activism as a young woman, organizing farm workers on the West Coast and writing pamphlets for the American Federation of Labor in Washington.
On the political side, she was a founder of Women Strike for Peace, which opposed nuclear weapons and the Vietnam War, and she served as Washington representative for the National Committee to Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee.
She was active in the National Women's Political Caucus, the National Organization for Women and the National Women's Party.
But political events in India, particularly the destruction of a mosque by Hindu militants in the city of Ayodhya in 1992 and the subsequent attacks on Muslims, spurred her into political action and changed the direction of her work.
But political events in India, particularly the destruction of a mosque by Hindu militants in the city of Ayodhya in 1992 and the subsequent attacks on Muslims, spurred her into political action and changed the direction of her work.
She received a master's degree in international affairs from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and a doctorate in political science from Johns Hopkins University.
''
        After leaving the program and becoming a popular lecturer, Ms. Rountree in 1965 founded Leadership, a nonprofit political research foundation based in Washington, and served as president of the organization until 1988.
She founded radio's first panel show, ''Leave It to the Girls,'' in 1940 before creating ''Meet the Press,'' which became the template for the Sunday political talk shows.
She had also been an aide to Nelson A. Rockefeller and had worked in political campaigns for  John and Robert Kennedy.
''
        After the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991, when Mr. Yeltsin took over Mr. Gorbachev's office in the Kremlin, he became a political pariah in Russia, widely blamed for ushering in reforms that led to a decade of political and economic instability.
''
        After the collapse of the Soviet Union in December 1991, when Mr. Yeltsin took over Mr. Gorbachev's office in the Kremlin, he became a political pariah in Russia, widely blamed for ushering in reforms that led to a decade of political and economic instability.
Miss Garland was also trained as an elementary school teacher at the Maxwell Training School in Brooklyn and like her parents, she was active in social and political causes.
According to her son, Victor Garlin, the reason was ''her political organizing for improved schools in Harlem.
''
        In 1966, Abba P. Schwartz, the liberal-minded head of the Bureau of Security and Consular Affairs, a Kennedy appointee, tried unsuccessfully to force her to resign because of their political differences.
Ms. Piscator wrote books including ''The Piscator Experiment: The Political Theater,'' which was published by James H. Heineman in 1967, a year after her husband's death.
She received a bachelor's degree from Simmons College in Boston and a master's degree in political science from the University of California at Berkeley.
Orval Faubus, responding to political urging from other Southern governors as well as polls showing that 85 percent of the state's residents opposed school desegregation, sent in the National Guard to stop blacks from attending.

        Sufia Kamal, a Bangladeshi poet, political activist and feminist, died at age 88 on Nov. 20 and was buried four days later with full state honors, the first woman to receive that recognition from Bangladesh.
A native of Philadelphia, Kraft received a bachelor's degree in political science in 1947 from Antioch College.
Foot's political career prospered, Ms. Craigie became known as one of his confidantes as well as the hostess for many Labor Party gatherings at the couple's home.
Apart from political jabs, Ms. Lamport also turned her attention to the human comedy, with verse like:
        The after-effects of a mother's neglects
        May spoil her boy's orientation to sex,
        But the converse is worse: if she overprotects,
        The pattern of Oedipus wrecks.
''She had a total passion and commitment, and that's not always the best way to function and get along in this world, in a political environment.
But virtually the entire state political establishment, Democratic as well as Republican, now favors the death penalty, and the pace of executions is widely expected to increase.
She later enrolled as a graduate student in political science at the University of California at Berkeley, but an internship in the State Legislature in Sacramento persuaded her to switch to law school, because lawyers seemed to have the most influence on public policy.
That led to public hearings by the state Commission on Judicial Performance, which portrayed the court as riven by personal conflicts and political infighting.
