Political pressure eventually forced Miss Wood out of her Chicago job.
When she was named to the post in 1980, she was still best known as part of a political elite that had congregated in Montreal in the 1950's to discuss art and politics and nationalism.
But she brought to this esthetic a stronger sense of the erotic and an often witty political edge.
" She helped Soviet and German emigres publish political material, worked on foreign broadcasts of Radio Liberty and assisted the United States Army.
What Mrs. Nixon did was subjugate her instinct for privacy and homemaking and become her husband's faithful companion in his turbulent years in the political arena, from the happy early years after his election as United States Representative from California in 1946 until his humiliating resignation as President of the United States in August 1974, under the shadow of impeachment proceedings that grew out of the Watergate scandals.
Her composure rarely wavered in her appearances with her husband in such trying circumstances as his televised Checkers speech in 1952, when he denied unethical use of an $18,000 political fund ("Pat doesn't have a mink coat"), the ordeal in Caracas, Venezuela, in 1958, when a stone-throwing, spitting, anti-American mob besieged the Nixon limousine; and the Nixons' grim, hand-in-hand walk down a red carpet from the White House after his resignation on Aug. 9, 1974.
She also received extensive tutoring in economics, political science, music and the arts.
After working briefly in summer stock theater, as a political campaign aide and at an advertising agency, she joined Time magazine as a researcher.
In 1950, Dr. Koller married William Diez, professor of political science at Rochester.
In 1977, a year after she resigned from the Communist Party because of differences with its leadership, she wrote a book based on her experiences as an organizer, "The Autobiography of an American Communist: A Personal View of a Political Life.
Mrs. Logan was an associate of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and a campaign aide for several political figures, including Nelson A. Rockefeller, Robert F. Kennedy and Robert F. Wagner.

        Manya Davidson Novik, who was active in political campaigns in New York for more than 50 years, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
While there she met and married a fellow student at the Sorbonne, Julien Feydy, who became a political scientist and university professor.
A political liberal, Miss Loy joined with other Hollywood figures in the late 40's in challenging what they deplored as the witch-hunting proceedings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
A political liberal, Miss Loy joined with other Hollywood figures in the late 40's in challenging what they deplored as the witch-hunting proceedings of the House Committee on Un-American Activities.
She worked as a translator and taught political economics at Charles University in Prague.
She devoted her efforts to defending human rights and the political opposition, and she was expelled from the party in 1970.
