During World War II, Dr. Mintz worked in New York as a political and economic analyst for the government-in-exile of the Dutch East Indies.
"The Soviets thought she was an American spy, while the Western authorities believed she was working for the Communists, and she was caught in the middle of conflicting political forces in postwar Europe," Ms. Glaser said.
By 1946, the political climate had changed and her support of the Truman Administration's policies sank her bid for re-election.
In her political career, she represented the working-class district of Piraeus, the port of Athens, which had been the setting for "Never on Sunday.
Dr. Clarenbach, known as Kay, was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Wisconsin, where she earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in that subject.
On the national level, she was an organizer of the National Women's Political Caucus.
A week later, it was Mrs. Kennedy who bestowed the epitaph of Camelot upon a Kennedy Presidency, which, while deeply flawed in the minds of many political analysts and ordinary citizens, had for many Americans come to represent something magical and mythical.
's political shortcomings were mentioned -- stories about his liaisons with women were known only to insiders at the time -- Mrs. Kennedy seemed determined to "rescue Jack from all these 'bitter people' who were going to write about him in history.
Airing weekdays since 1986, "Midday with Sondra Gair" was conceived by her as a way to cover breaking news as she interviewed political leaders and journalists and encouraged callers to give their views.
She was not active in politics, but the Shorensteins frequently entertained political dignitaries, including Presidents Johnson, Carter and Clinton.
Miss Potts, who was from Zanesville, Ohio, received a bachelor's degree in political science from Smith College and, in 1982, a master's degree in Russian studies from the University of Michigan.
Her other political work included membership on the Democratic National Committee.
Her political power came in large part from the support of the city's poor residents, whom she organized within her Popular Democratic Party.
"
        She was also good at political repartee.
She first went to work there as a scientific aide in 1943, and rose through the curatorial ranks in its divisions of civil and political history, becoming curator of the Smithsonian's First Ladies collection and chairman of the institution's department of national and military history.
As associate curator in the division of political history, Mrs. Klapthor assembled a Smithsonian collection of White House china in connection with her creation of First Ladies Hall, a modernized setting for the Smithsonian's First Ladies costume collection.
She was elected secretary of NOW and of its national political action committee in 1991 and served until last year.
She also conducted leadership training activities for NOW, the American Civil Liberties Union, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, the Women's Political Caucus and other groups.
"Of all the people who gave of themselves to the political process," Mr. Bush said from his office in Houston, "Helen Walsh ranks right up there with those I admired the most.
He died in 1951, and in 1968 she married William Walsh, a political consultant, who died in 1983.
