Ms. Williams became a columnist in 2000, after more than a decade of writing lengthy profiles on Washington power brokers, including Vice President Al Gore and the Democratic diplomat Clark Clifford.
For instance, the villains in her most popular series, ''Witch World,'' comprising about 30 volumes, are the females who think falsely that they have to remain virginal to retain their power.
Reviewing her memoir, ''Happy Days,'' in The New York Times Book Review, Delia Ephron called it ''heartbreaking,'' adding: ''There is no physical cruelty in this tale, just the awesome power of withheld love.
Her burgeoning concert career was, however, abruptly curtailed by Hitler's rise to power, after which Jewish pianists could no longer play German music, although Arturo Toscanini set up some recitals for her in Italy.
''She was, essentially, the power behind the throne,'' he said.

        Sue Gunter, a pioneering women's college basketball coach who turned Louisiana State University into a national power in a career spanning four decades, died yesterday at her home in Baton Rouge, La.
Immensely charismatic, bawdy, unpretentious and funny, she became an integral part of Mr. Blair's rejuvenated Labor Party, helping lead it into power in the 1997 general election.
''It was as if she would lull them into an affirmation of their own arrogance, causing them to relax as she appeared to wander aimlessly off into and around left field, until she suddenly threw a curveball with so much skill and power it would knock them off their chair.
She put the power of the United Federation of Teachers, the New York local, with 110,000 members at the time, behind the election of David N. Dinkins as mayor in 1989, an effort that helped him garner white votes.
Ms. Yard spent so much time pounding unforgiving marble in various corridors of power that she developed permanent nerve damage in her feet, The Washington Post reported in 1987.
The women called the quilt ''Black Power.
Ms. Hays also wrote ''The Real Thing: Truth and Power at the Coca-Cola Company'' (Random House, 2004).
