In 1992, Mr. Holden reviewed a Peggy Lee performance in New York for The Times and wrote that ''her will power, musicality and professionalism enable her to project a fair degree of the old magic.
''Bertrand Russell has written that a child dreams about power as grown-ups dream sexual wish dreams,'' Mrs. Lindgren said in a 1985 interview.
''This is a child who has power.
' ''
        ''She has power, but she never misuses that power,'' Ms. Lindgren said, ''which I think is the most splendid thing, and the most difficult.
' ''
        ''She has power, but she never misuses that power,'' Ms. Lindgren said, ''which I think is the most splendid thing, and the most difficult.
The Social Democrats, in power for more than 40 years, were defeated, and tax cuts followed, events Mrs. Lindgren was sometimes credited with bringing about.

        Julia Phillips, the Hollywood producer who turned her rage at the stars and power brokers into the best-selling chronicle ''You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again,'' died Tuesday at her apartment in West Hollywood.
''
        The breakup of her marriage, drugs and a series of sour relationships with men, along with being elbowed out of the power loop in the making of ''Close Encounters of the Third Kind,'' pushed her over the edge.
The Mann family had left Germany after Hitler came to power, moving first to Switzerland and, in 1938, to the United States.
Having molded dozens of top-flight soloists, she also became an important power broker in the music business.
''It isn't only your high position that matters; it is the fact that the vast majority of people think of you as a person who would speak the kindly word, and, if it fell within your power, would take the cup of hot soup to the needy person.
''Women must know that the strongest power in the world is economic power,'' she said.
''Women must know that the strongest power in the world is economic power,'' she said.
She was, he said, one of the few American actors with the depth and power for that role.
The young Marion Dönhoff studied economics in Frankfurt-on-Main, where Nazi sympathizers called her the red countess because of her defiance once they gained power in 1933.
In recent years, she enjoyed the reception she received at memorabilia shows, said Eric Danville, author of ''The Complete Linda Lovelace'' (Power Process Publishing, 2001).
She attended drama school in Moscow as a girl, and escaped to Berlin with her mother when the Communists came to power in 1917.
As parties rustled silkenly in Jo Copeland's Park Avenue living room -- guests might include Joan Crawford or Tyrone Power -- Lois and her brother were expected to remain in their rooms with their supper trays, blissfully unseen and unheard.
But the unions, aroused by her efforts to curb their power, cut short her rise.
The election brought Clement Attlee to power and led to the creation of the National Health Service and the nationalization of large swaths of British industry.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990.
She said then that she had lost only one confrontation, when a power company strung lines near the field.
As the artists' reputations -- and the prices for their work -- rebounded, art critics and intellectuals began to resent Mrs. Olmedo's huge hoard of Riveras and Kahlos and her power over the artists' legacies.
