
        Mary Bancroft, a Boston Brahmin colleen who cut a coquettish swath through 20th-century history, bewitching men of power even as she did brilliant work as an American spy in Switzerland in World War II, died on Jan. 10 at her Fifth Avenue apartment.
In his scheme of things she was an extroverted intuitive, one who had experienced such fierce inter-family battles for her affections as a child that power had become her natural element.
She had such an instinctive knack for wielding it, he told her, that men seeking or holding power would cherish her advice, as indeed they did.
Miss Bancroft was entrusted with translating the manuscript into English (Gisevius wanted it published immediately after the coup), but her real job was to make sure he was not a double agent (she concluded he was not) and then to elicit and pass on the detailed information he supplied about the day-to-day shifts of power and strategy within the German Government.
By the time many of them had risen to high positions in the government, Dr. Barbosa, who also maintained friendly relationships with members of other parties, had acquired so much influence that she operated almost as a political boss -- a boss who seemed so blind to her own power that she may not have realized that an off-hand criticism delivered in a private conversation would soon be altering party policy.
She was one of the producers of ''45/85,'' a news special about the growth of the United States as a world power since World War II.
Sally Bedell Smith, the author of another biography, ''Reflected Glory,'' said in 1996: ''She wanted great wealth and power.
Ms. Baker was a mainstay of the Atlantic Records roster of the mid-1950's, applying the fervor of gospel and the bluesy power of Bessie Smith to songs about love and lust like ''Tweedlee Dee.
But it was her relationship with Nehru's daughter, Mrs. Gandhi, from the time both were teen-agers that helped her assume a dominant and controversial role in the nation's cultural affairs during the height of Mrs. Gandhi's power in the 1970's and early 80's.
''Her main contribution at the institute was to recognize, quickly and early on, the potential and the power of cloning technology,'' he said.

        Joanie Weston, a strapping power hitter who passed up a promising and respectable future in softball to become the gum-chewing, power-skating, hip-bumping golden girl of Roller Derby, died on May 10 at her home in Hayward, Calif., near San Francisco.
Mr. Wittfogel had worked in China in developing his celebrated theory that the construction and control of irrigation canals had concentrated the power of ruling elites and spawned despotism, and Miss Goldfrank joined the staff of his short-lived China project at Columbia and applied his theories in her own continuing writings on Indians.
As a Government economist in an era when the New Deal had attracted droves of women to high-level Federal positions, Dr. Keyserling had a lot of company in the corridors of power.
In the mid-1930's after the Nazis came to power, her father sent her to Paris, where she became fluent in French.
That the competitive history between the two northern Californians was called a rivalry, dubbed the Battle of the Helens by a sometimes frothy news media between the two world wars, was a tribute more to  Jacobs's tenacity and cheerful pluck than to her shot-making power or on-court success against Moody.
The match mesmerized 8,000 fans at the Forest Hills Tennis Stadium in Queens on Aug. 26, 1933, pitting the forehand chop, aggressive net play and dogged determination of Jacobs against backcourt precision and waning power of Moody.
The German playwright Bertolt Brecht devised the scenario for her ''Circus Scene,'' a depiction of a power struggle between a clown and a lion that can be interpreted as an allegorical attack upon authoritarianism.
Miss Goslar, who was not Jewish, despised Hitler and left Germany when the Nazis seized power.
She did so with notable success: her recordings as a soprano show her to have a clear timbre and considerable power.
With Ms. Meuli, Ms. Carabello also wrote ''The Feminization of Power'' (Fund for the Feminist Majority, 1988).
The race in the reconfigured 10th district pitted two party regulars against each other, and Mrs. Kelly, her power base gone, lost to Mr. Celler in the primary.
''For me, he was the first writer, the only one who was working politically in the field of language as power.
In ''New and Selected Essays'' she wrote, ''One is in despair over the current manifestation of malevolent imbecility and the seemingly invincible power of rapacity, yet finds oneself writing a poem about the trout lilies in the spring woods.

        Simone Duvalier, who rose from a childhood of poverty and abandonment to become the wife of one Haitian dictator, mother of another and a power in her own right, died of undisclosed causes in a clinic outside Paris on Friday.
During the nearly 30 years that her husband, Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier, and son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc) Duvalier, dominated the poorest nation in the Western Hemisphere through a combination of brutality, intimidation and guile, Simone Duvalier was often regarded as a power behind the throne.
'' She relished the title of First Lady and the power it conferred, and was said by associates to deeply resent having to relinquish that role after Jean-Claude Duvalier married Michele Bennett in a lavish wedding ceremony in 1981.
Like her rapacious husband, who systematically looted Haiti's treasury during his years in power, Mrs. Duvalier was reported to be a voodoo adept, and inspired dread among Haiti's poor and illiterate masses.
''She had a lot of power, but it wasn't an idyllic marriage,'' said Bernard Diederich, author of a biography of Francois Duvalier.
''
        During her son's years in power, Simone Duvalier's taste for luxury, exceeded only by that of Michele Bennett, grew even more pronounced, and corruption markedly increased.
But when her son was ousted from power in February 1986, Mrs. Duvalier joined him and his wife in exile, first in the French Alps and then in Paris.
