She moved to other State Department posts through the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson and was United States Ambassador to the United Nations Economic, Scientific and Cultural Organization until 1969, when the Republicans took power under President Richard M. Nixon.
"
        She appeared with Spencer Tracy, Myrna Loy and Clark Gable in "Test Pilot" in 1938, with Rosalind Russell and Melvyn Douglas in "This Thing Called Love" in 1941 and with Tyrone Power in "The Eddie Duchin Story" in 1956.
In 1931 she received a doctorate from the University of Frankfurt, where she remained until the Nazis came to power.
Grew Up in Poverty
        Raised in conditions so poor that hunger reportedly left her with lifelong stomach problems, Ms. Jiang grew up to become a beautiful actress, then used her marriage to Mao to reach the apex of power in China and help preside over the brutal persecution and chaos of the Cultural Revolution.
She tried to build her own power base and exercised real control over much of Chinese culture, but in the end she owed her authority, and her ability to inspire fear, to her link with Mao.
"What sustains interest in the long run is political power.
To many young Chinese, there is not much difference between Ms. Jiang and some of the neo-Maoist hard-liners who remain in power.
There is no doubt that the former actress offended other leaders, usually men, with her aggressiveness, and many accused her of using beauty and sex to win power.
Apparently because of indignation at the divorce of the second wife and a sense of impropriety that Ms. Jiang was just 24 years old while Mao was 45, party officials reportedly insisted that Mao could marry Ms. Jiang only if she never exercised any political power.
Role in Cultural Revolution
        In the 1960's, as Mao felt his influence waning and as he worried about the Communist Party becoming ossified and corrupted by years in power, he launched the Cultural Revolution.
' "
        While it might seem strange that the Communist Party leadership could continue to hail Mao during the 1980's while excoriating and imprisoning his widow, the two were not close by the time Ms. Jiang achieved power.
Her admirers praised her power to move audiences by making them care for the characters she portrayed.
Her admirers praised her power to move audiences by making them care for the characters she portrayed.
