TOPS, which stands for Take Off Pounds Sensibly, draws its philosophy from something the 5-foot-2-inch Mrs. Manz, then 40, observed in group sessions intended to prepare women for childbirth: the power of mutual support in helping participants remain within their doctors' guidelines for weight.
," said Mr. Zanuck, and Tyrone Power got the part in "LLoyd's of London" that made him a star.
" Mr. Zanuck said, and Tyrone Power got the part in "Lloyd's of London" that made him a star.
Unhappiness among female union members with their lack of power within the unions led to the formation in 1974 of the Coalition of Labor Union Women.
The idea was to reduce power demand during hot spells and lower the risk of electrical ''brownouts'' and blackouts.
The plant used no auxiliary power source but still kept the five-room house in Dover, Mass., cozy through the winter.
      
''
        She moved on to Hollywood and starred in a down-to-earth role opposite Tyrone Power when he played the canal builder in ''Suez'' (1938).
''
        In 1939 she married Power.
She returned to France for good after a divorce in 1948 from Power, who went on to marry the actress Linda Christian.
In 1940 Annabella and Power performed together in the Screen Guild radio production of ''Seventh Heaven,'' and the next year they were onstage together in a summer stock revival of Ferenc Molnar's hit ''Liliom.
''
        She is survived by a daughter, Anne Werner Power of Boston.
      

        Guillermina Rico, a lemon peddler who bargained her way to wealth and power as the head of a political machine she forged from the ranks of Mexico City's itinerant vendors, died on Wednesday of a cerebral hemorrhage.
Mrs. Rico gained the power to assign the choicest market stalls, for which she charged a quota, and those and other revenues made her wealthy.
''She is an actress of individuality and power.
In the 1976 interview, she said: ''Historically, the international oil companies often have wielded their vast power selfishly, although their accomplishments have often been beneficial to the world.
film studio, settled in Amsterdam after Hitler came to power and was a film distributor when World War II began.
She was also the author of "Going Under" (1976), a description of the corruption of writers by Soviet power.
