''
        She covered Russia's war against Finland in 1939, trekked across China with Hemingway in 1940, and became increasingly critical of the United States, which she saw as a ''colonial power,'' eventually settling abroad for good.
''They realized the power of the press and have been controlling it ever since,'' she said.
''
        With the rise of the black power movement and the success of independence movements in Africa and the Caribbean, interest in the Schomburg grew.
She also is credited with bringing worldwide attention to the atrocities of Argentina's military regime, which reliquinshed power in 1983.
'' Such was her power that when Mr. Martin criticized -- mildly -- her performance in ''Swan Lake'' during the 1959 New York tour, Pravda responded the next day by accusing him and The Times of being ''bent on continuing the cold war.
An emotive belter in the tradition of Judy Garland and Barbra Streisand, both of whom were her girlhood idols, Ms. Beechman brought a waifish pathos and a piercing vocal power to her character's signature song, ''Memory.
Of her time in the House, Ms. Abzug wrote in a journal that was published in 1972 as ''Bella,'' ''I spend all day figuring out how to beat the machine and knock the crap out of the political power structure.
With the Conservatives in power through the 1980's and into the 1990's, Ms. Lestor worked as the opposition's chief spokeswoman on a number of issues, including children and the family, juvenile crime and race relations.
Jack Kroll of Newsweek once called her ''a luscious marshmallow sundae of a girl,'' and her ripe figure fit the many period movies like ''Little Old New York'' and ''In Old Chicago'' in which she sang to Don Ameche, Tyrone Power or John Payne from the stage of a saloon.
Mr. Ameche lost her to Mr. Power in ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' and ''In Old Chicago'' but won her affections in ''You Can't Have Everything,'' ''Hollywood Cavalcade,'' ''Lillian Russell'' and ''That Night in Rio.
A year later she and Mr. Power were teamed for the last time in ''Rose of Washington Square,'' a fictionalization of the Nicky Arnstein-Fanny Brice story that was later the basis for the Broadway and Hollywood musical ''Funny Girl,'' which starred Barbra Streisand.
Ms. Faye had been responsible for Mr. Power's stardom.
Jack Kroll of Newsweek once called her ''a luscious marshmallow sundae of a girl,'' and her ripe figure fit the many period movies like ''Little Old New York'' and ''In Old Chicago'' in which she sang to Don Ameche, Tyrone Power or John Payne from the stage of a saloon.
Mr. Ameche lost her to Mr. Power in ''Alexander's Ragtime Band'' and ''In Old Chicago'' but won her affections in ''You Can't Have Everything,'' ''Hollywood Cavalcade,'' ''Lillian Russell'' and ''That Night in Rio.
A year later she and Mr. Power were teamed for the last time in ''Rose of Washington Square,'' a fictionalization of the Nicky Arnstein-Fanny Brice story that was later the basis for the Broadway and Hollywood musical ''Funny Girl,'' which starred Barbra Streisand.
Ms. Faye had been responsible for Mr. Power's stardom.
''A singing actress of both wit and power, she finds bitter humor in the character's distorted sense of self: when she barks her outrageous demands to her lackeys, we see a show business monster who's come a long way from her roots.
Galina Brezhnev was never involved in politics but she figured in some major scandals in the last years of Soviet power.
She sculptured sound, and it made her concerts some of the most moving experiences in jazz, a mixture of the emotional power of the songs' texts and the sheer joy of her imagination.
The book's lack of pretension and its description of ordinary Germans lent it power.
She said the singer suffered from aphasia, a condition that severely limits the power to use or understand words, and had grown despondent as the disease progressed.
When Fidel Castro seized power in 1959, Miss Parla, by then married to a Batista government official, fled to the United States and settled in Miami.
She published two novels in the late 1940's, and in 1950 Doubleday asked her to write a biography of Eva Peron, who with her husband, Juan, was at the peak of power in Argentina.
After Juan Peron was thrown out of power, subsequent editions appeared under Ms. Main's real name.
It was Mrs. Kissinger -- the practical one in the family -- who decided that they had to leave Germany when Hitler came to power.
The lyricism and evocative power she often brought to her books sometimes disguised a toughness that addressed dark themes like poverty, jealousy, violence, sexual vulnerability and prejudice.
She was not known for her power as a negotiator but for her perspicacity in reading scripts and in analyzing a play in production.
