''That day I experienced a sense of completeness,'' she told Collier's magazine, ''an extraordinary sensation of power.
She was one of several postwar artists who, despite Abstract Expressionism's unanimous success, persisted in the notion that abstraction and representation were not mutually exclusive states, that one could paint from reality in a way that gave form, color and paint a power all their own.
Ms. Howard's circle included Tyrone Power, Vivien Leigh, Laurence Olivier, Humphrey Bogart, Lauren Bacall, Jennifer Jones, Merle Oberon, Gary Cooper, Marlene Dietrich, Greta Garbo, Judy Garland and Marilyn Monroe -- impressive company for the daughter of a traveling salesman.
Linda Christian can be seen being fitted for her wedding gown to marry Tyrone Power.
She opposed nuclear power development on Long Island and a proposed bridge across Long Island Sound from Oyster Bay to Rye.
''
        To keep her fertile mind active, Ms. Trahey also gave lectures to professional women's organizations and wrote scores of magazine articles, novels, humorous pamphlets, a play and a self-help book called ''Jane Trahey on Women & Power: Who's Got It.
'' In addition to ''The Farmer's Daughter,'' in which she played an effervescent Swedish-born maid who runs for Congress, she appeared in nearly 100 films, often in the arms of such matinee idols as Clark Gable, Spencer Tracy, Tyrone Power or Cary Grant.
Around 9 a.m., the expectant standing-room ticket buyers would return, and Ms. Quinn began barking commands with a vocal power that many a hefty dramatic soprano would covet.
Within months of being driven cross-country by her widowed mother, the owner of a tourist camp outside their hometown, Canton, Ms. Peters was chosen as the female lead in the lavish epic ''Captain from Castille,'' opposite Tyrone Power.
She was regarded as a pioneering figure in the world of journalism, especially because she was working at a time when few women held positions of power within the industry.
She won an Emmy in 1993 for a young people's anti-smoking program, ''Know the Facts: Keep Your Power,'' and wrote and produced a traveling school program for the American Heart Association.
She was regarded as a pioneer in journalism, especially because she worked at a time when few women held positions of power in the industry.
Sybil Halpern was born on Oct. 6, 1941, in New York City to Jewish parents who had fled Austria when the Nazis came to power.
Mrs. Bandaranaike's final act was to vote in a parliamentary election she hoped would return the family's party to power leading a governing coalition known as the People's Alliance.
Mrs. Bandaranaike rose to power in 1960 as a bereaved wife and mother of three, just a year after her husband, Solomon, then prime minister, was assassinated by a Buddhist monk.
Much of the talk was devoted to ways of merging the concept of black art with the political concept of black power.
Exercising her power as first lady, Eva Duarte Peron effectively prevented any studio in Argentina from hiring Ms. Lamarque.
Much of the talk was devoted to ways of merging black art with the political concept of black power.
