On the strength of a classical and rigorous style, Marguerite Yourcenar used a very personal tone to find, thanks to history, the occasion for a strong reflection on morality and power.
The author Stephen Koch wrote in The Times Book Review in September 1985 that the work ''has riches for anyone interested in history, humanism or the psychology of power.

       Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer made her an international star, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles after a long illness.
Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer made her an international star, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles after a long illness.

       Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor.
Mrs. Power, an activist for women's rights and world peace, had been a member of the University of Michigan Board of Regents since 1974.
His family gave $3.9 million to build the Power Center for the Performing Arts on the Ann Arbor campus.
The university's president, Harold T. Shapiro, said yesterday that Mrs. Power's death was ''a great loss for the university, for the state and for those committed to more progressive social policy.
''
        From 1966 to 1969, Mrs. Power was executive director of the New York City Commission for the United Nations and Consular Corps in the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay.
Besides her husband, Mrs. Power is survived by a son, Nathan E., at home; her mother, Katharine R. Goddard, of Ann Arbor; a sister, Margery G. Whiteman, of Albany, and two brothers, Russel H. Goddard, of New Haven, and Wendell H. Goddard, of Berkeley, Calif.
On any important legislation, such as women's rights or education or dealing with minorities or poor people, she could switch people's votes on the floor through the power of her intellect and her ability to persuade.
She was also the editor of ''The Power of Freedom'' (1977).
She was born in Denver and graduated from Rollins College in Winter Park, Fla. She contended she never needed speech lessons because she came from ''a long line of preachers and teachers, who taught us early to appreciate the power of words.
