In 1974, she underscored the finding of an Atomic Energy Commission study of nuclear power plant safety: that the chance of mass destruction from a reactor accident was as unlikely as that of a meteor striking an urban area.
"
        She also angered environmentalists with her support of nuclear power, unhampered growth and oil supertankers.
While Dr. Ray was Governor, the power of her intellect and her skill as a speaker gave her an aura of great competence.
The abortion law was revoked when Franco came to power.
" with Tyrone Power (1957), "Only Two Can Play" with Peter Sellers (1961), "The Vine Bridge" (1965), "The Witches" (1990) and "Hidden Agenda" (1990).
Coming from a politically prominent family, the actress was a passionate anti-Fascist who lost her citizenship and property in 1967 for her aggressive opposition to the junta that held power in Athens for seven years, until 1974.
She served in the post until 1989, when her party lost power, and then returned when the party was re-elected in October.
A native of Berlin, she received a doctorate at the University of Frankfurt and joined a resistance group shortly after the Nazis came to power in Germany in 1933.
"She sings with power and imagination.
Her political power came in large part from the support of the city's poor residents, whom she organized within her Popular Democratic Party.
In one speech, she criticized the "folly of a national policy of discussing manpower in a national emergency as though it were only male power," adding that such an attitude put women in the "category of a national luxury instead of a national asset.
In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them.
In a speech in 1965, Mrs. Roebling said: "As a woman who for years has competed in the business world, I would be the first to agree that the American woman has almost unbelievable economic power, but American women, like women of all civilized nations, do not use the influence their economic power gives them.
"
        Mrs. Roebling's own economic power came initially through inheritance, but she increased it vastly once it fell into her hands.
No one would ever be able to say, he told her, whether art or medicine had the greater curative power.
