In one of her first, ''The Comedy of Power'' (1977), she recounted her experience in government.
She was the author of ''Women in New Asia: From Pain to Power,'' published in Britain in 2000 and distributed here by St. Martin's Press.
From 1946 to 1950 she worked for the Tennessee Valley Authority, designing power service buildings and visitors' facilities.
In Derek Wilson's book ''Rothschild: the Wealth and Power of a Dynasty,'' the baron said his wife was more Rothschild than the Rothschilds.
Miss Barbieri, Mr. Bjorling (in the title role) and Mr. Siepi, making his debut as Philip II, appeared in what Olin Downes of The New York Times described as an occasion that revealed afresh ''the melodic opulence and dramatic power of Verdi's genius.
News reports suggested she had become intoxicated with her own power.
By the time the Khmer Rouge won power in 1975 and undertook the revolution that led to the deaths of 1.7 million people, she was incapacitated by her illness.
But in 1960, a year after Fidel Castro took power in Cuba, she was touring Mexico with La Sonora Matancera and decided not to return to Cuba.

        Elisabeth Welch, an expatriate cabaret singer who mixed elegant phrasing and emotive power to craft extraordinary interpretations of the songs of America's Jazz Age and Britain's musical stage, died on Tuesday at a nursing home outside London.

        Frances Stevens Reese, a founder and chairwoman emeritus of the environmental group Scenic Hudson and a veteran of the fight to keep a power plant from being built on Storm King Mountain, died last Wednesday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Hughsonville, a village in Dutchess County, N.Y.
        She was fatally injured in a car accident on Wednesday on Route 9 near Cold Spring when her driver lost control of the car and struck a utility pole, according to the Putnam County sheriff's office.
Their immediate cause was to forestall a projected dig for the world's largest hydroelectric power plant, which would have forever changed the dramatic face of Storm King Mountain, looming above the Hudson in Orange County.
Her little band won legal standing in 1965 to take on the Federal Power Commission and the developer, Consolidated Edison.
Ms. Crozier was one of the most visible concert organists of the last half-century and was chosen as one of the players to christen the new organ at Philharmonic Hall -- now called Avery Fisher Hall -- in 1962, along with E. Power Biggs and Virgil Fox.
)
        It was also around this time, one year before Hitler's rise to power, that she first heard the Nazi leader speak at a rally.
'' At their first meeting in 1932, though, she said she was most struck by his informality and she quoted him telling her, ''Once we come to power, you must make my films.
When the Social Democrats regained power in 1994, she was named environment minister.
Other reviews suggested that the documentary's power came from a mother's willingness to reject her daughter and then rationalize it.
Yet historians have documented the murderous path that Chiang Kai-shek led in his efforts to win, then keep, and ultimately lose power.
Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang Kai-shek in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
Although that hope eventually faded, American support for Taiwan remained strong for years, delaying Washington's recognition of Beijing as the capital of China until 1979, three decades after the Communists had seized power.
Although that hope eventually faded, American support for Taiwan remained strong for years, delaying Washington's recognition of Beijing as the capital of China until 1979, three decades after the Communists seized power.
Yet historians have documented the murderous path that Chiang Kai-shek led in his efforts to win, then keep, and ultimately lose power.
''Loves power, eats up publicity and flattery, pretty weak on her history.
''
        Soong Mei-ling's rise to power began when she married Chiang in an opulent ceremony in Shanghai in 1927, bringing together China's star military man with one of the nation's most illustrious families.
A Telling Ditty
        Today, Chinese still remember the three sisters with a telling ditty: ''One loved money, one loved power, one loved China,'' referring respectively to Ai-ling, Mei-ling and Qing-ling.
They married in 1934, as Hitler came to power in Berlin.
'' That year she joined women who were top executives across the corporate spectrum in the Committee of 200, founded as a power base for women in business.
''Call that power, if you want,'' the woman said.
''
        Born Gisela Peiper in Berlin, she joined the resistance movement after Hitler came to power and eventually fled Germany, arriving in the United States in 1941.
''Louise had so much power and because she and Carmel Snow, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, were close, Louise was able to get whom she wanted, and she asked for Mary Jane a lot,'' said Mr. Solero, who estimates that Mrs. Russell modeled for about 30 percent of Dahl-Wolfe's photos.
