And, in a letter, she wrote that she was beginning to feel that Hitler was ''a very great man, like an inspired religious leader -- and as such rather fanatical -- but not scheming, not selfish, not greedy for power.
She said later that he had been ''used'' by the Nazis but that he had been genuinely ''astonished and impressed by the rapid growth of German air power,'' while also recognizing the danger it posed.
And Dr. Metlitzki herself left Eastern Europe just as the Nazis were coming to power and lost members of her family to the Holocaust.
For generations, the Lobedu were left unmolested by more powerful neighbors, the Zulu and Swazi, for fear of their queens' power over the rains.
''
        Meeting the Elite
        In time, as Mrs. Graham became more comfortable with her ability to exercise power, she took trips to confer with foreign leaders, usually accompanied by one of the reporters and her friend Meg Greenfield, who was editor of the editorial page of The Post and a columnist for Newsweek.
''
        In her later work, she wrote of an increasing antagonism toward older people for occupying ''a growing number of power positions,'' and she urged fellow social scientists to explore ways to avoid such resentment.
In her poem ''The Bull Terrier,'' she wrote:
        Their legs and backs
        Should seem to be
        Merely the motive
        Power for the low
        Broad, implacable
        Jaw.
That's in the hands of certain people on the senior staff, who have never really accepted that there is a political power of women and that has to be addressed.
The mother is the last to leave the stage, a moment that was tailor-made for Ms. Foster's quiet power.
The odd experiences she described -- which included shopping with Liszt (he was interested in the price of bananas) and watching television with Chopin (he was appalled) -- found a resonant audience in the era of the Beatles and flower power.
He used antique tools because the house had no electricity to plug in power tools.
So she indulged in a momentary power trip, something she says she avoided in two years of playing peacemaker among 18 colleagues.
The budget now goes to the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, the state chaperon, which has the power to take over the county's finances if it does not accept the budget.
