As a columnist for The Daily News, and later for The Post, she had few qualms about needling those in power.
''
        In sheer power, Ms. Nilsson's high notes were sometimes compared to those of the Broadway belter Ethel Merman.
She called upon American women ''to unite and form a solid block of women power to fight the three great evils of racism, poverty and war.
Ms. Dai was a familiar figure in international dance circles, first as a dancer and choreographer who performed in London in the 1930's and in New York in the 40's, then as the guiding force in China's first state-sponsored national ballet institutions after the Communist government came to power in 1949.

        Octavia E. Butler, an internationally acclaimed science fiction writer whose evocative, often troubling, novels explore far-reaching issues of race, sex, power and, ultimately, what it means to be human, died on Friday after a fall near her home in Lake Forest Park, Wash. She was 58.
But in reality Mrs. Marcos was financing the center to help build her political power base.
''If more qualified people are up to the same thing, more power to them.
tournament, her team was routed by Tennessee, a perennial national power, 102-54, and finished 20-11.
She also counseled disadvantaged young people, and her colleagues noted that she could calm the angriest of them through the sheer power of her presence, making her ordinarily soft voice even softer -- yet always firm -- as the counseling session proceeded.

        Evelyn Dubrow, organized labor's most prominent lobbyist at the time of its greatest power in her four decades with the nation's largest apparel union, died on Tuesday in Washington.
''
        Ms. Allyson was always modest about her star power.
The family moved to Berlin in 1933, the year Hitler came to power.
In July 1964, she announced that she and others from the tiny Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party would challenge the power of the segregationist politicians, like Mr. Stennis, who represented her state.
Ms. Juda began studying art history, but the family, which was Jewish, moved to Palestine shortly after Hitler came to power.
''
        Mr. Ovshinsky's NiMH battery was not the ideal power source for a vehicle, though it gained common use in products like cellphones and digital cameras.
A champion of civil rights for minorities, women and gay men and lesbians, Ms. Richards first ran for governor in 1990 calling for a ''New Texas'' that would offer more opportunity and power to those groups.
In the early 1960's, she and a handful of other young Democrats founded North Dallas Democratic Women in an effort to give more power to women in the party.
'' At the height of his power and celebrity in 1972, she had coaxed him to admit that at times he felt like ''the cowboy who leads the wagon train by riding ahead alone on his horse, the cowboy who rides all alone into the town.
'' she asked Ayatollah Khomeini in 1979, not long after he came to power in Iran.
The sixth of nine children born to Joseph P. Kennedy and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald, Mrs. Lawford, like her siblings, had a well-honed understanding of politics and of the power of appearances.
The sixth of nine children born to Joseph Kennedy and Rose Elizabeth Fitzgerald Kennedy, Mrs. Lawford, like her siblings, had a well-honed understanding of politics and of the power of appearances.
For years she served as his secretary, and he was named a key deputy to Mao after the Communists took power in 1949.
No woman had ever been so close to the center of presidential power without actually residing in the White House.
When Mr. Reagan came to office in 1981, 51 of the committee's members won positions of significant power in his administration.
Power, Ms. Kirkpatrick said in a 1996 interview, is based not merely on guns or money but on the strength of personal conviction.
