Mrs. Goldman, a San Francisco native and graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was a vice president and past president of the San Francisco Symphony and chairwoman of her city's Memorial to the Six Million Victims of the Holocaust.
Mrs. Goldman, a San Francisco native and graduate of the University of California at Berkeley, was a vice president and past president of the San Francisco Symphony and chairwoman of her city's Memorial to the Six Million Victims of the Holocaust.
She was a director of the Mount Zion Health System and former president of the Mount Zion Hospital and Medical Center.
She was vice president of the American Orthopaedic Foot and Ankle Society and a fellow of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery.

        Jill Rose, the president of the International Center of Photography, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Mrs. Rose, who was active in many civic and cultural affairs, was elected to  the International Center of Photography's board of trustees in 1981 and became the board's president in 1989.
Mrs. Manz, who achieved average proportions in her effort to control her weight, became president and chairwoman of the TOPS board in 1952.
She was a guest at the 1991 banquet in Washington given by Queen Elizabeth and the Duke of Edinburgh in honor of President and Mrs. Bush, and entertained Princess Margaret and Prince Philip during their visits.
Miss Douglas's father, who before his appointment as Ambassador was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona and budget director for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, was the son of James Stuart Douglas, the owner of copper  mines in Arizona.
She was a past president of the Federal Business Association in New York and  chairman of the Federal Regional Council.

        Susan K. Kamen, an engineer for the military and, in a second career, a vice  president at the New York Life Insurance Company, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
At New York Life, she was a vice president for information systems.
She was president of the committee that organized the 1973 Divertissement a Versailles, an event at which American designers were not only introduced to Europeans but also upstaged their French counterparts.

        Frieda Sandberg Lewis, a champion of Jewish causes and past national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Feb. 29 in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 85, and a former resident of Great Neck, L.I., and Manhattan.
She served as  national vice president and treasurer and headed its Nassau and Suffolk region as well as a number of its divisions.
She was national president from 1980 to 1984.

        Audrey Cohen, an innovative educator for more than 30 years and president and founder of Audrey Cohen College, died on Sunday morning at her home in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Alida Mesrop, acting president of Audrey Cohen College.
She was a president of the American Society of Zoologists and an officer in the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She was a founding member of the Long Island Community Foundation and founding president of Planned Parenthood of Suffolk County.
She served as president of the Irish Academy of Letters in 1971.
"
        While filming "The Adventurep of Casanova" in Mexico City, she met Abelardo Rodriguez, the son of a former President of Mexico.
"
        While filming "The Adventures of Casanova" in Mexico City, she met Abelardo Rodriguez, the son of a former President of Mexico.
She was the widow of William A.  M. Burden, a former diplomat, longtime president of the Museum of Modern Art and founder of the private investment firm of William A. M. Burden & Company, of which Mrs.
She worked for many years with the International Council of the Young Women's Christian Association and the president's activities committee of the Museum of  Modern Art, of which her husband was president in the 1950's and 1960's.
She worked for many years with the International Council of the Young Women's Christian Association and the president's activities committee of the Museum of  Modern Art, of which her husband was president in the 1950's and 1960's.

        Siti Hartinah Suharto, the wife of President Suharto of Indonesia, died today of a heart attack, a spokesman for the President said.

        Siti Hartinah Suharto, the wife of President Suharto of Indonesia, died today of a heart attack, a spokesman for the President said.
Her death came as the President, who is 74, enters the campaign for next year's general election.
That is to be followed in early 1998 by a presidential  race in which Mr. Suharto, a former army general who has been President since 1968, is expected to run for a seventh term.
She also received numerous awards for her work, among them a Medal of Honor presented to her by President Joaquin Balaguer of the Dominican Republic.
In 1971, she joined Colgate as vice president for creative services, developing television commercials with various advertising agencies.
In 1992, she assumed major responsibilities for the company's television advertising around the world as vice president for creative services in global advertising.
A member of Community Board 11 and Community School Board 5, a former member of the 25th Precinct Community Council and a former treasurer of the Harlem Commonwealth Council, a community betterment organization, Mrs. Kornegay was perhaps best known as the founder and president of the Community Association of  the East Harlem Triangle.
Ms. Shepard was the founder and president of Shepard Personal Services, which she managed for 16 years until illness caused her to sell the company last year.
She was the first woman to be elected president of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the first female member and president of the New York Psychiatric Society.
She was the first woman to be elected president of the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine and the first female member and president of the New York Psychiatric Society.
With pressure from restive female members and the support of Walter P. Reuther, the union's president, she was in 1966 the first woman to take a seat on the union's board.
She was also the first woman to be elected an international vice president of the union, in 1970.
And she was the founding national president of the Coalition of Labor Union Women in 1974.
" She was also the founder and president of the Institute for Social Dance Studies in New York, dedicated to the preservation and documentation of the history of American social dancing.
She was a past president of  the International Dance Council and Dance Masters of America.
A friend and ally of Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor, for 40 years, Ms. Nichols twice served as president of the WNYC Communications Group, with two radio stations, WNYC-AM and WNYC-FM, and a television station, WNYC-TV, Channel  31, licensed and partly financed by the city.
From 1953 to 1968, Mrs. Kirk, the wife of a former Columbia University president, Dr. Grayson L. Kirk, organized a number of exhibitions on the campus  and at New York galleries to benefit art scholarships.
Beginning in the early 1940's, Ms. Sloane was a stylist, scout and vice president of Madcaps Inc., a Manhattan millinery and accessories company founded by her brother and partner, Alfred Z. Solomon.
As president of Madcaps International, Ms. Sloane was a regular at fashion shows in Europe, Tokyo and Hong Kong, where she sought new trends in designs, colors and fabrics.
He is related to four earlier Frelinghuysens who were United States senators, one of whom, Frederick T., became a Secretary of State under President Chester A. Arthur.

        Susan Kirk, a vice president of Parsons Brinckerhoff Quade & Douglas, a leading transportation engineering and consulting firm in Manhattan who had been an aide to Gov.
She had been assistant to the president and director of business development  for the firm's New York/ New Jersey metropolitan district.
In 1968, Ms. Clark was elected president of the United States Scenic Artists, Local 829, the first woman to hold that job.
She was a president of the French Bull Dog Club of America.
"In the Clinton Administration, she was probably the strongest single voice for wildlife conservation," said Rodger Schlickeisen, president of the Defenders of Wildlife, a nonprofit group that works to protect and preserve species.

        Laurel Weiner, a national associate and former national vice president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on June 2 at Portsbridge Hospice in Atlanta.
She was also a former president of the Southeast Region of Hadassah.
Mrs. Bowen was an outspoken advocate of the disenfranchised and vulnerable, particularly the young, as president of the Foundation of Minority Interests.
Its boss, Carmine DeSapio, procured a job for her as secretary to the president of the Board of Elections in 1964, and she did the rest.

        Natalie Lieberman, the founder and president of Learning Through Art/The Guggenheim Museum Children's Program and a member of the museum's board, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Two ancestors, Isaac T. Hopper and his daughter, Abigail Hopper Gibbons, founded the association in 1844; she was president from 1957 to 1967.
She also worked with related local and state agencies, including the State Association of Community Mental Health Boards, of which she was a former president.
He was some two decades older than she and a confirmed bachelor, but then he  had never met a woman quite like his captivating 22-year-old assistant with the  tinkling voice, who was such a fount of ideas and organized efficiency that she became a vice president just two years later.
Mrs. Patton is credited with contributing significantly to the growth of Recording for the Blind, which she served as president in 1954, and of the Opera Guild.
Mr. Landon, the Republican candidate for President in 1936, died in 1987 at the age of 100 after 57 years of marriage.
Six decades ago, Mrs. Landon drew press coverage around the country by refusing to join her husband on the hustings in his quest to unseat President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
She became general counsel and a vice president, both firsts for a woman, in 1956.
Mrs. Zorbaugh moved from ABC to CBS in 1957, becoming general attorney for radio as well as a vice president.
"She was a pioneer for women in management in broadcasting, and she used her  position to help other women" Eleanor R. Applewhaite, vice president and general counsel of Thirteen/WNET, the public television station, said yesterday.

        Jean Broward Shevlin Gerard, who as America's permanent representative at Unesco played a key role in President Reagan's decision to pull out of the agency in 1984, died of cancer at her home in Paris yesterday.
Vera Glaser, a journalist, recalled that at a news conference early in the Nixon Administration, she pointedly asked the new President whether he would appoint more women to his Administration.
The daughter of Ulysses Grant Shipe, a bank president in Huntington, W.Va., and Bertha Woody Shipe, a homemaker, Ms. East was educated at Marshall University in Huntington, where she received a bachelor's degree in history in 1943.
Ruth Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, said in an interview yesterday that ''she was and always will be remembered as the Mayor of the Upper West Side.
Within months of her arrival, she began investigating conditions in her children's public school, joined and was elected president of the neighborhood branch of the United Parents Association and led a campaign for smaller schools under greater neighborhood control.
Ms. Rosenblum's base of influence included the Strycker's Bay Neighborhood Council, where she served as a board member and president, and later Community Board 7, where she became a member in 1971.
Mrs. Ruppe was appointed director of the Peace Corps by President Ronald Reagan in 1981.
She served for eight years, after which she was appointed Ambassador to Norway by President George Bush.
The agency had had seven directors in the previous decade, and it had lost much of its independence after President Richard M. Nixon folded it into an umbrella agency called Action in an effort to downgrade some programs inherited from his Democratic predecessors.
President Jimmy Carter named Judge Nies to the United States Customs and Patent Appeals Court in 1980, and President Ronald Reagan reassigned her to the Federal Circuit when that jurisdiction was established in October 1982.
President Jimmy Carter named Judge Nies to the United States Customs and Patent Appeals Court in 1980, and President Ronald Reagan reassigned her to the Federal Circuit when that jurisdiction was established in October 1982.
Mr. Quarles, who served President Dwight D. Eisenhower as Secretary of the Air Force and Deputy Secretary of Defense, died in 1959.
In an interview when she was in her mid-80's, Mrs. Phillips, who was chairwoman of her company -- her daughter was president -- said she had no intention of ever retiring.
The work attracted the attention of the president of the University of Miami, Bowman Foster Ashe, who offered them jobs as professors.
There she was executive vice president of the state's chapter of the Americans for Democratic Action.
In the market stalls and side streets she was known as La Jefa, the boss, and at her death her office walls were adorned with photos of the curly-haired matriarch, often wearing a trademark white apron, with senators, mayors, police chiefs and every Mexican president since Jose Lopez Portillo took office in 1976.
She was a founder, in 1987, fund-raiser and most recently vice president of the American Skin Association, with its headquarters in New York City.
She was a life trustee of Brick Presbyterian Church's hospital chaplaincy, as well as a director, trustee and past president of James Lenox House, a home for the elderly.

        Ruth Lewis Farkas, who was appointed Ambassador to Luxembourg in 1973 after she and her husband, the founder of the Alexander's department stores, contributed $300,000 to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign, died on Friday at the Park Avenue home of her son Robin.
President Gerald R. Ford accepted her resignation in 1976 and replaced her with Rosemary L. Ginn, a longtime Republican national committeewoman from Missouri.
She was twice elected to lead the national umbrella Association of Commissions on Women, of which she eventually became president emeritus.
''
        Earlier this year The New Yorker published her brief memoir of her days at summer camp, and she finished her last book, ''A Visit to Camelot,'' an account of an evening spent at the White House when John F. Kennedy was President.
''
        She is survived by her husband, who is president of the Hebrew Actors Union.
      
Ms. Perez was also on the board of directors of the Center for the Independence of the Disabled and a vice president of Women With Disabilities, both of which are advocacy and service organizations.
At her death Mrs. Diebold was vice president of the Nyack Library.
Her husband of 40 years, Siegfried, a founder and former president of the international metals and commodities trading firm of Philipp Brothers, died in 1966.
      
The cause was cancer, according to the Chiron Corporation of Emeryville, Calif., where she was vice president for research in the vaccines division.
As vice president, she oversaw the vaccine research staff at Emeryville and coordinated efforts with vaccine research centers around the world.
She also was a president of the Nassau Senior Forum and the National Council of Jewish Women.
At her death she was president of Tower City Center, part of a complex of buildings in downtown Cleveland.
And he was loath to give up his lucrative partnership when President Lyndon B. Johnson tried to cajole him into joining the Court in 1965.

        Diane Margo Morales, special assistant for families and children to the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, died on Nov. 1 at New York Hospital.
Working out of the Borough President's office, she devised and coordinated various social projects like Iris House, a center for women with AIDS.
Dr. Fahmy, a professor of clinical psychology at the University of Ain Shams in Cairo for many years, was a founder of the Egyptian Psychological Association and its president from 1972 to 1981.
Vartan Gregorian, president of Brown University, who was president of the New York Public Library from 1980 to 1988, said Mrs. Astor ''has given equal attention to janitors and guards as to librarians and curators and the rich and famous.
Vartan Gregorian, president of Brown University, who was president of the New York Public Library from 1980 to 1988, said Mrs. Astor ''has given equal attention to janitors and guards as to librarians and curators and the rich and famous.
Mr. Gregorian recalled that when Mrs. Astor gave a dinner for the library, she invited virtually the same people she had recently invited to a party for President Reagan.
He was chairman and president of Potlatch Forests, a forest-products concern based in Lewiston, Idaho.
''
        She was president of the Spokane Y.W.C.A.
''Margret lived to the fullest every minute of her long and productive life and enriched the lives of millions,'' said Nader F. Darehshori, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Houghton Mifflin.
She was the center's president for 10 years in the 1960's and 70's.
For many years she was active in the English-Speaking Union of the United States, serving on the national board of governors and as president of the Chicago branch.
She worked with the Junior Leagues of New York, Chicago and Birmingham, Mich., where was president.
At that time, Mrs. Wilson gave up her work as administrative assistant to the president of the National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, and with her husband founded the Martha's Vineyard Little Theater, where they produced and directed plays.
Ms. Diamant was a longtime member of the Overseas Press Club and was its first woman president, from 1981 to 1986.

        Barbara Jordan, the black Congresswoman and scholar who stirred the nation with her Churchillian denunciations of the Watergate abuses of President Richard M. Nixon, died today in her home state of Texas at the age of 59.
"To deny birthright citizenship would derail this engine of American liberty," she warned with the same eloquence that mesmerized her American audience on July 25, 1974, when Representative Jordan argued for the impeachment of President Nixon.
A consummate politician from her earliest days in the Texas Legislature, Ms. Jordan won a seat on the House Judiciary Committee though only  a freshman by importuning her political mentor and friend, former President Lyndon B. Johnson, to pull some strings.
She then joined Basic Books, a subsidiary of HarperCollins, as associate publisher, senior vice president and director of publicity and rights.

        Dr. Ursula C. Schwerin, former president of New York City Technical College and the first woman to head a technical college in the United States, died on Friday in a nursing home in Stamford, Conn. She was 71 and had been a longtime resident of Queens.
In 1978, she became president of the school everybody called CUNY Tech, 20 years after receiving her associate's degree there.
Dr. Schwerin was the first woman to be named president of a City University community college and the second to be president  of any of the system's colleges, after Jacqueline G. Wexler of Hunter.
Dr. Schwerin was the first woman to be named president of a City University community college and the second to be president  of any of the system's colleges, after Jacqueline G. Wexler of Hunter.
Mrs. Wofford, a magna cum laude graduate of the University of Minnesota in 1948, joined the staff of the college in 1985 as assistant to the president for  development.
She was earlier associated with Bryn Mawr College, where her husband, Harris  L. Wofford, was president in the 1970's.

        Olga Havel, a human rights campaigner and wife of President Vaclav Havel, died on Saturday.
Mrs. Havel died at her home here after suffering from cancer, the President's office said.

        Dr. Elizabeth Monroe Boggs, a co-founder and past president of the Association for Retarded Citizens, died on Saturday at Cooper Medical Center in  Camden, N.J. She was 82 and a resident of Hampton, N.J.
        She died of injuries sustained on Jan. 21 when she lost control of her car on an icy road near her home, said Dr. Deborah Spitalnik, a close friend and colleague.
She served as  president of the organization in 1958, when it was known as the National Association for Retarded Children.
President John F. Kennedy named her to a Federal panel that studied the problems of mental retardation and advised on what action to take.
A volunteer for the Mount Sinai Hospital Auxiliary Board from 1927 to 1991, she served as president for five of those years and was a founder of the hospital gift shop.
When the Russian President, Boris N. Yeltsin, awarded Miss Chukovskaya a literary prize last year, she refused the money because she disagreed with Moscow's military campaign to keep Chechnya a part of Russia, said her longtime friend and English translator, Sylvia Rubashova, who lives in  London.
She remained its president for 30 years, retiring in 1993.
She helped organize its White Plains chapter and was a vice president of the Westchester Region and a national board member.
During much of the last 35 years, she lived in the United States, splitting her time in recent years between an apartment in Manhattan and a house in Sag Harbor, L.I., that once belonged to President Chester A. Arthur.
