''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black.
''
        She moved on to the House four years later, in the year when President Lyndon B. Johnson decided not to run for re-election.
Ms. Williams became a columnist in 2000, after more than a decade of writing lengthy profiles on Washington power brokers, including Vice President Al Gore and the Democratic diplomat Clark Clifford.
In 1956, she married Stephen O. Frankfurt, a graphic designer who was one of the agency's art directors; he later designed the titles for the film ''To Kill a Mockingbird'' and eventually became the president of Young & Rubicam.
Ms. Warrick was not well known when she took the role of Emily Monroe Norton, the president's niece who marries the newspaper magnate Charles Foster Kane, in Welles's 1941 film classic.
She taught in Operation Bootstrap, a Los Angeles program that provided teachers to poor neighborhoods, and at Julia Richman High School in Manhattan as part of President Jimmy Carter's Cities in Schools program.

        Anne Cox, a New York socialite who designed high fashion for high society in the 1950's and became the mother-in-law of a president's daughter, died on Tuesday in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of Palm Beach, Fla.
She was a patron of charities, including the Association for the Relief of Respectable, Aged, Indigent Females, of which she was president, and she was long the chairwoman or a co-chairwoman of the annual International Debutante Ball.
Anne Delafield Finch Cox was born in Westhampton Beach on March 13, 1918, and graduated from the Chapin School, where she was later a trustee and president of the alumnae association.
''When I ran for the Congress, when I ran for president, I met more discrimination as a woman than for being black,'' she told The Associated Press in December 1982, shortly before she left Washington to teach at Mount Holyoke College in Massachusetts.
''
        She moved on to the House four years later, in the year when President Lyndon B. Johnson decided not to run for re-election.
Patcevitch, a former president and chairman of Condé Nast Publications.
Ms. Janeway was also active on behalf of writers, serving as president of the Authors Guild from 1965 to 1969, a longtime member of the executive board of the American Center of Poets, Essayists and Novelists, a member of the board of directors of the McDowell Colony, and a judge for both the National Book Awards and the Pulitzer Prizes.
Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president at the time and a proponent of the redevelopment plan, said Ms. Garcia offered insights that had to be heeded.
Instead, according to Ms. Goodman and Joan Boening, the president of James Robinson, she came into her career as much by happenstance as by choice.
Elected president of the Council, she had three members arrested in 1989, when they tried to walk out of a meeting, which would have prevented a quorum needed to pass the city budget.
She was previously an assistant to Andrew J. Stein, then the City Council president.
In the 1970's and early 80's, she was president of Transworld Feature Syndicate.

        Midori Shimanouchi Lederer, who as founder and president emeritus of Japanese American Social Services Inc. helped provide social services to Asians and Asian-Americans in New York, died on March 9 at her home in Manhattan.
In 1986, the president of West Germany awarded her the Distinguished Medal of Merit, First Class.
A respected policy analyst and consultant, Ms. Dolbeare was an adviser to several secretaries of housing and urban development and was a former member of the President's Commission on Housing.
''
        Ms. Dolbeare founded the coalition in response to President Richard M. Nixon's 1973 moratorium on federal housing subsidies.
Ms. Dolbeare served on the President's Commission on Housing from 1981 to 1982.
A past president of the Antiquarian Booksellers' Association of America, Ms. Rostenberg wrote numerous books herself: scholarly works on printing history, and memoirs written with Ms. Stern that twinned their love of literary sleuthing with reminiscences of their life together.
For more than 20 years, as a program officer and later as executive vice president of the Carnegie Corporation, Ms. Finberg oversaw at least $100 million in grants given by the foundation.
After retiring from the foundation in 1996, she became vice president of MEM Associates Inc., a consulting firm for philanthropic and nonprofit groups.
Miss Wright had many parts on Broadway and once performed at a White House dinner for President Franklin D. Roosevelt, but her meteoric landing in Hollywood in 1941 is the stuff of legend.
McCaslin was a past president of the Children's Theater Association of America and in 1996 received the lifetime achievement award of the American Alliance for Theater in Education.
In 2001, she joined Rodale publications as vice president and editorial director.
The cause was cancer, according to the Institute on Religion and Democracy, a small but influential Washington group, of which Mrs. Knippers, a laywoman, was the longtime president.
After the fall of the Soviet Union, Mrs. Knippers, who became the institute's president in 1992, gave the group its domestic focus, first on radical feminism within the churches, then on homosexuality.
Ms. Stutz is best known for her 29-year career as the president of Henri Bendel, with a legendary eye for discovering the newest designers and using them first, installing their collections in elaborately merchandised departments that heralded the introduction of a new generation of fashion stars -- Stephen Burrows, Perry Ellis, Jean Muir, Sonia Rykiel, Carlos Falchi, Mary McFadden, Holly Harp and Ralph Lauren among them.
''Geraldine had a vision of the kind of store she wanted to create,'' said Jean Rosenberg, who was the vice president and merchandising director at Bendel's from six months before Ms. Stutz's arrival in 1957 to their joint departure in 1986, after the store was sold to The Limited.
Maxey Jarman, its president, recognized in Ms. Stutz an ability for merchandising and advertising, and named her to run the Henri Bendel store in 1957.
Robert Rufino, the vice president of creative services at Tiffany & Co., is one of the many retail executives who found their start with Ms. Stutz.
and its first African-American president, died yesterday in Grand Rapids, Mich. She was 98.
Mrs. Claytor, a longtime civil rights leader in Grand Rapids, served two terms, from 1967 to 1976, as national president of the Young Women's Christian Association.
Once she was national president, she oversaw the adoption of an amendment to the organization's constitution that buttressed the changes she had helped bring about.
Ms. Zames, a retired mathematics professor, was a past president of Disabled in Action of Metropolitan New York, an advocacy group.
At her death, she was a vice president of the organization.
Leon Botstein, president of Bard, explained in an interview that Mrs. Hall abhorred the way adolescents were ''infantilized,'' when they were capable of doing high-level academic work.
Earlier, in the 1930's, Robert Maynard Hutchins, president of the University of Chicago and a philosopher of education, had admitted academically superior 16-year-olds as freshmen.
Correction:  July 21, 2005, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Elizabeth Blodgett Hall, who founded Simon's Rock College, now part of Bard College, referred incorrectly in some copies to the given name of the president of Bard, who commented on her legacy.
She worked at the bank as an assistant to the cashier and vice president, Arthur Wilson.
Dame Cicely was St. Christopher's medical director from its founding in 1967 until 1985, then served as chairwoman till 2000, when she took the title of president.

        Joyce Wein, a former vice president of the company that produced the Newport Jazz and Folk Festivals and numerous other events, died on Monday at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital on the Upper East Side.
Mrs. Wein was a vice president of the company from shortly after it was established in the early 1960's to the late 1990's, and remained involved in its operations until her death.
Mrs. Ballard's husband, Frederic, a prominent lawyer and former president of the American Bonsai Association, died in 2001.
Judge Motley was the first black woman to serve in the New York State Senate, as well as the first woman to be Manhattan borough president, a position that guaranteed her a voice in running the entire city under an earlier system of local government called the Board of Estimate.
''
        In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her as a judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York at the urging of Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, a Democrat, and with the support of Senator Jacob K. Javits, a Republican.
She read books dealing with black history and became president of the local N.A.A.C.P.
She remained in the job until February 1965, when she was chosen by unanimous vote of the City Council to fill a one-year vacancy as Manhattan borough president.
As borough president, she drew up a seven-point program for the revitalization of Harlem and East Harlem, securing $700,000 to plan for those and other underprivileged areas of the city.
''
        Correction:  October 5, 2005, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Constance Baker Motley, the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, misstated the given name of her surviving brother and the means by which she was named to fill a vacancy as Manhattan borough president.
In 1987, she explained it to Nancy Carol Joyner of Western Carolina University: ''I said if Nixon was elected president I was going back to Europe.
An almost life-long Republican, she became an outspoken critic of President Ronald Reagan and supported the candidacy of Walter F. Mondale and Geraldine A. Ferraro in the 1984 presidential race.
She added: ''I have worked for scores of Republican candidates, but I'm not going to toe the party line when I have a president who seeks to send me down the time tunnel as a woman.
Ms. Farbman was previously known for her work with the United Parents Associations, a group concerned with educational issues; she was its president from 1950 to 1952.

        Sandra Feldman, the blunt-spoken former president of the American Federation of Teachers and its local in New York, who emerged from the shadow of her mentor, Albert Shanker, to become a deft and intimidating labor powerhouse on her own, died Sunday night at her home in Manhattan.
But she was not timid about assailing President Bush when she thought he was not funneling enough resources to sustain those standards.
''
        At one point in the late 1980's, she fought so ardently for Bernard Gifford to become New York City schools chancellor that Robert F. Wagner Jr., the president of the Board of Education, threatened to resign unless Ms. Feldman backed off.
Randi Weingarten, who succeeded Ms. Feldman as president of the United Federation of Teachers, said, ''People remember her take-no-prisoners kind of attitude, but Sandy was far more pragmatic than people give her credit for.
''
        She loved to read fiction and sometimes went dancing in salsa and jazz clubs with her second husband, Arthur H. Barnes, senior vice president for external affairs of HIP Health Plan of New York.

        Molly Yard, for more than half a century an outspoken advocate for liberal causes, who came to national prominence as president of the National Organization for Women in the late 1980's, died yesterday at a nursing home in Pittsburgh.
Active since the 1930's in student and civil rights movements, Ms. Yard served as NOW's president from 1987 until 1991.
'' She also called for the impeachment of President Ronald Reagan over the Iran-contra affair.
In 1987, Eleanor Smeal, Ms. Yard's mentor and NOW's departing president, suggested she run for the position.
Her death was announced by Regina Joskow, vice president of publicity at the Verve Music Group, Ms. Horn's label.
At her funeral on Oct. 21, former Vice President Al Gore, one of many political leaders in attendance, called Mrs. Tucker ''a four-star general in the battle for righteousness.
After returning to Washington in the 1960's, she served as president of the African-American Women's Association.
After receiving a master's in business administration in 2000, she was the senior vice president for business development at Edison Schools, an operator of commercial charter schools, when Mr. Gerstner recruited her for the Teaching Commission.
At Fawcett, Ms. Nevler helped start the Crest Books reprint line and held various editorial positions, eventually becoming vice president and publisher of Fawcett Books.
She retired from Ballantine in 2001 as a senior vice president and editorial director.
Dr. Styles served as the association's president from 1986 to 1988.
Later in her career she studied the emerging importance of trained nurses in developing countries and, in 1993, was elected president of the International Council of Nurses.
She continued to write on certification and helped edit a popular anthology, ''On Nursing: A Literary Celebration'' (1993), which ''framed the art of healing, the pain of suffering, and was received as a gift to the profession,'' said Barbara A. Blakeney, the current president of the American Nurses Association.
