From 1978 to 1996, Ms. Bliven held various offices, including secretary and vice president, at PEN, the national organization of writers and editors.
She joined the company in 1938, rose to senior vice president in 1959 and retired about 30 years ago.
Her father was Carl M. Loeb, former president of the American Metal Company and co-founder with his son John Langeloth Loeb of Carl M. Loeb & Company, later to become known as the Wall Street firm of Loeb, Rhoades & Company.
''When she started, it was unimaginably difficult for a woman to advance in medicine,'' said Dr. Eugene Schiff, former president of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.
Her articles in the early 1950's included profiles of Ramon Magsaysay, the president of the Philippines who was emerging as a new Asian leader, and Ho Chi Minh, who even then was a household word to millions of Vietnamese.
''
        Annalee Whitmore was born on May 27, 1916, on the kitchen table of her family's home in Price, Utah, the eldest of four children born to Leland Whitmore, a bank president who built and flew airplanes as a hobby, and Anne Sharp Whitmore, who later became a librarian at the main branch of the New York Public Library.
Although she was patron of more than 80 charities and organizations, colonel in chief of the Highland Fusiliers of Canada and president of the Royal Ballet, there was increasing resentment of her approach to her duties.
As the corporation grew, she became executive vice president and treasurer of the four companies it comprised.
Her mother, Jean Schick Grossman, was a parent educator, and her father, Max Grossman, was a lawyer and president of the Ethical Culture Society of New York.
In 1989, her friend Colleen Dewhurst, who was then president of Actors' Equity, chose Miss LeNoire as the first recipient of what became the union's annual award for broadening participation in theater.
In 1999, President Clinton lauded her long fight against discrimination as he presented her with the National Medal of the Arts, one of her many honors.
In 1984 she was the Green Party candidate for president of West Germany, a hopeless campaign against the highly popular winner, Richard von Weizsäcker.
)
        The King and the President
        Early in 1939, Elizabeth and Bertie traveled to Hyde Park, N.Y., to visit Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, the president and first lady of the United States.
)
        The King and the President
        Early in 1939, Elizabeth and Bertie traveled to Hyde Park, N.Y., to visit Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt, the president and first lady of the United States.
In her memoirs, Mrs. Roosevelt described the easy banter between the king and the president.
Riven with grief, she wrote to President Eisenhower that ''one cannot imagine life without him, but one must carry on as he would have wished.
She served as either president or patron of 312 British organizations, ranging, as one biographer put it, ''from the Royal Agricultural Society to the Dachshund Club.
As the corporation grew, she became executive vice president and treasurer of the four companies it comprised.
Nancy Barry, president of Women's World Banking, said that 25 million people, three-quarters of them women, had received microloans in more than 40 less-developed countries.
She paid for the program in part with her half of the Africa Prize, a $100,000 award she split with Olusegun Obasanjo, the current president of Nigeria, in 1990.
Born near Detroit, Mrs. Sawyer moved to California at 25 to work in public relations under Michael K. Deaver, who later became President Reagan's deputy chief of staff.
There are the declassified State Department documents, released in late 1999, that suggest that the Pinochet regime would not have killed her husband when it overthrew Salvador Allende, the Socialist president, without a green light from American intelligence -- a claim denied by American officials for two decades.
In her 1964 song ''The Hymn,'' she preached: ''When the president was assassinated, the nation said, 'Where is God?
She worked in the publicity department there, and one of her first assignments was working with President Dwight D. Eisenhower on his memoirs.
She was also an assistant to Nelson Doubleday, the company's president, for eight years.
Katherine Strauss Mali, president of Concern for Dying, hired her as executive director in 1976.

        Rose Ellis Matzkin, national president of Hadassah, the women's Zionist organization of America, from 1972 to 1976, died on Monday in a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88.
The cause was systemic scleroderma, said Charles Spaulding, a vice president of the organization, the Scleroderma Research Foundation, which Ms. Monsky founded in 1987.
With her death, the three people who long steered the Folksbiene are now gone: Benjamin Schechter, managing director, died in 1994, and Morris Adler, president, died in December at 107.
Dr. Pantoja, who received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bill Clinton in 1996 for her efforts to provide educational and economic opportunities for Puerto Ricans, was born in poverty in San Juan, P.R., in 1922.
The program's graduates include Fernando Ferrer, the former Bronx borough president and 2001 mayoral candidate, and Anthony D. Romero, executive director of the American Civil Liberties Union.
As politics changed in the United States, especially with President Lyndon B. Johnson's War on Poverty, Dr. Pantoja shifted her emphasis from self-help programs to reform of the educational system.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
But covering President Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem in 1977 was different -- there was an atmosphere of such joy and delight, both in Israel and in Egypt, that it was an inspiring experience.
She served as president of the College Art Association from 1988 to 1990; was elected to the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei in Rome in 1995 and to the American Philosophical Society in 1999 and, because of her work in culinary history, to the Dames d'Escoffier in 1995.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, the president of Notre Dame.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, the president of Notre Dame.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Buried under a million columns, President Richard Nixon signed the National Cancer Act.
But covering President Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem in 1977 was different -- there was an atmosphere of such joy and delight, both in Israel and in Egypt, that it was an inspiring experience.
Ms. Gelman, a pediatric nurse practitioner, was president of the New York State Coalition of Nurse Practitioners in 1985 and 1988.
She helped Jack Valenti, the president of the association, in a legal effort to overturn state and local censorship laws, many of which sought to ban depictions of interracial relationships, on the ground that such laws violated the First Amendment to the Constitution.
Mrs. Marshall's anthropological career began when her husband, Laurence K. Marshall, a founder and president of the Raytheon Corporation, retired in 1950 with the thought that it was time to get reacquainted with his family.
The cause was lung cancer, said Donn B. Murphy, president of the National Theater in Washington.
They then began a new recording project, Soria Series, at RCA; Mr. Soria went on to become vice president of that label's international department.
He was president of the Jewish Center, a synagogue in Manhattan, for 45 years until he died in 1982.
In the 1970's, she was president of the Society of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
She was also a director and president of the Sensory Awareness Foundation of Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Read was born on Dec. 7, 1909, in Belleville, Ill. She studied biology at the University of Wisconsin and received a master's degree in modern dance from the University of Illinois.
      
Ms. Wyler is survived by her daughters, Ruth W. Messinger, the former Manhattan borough president, and Dr. Barbara W. Gold of Philadelphia; a brother, Edwin L. Goldwasser; a sister, Joan Schine; five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
      
With her sharp analytic eye and her tireless support of original talent, Ms. Reinhart was also president of the board of directors of Laura Dean Dancers and Musicians.
Soon after her purchase, Mrs. Wilmot was forced to put up with Secret Service agents who overran her property to protect her neighbor, President John F. Kennedy.
As a senior at Maui High School she was elected student body president, and by the time she graduated from the University of Hawaii in 1948, her interests had shifted from medicine to the humanities.
In 1977, President Jimmy Carter appointed her assistant secretary of state for oceans and international, environmental and scientific affairs.
She also played at the White House for President Richard M. Nixon.
Kenneth Leib, president of the General Slocum Memorial Association, said that only one General Slocum survivor remains alive: Adella Wotherspoon, 98, a retired teacher in Watchung, N.J.
        ''I'm sorry, of course,'' Mrs. Wotherspoon said in a phone interview.

        Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation and a director of the Hearst Corporation, died on Wednesday at her home in Los Angeles.
A granddaughter of William Randolph Hearst, Mrs. Boudjakdji (pronounced Bood-JACK-gee) was named president of the foundation, an independent private philanthropy, in January, 2001.
Correction:  October 29, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Millicent Hearst Boudjakdji, president of the William Randolph Hearst Foundation, misstated the date of her death.
Dr. Nichols helped bring together Vartan Gregorian, a former president of Brown University and the New York Public Library, and the Carnegie Foundation, of which he became president in 1997.
Dr. Nichols helped bring together Vartan Gregorian, a former president of Brown University and the New York Public Library, and the Carnegie Foundation, of which he became president in 1997.
She helped the Doris Duke Charitable Foundation find its new president, Joan E. Spero, in 1997.
Another match she worked on was that of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Michael M. Kaiser, who took over as president in 2001 after serving as executive director of the Royal Opera House in London.
Derek Bok, the president of Harvard, made her his special assistant for Harvard's offshore programs.
In the early 1990's, she was the vice president for planning and development in New York for the American University in Beirut, Lebanon.
List, who received the National Medal of Arts from President Bill Clinton in 1996, was born Vera Glaser in 1908 in Brookline, Mass., the daughter of a housepainter from Latvia.
She founded the Animal Welfare Institute in New York in 1951 and was president until her death.
She was a trustee and past executive director of the Renaissance Society of America, a former trustee of the American Academy in Rome and a former president and life trustee of the Brearley School board.
In 1963, she joined efforts to desegregate her hometown, Albany, Ga., as national president of the Delta Sigma Theta sorority.
In 1964, she was chosen by President Johnson to help plan the Women's Job Corps, a component of his national plan to fight poverty.
Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinnear, former president and chief executive of Texaco and chairman of the Metropolitan Opera who will step down later this month and become honorary chairman.

        Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn.
        Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms as its president, from 1950 to 1958.

        Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn.
        Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms as its president, from 1950 to 1958.
She was also a founder and trustee of the League of Women Voters Education Fund, the organization's educational arm, and was president of the league's Overseas Education Fund, which encourages political activity among women abroad, from 1959 to 1964.
Ms. Bistany spent 17 years at ABC News, most recently as senior vice president from August 1998 until she left in June 2000 to become an independent program developer.
Previously, she was vice president at ABC News, and from 1986 to 1998 was chief deputy to Roone Arledge when he was president.
Previously, she was vice president at ABC News, and from 1986 to 1998 was chief deputy to Roone Arledge when he was president.
She joined the network in 1983 as director of news information after serving as President Ronald Reagan's special assistant for communications.
Her grandfathers were Benjamin F. Goodrich, the inventor and industrialist, and John Cabell Breckinridge, a vice president, a presidential candidate in 1860 and secretary of war for the Confederacy.

        CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children.
Ms. Enseki arrived at the museum in 1989 as a developer of exhibits and became its president in 1997.
Mrs. Wells and her second husband were sent by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on a top secret mission to Africa to look for possible postwar homelands for Jews.
Earhart, the first president, proposed calling the group the Ninety-Nines, in honor of the 99 charter members.
In 1941, they were asked by President Roosevelt to investigate possible African locations for a Jewish homeland, and they recommended Angola.
She was one of three women who traveled as reporters with President Richard M. Nixon on his trip to China in 1972.
For years, Mrs. Wells went to Gettysburg, Pa., every week to play bridge with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's widow, Mamie.
She was Carol Bellamy's press secretary when Ms. Bellamy was City Council president; a communications officer at Planned Parenthood of America; and the press secretary during Bella Abzug's campaign for the United States Senate.
And the top often meant the president, whether it was Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson or Jimmy Carter.
Jack Valenti, a friend of Mrs. Mahoney, was a special assistant to the president in the Johnson administration.
''When I would tell him that Mary Lasker and Florence Mahoney wanted to see him, the president would groan,'' Mr. Valenti said.
It passed, but President Richard M. Nixon would not sign it.
Mr. Valenti, now the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, said ''The Exorcist'' was filmed there.
