She retired in May after 18 years as publisher of the New Hampshire newspapers, which are the state's largest, and as president of the Union Leader Corporation.
On the day when President Clinton visited New Hampshire soon after his acquittal on impeachment charges, a front-page editorial, written by her, had the headline, ''Don't Come Back, Kid.
They had met two years previously when he was a fellow passenger on the S.S. President Hoover, en route to the Philippines to assume his duties as military adviser to the government there.
After North Korean forces invaded South Korea, he also became supreme commander of the United Nations forces in Korea until April 1951, when, in a dispute over the prosecution of the war, he was relieved of both commands by President Harry S. Truman.
Later, when the military situation on Corregidor rapidly deteriorated, the general informed her that President Manuel Quezon of the Philippines had offered her and their young son, Arthur, passage to Australia.
The MacArthurs and their 4-year-old son lived in an underground bunker during months of bombardment before agreeing to evacuation on President Franklin D. Roosevelt's orders.
Mrs. MacArthur received the distinguished public service award from the Department of Defense in 1984, and in 1988, President Ronald Reagan presented her with the Medal of Freedom, the highest award given a civilian in peacetime, for her patriotic service to the nation.
She married Stephen B. Botsford, The New Yorker magazine's president from 1956 to 1961, in 1966.
She was married to John Ferraro, the Los Angeles City Council president, and had become a zestful participant in the city's life.
She was president of Screen Smart Set, a support group for the Motion Picture and Television Home in Woodland Hills, Calif.
        She suffered an aneurysm and a stroke that left her partially paralyzed shortly after she married Mr. Ferraro, but continued to attend charity events in elegant, sometimes flamboyant fashions.
She was a past president of the Linguistic Society of America.
Mrs. Devenney was a founder, president emeritus and living legend of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition, which started in the mid-1970's.
''She was a no-nonsense Bronx grandmother who took leadership of a whole part of the Bronx in some of its darkest times as the head of the Northwest Bronx Community and Clergy Coalition,'' said the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer, who had known her for some 20 years.

        Zilla Lippmann, a philanthropist and past president of New Dramatists, a Manhattan-based theatrical organization that helps playwrights develop new works, died on Dec. 27 at her home in Manhattan.
She was a founder and president of the John Golden Fund, a foundation devoted to the support of American plays and playwriting.
She also played a major role in founding New Dramatists in 1949, served for many years on its board and was its president in the early 1980's.
They said they were unable to pay her what they owed because President Franklin Delano Roosevelt had issued a wartime executive order limiting all salaries to $25,000 a year.
Peter Scheifinger, president of an organization of Austrian architects and related professionals, summed up her importance in an Austrian daily newspaper, Der Standard: ''With her concern for social welfare and her unyielding anti-fascism, she erected socially significant road signs for the Republic of Austria that extended beyond her artistic field of endeavor.
In 1988 she was offered the Austrian Medal for Science and Art, but she declined it then since it would have been presented by Austria's president at the time, Kurt Waldheim, who had been accused of suppressing his Nazi past.
She was also active in the Federation of Western Outdoor Clubs, as its one-time president and as editor of its newsletter until her death.
Only a broken hip prevented her from joining the protests by unions and environmentalists in Seattle during the recent meeting of the World Trade Organization, said Brock Evans, president of the Western Outdoor Clubs.
''She stripped bare the lives of bourgeois families who hid their little hells,'' said Denise Boucher, a poet who is president of the Union of Quebec Writers.
In 1993 Mrs. Simon was named chairwoman of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science, a post to which President Clinton reappointed her in 1997.
'' Among those works meeting her criteria were a monteith, or punch bowl, incorporating the presidential seal, which President Ronald Reagan presented to heads of state, and a dinner service designed by Pierre L'Enfant for George Washington.
When her husband died in 1978, Mrs. Mottahedeh succeeded him as president and remained active in the company, even after it was sold, until her retirement in 1998.
''You told her something once,'' said Susan Alt, former president of the Women's Civic Club, a policy analysis and advocacy organization of which Ms. Clark was a member throughout her adult life.
Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and married the son of the man who would become president of France.
After the war, her father-in-law became president and she, her husband and Jean-Paul, her older son, moved into Elysee Palace.
At her death, Jacques Chirac, President of France, called her ''the incarnation of courage and modernity for the French people.
As an active campaigner for American music, she helped found the American Composers Alliance in 1938 and was its vice president from 1961 to 1965.
Mrs. Venturelli succeeded Mrs. Churchill as president in 1977 and served in that post for 20 years.
A striking woman with blue eyes, perfectly coiffed hair and a collection of distinctive hats, her powers of persuasion at City Hall and in Albany were keen, said Louise Crane, vice president of the widows' group.
She was a niece of Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin, a professor of physiology who served as Cuba's provisional president in 1933 and '34 and as president from 1944 to 1948.
She was a niece of Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin, a professor of physiology who served as Cuba's provisional president in 1933 and '34 and as president from 1944 to 1948.
Dr. Grau had been a central figure in the student rebellion against President Gerardo Machado (1925-33), a nationalist who grew increasingly autocratic.
Both got 30-year sentences, but Ms. Grau was freed in 1978 when Mr. Castro released a large number of political prisoners as part of a relaxation encouraged by President Jimmy Carter.
In a statement, President Jacques Chirac praised her today as ''one of the world's greatest photographers.
She was also a trustee and president of the Long Beach Board of Education from 1957 to 1973.
She also created public service advertising for the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, for which she served as vice president and member of the board.
Her husband, Joseph J. Sisco, a former under secretary of state for political affairs and a former president of American University, joined the firm in 1981.
She worked for the Woodward & Lothrop retail chain for 24 years, until 1974, and rose to be its vice president for personnel and labor relations.
She is survived by her stepsons, Donald Bren, chairman of the Irvine Company, a real estate investment firm in Newport Beach, and Peter Bren, president of Koll-Bren-Schreiber, a real estate investment firm in New York.
      
An opponent of mandatory sentences and long confinement for juveniles, she was president of the National Council of Juvenile Court Judges in 1976 and 1977.
Her husband of 48 years, John J. Driscoll, who was president of the Connecticut State Labor Council for 24 years, died in 1994.
In 1962, she photographed former President Herbert Hoover as a patient there.
In between she worked as an analyst for the President's Committee on Government Contracts, a researcher for the Senate Special Committee on Unemployment and legislative secretary to Senator Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
In 1968, she was the first woman to be elected a national vice president of the committee.
She remained active as an honorary national vice president and honorary chairwoman of the organization's Women's Campaign Board.
Miss Benson's books included a novel, ''At the Still Point,'' and biographies of Nelson Mandela and Winnie Mandela, his wife at the time, written while Mr. Mandela was still serving his long prison term and decades before he would become president of South Africa.
After some years as an executive with CBS and then at WETA, a Public Broadcasting outlet in Washington, she returned to NBC in 1982 and went on to become assistant vice president for NBC News in Washington.
She founded the women's wing, or ''feminine department,'' of the Mangueira samba school and was its president for several terms.
Candidacies like that of the acting Mangueira president, Elmo Jose dos Santos, were often said to have been hatched from her modest home on Visconde de Niteroi street.
''
        When Maria Tereza Goulart, the wife of Brazil's former president, Joao Goulart, visited Ms. Goncalves da Silva to see the Mangueira school for herself, she was reported to have danced until the wee hours.

        Grace M. S. McKittrick MacNeil, a civic worker and philanthropist who was the national president of Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. from 1969 to 1972, died on June 30 in Natchez, Miss.
After holding paid and unpaid posts with Girl Scouts of the U.S.A., whose headquarters are in Manhattan, she was on its board of directors for some years and was elected national president after holding lesser executive posts in the 1960's.
While she was president, she ''led the organization to its highest membership, of over 3.9 million members,'' Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. said in announcing her death.
''She was much more interested in developing talent than taking over the great names,'' said Mr. Wasserman, who had contracted with Ms. Dispeker in 1977, when she was almost 75, to succeed her as the company's president.
''She would say, 'You know, I'm just a grandma, but here's what I think,' '' said Susan Soon-Keum Cox, who was adopted through the Holt agency and now works there as a vice president.
In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named Mrs. Holt the National Mother of the Year, and in 1995 she became the only non-Korean to receive the Korea National Merit Award.
Mrs. Trump is survived by four children: Donald, the developer and casino operator; Robert, the president of his father's property management company; Maryanne, a federal judge on the Third Circuit Court of Appeals; Elizabeth, an executive with Chase Manhattan Bank; eight grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      

        Sister M. Isolina Ferre, a Catholic nun from a wealthy family in Puerto Rico who was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Clinton last August for over half a century of charity and peacemaking, died on Thursday in her native city of Ponce.
''Armed only with her faith, she taught gangs in New York City to solve their differences without violence,'' President Clinton said in a statement last week.
While working as a reporter in the Washington bureau of The Houston Post in the mid-1960's she was recruited by President Lyndon B. Johnson for a secretarial position on his White House staff.
As the Davises began to spend more and more time in Palm Beach (although they kept their Fifth Avenue apartment), they played a similar role as impresarios, establishing the Regional Arts Foundation, with Mrs. Davis as president, in the early 1970's.

        Linda Grey, a top publishing executive who rose from editorial assistant to president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group, died on Aug. 30.
'' The imprint was dissolved the same year after the announcement that Ms. Grey was resigning to become president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group.
Shortly after her divorce became final in 1971 she was married for a third time, to Stanley Hough, vice president and director for production operations at 20th Century Fox.
The only child of a bank president, she went to private schools, made her debut at a tea dance in 1945 and graduated from Smith College in 1949.
She became the first woman president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and she joined the board of directors of The Boston Globe Newspaper Company in 1992.
The only child of a bank president, she went to private schools, made her debut at a tea dance in 1945 and graduated from Smith College in 1949.
She became the first woman president of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, and she joined the board of directors of The Boston Globe Newspaper Company in 1992.
Dr. Milton, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Henry Friedlander, a professor of history at the City University of New York and president of the German Studies Association.
At the time of her death, Dr. Milton was vice president of the Swiss-appointed Independent Commission of Experts, which was investigating Swiss policies toward Jews and Nazis during the Holocaust.
She was born Sophie Schidlovsky  in St. Petersburg, Russia, in 1903, the daughter of Sergei Schidlovsky, the last vice president of the Czar's Duma, or Parliament.
At the time of her death she was president of Religious Books for Russia, founded to send Bibles and religious literature to Russia; it has continued its work in Russia.
In the final years of her life, her daughter, Chandrika Kumaratunga, succeeded her as the standard bearer of the family party and has served as president of the country since 1994.
But both the son, as a leader of the opposition, and the daughter, as president, have carried on the family's political tradition.
      

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Pauline Baerwald Falk, a philanthropist and a collector of Asian art who was also a former president of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
In addition to Mrs. Roosevelt, she was supported by Dr. Albert Schweitzer; Pope John XXIII; U Thant, secretary general of the United Nations; Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of India; and President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt.
Mrs. Edelman was an early supporter of the United Cerebral Palsy Associations and became the honorary lifetime president of the Los Angeles association.
A letter condemning her dismissal, written by 10 Pulitzer Prize-winning composers, including Mr. Carter and Aaron Copland, was sent to the vice president of Warner Communications and widely circulated in the press, to no avail.
''
        Marie Wilson, president of the Ms. Foundation, yesterday called Ms. Kennedy ''one of the most wonderfully outrageous pioneers of feminism in America.
Its first act was to nominate Representative Shirley Chisholm, Democrat of New York, for president.
The next year Duarte married Col. Juan Domingo Peron, and in 1946, Peron became president of Argentina.
She was for a time president of the group, which helped spur stricter enforcement of traffic rules.
She founded it in 1979 after leaving the advertising agency Doyle Dane Bernbach, where she had risen to vice president for product development.
She returned to Lord & Taylor in 1963 as vice president for advertising and window display, a position from which she retired in 1971.
She is survived by a sister, Helen Wilkins Claytor of Grand Rapids, Mich., a former national president of the Y.W.C.A.
      
