She served as president of the Hauppauge Library Board in the 1970's and was a vice president of the Amityville Board of Education from 1984 to 1988.
She served as president of the Hauppauge Library Board in the 1970's and was a vice president of the Amityville Board of Education from 1984 to 1988.
Her first novel, ''Who's That Lady in the President's Bed?,'' was published by Dodd/Mead in 1972 under the pseudonym B. K. Ripley.

        Mary Jean Crenshaw Tully, a founding strategist of modern feminism and former president of the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund, died on Dec. 27 at White Plains Hospital.
From 1971 to 1981 she was president of the Fund for Women's Rights, founded by Betty Friedan to lobby for the Equal Rights Amendment and other women's rights issues.
The American Olympic Committee and its president, Avery Brundage, had expelled her from the Games for carousing and breaking curfew, an incident that became one of the most publicized flaps in Olympic history.

        MARIE C. WILSON, the president of the Ms. Foundation for Women, has the comportment of a seasoned politician.
This brings us to the subject of the white bowler, emblazoned with ''Madame President'' in red, white and blue, propped on Ms. Wilson's computer in her comfortable office on Wall Street.
'' As president of the five-year-old White House Project, she hopes to recruit and train 1,000 women to become political leaders, and to enlist 25,000 women to get out the vote this year.
''
        Her partner of 15 years is Nancy A. Lee, a vice president for business development at The New York Times, and they live in Manhattan.
''
        PUBLIC LIVES  Correction:  February 19, 2004, Thursday  A Public Lives profile on Tuesday about Marie C. Wilson, president of the White House Project, which is trying to involve more women in leadership roles, misstated the type of hat, emblazoned with ''Madame President,'' that sits atop Ms. Wilson's computer.
''
        PUBLIC LIVES  Correction:  February 19, 2004, Thursday  A Public Lives profile on Tuesday about Marie C. Wilson, president of the White House Project, which is trying to involve more women in leadership roles, misstated the type of hat, emblazoned with ''Madame President,'' that sits atop Ms. Wilson's computer.

        Sister Doris Smith, who was president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx from 1973 to 1992, died on Thursday.
While Sister Doris was president of the college, it grew significantly in student population and, in 1988, a master's degree program was added.
Correction:  February 25, 2004, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Saturday about Sister Doris Smith, former president of the College of Mount St. Vincent in the Bronx, misstated the date of her death.
''
        Herman Badillo, a former Bronx borough president, said in an interview yesterday that he remembered Mrs. Fleck as being very aggressive in pursuing project after project.
Fernando Ferrer, another former Bronx borough president, said in an interview with The Riverdale Press last week that Mrs. Fleck ''put her own stamp on the Bronx in a very important way.
She was its president for 11 years, successfully pushing initiatives for affordable housing.
She died at the St. Francis Nursing Home after a series of strokes, said Deanie Parker, the president and chief executive of Soulsville, the nonprofit corporation that runs the Stax Museum of American Soul Music and the Stax Music Academy.
In 1969, after disagreement about the label's direction, she quietly left the company in 1969, bought out by her brother and the label's president, Al Bell.
She joined the presidential campaign staff of John F. Kennedy and was one of nine assistants to President Kennedy's press secretary, Pierre E. Salinger.
In it, she spoke of President Kennedy's romantic liaison with a college-age intern who could not type.
'' It surprised her, she said, when Thomas McCormack, president of St. Martin's Press, acquired the manuscript without cuts.
The first woman to be president of the American Society of Criminology, she was known for her use of longitudinal studies, which follow subjects for many years.
Her contributions often went beyond money, as when she and Laurance S. Rockefeller and Brooke Astor in 1976 came up with the idea of planting a grove along the Potomac River to honor President Lyndon B. Johnson.
She was executive vice president of the microfilm company.
President Kennedy dispatched them as his representatives on diplomatic occasions.
President Johnson continued to send the Engelhards on diplomatic missions.
In 1993 she managed to persuade President Bill Clinton, then visiting Vail, to share a curtain call with her students.

        Margaret Westheimer Tishman, an organizer of the merged UJA-Federation of New York and its first president, died on Friday in Manhattan.
After the groups combined, she was the organization's president until 1989 and kept working and raising money for it until last month.
She was on the boards of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Home and Hospital and was president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York.
She was a trustee of Wellesley and a former president of its National Development Fund Council.
Professionally, she was a vice president of the Tishman East Management Corporation and a director of Bank Leumi.
Her father, Randolph Carter Harrison, was a senior vice president of Central Hanover Bank and Trust Company.
Her mother, the former Mary Hawes, was president of the Garden Club of America.
In her last year of college, she and John met when they were members of the wedding party of Nancy Walker Bush, sister of the former president George H. W. Bush, and Alexander Ellis.
While Mrs. Lauder and her husband were apart she met and became close to Mr. van Ameringen, who became president and chairman of International Flavors and Fragrances, a company that formulates fragrances for many well-known beauty houses and has no connection with the Lauder empire.
Leonard Lauder, who became president of the company in the 1970's, recalled that ''we had a Boston wholesaler, the Samuel Bernstein Hair Company, and Mr. Bernstein used to talk to me about his son Lenny.
Thus, she rejected President Nixon's offer to make her ambassador to Luxembourg (she blamed her husband, who reportedly said, ''I'm not going to carry her bags'').

        Rosemary Park Anastos, an advocate for women's education and the liberal arts and a former president of Barnard College and Connecticut College for Women, died April 17 at her home in Los Angeles, said a niece, Joan Citron.
At Connecticut, where she was president from 1947 to 1962, she expanded the student body by one-third, strengthened the curriculum, built major new buildings and was a tireless fund-raiser.
Born in Andover, Mass., Dr. Park was the oldest of four children of J. Edgar Park, a minister raised in Ireland who became president of Wheaton College, in Massachusetts, and Grace Burtt Park, who taught Greek and mathematics.
Her brother, William E. Park, was president of Simmons College, in Boston.
She began teaching German part time, first at Wheaton, then at Connecticut College, where she became dean of freshmen, academic dean, acting president, then president.
She began teaching German part time, first at Wheaton, then at Connecticut College, where she became dean of freshmen, academic dean, acting president, then president.
In 1981, she was promoted to vice president and director for special events at CBS News, overseeing special coverage of breaking news.
''It's difficult for the many women thriving in broadcast journalism today to imagine the battles Joan Richman fought and won on their behalf,'' said Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, in the statement from the family.
In 2000, President Bill Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor.
In New York she studied with Will Barnet, and joined American Abstract Artists, serving as president of the organization for more than a decade.
Other assignments included shooting Mayor Fiorello La Guardia at Yankee Stadium, Leonard Bernstein and President John F. Kennedy and his wife, Jacqueline.
She wrote a series of columns about the assassination and funeral of President John F. Kennedy that became one of the most evocative and enduring eulogies for the man and the times.
''
        She was at the airport when Kennedy's body was flown back from Dallas, and she described the tearful, ''leaderless men of the New Frontier'' as they ''picked up their inexpressible burden'' of the young president's coffin.
' ''
        Ms. McGrory went on to cover all the classic Congressional dramas, including the impeachment of President Bill Clinton.
''Black President,'' her anthem to Nelson Mandela in jail envisioning the day that he would come out and lead the country, became her generation's harder-edged addition to its elders' tradition of religious liberation songs.
She could call herself the niece of former President Mandela (she was a member of the same Madiba clan of the Xhosas) and refer to him as a ''bloody jailbird'' in the same sentence and still be forgiven.
(He, his former wife Winnie and President Thabo Mbeki all visited her in the hospital before her death.
President.
Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and President Moshe Katsav were among the thousands of mourners at her funeral on Sunday at Kibbutz Kinneret, the place of her birth.
The cause was complications of a heart attack she suffered on June 9, said Doug Whiteman, president of Penguin Young Readers Group, the publisher of most of her books.
Ms. Payson was the founder and president of the Beard's Fund, through which she supported groups in the performing arts and individual artists.
Her husband, Ernest R. Hansen, a bank president, died in 1983.

        Anne Gorsuch Burford, a Colorado conservative who was chosen by President Ronald Reagan as his top environmental regulator only to resign under Congressional fire 22 months later, died Sunday in Aurora, Colo. She was 62.
In appointing her administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, President Reagan made Ms. Burford a leader in his effort to bring economic discipline to environmental cleanup and to give the states greater enforcement powers on matters like clean air and water, policies she had earlier advocated on the state level.
Elisabeth Kübler-Ross was a true pioneer in raising the awareness among the physician community and the general public about the important issues surrounding death, dying and bereavement,'' Dr. Percy Wooten said when he was president of the American Medical Association in 1998.
Hence that furrow in the brow of the otherwise self-possessed president of the New-York Historical Society, who is inaugurating her tenure with a $5 million blockbuster exhibition on Alexander Hamilton, a founding father hitherto best known for decorating $10 bills with his somber visage.
During the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962, President Kennedy dined at her house with two Soviet experts, the diplomat Charles Bohlen and the philosopher Isaiah Berlin, whose insights helped to inform his judgments in his showdown with Moscow.
She said the president shook dry martinis, ''which I adored,'' and served fresh caviar sent by Stalin.
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
''In 2002 she was also convicted of tax fraud in a case involving payments she received in the early 1990's to intercede with François Mitterrand, a friend and then the president of France, in an oil deal.
She was the first president of the Women's Auxiliary of the Robert R. McCormick Boys Club (now the Boys and Girls Club) in Chicago and volunteered for decades at the Chicago Maternity Center.
In addition to her son, a psychologist who serves as the foundation's president, Mrs. Stone is survived by 12 grandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.

        Janet R. Whitman, former president and chairwoman of the Sheltering Arms foster care agency in New York, died on Sept. 25 at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Whitman was national president of the Daughters of the Cincinnati, a historical society started by women descended from Revolutionary War officers, and was on the board of the Colonial Dames of America.
Besides Mr. Halperin, the director of policy planning at the State Department under President Bill Clinton, Ms. Pitchersky is survived by her father, Arthur, of Rockville, Md.
Until her retirement last year, Ms. Manulis was president and chief executive of Martha Inc., the chain of boutiques founded by her mother, Martha Phillips.
In 1992, she founded the North American Council for Muslim Women, an education and advocacy group, and was president of the Muslim Education Council, which instructed public-school teachers on Middle Eastern cultures, Islam and Muslim society.
Ms. Mezzacappa was president of the foundation and the artistic and executive director of Dance Consort: Mezzacappa-Gabrian, a company she founded with her husband, the dancer Craig Gabrian.
Ms. Corman was senior vice president of corporate communications at Scholastic, the United States publisher of J.K. Rowling's wildly successful fantasy series.
She was later public relations director for Phoenix House, the drug-rehabilitation agency, and a senior vice president at Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery, a New York public relations firm.
Dr. Larrick was a founder and president of the International Reading Association, a literacy group that today has 80,000 members in about 100 countries, and would invite teenagers and children to its annual conferences to give teachers pointers on what they enjoyed reading, though she never indulged their taste for comic books.
She was the president of the PEN American Center from 1987 to 1989.

        Rachael Dunaven Yocom, a dance educator and theorist, died on Nov. 14 in Tucson, said Cora Cahan, president of the New 42nd Street redevelopment organization and a former student.
Ms. Martin was awarded a National Medal of Arts by President Clinton in 1998 and recently accepted a lifetime achievement award from the Women's Caucus for Art.
