
        Sybil Primis, the mother of Lance R. Primis, the former president and chief operating officer of The New York Times Company, died yesterday at South Nassau Hospital in Oceanside, L.I.
At her death, she was president of the Schizophrenia Foundation of New York, which provides information on alternative treatments for the illness.
In 1961, she was enlisted to help prepar the President's Commission on the Status of Women and became is executive director under Eleanor Roosevelt and Esther Peterson.
Mr. Morris, a Wall Street stockbroker and a former president of the Thoroughbred Racing Association, died in 1985 at 93.
The next year, President John F. Kennedy recruited her as the first woman to become Public Housing Administrator.
Karen Kamuda, the vice president of the Titanic Historical Society, said  in a telephone interview today from Indian Orchard, Mass., that Mrs. Haisman's death left 7 of the 705 survivors still living, 3 in the United States and 2 each in Britain and France.

        Jeane Dixon, the astrologer and self-described psychic who gained fame by apparently predicting President John F. Kennedy's death, died on Saturday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington.
In 1956, Parade magazine quoted Mrs. Dixon as forecasting that a Democratic President, elected in 1960, would die in office.
Skeptics pointed out that she had said, in the summer of 1992, that the stars pointed definitely toward the re-election of President George Bush.
She also said that Walter Reuther, the president of the United Auto Workers, would run for President in 1964 and that the Soviets would get the first man to the moon.
She also said that Walter Reuther, the president of the United Auto Workers, would run for President in 1964 and that the Soviets would get the first man to the moon.
In 1939, she married James L. Dixon, who went on to be president of James L. Dixon & Company Realtors in Washington.
With her husband, Victor W. Ganz, a vice president and longtime trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art who died in 1987, Mrs. Ganz accumulated works by Picasso, Jasper Johns, Eva Hesse, Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella and other artists whom the couple championed and befriended.
In 1980, President Carter appointed Ms. Seidman Assistant Secretary for Trade in the United States Commerce Department, a post she held until 1981.
That year, she became president of the Tradenet Corporation, developing computer finance and training systems.
Although she was clearly upstaged by her renowned husband, who taught at the Union Theological Seminary, Mrs. Niebuhr's own scholarship was so well regarded that in the 1940's she was asked by the president of Barnard to create a department of religion there.

        Evelyn Payne Davis, a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women and a former vice president at the Children's Television Workshop, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center.
As vice president of the Children's Television Workshop's Community Education Services, Mrs. Davis led efforts to make ''Sesame Street'' known to inner-city parents and children when the program began appearing in 1969.
In 1972, she served as its first president.
''
        Mrs. Kisselgoff served as president in 1972-74 and 1982-84 of the New York Oriental Club.
In 1975 Dr. Wu became the first woman to be elected president of the American Physical Society, the chief organization of physicists in the United States.
The university's president, Robert F. Goheen, said in presenting it in 1958 that Dr. Wu had ''richly earned the right to be called the world's foremost female experimental physicist.
She was appointed Ambassador by President Clinton in 1993, and was well regarded as a diplomat.
The President yesterday called her an ''extraordinary U.S. ambassador,'' adding, ''She was a source of judgment and inspiration to me, a source of constant good humor and charm and real friendship, and we will miss her very, very much.
''
        One of her biographers, Christopher Ogden, was beguiled himself when he described her on the night in November 1992 when she welcomed Bill Clinton, the new President she had helped to elect, to a dinner reception at her Georgetown house.
A month later Pamela Digby Churchill Hayward, 51, married the 79-year-old former Governor of New York, Ambassador to the Soviet Union, and Harry Truman's choice to be President of the United States.
Clinton's Her Candidate And Is Duly Grateful
        In 1988 Mrs. Harriman's choice for President was Al Gore, not Michael Dukakis.
Mrs. Gatov was Elizabeth Rudel Smith -- she had just divorced Frederick H. Smith, a San Francisco businessman when, as a Democratic national committeewoman from California, she was appointed Treasurer in 1961 by President John F. Kennedy.
From the early months of World War II, when the United States began  planning for the postwar world, until President Reagan opened the final phase of the struggle against the Soviet Union with his ''evil empire'' speech in 1983, Dr. Fosdick was in the thick of national foreign policy planning and debate.
Dr. Fosdick, who never married, mainly, her sister suggested, because she never found a man her equal, later confided to friends that she did not think Stevenson had the gumption to be President.
Her 1961 report, for example, after a quiet, thorough investigation of cold war policy procedures became the blueprint for President John F. Kennedy's reorganization of the national security policy apparatus.
As Mrs. Downs put it, recalling that her sister had turned down repeated offers to become an ambassador or college president: ''She had no personal ambition.

        Carole Cohan, a senior vice president at McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the advertising agency, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York.
She began her advertising career two years later at McCann-Erickson, where she was hired as vice president, executive producer.
In 1974 she moved to Grey Advertising as vice president, production group head, and she joined Saatchi & Saatchi Compton nine years later as executive vice president, director of broadcast production, before returning to McCann-Erickson.
In 1974 she moved to Grey Advertising as vice president, production group head, and she joined Saatchi & Saatchi Compton nine years later as executive vice president, director of broadcast production, before returning to McCann-Erickson.
But while shadows remained attached to her name, Surrogate Lambert, a gregarious, street-smart personal injury lawyer who was also the first woman president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, eluded her accusers.
From the outset of her legal career, she understood the importance of networking: In her later years, she would boast of her friendship with Roy Cohn, who escorted her to President Ronald Reagan's first inaugural ball.
In 1974, the New York State Trial Lawyers elected her president.
But while shadows remained attached to her name, Surrogate Lambert, a gregarious, street-smart personal injury lawyer who was also the first woman president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association, eluded her accusers.
From the outset of her legal career, she understood the importance of networking: In her later years, she would boast of her friendship with Roy Cohn, who escorted her to President Ronald Reagan's first inaugural ball.
In 1974, the New York State Trial Lawyers elected her president.
In 1981, Mrs. Hershey was named president and editorial director of a new multimedia subsidiary of The Journal's parent company, the Charter Publishing Company.
She was a vice president at Louis Harris & Associates in the 1960's, and she was a senior vice president at Yankelovich, Skelly & White until 1983, when she left to start her own firm, Clark, Martire & Bartolomeo.
She was a vice president at Louis Harris & Associates in the 1960's, and she was a senior vice president at Yankelovich, Skelly & White until 1983, when she left to start her own firm, Clark, Martire & Bartolomeo.
While Manhattan Democratic Commissioner, she held terms as president and secretary of the board.
She was a delegate to three Presidential nominating conventions and a member of the Electoral College that chose Jimmy Carter for President.
As president and then chairwoman of the 12-store Bonwit chain from 1965 to 1970, Ms. Custin used extensive retailing experience, superb taste and a sense of daring to impart a high-fashion image to what had been a traditional store selling the same clothing women could buy just about anywhere else.
In 1958, she was named president of Bonwit Teller Philadelphia, a three-store chain that became part of Bonwit Teller New York in 1963.
Approaching Bonwit Teller's mandatory retirement age for executives of 65, Ms. Custin retired as chairwoman and started a new career as a consultant to retail and fashion businesses with her friend Jerrie Rosenberg, the former director of public relations for Bonwit's, as vice president.

        Helen Bernstein, a former president of the Los Angeles teachers union known for her forceful style and dogged support of higher standards for students and a decentralized administration, died here Thursday night.
Ms. Bernstein's tenure as president of the United Teachers-Los Angeles from 1990 to 1996 was marked by a pay cut for teachers and the decentralization of administrative control in what is the nation's second-largest school district.
In 1989, as union vice president, Ms. Bernstein helped negotiate a settlement ending a nine-day strike that  gave teachers a 24 percent raise over three years.
Jeff Horton, president of the Los Angeles Unified School District's Board of Education, said that he frequently clashed with Ms. Bernstein.
Day Higuchi, the current union president, credited her with persuading the Mayor to support a school bond issue to replace some deteriorating city school property.
Her letters are a window on days spent picnicking in Central Park, rooting ardently for the Dodgers (and later the Mets) and wading into the fray of local politics (she was the first woman to serve as president of the Lenox Hill Democratic Club).
She is survived by a daughter, Nancy Lassalle of Manhattan, who is vice president of the School of American Ballet; a son, Andrew E. Norman of Palisades, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Sulzle is survived by two granddaughters who manage the company, Lee H. Flanagan of Syracuse, president, and Wendy R. Flanagan of Syracuse and Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Sharp is survived by a daughter, Mary Sharp Cronson of Manhattan, now the president of the foundation; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      
But whether she was ''almost 17,'' in January 1918, as she put it in her her book ''Lady Lawyer,'' or 20, as a contemporaneous newspaper article reported, Miss Frooks, who received a gold medal from President Woodrow Wilson that month, was surely one of the last living Americans to have had a formal audience with Wilson in his White House office (and seen the evangelist Billy Sunday clap him on the back with such gusto that the President's top hat went flying.
But whether she was ''almost 17,'' in January 1918, as she put it in her her book ''Lady Lawyer,'' or 20, as a contemporaneous newspaper article reported, Miss Frooks, who received a gold medal from President Woodrow Wilson that month, was surely one of the last living Americans to have had a formal audience with Wilson in his White House office (and seen the evangelist Billy Sunday clap him on the back with such gusto that the President's top hat went flying.
She was even more impressive as an unofficial military recruiter, and after she had talked an estimated 30,000 men into signing up, primarily for the Navy, President Wilson not only presented her with a medal but recruited her for the Navy.
The cause of death was cancer, said Gene Policinski, a special assistant at the Freedom Forum, where Ms. Woodhull was senior vice president for communications.
She was a former president of the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and, with Betty Friedan, a founding chairwoman of Women, Men and Media, a national organization that monitors the coverage of women in the media.
After serving as managing editor for news when USA Today was started by Gannett in 1982, she became the newspaper's senior editor and then was the president of Gannett New Media and the Gannett News Service.
She resigned in 1990 and became executive vice president and editor in chief of the Southern Progress Corporation, an arm of Time Warner, with responsibility for overseeing the editorial direction of the magazines Southern Living, Progressive Farmer, Southern Accents, Travel South and Cooking Light.
In 1992 Ms. Woodhull became a trustee of the Freedom Forum, and in 1996 she became a senior vice president and executive director of the Media Studies Center, a unit of the Freedom Forum that focuses on media issues and journalism research.
Mrs. Rockefeller was the daughter of John French and Mary Billing French and granddaughter of Frederick Billings, the 19th-century president of Northern Pacific Railroad.
Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
Mrs. Anderson had been active in the Democratic Party on the state and national levels when she was appointed Ambassador to Denmark  by President Truman.
She was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1948, a National Committeewoman, and a campaigner for the re-election of President Truman.
After her service in Denmark, President Kennedy appointed her in 1962 to head the American legation in Bulgaria, which was then a Communist ally of the Soviet Union.
President Johnson appointed Mrs. Anderson to represent the United States on the United Nations Trusteeship Council and a year later she served on the United Nations Committee for Decolonization.
She served three terms as national president of the large volunteer agency, from 1953 to 1956.
Mrs. Gleason's father, William T. Dewart, bought The Sun from the estate of Frank A. Munsey, and served as its president and publisher until his death in 1944.
During a 52-year career with the Harold Ober Associates literary agency in New York, the last 17 as its president, Ms. Olding also represented Agatha Christie, Pearl S. Buck, Paul Gallico, Ngaio Marsh and numerous others.
''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates.
Ms. Olding's personal client list, like that of her agency, was drawn from ''both mass and class,'' said Roger W. Straus Jr., president of Farrar, Straus and Giroux.
Ms. Olding was president of the agency from 1973 until a stroke in 1990 forced her to retire, Ms. Westberg said.
Mrs. Carey was vice president of the W. P. Carey Foundation, a family philanthropy that focuses on the education of needy youth and on international economic policy.
Mrs. Carey is survived by her parents, residents of Bluebell, Pa.; her husband, Francis J. Carey, president of the Manhattan-based investment banking firm of W. P. Carey & Company; a son, H. Augustus of Ambler; two daughters, Emily N. Carey of Ambler and Frances C. MacMaster of Madison, N.J.; a stepson, Francis J. Carey 3d of Ambler; a stepdaughter, Dr. Elizabeth C. Boden of Little Silver, N.J.; a brother, Henry Large of Southboro, Mass., and 10 grandchildren.
      
But retirement was a relative term for a woman who was also president of the Women's City Club and a member of foundations dedicated to the poor and the mentally ill. She and her husband moved to Little Compton, where she served on the town planning board and helped raise money for the Sakonnet Light House, which was relighted in March.
Mrs. Neuberger, who took a special interest in the public schools, served several terms as president of the Women's City Club, an organization concerned with urban problems.
By 1964, when President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her to head the Women's Bureau, Dr. Keyserling had established herself as a leading economist and as a champion of economic opportunities for women.
She was also something of a Washington insider: the wife of Leon H. Keyserling, a prominent economist who had been chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Harry S. Truman, and a woman of accomplishment with a wide circle of influential friends.
Dr. Keyserling was a onetime president of the Women's National Democratic Club.
Dr. Keyserling's mother had been a college-trained social worker, and her father was a statistician and vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.
After graduating from Barnard College, where she was president of her senior class, she did graduate work at the Geneva School of International Studies and the London School of Economics before to New York.
''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science.
Prior to that, President Richard M. Nixon had appointed her to the Justice Department as Deputy Solicitor General -- the first woman and the first black person to hold so high a position in the Solicitor General's office.
Under President George Bush, from 1989 to 1993, she was in the State Department with the concurrent titles of ambassador-at-large and coordinator of refugee affairs.
''
        Times changed, and from 1965 to 1967 she was on the President's Council on Minority Business Enterprise.
In 1960, she seconded the nomination of Mr. Nixon as Republican candidate for President, but he was defeated by John F. Kennedy.
She received a number of honors and awards for her work, and in 1951 became a founder of American Women in Radio and Television, serving as its first president.
Mrs. Bartlett was the daughter of William Fortune, who for many years was president of the Indianapolis Telephone Company as well as other telephone companies and a director of Eli Lilly and Company.

        Meribeth Elliott Cameron, professor emeritus of history and former acting president at Mount Holyoke College, died on Saturday at Mount Holyoke Hospital in Massachusetts.
She was acting president of the women's liberal arts college in 1954, 1966 and 1968-69.
''
        Mrs. Talley kept her Albany job until June 1982, when she left to join Rothschild Inc. as president of its asset management unit.
She worked as an economist during World War II in the Office of Price Administration in Washington and was married to John V. Frank, the president of a travel service.
She was among three women chosen by President Lyndon B. Johnson to visit South Vietnam in 1967 to assess the status of the American war effort.
In 1985, President Ronald Reagan included her in the first group of winners of the National Medal of Arts.
Even in the latter days of the Burkes' duty in the capital, as the wife of one of the military's senior officers, she threw open the doors of Admiral's House, a large Victorian structure in Washington that is now the official residence of the Vice President, and she befriended many junior officers' wives.
''
        Her role as a senior Navy wife and her 72-year partnership with the admiral were noted by President Clinton in his eulogy at the admiral's funeral.
She was married in 1933 to Francis Adams Truslow, who became the first full-time president of the New York Curb Exchange, now the American Stock Exchange.
President Jimmy Carter named her to a 15-year term on the Superior Court bench in 1979.
During a family visit to Washington when she was 13, President Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, a former Cleveland mayor, had a young assistant, Walter Lippmann, show her around.
Mrs. Smith was chosen to be chairman of the Republican National Committee by Gerald Ford when he succeeded Richard M. Nixon as President in 1974.
She headed the party during the difficult period after Watergate and announced in November 1976 -- three weeks after President Ford was defeated for re-election by Jimmy Carter -- that she would step down in January 1977, instead of serving two more years.
At the time, her party's conservative faction, associated with Ronald Reagan held the moderates responsible for President Ford's defeat.
After Mr. Reagan was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Smith to the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
Reflecting its editor's fascination with the news and with the newspaper's daily production, her journal offered Tom Wicker's account of covering the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas; A. M. Rosenthal on his expulsion from Poland for reports that won a Pulitzer Prize; Claude Sitton on civil rights clashes in the South, and Robert Lipsyte on how to report a boxing match with a screaming fan standing on your typewriter.
In 1964 she was named senior vice president and assistant to the president at McCann-Erickson, and became the first woman to serve on the agency's board.
In 1964 she was named senior vice president and assistant to the president at McCann-Erickson, and became the first woman to serve on the agency's board.
She was also president of the American Comparative Literature Association from 1977 to 1980 and was active in the International Comparative Literature Association.
Mr. Lopata became the president of Automatic Toll Systems Inc., a manufacturer of automatic toll-collection equipment, and held several patents in that field.

        Jean Westwood, who was a leader of George McGovern's disastrous Democratic campaign for President in 1972 and was the first woman to be chairman of a major political party, died on Monday in American Fork Hospital in American Fork, Utah, where she had lived for the last two years.
''It is pompous nonsense for anyone to presume to predict the result of an election seven weeks hence,'' she said in September 1972 as Mr. McGovern badly trailed President Richard M. Nixon.
In 1975, she helped lead the Presidential campaign of Terry Sanford, then the president of Duke University, and in 1985 she played a similar role for Bruce Babbitt.
As an association vice president in the 1950's, she traveled widely and gave speeches around the country.
Mrs. Howorth was president of the Business and Professional Women's Club of Washington and often served as a mentor to women in government.
President John F. Kennedy named Mrs. Howorth to a task force on Federal employment for his Commission on the Status of Women.
      
He was succeeded by her husband, who served also as president, then chancellor, of Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, Israel, until his death in 1979.
Mrs. Lookstein was a national board member and New York chapter president of Amit Women.

        Myra Tanner Weiss, an unlikely Trotskyist whose radical vision of an egalitarian, collectivist society led her to organize migrant farm workers, rail against racism, make two quixotic mayoral races in Los Angeles and run for Vice President of the United States three times on the Socialist Workers Party ticket, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Indio, Calif. She was 80.
Her grandfather, Joseph Marion Tanner, an educator who was president of Utah State University, became so distraught when the church discontinued its doctrine of polygamy in 1890, bowing to a Supreme Court ruling that polygamy was not a permissible exercise of religious freedom, that he abandoned his six wives and fled to Canada.
Ms. Keeton, who used her maiden name, was president and chief operating officer of General Media Communications Inc., which publishes several magazines and runs other media operations on the Internet.
She was ''an incredible person,'' President Clinton said yesterday in Edgartown, Mass., where he was on vacation.
She worked for the campaigns of  former Vice President Walter F. Mondale, among others, as well as Congressional and governor's races in several states, including New Jersey and New York.
She helped publicize two of the company's international best-sellers, ''Watership Down'' and ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull,'' and in 1973 was made an assistant vice president.
She was president of her own business, American Vernacular, from 1973 until her death.
Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Dr. Oettinger served four administrations.
When the bureau was abolished in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for family planning and population.
Dr. Oettinger received many awards and was called one of the nation's ''true heroines'' by Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey.
Among the stories of which she was most proud were her 1980 interviews with President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt, Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and Foreign Minister Prince Saud al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia.
It was an indication of her place in the capital's social firmament that when she married Mr. Dickerson in 1962, a party was given in her honor, hosted by President Lyndon B. Johnson, Justice Arthur Goldberg of the Supreme Court and Senator Abraham Ribicoff of Connecticut.
Johnson was Vice President, not President, at the time.
      
Johnson was Vice President, not President, at the time.
      
''She made more than one President squirm,'' President Clinton said today.
''She made more than one President squirm,'' President Clinton said today.
At home in abstract and applied mathematics, Dr. Rees was founding president of the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York.
She was the first woman elected president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the largest alliance of scientists in the world.
She was awarded the President's Certificate of Merit and the British Medal for Service in the Defense of Freedom.
She was named president of the graduate division in 1969 and president of the newly consolidated Graduate School and University Center on 42d Street in 1971, before retiring the next year.
She was named president of the graduate division in 1969 and president of the newly consolidated Graduate School and University Center on 42d Street in 1971, before retiring the next year.
Dr. Rees enjoyed a crowning moment in 1969, when the 120,000-member American Association for the Advancement of Science elected her president.
A national board member of Hadassah since 1934, Mrs. Gottesman held many positions in the organization, including vice president and treasurer.
Dr. Koshland, a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the president of the American Association of Immunologists in 1982 and 1983, discovered that antibodies differ in their amino acid composition, a factor that makes them extremely efficient at fending off disease.

        Virginia A. Dwyer, a former senior vice president for finance at the AT&T Corporation and one of the first women to gain a top position at a major American company, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
Miss Dwyer spent her entire 43-year career at AT&T, starting as a clerk and rising to vice president and treasurer in 1979.
In 1984, she was named senior vice president for finance.
Ms. Gunning was known for her strong speaking style, clear arguments and intense community involvement as she became a founder of the state Conservative Party and the first woman to run for citywide office, in 1965, for City Council President on a ticket headed by William F. Buckley Jr. in the mayoral slot.
The president of the Board of Education, James Donovan, called that reprehensible, saying the move was a ''conspiracy to destroy'' public education.
Dr. Rosensaft was named by President Jimmy Carter in 1980 to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council.
After she completed her second term in 1994, President Clinton appointed her son to the council.
He went on to be president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations.
At her death, she had been the honorary president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations for two decades.
In 1961, Mrs. Dick was appointed as the United States representative to the Social Commission of the United Nations Economic and Social Council by President John F. Kennedy, on the recommendation of Mr. Stevenson, then Ambassador to the United Nations.
She was a campaign worker for President Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936.

        Lillian Rogers Parks, who surprised President William Howard Taft in his bedroom in 1909 and lived to tell that and many another juicy White House tale, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington.
Parks, who contracted polio when she was 6 and used a crutch the rest of her life, had a generally privileged existence in the White House, so much so that when members of the domestic staff were barred from using the White House elevator in World War II, so the crippled President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, could be evacuated quickly in an emergency, the President, himself, ordered an exception for ''Little Lillian,'' the universal nickname for a woman who never grew above 4 foot 9.
Parks, who contracted polio when she was 6 and used a crutch the rest of her life, had a generally privileged existence in the White House, so much so that when members of the domestic staff were barred from using the White House elevator in World War II, so the crippled President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, could be evacuated quickly in an emergency, the President, himself, ordered an exception for ''Little Lillian,'' the universal nickname for a woman who never grew above 4 foot 9.
Although she generally found something nice to say about every President and First Lady she or her mother worked for, Mrs.
As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
Albert A. Hale, president of the Navajo Nation, called her ''our legendary mother'' and ''the most honored Navajo in our history.
Annie Dodge was born in Deer Springs, Ariz., and learned of public service from her father, Henry Chee Dodge, a chief and first president of the Navajo Nation's legislative Tribal Council.
President John F. Kennedy established the honor on July 4, 1963; after his assassination, the medals were presented by President Lyndon B. Johnson.
President John F. Kennedy established the honor on July 4, 1963; after his assassination, the medals were presented by President Lyndon B. Johnson.

        Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass.
Her husband was president of Yale from 1950 until his death in 1963.

        Carol Clark Tatkon, a former senior vice president for Exxon U.S.A., died on Oct. 11 at a family home in North Egremont, Mass.
Mrs. Tatkon was appointed to the company management committee in 1991, as senior vice president for financial and administrative services, and remained there until she retired earlier this year.
''She was talent, intensity, stage presence, passion, the passion of her words and rhythms, but also pure passion,'' President Jacques Chirac said today.
She spent more than a decade as a businesswoman in Detroit that included working as assistant to the president of a manufacturer of cotton batting for auto upholstery.
In 1941, she married Allan MacDougall, the president of the National Distillers' import division.
Her father, who founded the law firm that became Debevoise & Plimpton, was president of Oberlin College in Ohio after the war and Ambassador to the Philippines from 1961 to 1964.
Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
At her death, Ms. Carabillo was national vice president.
Ms. Smeal is president.
She was a founding member, director and past president of the Society for Cultural Anthropology.
''
        Ms. Steel, who came to Hollywood in the 1970's to take a merchandising job at Paramount, rose quickly to become president of production at that studio, where she oversaw development of such films as ''Flashdance,'' ''Footloose,'' ''Top Gun,'' ''The Untouchables,'' ''Fatal Attraction'' and ''The Accused.
Ms. Steel was one of President Clinton's earliest supporters in Hollywood.
By 1985, Paramount's president, Ned Tanen, appointed Ms. Steel president of production, making her one of the highest-ranking female executives in Hollywood.
By 1985, Paramount's president, Ned Tanen, appointed Ms. Steel president of production, making her one of the highest-ranking female executives in Hollywood.
At a party marking Mrs. Peterson's 90th birthday last year, Lynda Johnson Robb recalled the help that her father, President Johnson, got from Mrs. Peterson, and said, ''She had a velvet hammer and talked people into doing what was right, even if we didn't know it at the time.
In 1961, President Kennedy named her an Assistant Secretary of Labor and Director of the Women's Bureau, an agency that administered the labor laws concerning women.
When Mr. Johnson became President, he brought Mrs. Peterson into the White House as his special adviser for consumer affairs, and she served in a similar capacity for President Carter.
When Mr. Johnson became President, he brought Mrs. Peterson into the White House as his special adviser for consumer affairs, and she served in a similar capacity for President Carter.
In 1971, at the age of 65, Mrs. Peterson started another career, this time in business as vice president for consumer affairs at Giant Food Inc., the largest supermarket chain in the Washington-Baltimore area.
She ended her public service career under yet another Democratic President, serving in a largely honorary role for the Clinton Administration with the United States Delegation to the United Nations.
Mrs. Chubb is survived by five sons, Hendon, of Cornwall, Conn.; Percy 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J., the president of the Victoria Foundation; Joseph, of Lechlade, Gloustershire, England; James, of Ketchum, Idaho, and Caldecot, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Corinne Zimmermann, of Great Falls, Va.; 12 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
She founded its Presidential Services Division in 1974 and was executive vice president of the academy from 1978 to 1988.
She was president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the first woman to head that political science honor society, which has chapters at 107 institutions of higher education nationwide.
She acknowledged that she has ''been doing more on the opinion side'' than she thought she would when President Clinton named her to the Federal bench in 1994.
President Clinton, one of his successors in Little Rock, said Mrs. Rockefeller had helped to take the ''New South'' to Arkansas and to lead women into the mainstream of political and public life.
Mrs. Rockefeller was president of the National Mental Health Association and the Arkansas Association for Mental Health.
The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dr. Kenneth R. Barasch, national president of the Fight for Sight, an organization through which she raised money.
