Dr. Ray, a marine biologist who championed the nuclear industry, was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the atomic commission in 1972, and served as chairwoman from 1973 to 1975.
Dr. Ray was appointed by President Gerald R. Ford in 1975 as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, International Environment and Scientific Affairs.
She was a past president of Executive Women in Government.

        Rosemary Glyde, a violist who performed frequently as a recitalist and was a founder and president of the New York Viola Society, died on Tuesday at the Northern Westchester Medical Center in Mount Kisco.
She also was a president of the Hortulus Garden Club and a chairwoman of the Red Cross Gray Ladies.
Her husband, James Stillman Rockefeller, is a former president and chairman of Citibank and is a grandnephew of John D. Rockefeller.
The recording, recently rereleased on CD by Supraphon, presents folk songs of her native land; the piano accompaniments are by Jan Masaryk, the son of the former president of Czechoslovakia.
Mrs. Gilpatric was a founder and past vice president of the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of New York City.

        Esther Sherman, a theatrical agent and a vice president of the William Morris Agency, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan.
The princess was president of the Shirazi Wildlife Foundation, which supports sanctuaries in the United States, Belgium and France.
From 1986 to 1989 she was president of the New York Film Makers' Cooperative.
In her later years she reduced her activities, but at her death she was still president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, honorary president of the American Cancer Society and a trustee and vice chairman of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation.
In her later years she reduced her activities, but at her death she was still president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, honorary president of the American Cancer Society and a trustee and vice chairman of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation.
Her sister, Alice Fordyce, was the executive vice president of the foundation and director of the Lasker Awards program.

        Grace Roosevelt McMillan, a photographer who was the eldest grandchild of President Theodore Roosevelt, died on Tuesday at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center.
She was the first woman to be elected president of the Bibliographical Society of America, serving from 1988 to 1992.
A conservative Republican, she was Ronald Reagan's choice for the committee post in 1980, when he ran for President.
She had previously been president of the National Federation of Republican Women.
Mrs. Heitman then directed President George Bush's Committee on Executive Exchange, which promoted close relations between the Government and private business through an exchange of executives.

        Francine Strickler-Greenspan, a former president of the Saxon Textile Corporation in Manhattan's TriBeCa area, died yesterday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center.
She served as its president from 1980 until her illness.
In addition to Ms. Miller, who is the president of Capezio Dance-Theater Shops, she is survived by two other daughters, Cathy Rano, vice president of Federated Department Stores, and Debbie J. Palmer; five grandchildren; four step-grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
In addition to Ms. Miller, who is the president of Capezio Dance-Theater Shops, she is survived by two other daughters, Cathy Rano, vice president of Federated Department Stores, and Debbie J. Palmer; five grandchildren; four step-grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
From 1979 to 1985 Ms. Nichtern was president of Warner Theater Productions, a division of Warner Communications.
She served as the president of this organization in 1957 and 1958.
She retired as president emeritus in 1964 when Reid Hall was turned over to Columbia.
Miss Leet also served from 1953 to 1956 as president of the International Federation of University Women.
In 1966, she was a founder of NOW and led it with Betty Friedan, the organization's first president, until 1970.
In 1967 President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her his special assistant for consumer affairs, though consumer groups feared that because of her association with Westinghouse, she would go easy on American industry.
Recruiter for Head Start
        She first worked for President Johnson during the 1964 presidential campaign.
In 1967 she became assistant to the President for consumer affairs.

        Marie T. Mandry, who over 36 years in the advertising business rose from a secretary to senior vice president of Young & Rubicam in New York, died Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She was a vice president when she retired in 1977.

        Alice Herrington, the founder and longtime president of Friends of Animals, one of the country's best known animal-protection societies, died on Tuesday at DeKalb Medical Center in Decatur, Ga. Ms. Herrington, a former resident of Manhattan and Little Silver, N.J., was 75 and lived in Lithonia, Ga.
She founded the nonprofit organization in Manhattan in 1957 and retired as its president at the end of 1986.
She also was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs and was head of the New York State Consumer Protection Board in 1970 and '71.

        Shirley M. Sills, the executive vice president of PTN Publishing Company in Melville, L.I., died yesterday in her home in Manhasset, L.I.
Before that, for six years, she was the president of the General Medical Book Company in Manhattan.

        Evan Burger Donaldson, president of the board of Spence-Chapin Services to Families and Children in New York, a nonprofit adoption service, died yesterday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She worked as a stockbroker and investment analyst before she joined the executive-recruitment firm of Phillips O'Shea as a vice president in 1990.
She was a past president and longtime member of the board of the Delaware Art Museum and a trustee of the Friends of American Art at Yale University.
Over the years, Mrs. Bissell served as chairman of the collections and garden committees, chairman of the board of regents and, twice, as president of the board.

        Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, the widow of President John F. Kennedy and of the Greek shipping magnate Aristotle Onassis, died of a form of cancer of the lymphatic system yesterday at her apartment in New York City.
"
        President Clinton said he and his wife, Hillary Rodham Clinton, spoke with Mrs. Onassis over the last several days and had been getting regular updates on her condition.
Although she was one of the world's most famous women -- an object of fascination to generations of Americans and the subject of countless articles and books that re-explored the myths and realities of the Kennedy years, the terrible images of the President's 1963 assassination in Dallas, and her made-for-tabloids marriage to the wealthy Mr. Onassis -- she was a quintessentially private person, poised and glamorous, but shy and aloof.
She thought him quixotic after he told her he intended to become President.
There was an avalanche of articles and television programs on her fashion choices, her hair styles, her tastes in art, music and literature, and on her travels with the President across the nation and to Europe.
Arriving in France, a stunning understated figure in her pillbox hat and wool coat as she rode with the President in an open car, she enthralled crowds that chanted "Vive Jacqui" on the road to Paris, and later, in an evening gown at a dinner at Versailles, she mesmerized the austere Charles de Gaulle.
When the state visit ended, a bemused President Kennedy said: "I am the man who accompanied Jacqueline Kennedy to Paris -- and I have enjoyed it.
Three years later she gave birth to John F. Kennedy Jr. A third child, Patrick Bouvier Kennedy, lived only 39 hours and died less than four months before President Kennedy's assassination in 1963.
The Royal Aura Of the Kennedys
        After Mr. Kennedy was elected President in 1960, the mystique and aura around Mrs. Kennedy began to grow rapidly, especially after she and her husband made the state visit to France in 1961.
Her elegance and fluency in French captured their hearts, and at a glittering dinner at Versailles she seemed to quite mesmerize President de Gaulle, a man not easy to mesmerize, as well as several hundred exuberant French people named Bouvier, all of them apparently claiming some sort of cousinhood.
At a luncheon at the Elysee Palace, Theordore C. Sorensen wrote in "Kennedy" that President de Gaulle had turned to Mr. Kennedy and said, "Your wife knows more French history than any French woman.
When the president of Pakistan visited Washington, he heard an orchestra, took a boat ride, and had poulet chasseur, accompanied by couronne de riz Clamart and, for dessert, some framboises a la creme Chantilly at a table graced by silverware, glassware and china from Tiffany and Bonwit Teller.
"
        Before she left the White House, she placed a plaque in the Lincoln bedroom that said, "In this room lived John Fitzgerald Kennedy with his wife, Jacqueline, during the 2 years, 10 months and 2 days he was President of the United States -- Jan. 10, 1961 - Nov. 22, 1963.
" To some Americans she was no longer just the grieving widow of their martyred President; she was young, attractive and she clearly wanted to live her life with a certain brio.
The preparation and publication of "The Death of a President," William Manchester's detailed account of the assassination of President Kennedy, turned into an unexpected battle for Mrs. Kennedy that may have cost her some popularity.
The preparation and publication of "The Death of a President," William Manchester's detailed account of the assassination of President Kennedy, turned into an unexpected battle for Mrs. Kennedy that may have cost her some popularity.
Mr. Manchester, whose work was admired by President Kennedy, asked for and received permission from the Kennedy family to do an authorized, definitive work on the assassination.
Tapes of two interviews with her -- Mr. White's shortly after the assassination in Dallas and Mr. Manchester's for his book "Death of a President" -- are kept under seal at the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library in Boston.
Her silence about her past, especially about the Kennedy years and her marriage to the President, was always something of a mystery.
It had been five years since the President's death.
Mrs. Onassis's began her career in publishing in 1975, when her friend Thomas Guinzburg, then the president of Viking Press, offered her a job as a consulting editor.
But she resigned two years later after Mr. Guinzburg published -- without telling her, she said later -- a thriller by Jeffrey Archer called "Shall We Tell the President," which imagined that her brother-in-law, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, was President of the United States and described an assassination plot against him.
But she resigned two years later after Mr. Guinzburg published -- without telling her, she said later -- a thriller by Jeffrey Archer called "Shall We Tell the President," which imagined that her brother-in-law, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, was President of the United States and described an assassination plot against him.

        Sister Ellen Lawlor, president of the Mercycare Corporation, which is operated by the Religious Sisters of Mercy, died on Monday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
She was president of St. Peter's Hospital for 23 years and president of the Mercycare Corporation since its inception in 1985.
She was president of St. Peter's Hospital for 23 years and president of the Mercycare Corporation since its inception in 1985.
Miss Chute was a president of the PEN American Center, and was elected to the American Academy of the National Institute of Arts and Letters.

        Dorothy Bernstein, a trustee and president of the auxiliary of the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn from 1972 to 1990, died yesterday at her home in Bellport, L.I.
Mrs. Istel was honored for her service by President Reagan, by Mayor Edward I. Koch and by the Government of France.
" Her work also drew praise from Mayor Koch and President Reagan.
She was the founder and president of the Institute for Counseling and Training of West Caldwell, N.J.
"In most ways Aspen is Elizabeth Paepcke," said David McLaughlin, president of the Aspen Institute, which holds seminars for leaders from various fields in the United States and overseas.
She returned to New York in 1953 to join R. H. Macy & Company as an executive vice president -- the first woman to rise to that executive level at Macy's.
Over the years, she also served as senior vice president of Catalina, a sportswear company based in Los Angeles, and as a merchandising and marketing consultant for Bullock's department stores.
She was president of the union's Los Angeles local from 1986 to 1989.
In 1968, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her to the Commission on Income Maintenance Programs to examine all "welfare and related programs" in his War on Poverty.
She turned to Republican Party politics in the 1960's and was vice president of the New York State Republican Heritage Groups Council.
In 1982, President Ronald Reagan named her to his Peace Corps Advisory Council.

        Catherine Damon Christy, a former president of the Young Women's Christian Association of Brooklyn and a former member of the boards of various charitable organizations, died on Wednesday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 96 and formerly lived in Brooklyn Heights.
and was its president from 1944 to 1953.
Before moving to New York from Rochester, she was a president of the Monroe County League of Planned Parenthood and the founding president of Eleanor's List, a group formed to raise funds for female candidates who support abortion rights.
Before moving to New York from Rochester, she was a president of the Monroe County League of Planned Parenthood and the founding president of Eleanor's List, a group formed to raise funds for female candidates who support abortion rights.
She was also active for many years in the Muscular Dystrophy Association, and became a vice president of the organization in 1988.
But in 1974, after Mr. Lazar agreed to try to sell the memoirs of former President Richard M. Nixon, Mrs. Buchwald ended her partnership, citing a conflict of principle because her husband had written many satirical columns about Watergate and Mr. Nixon.
"
        In 1960, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her as the only black member of the United States delegation to the 15th General Assembly of the United Nations.
Mrs. Ingrao, who was born in Washington and attended schools there, began her career in 1950 as an aide to George Meany, then president of the American Federation of Labor.
She was a past president of the Junior League of Long Island; the Family Service Association of Nassau County; the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, and United Way of Long Island.
Mrs. Meyer is survived by her husband, Richard W. Meyer, a retired vice president of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company; a daughter, Charlotte Meyer-Arnold of Los Angeles; two sons, Richard W. Jr. and Douglas C., both of Locust Valley, L.I.
She was associated for 33 years with Houlihan Lawrence Real Estate of Bronxville, N.Y., most recently as a vice president and manager of the Katonah, N.Y., and Bedford, N.Y., offices.
Jay Oliva, president of the university, said yesterday that there would be a renaming ceremony on Sept. 19.
She was president of the New York State Association of Deans in 1980-81 and 1988-89.
Miss Potts also served as the executive secretary of a commission established by Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia to foster economic and technological cooperation between the two nations.
At her death, Miss Sumner was the president of Sumner National Bank, in Sheldon, Ill., which was founded by her father, Aaron Taylor Sumner.
After being elected to the House, she became nationally known as a foe of President Franklin D. Roosevelt and of his New Deal program and other policies.
"What do I think of President Roosevelt?
Christine Todd Whitman is a trustee and former president but the foundation operates with little fanfare,
        Mrs. Williamson was active in many local organizations, including the United Way of Essex and West Hudson, the Association for Children in New Jersey and the Orange Orphan Society.
Mrs. Phillips was president of the board of directors of the New York Special Olympics from its beginning in 1970 until 1982.
She also remained active on the Special Olympics' board and several committees after retiring as its president.
In the 1950's Mrs. Markson was among the founders of the Milwaukee Repertory Theater, and she later helped found the American Conservatory Theater in Pittsburgh before the company moved to San Francisco in 1967; until 1980, she was vice president of the theater's board.
At her death, Mrs. Hoffstot was a vice president of the Preservation Foundation of Palm Beach and vice chairwoman of the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation, two groups that she helped found.
Was President of Wellesley
        Mrs. Horton became president of Wellesley College in 1936, and in 1942 took a leave of absence to organize the WAVES.
Was President of Wellesley
        Mrs. Horton became president of Wellesley College in 1936, and in 1942 took a leave of absence to organize the WAVES.
Mrs. Horton also served as president of the American Association of Colleges and was on the boards of the NBC and RCA.
She was also vice president of the National Council of Churches.
At her death, Mrs. Ungerleider-Mayerson was president of the Dorot Foundation, whose interests include biblical archeology and Jewish education.
It included President and Mrs. John F. Kennedy; the philanthropists Brooke Astor and Enid Annenberg Haupt; William S. Paley, the chairman of CBS, and members of the Bronfman, Getty, Mellon, Rockefeller, Vanderbilt and Whitney clans.
After Mr. Kennedy was elected President, his wife made Mrs. Parish a consultant in her redecorating of the White House.
They had already received the Kennedy Center Lifetime Achievement medal, in December 1986, and the National Medal of Art, from President Bush in 1990.

        Merrinelle Sullivan, a past president and longtime officer of the National Council of Women of the United States, died on Sunday in her Manhattan home.
She had been executive director of the National Council in New York for 18 years before being elected president.
In 1937, at the age of 30, she was named its president.
It grew substantially and she was its president or chairman or both until 1972, when Trenton Trust was acquired by National State.
She took her husband's seat on the bank's board and, on Jan. 21, 1937, was elected president.
"
        She continued to be active in male-dominated spheres, however: in 1978, after having served as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army in several administrations, she became the founding president of the newly formed Army War College Foundation.

        Shirley Chernela, a former administrator of Temple Shaaray Tefila in Manhattan and the first woman to be president of the National Association of Temple Administrators, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
She was president of the national administrators' group from 1982 to 1985.
In the spring of 1993 she led the organization's defense of Lani Guinier, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was nominated by President Clinton to head the Justice Department's civil rights division.
The President withdrew the nomination after conservatives criticized Ms. Guinier for papers she had written on ways for blacks to increase their influence in elections.

        Elenore Hangley, a former executive vice president of the Advertising Council, died on Saturday at the Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, in Englewood, N.J. She was 63 and lived in Cliffside, N.J.
In 1982, she was appointed vice president of the council.
Seven years later, she was named senior vice president of campaign administration and then, in the same year, was named executive vice president of operations.
Seven years later, she was named senior vice president of campaign administration and then, in the same year, was named executive vice president of operations.
At the time of her death, she was the president of the board of directors of Child Find America, which tries to find runaways and missing children, and a member of the steering committee of the National Crime Prevention Council, for which the McGruff anti-crime advertisements were designed.
During World War II, when the president, Mildred McAfee Horton, went on leave to become the first director of the WAVES, Ms. Whiting shared the responsibilities of the office of the president, heading panels on curriculum and instruction and faculty publications.
During World War II, when the president, Mildred McAfee Horton, went on leave to become the first director of the WAVES, Ms. Whiting shared the responsibilities of the office of the president, heading panels on curriculum and instruction and faculty publications.
Mrs. Kramer was also involved in various educational projects, serving as a member of the board of the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and as vice president of the American Friends of the Hebrew University, which bestowed on her the Scopus Award and an honorary doctorate of philosophy in 1984.
In January 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her chairwoman of the Advisory Council on the Status of Women.
The council had been set up in 1963 by President John F. Kennedy "to assure effective and continuing leadership in advancing the status of women.
She took his seat on the board of the Hospital for Special Surgery after his death, and five years later was named vice president, a title she held until her death.
President George Bush and his wife, Barbara, who occupied a Towers suite when he was chief United States delegate to the United Nations, returned to visit their friend and neighbor after moving to the White House.
President Dwight D. Eisenhower painted a portrait of Mrs. Hilson that hangs in her study.
And in 1988, former President Richard M. Nixon played "Happy Birthday" on the piano at her 90th-birthday gala at the St. Regis while 200 guests sang along.
During President Franklin D. Roosevelt's administration, she did legal work for several New Deal agencies.
Not Jacques Mouclier, the head of the Chambre Syndicale, the governing body of French fashion, where she held the title of honorary president for life.
The cause of death was heart failure, said Carol Harford, a longtime friend who is president emeritus of the Wolf Trap Foundation, which presents the park's arts programs under the auspices of the Department of the Interior.
In 1977, President Gerald Ford gave her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.
In 1949, she joined the National Symphony Orchestra's board, and she served as its vice president from 1951 through 1968.
In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her to the first board of the National Cultural Center, now known as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, to which she was reappointed twice by President Richard M. Nixon.
In 1959, President Dwight D. Eisenhower appointed her to the first board of the National Cultural Center, now known as the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, to which she was reappointed twice by President Richard M. Nixon.
Shouse, a lawyer and businessman, had been a Congressman from Kansas and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Coolidge.
The daughter of a pioneer in the civil rights movement, Dr. Robert Russa Moton, she grew up on the campus of Tuskegee Institute, where her father had succeeded its founder, Booker T. Washington, as president.
With the director John Houseman she guided the development of the Acting Company, a theater group of drama graduates that her husband established when he was the president of the Juilliard School.
She became a member in 1938, was elected to the board in 1948 and was made vice president in 1973.
She was a friend of former President George Bush, at one time a Greenwich resident, who appointed her to a three-year term on the National Council on Disability in 1990 when she was 92.
She served as president of Rehabilitation International USA and vice president of Rehabilitation International, a worldwide volunteer agency.
She served as president of Rehabilitation International USA and vice president of Rehabilitation International, a worldwide volunteer agency.
President Richard M. Nixon named her to his National Advisory Council of Vocational Rehabilitation in the early 1970's.
In 1959, she was elected the store's vice president, the first woman to hold that position at Ohrbach's.
She broke another barrier in 1965, when she became the first woman to be named vice president at Federated Department Stores.
"
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, said they were deeply saddened by her death.
"
        In a statement yesterday, President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, said they were deeply saddened by her death.
President Lyndon B. Johnson named her to the National Advisory Council on Extension and Continuing Education, and she served on the Department of Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Armed Forces.
