In 1991 the Rothko Chapel marked its 20th anniversary with a joint award with the Carter-Menil Human Rights Foundation, founded in 1986 with former President Jimmy Carter.
Two years later, she received the National Medal of Arts from President Ronald Reagan.
She became the first woman product-group manager at the General Foods Corporation, in 1969; the first woman president of a division of the American Express Company, in 1980, and the first woman senior officer to run corporate affairs at Citicorp, in 1989.
She joined American Express in 1976 as head of worldwide marketing for the credit card and was later promoted to president of the communications division.
She was named to its board by Mayor John V. Lindsay in 1973 and was reappointed last year by Borough President Howard Golden.
She was the board's vice president from 1976 to 1978 and trustee president from 1979 to 1981.
She was the board's vice president from 1976 to 1978 and trustee president from 1979 to 1981.

        Mary Ingraham Bunting-Smith, the Radcliffe president who sought ways to help educated women carve out careers in a society not yet transformed by the feminist movement and became a mentor to several female writers, performers and scholars, died on Wednesday at Kendal at Hanover, a continuing care community in New Hampshire.
Mrs. Bunting-Smith, a microbiologist who was Radcliffe president from 1959 to 1972, was called Polly from childhood and added Smith to her name after her second marriage,  in 1979.
''Polly Bunting was always ahead of her time in anticipating the needs of women and of Radcliffe College,'' said Derek Bok, president emeritus of Harvard and a professor there.
''
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith was also the first female member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the President's Committee on the Status of Women and a vice president of the Peace Corps.
''
        Mrs. Bunting-Smith was also the first female member of the United States Atomic Energy Commission, a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, a member of the President's Committee on the Status of Women and a vice president of the Peace Corps.
Born in Brooklyn in 1910, she was one of four children of Mary Shotwell Ingraham, who was president of both the Brooklyn Young Women's Christian Association and the Y.W.C.A.
Five years later, at age 48, she was offered a job as the fifth president of Radcliffe College, the undergraduate college for women at Harvard University, with about 1,775 women.
Mrs. Bunting-Smith thought the system inequitable and worked to integrate the campuses more fully, even though it ultimately reduced the role of the Radcliffe president.
After Mrs. Bunting-Smith stepped down as president of Radcliffe in 1972, she spent three years as special assistant to the president of Princeton University, William Bowen, working on coeducation there.
After Mrs. Bunting-Smith stepped down as president of Radcliffe in 1972, she spent three years as special assistant to the president of Princeton University, William Bowen, working on coeducation there.

        Carole Kent Kneeland, vice president for news at KVUE-TV in Austin, Tex., and one of the first television news directors to de-emphasize sensational crime and introduce ''truth tests'' in news reports about political advertising, died on Monday at her home in Austin.
In 1990, after the revolution that unseated the repressive Government of Nicolae Ceausescu, Manoliu was named president of the Romanian Olympic Committee.
In 1970, she was the first woman to be elected president of the academy and, mindful of the overwhelming preponderance of men in her metier, came up with an arbitration training program for women.
President Richard M. Nixon appointed her to the Federal Services Impasses Panel in 1970, and she remained on it until eight years ago.

        Lita S. Osmundsen, retired president of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, died last Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
Mrs. Osmundsen was the president of the foundation, based in Manhattan, from 1978 to 1986 and was its director of research from 1963 to 1978.
A man named Grover Cleveland was President of the United States, and there were only 44 states.
Ms. Scripps Davis was president of the California Saddle Horse Breeders Association.
Later, she met Harry Hopkins, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's confidant, and talked her way into a job with the New Deal, wandering America and writing about the effects of the Depression on ordinary people.
She is survived by her mother, Chesbrough Patcevitch; a half-brother, Charles Minot Amory 3d, and a nephew, Charles Minot Amory 4th, all of Palm Beach, Fla.
        She and Mica Ertegun, the wife of Ahmet Ertegun, the president of Atlantic Records, toyed with opening a restaurant.
Mrs. Hutson's work in developing the Schomburg caught the attention of President Kwame Nkrumah of Ghana, who asked her help in building an Africana collection at the University of Ghana.
While president of the National Association of Talent Representatives, Ms. Fields led a three-year legal battle to end the licensing of talent agents by actors' unions and the payment of franchise fees by agents to the unions.
' ''
        Mrs. Epelbaum was greatly troubled by President Carlos Saul Menem's decision in 1989 to pardon senior military officers accused of human rights abuses.
Countess Szapary was a former president of the Rhode Island Arts Foundation at Newport and was actively involved in the Newport Preservation Society.
After helping establish the academy in 1970, General Rikhye became its first president, holding that position for 20 years.
More recently, the group sponsored informal monthly breakfast meetings, also off the record, for such participants and led by Olara Otunnu, the current president, and Rita Hauser, chairwoman of the board.
Her uncle Cameron Forbes was the first Governor-General of the Philippines and often entertained government and military officials, including President William Howard Taft and Gen. John J. Pershing.
She was a former president of the International Tax Association.
She shared his work in that area, and at her death she was the vice president and treasurer of the Italian Heritage and Culture Committee of the Bronx and Westchester.
President Boris N. Yeltsin, recovering at his dacha from his most recent illness, issued a statement today praising Miss Ulanova as a rare Russia genius.
After his father became President of the United States and chose him as an aide, the couple lived in Georgetown.
The young Mrs. Roosevelt was said to be the President's favorite daughter-in-law, but she enjoyed no such preference from Eleanor Roosevelt and was, in turn, not fond of her mother-in-law.
She was in the forefront on a summer day in 1939 when the President entertained King George VI and Queen Elizabeth at a picnic in Hyde Park, N.Y., at which the King ate his first hot dog.
Later that day, when the President took the King and Queen for a drive along the Hudson River, the President asked Betsey Roosevelt to go along for company in the car.
Later that day, when the President took the King and Queen for a drive along the Hudson River, the President asked Betsey Roosevelt to go along for company in the car.
Even as a member of the President's circle, Betsey Roosevelt preferred a private life, and she did her best to shield her two daughters, Sara and Kate, from the public eye.
The Whitneys moved to London in 1957, when President Eisenhower named Mr. Whitney Ambassador to the Court of St. James's.
Mrs. Whitney established the Greentree Foundation in 1983 to assist local community groups, and she was its president.
She joined 9 other women in 1934 to found what is now the 2,000-member Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, and served as its president.
Despite her illness, she joined the national touring company of ''Les Miserables'' in the role of Fantine, performing in the touring production of ''The Music of Andrew Lloyd Webber: The Sunset Edition,'' and singing ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' at President Clinton's 1997 inaugural gala.
''
        She opposed the Vietnam War, championed what was then called women's liberation and was one of the first to call for the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon.
Former President George Bush, on a private visit to China that coincided with the Beijing conference, said to a meeting of food production executives: ''I feel somewhat sorry for the Chinese, having Bella Abzug running around.
She went from Hunter College, where she was student body president, to Columbia University Law School, where she was an editor of The Law Review, to a practice representing union workers.
She organized insurgent Democrats into other groups, too, becoming a leader of the movement against President Lyndon B. Johnson and a prominent figure in the 1968 Presidential campaign of Senator Eugene McCarthy.
She badgered the President, too.
She was appointed co-chairwoman  of President Jimmy Carter's National Advisory Committee on Women, and then, after disagreeing with him over economic policy, was dismissed.
She subsequently worked as principal of Marymount Academy in Tarrytown, academic dean of Marymount College, president of Marymount College in Boca Raton, Fla., and, from 1964 to 1966, president of Marymount Manhattan College on East 71st Street.
She subsequently worked as principal of Marymount Academy in Tarrytown, academic dean of Marymount College, president of Marymount College in Boca Raton, Fla., and, from 1964 to 1966, president of Marymount Manhattan College on East 71st Street.
When Mrs. Cormier, the daughter of former slaves, was born in New Iberia, La., during Reconstruction, Rutherford B. Hayes was President of the 38 United States and Thomas Alva Edison had just invented the electric light bulb.
The extraordinary success that followed propelled Mr. Dilenschneider to the top of Hill & Knowlton, the world's largest public relations firm, and Ms. Connelly rose to become its first female executive vice president and head of worldwide business development.
A past vice president of the American Psychiatric Association, she won international recognition for her work in community and social psychiatry, child psychiatry and adoption.
''Her trademark style has filled our hearts and made her a legend,'' President Clinton said yesterday.
She exhibited her work at Manhattan galleries and won first place in a juried show in 1966 at the Salmagundi Club, the nation's oldest sketch club, when she became the first woman to receive the club's President's Award.

        Kerris Ann Wolsky, the president and founding director of Harlem Textile Works, died on May 3 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens.
In 1994, the textile offshoot became a separate, independent nonprofit organization, and Ms. Wolsky served as its president and director.
In 1996, President Clinton endorsed a project to protect the Everglades by spending several hundred million dollars to buy farmland, take it out of production and try to restore the kind of natural water flow that Mrs. Douglas warned the state it was in danger of losing.
Two years later, President Clinton awarded her the Presidential Medal of Freedom.
President Clinton said of Mrs. Douglas in a statement from Germany, ''Long before there was an Earth Day, Mrs. Douglas was a passionate steward of our nation's natural resources, and particularly her Florida Everglades.
For the next four years, Dr. Zeller was president of the joint group, the Professional Staff Congress.
''When it came to representing the faculty, she was irrepressible,'' said Irwin H. Polishook, who has been president of Professional Staff Congress since Dr. Zeller retired in 1976.
Throughout her long career, Dr. Zeller was the recipient of numerous academic awards, including an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from the Graduate School of City University in 1985 and the President's Medal from Brooklyn College on the institution's 50th anniversary in 1980.
She also was president of the American Dance Guild, 1973-75.

        Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City.
She was a former president of the New York American Studies Association.
In 1980, she was one of 10 Africa-American artists honored by President Jimmy Carter for outstanding achievement in the arts, and she received honorary degrees from several American colleges and universities.
Mr. Davies rose to the rank of vice president of Standard Oil.
He also ran American President Lines and the Natomas Company.
Speaking of Mrs. Davies on Monday, Nancy Bechtle, the president of the San Francisco Symphony Board, said, ''The crowning glory of her life was that hall, and every time she walked in, she was just thrilled to be there.
Ms. Snyder, who headed the financial operations of the company and was responsible for developing the inventory system, held the titles of senior vice president and secretary.
She had served on the board of directors for a number of years and as association president from 1967 to 1970.
Once the lone female copywriter at the giant Foote, Cone & Belding advertising agency, Miss Polykoff became the agency's lone female executive vice president, the toast of Madison Avenue and the 1967 Advertising Woman of the Year.
She is survived by two daughters, Laurie Zucker of Athens, Ohio, and Alix Nelson Frick of Manhattan, the president of Franklin Spier Advertising; a sister, Lillian Ovberg of Glen Cove, N.Y., and three grandchildren.
Ms. Perles was a former president of the New York Women's Bar Association, a fellow of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers and a member of the Dirty Thirty, an organization of American lawyers prominent in the field of matrimonial law.
On the day in 1993 that she began her first assignment, at Fort Bragg, N.C., her husband recalled yesterday, President Clinton announced his ''don't ask, don't tell'' policy on homosexuals in the military, prompting Rabbi Timoner to make an announcement of her own: she would gladly provide a full range of counseling for gay soldiers.

        Claire M. Smith, a literary agent and a former president of Harold Ober Associates, a Manhattan literary agency, died on Saturday at her home in South Prospect Park, Brooklyn.
The president of the National Council for Culture and the Arts in Mexico, Rafael Tovar y de Teresa, labeled Ms. Garro one of the three most important female writers that Mexico had produced, alongside the 17th-century nun and poet Sor Juana de la Cruz and Rosario Castellanos, Ms. Garro's contemporary.
While it is tempting to speculate on what direction her life might have taken if she had not joined the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul, in an era when women's horizons were bounded largely by home and family, it would be hard to find a secular career path that would have allowed her to become president of the nation's largest nonprofit hospital chain.
''
        For all her accomplishments as president of the national system, Sister Irene, who later ran a hospital in Pensacola, Fla., and was still vice chairman of the merged Baptist St. Vincent's Hospital system in Jacksonville, Fla., at the time of her death, said her proudest achievement was developing a five-point value system for the national chain.
And by Miss Mitchell's time, its modern character had largely been set by her redoubtable predecessor, Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose departure in 1947 created the opportunity for a remarkable academic trade, one in which Brearley sent Mrs. McIntosh to Barnard College to become dean (and eventually president) and Barnard dealt Miss Mitchell, a member of its English faculty, to Brearley as headmistress.
She also became president of Tulsa's Young Republicans Club.

        Anna Jane Harrison, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Mount Holyoke College and the first woman to be president of the 150,000-member American Chemical Society, died on Aug. 8 at Holyoke Hospital.
She was active in the society for 62 years and became its president, for a one-year term, in 1978.
In addition, she was a longtime board member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and in 1984 became its president.
She spoke to President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, about the need for more money for cancer research, and, on a panel with Vice President Al Gore, she described her experiences as a cancer patient.
She spoke to President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, about the need for more money for cancer research, and, on a panel with Vice President Al Gore, she described her experiences as a cancer patient.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon Baines Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election.
''If someone had told me what would be happening to me today,'' she said after the Democrats nominated Humphrey for President in 1968, ''well, it would have been an awful thing to have thought of.
In 1988, when President George Bush disparaged liberalism, Muriel Humphrey responded: ''There's something I've been wanting to say for a long time.
And she also served as co-chair of the President's Council on Physical Fitness.
''We were dazzled by her speed, humbled by her talent and captivated by her style,'' President Clinton said yesterday, praising Griffith Joyner's work with disadvantaged children.
After Humphrey served as Vice President under Lyndon B. Johnson, he lost to Richard M. Nixon in 1968 when Johnson decided against seeking re-election while the war in Vietnam raged.
''If someone had told me what would be happening to me today,'' she said after the Democrats nominated Humphrey for President in 1968, ''well, it would have been an awful thing to have thought of.
In 1988, when President George Bush disparaged liberalism, Muriel Humphrey responded: ''There's something I've been wanting to say for a long time.
She began receiving numerous awards, including the National Medal of Arts given last year by President Clinton.
Over many years, Mrs. Spaeth and her husband, Otto L. Spaeth, an industrialist and a vice president of the Whitney Museum of American Art, put together a collection that concentrated on European and American art between the two world wars, including works by Picasso, Matisse, Alexander Calder, Edward Hopper, Georgia O'Keeffe, Stuart Davis and Charles Sheeler.
''
        As executive vice president and a board member of the Ferragamo company, Ms. Ferragamo played a central role in the business, attending meetings as recently as two weeks ago with her five siblings and her mother, Wanda, the chairman, said Ferruccio Ferragamo.
A former president of the Washington Press Club and officer of other press organizations, Ms. House was a Washington institution even before Chief Justice Warren E. Burger hired her for the anomalous position of press officer for an institution that often appeared to have an aversion to press coverage.
Her friends and associates included the singers Gilberto Gil, Maria Bethania and Caetano Veloso, and the President of the Senate, Antonio Carlos Magalhaes.
Several times, Mother Cleusa met with President Fernando Henrique Cardoso, who once said that he was born ''with one foot in the kitchen,'' an expression suggesting he was part black.
''She treated everybody the same, whether it was a poor person or the President.
As the president of Siecus, Dr. Calderone stood out in the 1960's as an innovator, one of a handful of educators, scientists and philosophers who were beginning to address the big topics of human existence like death and sexuality.
She made a pitch to President Franklin D. Roosevelt and to General of the Army Henry H. (Hap) Arnold, chief of the Army Air Forces, to get women involved in military flying to free men for combat air duty.
''Suddenly, everything opened up,'' said George R. Packard, who is now president of the U.S.-Japan Foundation in New York.
''
        In 1961, President John F. Kennedy appointed Mr. Reischauer Ambassador to Japan.
She joined the National Federation of the Blind, founding its Stamford-area chapter and serving as its president.
Creating a 'Temple' For Performing Arts
        City Center, for which Miss Dalrymple worked so long and hard, was established on West 55th Street in 1943 by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia and City Council President Newbold Morris, who wanted it to be a ''temple for the performing arts,'' offering productions for a top price of $2.
Both Mrs. Shaw and the stepdaughter, Pamela Ann Shaw, became leaders in the movement for AIDS research and education, meeting with President Clinton in 1994 to urge him to increase spending for these purposes.
She was also an honorary board member and past board president of Lenox Hill Neighborhood House.
Ms. Walsh, who was known as Meg, was vice president and treasurer of Lucent, one of the world's biggest makers of advanced communications equipment.

        Anita Kurman Gulkin, president and chief executive of Greenwich House Inc., a social-service and cultural community organization based in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
Her title was changed to president and chief executive in 1991.
Similarly, when Miss Benjamin learned that the publishers of ''The Dictionary of American Biography'' had cleaned out its files of questionnaires filled out by 25,000 prominent Americans over two decades, she tracked down the junk dealer in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., who had picked them up and ended up acquiring hundreds of them, including three separate intimate questionnaires that had been filled out by President Franklin D. Roosevelt.

        Virginia L. Radley, who as the first female president of a state university college in New York created a general education division and an honors program on the Oswego campus, died on Sunday at her home in Poestenkill, near Albany.
She was  dean at Russell Sage College and Nazareth College of Rochester before moving to Oswego as executive vice president, provost and professor of English in 1974.
She was named acting president of the State University College at Oswego two years later.
She accepted a permanent appointment in 1978 and was the president for 10 years.
In partnership with the Hall's president, the violinist Isaac Stern, and its chairman, Sanford Weill, Ms. Arron began an endowment campaign in 1995 and had raised $87 million to date.
As a student leader she met Mr. Murrow, who was president of the National Student Federation of America.
Mr. Murrow became a CBS vice president and television broadcaster and then the United States Information Agency's director from 1961 to 1964.
