Her first husband, W. Maurice Steppacher, who was vice president and treasurer of the WDAS radio station in Philadelphia, died in 1936.

        Martha Barber Montgomery, assistant vice president for program evaluation at Drexel University in Philadelphia, died Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was chairman of the humanities and communications department from 1976 to 1985, and was assistant vice president for research and development before being assigned to her post in program evaluation.
She was a past vice president of the Brooklyn and New York chapters of Hadassah and founder of its Jersey City chapter.
She died of cancer, said Edward G. Coll Jr., president of the university, where she was a trustee.
She served as president of the Garden State Ballet and the New Jersey Ballet and on the board of the Zionist Organization of America.
She served as president of the American Library Association in 1966-67, the American Association of School Librarians in 1959-60 and the New Jersey School Library Association in 1954-55.
After her retirement from Rutgers, she served as a library consultant and later vice president of Bro-Dart Inc., a wholesale book supplier.

        Sally Mugabe, an anti-colonialist and the wife of President Robert Mugabe, died Monday.
President Mugabe is expected to cancel scheduled visits to a United Nations Security Council meeting in New York and talks in London with British Prime Minister John Major.
She was president of the New York and Ridgewood Wellesley Clubs, a founder of the West Bergen Mental Health Center and president of the Ridgewood College Club and of the Ho-Ho-Kus Garden Club.
She was president of the New York and Ridgewood Wellesley Clubs, a founder of the West Bergen Mental Health Center and president of the Ridgewood College Club and of the Ho-Ho-Kus Garden Club.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.
Award from President
        In September, President George Bush awarded her the National Medal of Technology "for her pioneering accomplishments in the development of computer programming languages that simplified computer technology and opened the door to a significantly larger universe of users.
Award from President
        In September, President George Bush awarded her the National Medal of Technology "for her pioneering accomplishments in the development of computer programming languages that simplified computer technology and opened the door to a significantly larger universe of users.
"Grace took every opportunity to challenge people young and old to consider the infinite possibilities of technology," said Kenneth H. Olsen, Digital Equipment's president.
Her first husband, W. Maurice Steppacher, who was vice president and treasurer of the WDAS radio station in Philadelphia, died in 1936.
She was president of the New York and Ridgewood Wellesley Clubs, a founder of the West Bergen Mental Health Center and president of the Ridgewood College Club and of the Ho-Ho-Kus Garden Club.
She was president of the New York and Ridgewood Wellesley Clubs, a founder of the West Bergen Mental Health Center and president of the Ridgewood College Club and of the Ho-Ho-Kus Garden Club.
In the 1950's and 60's, she was a founder and president of a New York public relations firm, Attitudes Inc. She was also a speech writer for corporate executives and a book and newsletter editor.

        Constance M. Adamec, a vice president in Sotheby's finance department and a tenant advocate on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, died suddenly on Monday at her home.
She was promoted to vice president in 1985.
"She was really an author's editor -- strict but loving," said Lawrence Hughes, the former president of William Morrow & Company, one of the publishers for whom she worked.
Mrs. Arenth was the vice president of nursing and patient services at Hopkins.
Denied the Ultimate Goal
        Although Mrs. Yawkey's business adviser and presumptive heir, John Harrington, the president of the JRY Corporation, which holds the Yawkey Red Sox shares, was often mistaken for the real power behind the franchise, those close to the club insisted that Mr. Harrington was merely the prime minister and Mrs. Yawkey was always the queen.

        Marguerite Ross Barnett, who as president of the University of Houston was the first black woman to lead a major American university, died yesterday at Maui Memorial Hospital in Wailuku, Hawaii.
Dr. Barnett was on medical leave from the University of Houston, where she had been president since 1990.
Before becoming president at Houston, Dr. Barnett had been an administrator at other major universities, including the City University of New York.
When she was named the first black and the first woman to be president of the University of Houston, there were few other women in charge of colleges that were neither historically black nor all female, a situation that still exists.
When interviewers persisted in asking her how it felt to be the first black woman to head the University of Houston, she would turn to her assistant, Wendy H. Adair, and ask "Well, how does it feel to be the first red-haired associate vice president of the university?
Last July she was the only university representative named to the President's Commission on Environmental Quality, a group that will recommend ways to slow the destruction of the environment without restricting business excessively.
She was also president of Vencura Ltd., a Manhattan-based company that rehabilitates landmark buildings and has been doing work in Vail, Colo. She had also managed a Chinese catering business.
She was married in 1960 to Mr. Tang, who is the president of Reich & Tang, a financial services firm with headquarters in Manhattan.

        Marion F. Schappel, a retired vice president at Citibank and one of the first women there to reach that rank, died on Wednesday at her home in Somers, N.Y. She was 67 years old.
In 1965 she was one of four women promoted to assistant vice president at Citibank and in 1972 became a vice president.
In 1965 she was one of four women promoted to assistant vice president at Citibank and in 1972 became a vice president.
At her death, Mrs. Black was working on an exhibition of Colonial American painters to be presented at the New-York Historical Society, said Barbara Knowles Debs, the director and president.
Active in volunteer work at the United Nations, Mrs. Sarcka was president of the Queens Chapter of the United Nations Association from 1975 to 1979.
She was a past president of the Sisterhood of the Community Synagogue, vice president of the Congregation Emanuel Sisterhood and chairwoman of its youth activities and board member of the Young Women's Hebrew Association.
She was a past president of the Sisterhood of the Community Synagogue, vice president of the Congregation Emanuel Sisterhood and chairwoman of its youth activities and board member of the Young Women's Hebrew Association.
She was a past president of the Association for Childhood Education International and the author of many articles for professional publications.
For 60 years she was on the board of the Hebrew Education Society, which ran a settlement house in Brooklyn, and was its first female president.
And generations of students, among them Agnes Gund, now the president of the Museum of Modern Art in New York City, were influenced by the popular course in modern art that she initiated at Oberlin.

        Roberta Bender Grossman, the president and publisher of Zebra Books, died on March 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
When she founded Zebra Books with Mr. Zacharius in 1975, she became, at the age of 29, the youngest president of a paperback house.

        Amy Ogden Welcher, a founder and first national president of Church Women United, a national ecumenical organization, died on Feb. 21 at her home at Avery Heights in Hartford.
In 1941, several women's church groups formed what was then called the United Council of Church Women and named Miss Welcher as president.
The league became the National Organization for Mentally Ill Children in 1955, and Mrs. Mandelbaum was its first president.
Mrs. Mandelbaum is survived by her husband, Dr. Joseph Mandelbaum, himself a past president of the League School; two sons, Paul Mandelbaum, of Brooklyn, and Dr. Joel Mandelbaum, of Kingston, N.Y.; a daughter, Jo Travis, of Branchville, N.J., and two grandchildren.
      
She was a past president of the Psychology Commission of the World Federation for the Deaf and a former board member of the American Psychological Association, the American Hearing Society, the Inter-Branch Library Association of New York and the New York League for the Hard of Hearing.
She was a former president of the Woodrow Wilson Foundation and was active in the Institute of Pacific Relations.
Among the first American women to become a full professor of pediatrics, Dr. Nemir promoted medical careers for women as president of the American Medical Women's Association, North American vice president of Medical Women's International and its representative to the United Nations.
Among the first American women to become a full professor of pediatrics, Dr. Nemir promoted medical careers for women as president of the American Medical Women's Association, North American vice president of Medical Women's International and its representative to the United Nations.
Besides her husband, she leaves a daughter, Cordelia, of South Hadley; her parents, Sylvester Garrett and Molly Yard, former president of the National Organization for Women, of Washington, and two brothers, James Garrett of Pittsburgh, and John Garrett of Rochester.
      
In the 1950's she was president of the New York Society of Ceramic Arts and her work was exhibited widely in New York galleries and at the Cooper Union Museum.
Topping was the vice president and secretary of the Henry Luce Foundation in Manhattan and principal staff officer of its Clare Boothe Luce Fund.
After working for a law firm and Citibank, she joined the foundation in 1969, where she progressed from research assistant to program associate, program officer, associate director and vice president.
She died in her sleep at the home of her sister, Helen Silverblatt, said Seymour Rexite, president of the Hebrew Actors Union.
She served on the board of the Open Door Family Health Clinic in Ossining, was a deacon for Briarcliff Congregational Church and was president of the Inter-Faith Council for Action, a housing preservation organization.
She was also founder and first president of the Association of Women Psychiatrists and editor of its publication, News for Women in Psychiatry.
Ms. Rudd was the president of the Rudd Company, a publications and marketing company in Washington.
She was the chairwoman of the National Foundation for Women Business Owners and vice president of the World Association of Women Entrepreneurs.
She was the daughter of Princess Guido Pignatelli and Edward V. Hartford, who was an inventor and president of the Hartford Shock Absorber Company.
She was the first female president of that borough's Jewish center.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
Ms. Smith joined ABC in 1977 and, as a vice president, was responsible for the production, writing and performances on its daytime serials "All My Children," "Ryan's Hope," "One Life to Live" and "General Hospital.
Last year, President Bush appointed her to the National Community and Service Commission.
At her death, she was president of the Day Care Council of New York City.
She was also the first woman to become the local and national president of Big Brothers-Big Sisters of America and the first to serve as a trustee of New York University Medical Center.
She was the first female president of that borough's Jewish center.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
In addition to her husband, who is the retired president of Jacquard Fabrics in Paterson, N.J., Mrs. Bornstein is survived by three sons, Frederic, of Buffalo Grove, Ill., Andrew, of Washington, and Steven, of Westport, Conn.; a daughter, Faye Moore of Atlanta, and eight grandchildren.
      
Over the years, Mrs. Nathanson was also a vice president and trustee of the United Jewish Appeal-Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, an officer of the Council of Jewish Federations and a member of the board of the New York Association for New Americans.
Honored at Wimbledon
        Mrs. Godfree was a regular visitor to Wimbledon and in 1989 became the first woman to be elected a vice president of the All England Club, where the tournament is played.

        Sister Margaret Carthy, former president of the College of New Rochelle and dean of its graduate school, died on Sunday at the Marian Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 80 years old.
A Former Dean
        Sister Margaret began her years in the administration at the College of New Rochelle as assistant registrar in 1941 and served as dean of the college from 1950 to 1957 and then as president until 1961.
From 1940 to 1952, she was president of the Teachers Guild, which preceded the United Federation of Teachers.
Mrs. Sherman was president of Airpot, which makes a pneumatic device of that name used to control the motion of parts in photocopiers, computers and other technological equipment.
He was president of the Wilhelmina organizations, and she was on the board of directors.

        Barbara Dalton Wainwright, a vice president of Manufacturers Hanover Trust, died on Tuesday at her home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 44 years old.
She died of complications from cancer, said her husband, Harris E. Wainwright Jr.
        Mrs. Wainwright, who had been with Manufacturers since 1976, was vice president for corporate personnel.
To four Presidents, she was Mollie, but as often as she was invited to the White House, she said she could never get over the thrill of being in what she called "the President's house.
Mrs. Loeb became active in the hospital's Ladies' Auxiliary in 1942 and had been its president since 1953.
Mrs. Rudin is survived by her sons Jack and Lewis, respectively the chairman and the president of the family business, both residents of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren.
      
Her father, Frederick H. Knubel, was president of the United Church in America, from its founding in 1918 to 1944.
Her brother, Frederick R. Knubel, was president of the United Lutheran Synod of New York and New England from 1945 to 1957.
In 1953 Mrs. Lessman married Herbert L. Miskend, the president of a New York-based apparel company, and retired from acting.
When Mr. Miskend died in 1962, Mrs. Lessman became president of Dural Realty Corporation, a company Mr. Miskend had owned, and she managed several buildings on a portion of the site now occupied by the Continental Illinois Building at Madison Avenue and 53d Street in Manhattan.
Ms. Batchelor founded the Los Angeles Film Critics Association in 1975, and was its president and executive director for three years.
She was a benefactor and past president of the former Masters Nursery.

        Willa L. Z. Armstrong, the president of Armstrong Information Services, a Manhattan video-production company, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center.
Before founding her company in 1979, she was a vice president of Planned Communications Services, a corporate-video production company.
Dr. Dalven was the editor of "The Sephardic Scholar," a journal; a board member of the American Friends of the Jewish Museum of Greece and a past president of the American Society of Sephardic Studies and of the Sisterhood of Janina, a Romaniote group.
Led League of Women Voters
        Serving as the president of the State League of Women Voters and head of its courts committee, Mrs. Ames waged her campaign in speeches, reports, news releases, lobbying, coalitions, testimony at hearings and letters to the editor.
She also led private social service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services.
Led League of Women Voters
        Serving as the president of the State League of Women Voters and head of its courts committee, Mrs. Ames waged her campaign in speeches, reports, news releases, lobbying, coalitions, testimony at hearings and letters to the editor.
She also led private social-service agencies as president of the statewide Health and Welfare Network, New York Communities Aid Association and State Association for Community Services.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
He was a three-term Democratic Congressman from Arizona, President Franklin D. Roosevelt's first budget director, Ambassador to England under President Harry S. Truman and president of McGill University and the Mutual Life Insurance Company.
Concurring in her husband's break with President Roosevelt, Mrs. Douglas supported the Republican candidate in 1940, Wendell L. Willkie.
She died of cancer, said Blanche Lewis, the treasurer of the committee, which is known as Pearl, of which Mrs. Flast was a national vice president.
When she went to court, Mrs. Flast was the president of the United Parents Associations of New York City, an umbrella group of parent and parent-teacher organizations representing the parents of more than 250,000 public-school pupils.
A native of St. Louis and a graduate of Manhattanville College, Mrs. Hunnewell was president of Corporate Art Inc., an art consulting firm, and had a long career as an expert in the interior design of corporate offices and hotels.
Dr. Dalven was the editor of "The Sephardic Scholar," a journal; a board member of the American Friends of the Jewish Museum of Greece and a past president of the American Society of Sephardic Studies and of the Sisterhood of Janina, a Romaniote group.
She encouraged others who made their cases public, including Elizabeth Glaser, the wife of a television actor, who addressed the Democratic National Convention, and Mary Fisher, a former aide to President Gerald R. Ford who will speak to the Republican convention.
She was a board member and past president of the National Association of Women Artists and was active in the Artists Equity Association, the American Society of Contemporary Artists and the Alliance of Queens Artists.
Mr. Chorley, a close associate of Laurance S. and John D. Rockefeller Jr., served for 23 years as president of the Colonial Williamsburg restoration project and was an officer of several nonprofit organizations.
Mrs. Chorley served as the board president of the Old Barracks Association, an American Revolution historical organization in Trenton, and also coached the lay readers at the Trinity Episcopalian Church in Princeton.
Mrs. Fordyce served as executive vice president of the foundation and director of the awards program until December 1990.
Mrs. Fordyce, who was born in Watertown, Wis., the daughter of a bank president, graduated from Smith College in 1928 and studied at the Sorbonne and the University of Grenoble in France.
She was also Carleton's acting president from January to August of 1977, succeeding Howard Swearer, who had resigned to become president at Brown.
She was also Carleton's acting president from January to August of 1977, succeeding Howard Swearer, who had resigned to become president at Brown.
After her loss, President Ronald Reagan appointed her as the first American envoy to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization in Rome.
Scandalized Her Family
        Mrs. Fenwick attended the Foxcroft School in Virginia but left to accompany her father to Spain when he served as the American ambassador under President Calvin Coolidge.
Mrs. Kinnear's husband, James W. Kinnear Jr., a vice president of United States Steel, now the USX Corporation, died in 1990.
She is survived by two sons, James W. 3d, of Greenwich, Conn., president and chief executive officer of Texaco Inc., and Peter, of Birmingham; a daughter, Polly Lincoln of West Hartford, Conn.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
From 1989 to 1990 she was president of the American Political Science Association, the first woman to head the nation's largest professional organization of political scientists.
Miss Hollingworth was a former vice president of the American Cancer Society.
She became the editorial director of the Arthritis Foundation, corporate communications director for Lane Bryant, vice president for creative services at the Cancer Society and communications director of the United States Committee for the United Nations Children's Fund.
Dr. McClintock's findings were so profound that she garnered honors and prizes throughout her long career, including membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1944, president of the Genetics Society in 1945, the National Medal of Science in 1970, the first MacArthur Laureate Award, for $60,000 a year for life, in 1981, and a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.
Founder of Peer Group
        During the early 1980's, she served consecutive terms as president of the British-American Chamber of Commerce, for which she was made a Commander of the British Empire.
Together with her husband, John F. Raynolds 3d, former president of Outward Bound USA, she wrote "Beyond Success -- How Volunteer Service Can Help You Begin Making a Life Insead of Just a Living.
She was a member of the Mothers Board of the New Ebenezer Baptist Church and a vice president of the Washington High School P.T.A.
"Edith's meetings were one of the best sources of background information," said Elizabeth Cooke, then a municipal union lobbyist and now president of the Bronx Museum of the Arts.
Through her family's prominence, she came to know many well-known figures like President Calvin Coolidge, whom she helped induct into Lakota membership in 1927; Cecil B. DeMille, who tried to persuade her to star in his films, and the planner Robert Moses, who hired her for the Jones Beach post.
Since 1989 she had served as president of the Godwin-Ternbach Museum at Queens College.
After that, she became a vice president of the federation and board chairwoman of the women's division.
She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.
She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.

        Fairy D. McIntire, a religious leader and the wife of Dr. Carl McIntire, president of the International Council of Churches, died on Sept. 13 at Thomas Jefferson Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was president of the Ladies Auxiliary of the Faith Theological Seminary in Elkins Park, Pa., and chairwoman of the auxiliary to the Christian Admiral Bible Conference and Freedom Center in Cape May, N.J.
Earlier she was its president for seven years, a vice president of the New York Junior League and a member of the auxiliary board of the New York Philharmonic.
Earlier she was its president for seven years, a vice president of the New York Junior League and a member of the auxiliary board of the New York Philharmonic.
A native of St. Louis, she was married in 1934 to John C. Carrington, who became an executive vice president of The Freeport Minerals Company and the president of the Hewitt School's board of trustees.
A native of St. Louis, she was married in 1934 to John C. Carrington, who became an executive vice president of The Freeport Minerals Company and the president of the Hewitt School's board of trustees.
" Her grandfather was a conductor and an early president of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians.
Among her honors were the Walt Whitman Citation of Merit in 1991, making her the poet laureate of New York; the Manhattan Borough President's Award for Excellence in the Arts in 1988, and honorary doctorates from Hunter, Oberlin and Haverford Colleges.
Before her government work, she was an assistant to the president of London Records.
Dr. Bryan was a founder and president of the National Council of Women Psychologists.
She was the president of the nonprofit Carol W. Haussamen and Carolyndale Foundations, which she dedicated to the rehabilitation of housing for the poor.

        Ellen Furman, a founding member and a past president of the New York City chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Furman helped found the volunteer organization in the early 1970's, and served a year's term as president from 1974 to 1975.
Correction:  November 27, 1992, Friday
        An obituary yesterday about Ellen Furman, a founding member and a past president of the New York City chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, misstated her age.

        Catharine A. Yard, president of the American Timber Company, died on Thursday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 48 years old and lived in Sea Girt.
In 1990 Ms. Yard became president of American Timber, which was founded by her grandfather in 1893.
"
        Miss Regan sponsored a film, "Cornell Plantations" in 1974-75 and was special consultant for a film, "Mr. President," in 1977-78, on the university's president, Frank H. T. Rhodes.
"
        Miss Regan sponsored a film, "Cornell Plantations" in 1974-75 and was special consultant for a film, "Mr. President," in 1977-78, on the university's president, Frank H. T. Rhodes.
She twice served as its president, although she insisted she had no curatorial expertise.
In 1979, while she was president, an expansion plan generated a dispute over the practice of selling the air rights of the museum to an outside developer to secure needed funds.
As the museum's president, Mrs. Rockefeller also favored adding new and younger trustees to the museum board, warning that they should not be named simply because they had wealth.
Her father was an engineer who became president of the Hooker Electro-Chemical Company.
In 1943, when President Franklin D. Roosevelt tapped her to join the national women's committee of the March of Dimes, which he founded to fight polio, Miss Whitelaw recognized the philanthropic potential of middle-income Americans.
Dr. Hoxie served as its president.
From 1986 to 1989 she was president of the Public Members Association of the Foreign Service.
She was also the president of a consulting firm, the GLM Group, which provides research, training, technical assistance and other management services to governmental and nonprofit organizations concerned with programs for children and families.
She eventually won international recognition for her efforts, and President Ronald Reagan saluted her as an "American heroine" in his 1985 State of the Union address.
In the mid-1980's, she became the executive director of Hale House and later its president.
Hale House was renovated in 1975 with aid from Percy E. Sutton, then the Manhattan Borough President, with nurseries, a central kitchen and dining room, a playground, and many mirrors, placed at a toddler's eye level.
After earning a doctorate in socio-medical science at Columbia University in 1970, she served two years as an assistant to the first vice president at New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation.
Miss Hockaday, who used her maiden name professionally, was founder and president of Hockaday Associates, a New York agency with a reputation for whimsy and flair.
Mrs. Rollock was former president of the New York Black Librarians Caucas and a past president of the children's divisions of the American Library Association and the New York Library Association.
Mrs. Rollock was former president of the New York Black Librarians Caucas and a past president of the children's divisions of the American Library Association and the New York Library Association.
"Our lady of inner-city royalty," was the title given her by Percy E. Sutton, the businessman and former Manhattan Borough President, who in 1975 helped Mrs. Hale find and renovate a Harlem brownstone on West 122d Street which became Hale House, only a half-dozen blocks from Riverside Church.
" 'Like She Knew'
        Mr. Sutton recalled his fondest memory of Mrs. Hale, which was when she rose to acknowledge the applause she received from Congress in 1985, after being cited as a "true American hero" in a State of the Union address by President Ronald Reagan.
He described her reluctance at first to appear with Mr. Reagan because the President, as Mr. Sutton put it, "was not being too kind to people in the neighborhood where she lived.
The campaign led to international sanctions against South Africa and ultimately to President F. W. de Klerk's offer of political change and to Mr. Mandela's release in 1990.
In 1950, she married Hubbell Robinson Jr., a vice president of CBS.
She was a director and a former president of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhood II, a past president and trustee of the Larchmont Temple Sisterhood and a past president and trustee of the Larchmont chapter of Hadassah.
She was a director and a former president of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhood II, a past president and trustee of the Larchmont Temple Sisterhood and a past president and trustee of the Larchmont chapter of Hadassah.
She was a director and a former president of the National Federation of Temple Sisterhood II, a past president and trustee of the Larchmont Temple Sisterhood and a past president and trustee of the Larchmont chapter of Hadassah.
Miss Sleeper was a past president of the National League of Nursing Education and the National League for Nursing.
