
        Candy Barr, an exotic dancer whose hardscrabble life became Texas legend as she befriended Jack Ruby (who killed President John F. Kennedy's assassin), dated a mobster, shot her husband went to prison for drug possession, and starred -- unwillingly, she insisted -- in a famous stag film, died on Friday in Victoria, Tex.
When the president of Columbia Pictures, Harry Cohn, saw the show, he arranged for a screen test.
The same year, Ms. Maynard became a founding member of the Weeksville Society and served as president from 1972 until 1974, when she became executive director.
Joseph Lowery, who helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference with Dr. King and then served as its president for 20 years.
President Ronald Reagan, who had long opposed the King Holiday as too expensive and inappropriate, signed the bill, but pointedly refrained from criticizing fellow Republicans like Senator Jesse Helms of North Carolina, who had opposed Dr. King, saying he had consorted with Communists.
President Moshe Katsav led the tributes to her role in expressing Israel's national identity, describing her as a woman who ''united the country and who conveyed hope and optimism.
Nkrumah was Ghana's first president, and Mr. Appiah was a close associate and his choice for vice president, until political differences led Nkrumah to imprison him several times.
Nkrumah was Ghana's first president, and Mr. Appiah was a close associate and his choice for vice president, until political differences led Nkrumah to imprison him several times.
''
        The couple met at a gathering of the West African Students Union, of which Mr. Appiah was president.
Her death was announced by English PEN, part of the international society of writers, of which she was vice president at her death.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
She was its president until 1970.
In 1966, Ms. Friedan helped found the National Organization for Women, serving as its first president.
She was its president until 1970.
She rose to vice president at McCann and held senior positions with its parent, the Interpublic Group of Companies.
In 1968, she went her own way as the president of Jo Foxworth Inc.
        She set up business in the loft of a D'Agostino market and wrote campaigns like ''If there's no D'Agostino near you -- Move!
She agreed to develop an opera program in the Philippines, signing a contract with Imelda Marcos, the wife of the country's repressive president, Ferdinand E. Marcos.
From 1980 to 1984, Dr. Mellink was president of the Archaeological Institute of America.
'' She was later the founder and president of Medical Equity, a brokerage of medical and surgical practices.
In 1970, she was elected president of the Rockland County Bar Association.
He was chairman and president of the company in New York until 1975.

        Elizabeth Maguire, a prominent New York editor who was most recently vice president and publisher of Basic Books, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
She joined Basic Books in 2000, becoming vice president and publisher two years later.
After Nelson Mandela's inauguration as president in 1994, she became, at the age of 79, a member of the first multiracial Parliament and served for five years.
She later helped establish the Urban Foundation, which pressed the government to let blacks own their houses, and she was a longtime adviser of the Zamani Soweto Sisters Council, the umbrella body for women's self-help groups; the first president of the Black Consumer Union; and the general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
Robert Sheeran, the president of Seton Hall.
In 1986, she went to Austria to protest the inauguration of President Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general, who had served in a Nazi army unit implicated in the deportation of Jews from Greece in World War II.
Dr. Roberts was a former president of the Wound Healing Society.
She taught at the Home School in New York City, and was a former president of the Junior League.
She taught at the Home School in New York City and was a former president of the Junior League.
She died at George Washington Hospital after several days in a coma, said Jay Mazur, former president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union, now part of Unite Here.
David Dubinsky, the legendary president of the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union, named Ms. Dubrow the union's chief Washington lobbyist in 1956, once saying that she was the girl who should represent all the girls in the union.
At a signing ceremony in 1965 for the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, President Lyndon B. Johnson singled out Ms. Dubrow, saying she deserved credit for pushing through the legislation.
''
        In Ms. Dubrow's early years as a lobbyist, some senators asked her to baby-sit, among them the fathers of Al Gore, the former vice president, and Christopher J. Dodd, a Democratic senator from Connecticut.
She worked as a reporter for The Morning Call of Paterson, N.J.
        Ms. Dubrow became secretary for the Textile Workers Union in New Jersey in the late 1930's and then assistant to the president of the state's C.I.O.
Her death was reported by Alec C. Treuhaft, senior vice president of IMG Artists, speaking on behalf of the singer's husband, the composer Peter Lieberson.
One day 10 years later, Truman walked into a bank in St. Louis where Miss Odum was working and told its president, a friend, that he needed a secretary.
The bank president recommended Miss Odum.
Truman became vice president in 1945; less than three months later, President Franklin D. Roosevelt was dead.
Truman became vice president in 1945; less than three months later, President Franklin D. Roosevelt was dead.
On his first full day as president, Truman asked Miss Odum to be Mrs. Truman's personal secretary.
The photograph, released by The Associated Press in 1945 and identified as Miss Odum, was actually Jane Lingo (a friend of President Truman's daughter, Margaret).
      
In ''Executive Suite'' (1954), she assured her husband, played by William Holden, who was vying for president of the Tredway Corporation, ''Darling, if it's something you really want, that's all that's important to either of us.
She was also the first president of the New York State Hospice Association.
''
        Carolyn Nye McGeoy was born on Oct. 14, 1936, in Greenwood, Miss., the daughter of a bank president and a homemaker.
In the 1960's, Ms. Walker became the first woman to serve as president of the Harlem Lawyers Association.

        Martha E. Peterson, the president of Barnard College in the turbulent Vietnam War era who went on hold the same position at Beloit College, died last Friday at her home in Madison, Wis. She was 90.
Miss Peterson, who was president of Barnard from 1967 to 1975, said shortly after her appointment: ''I'm not alarmed by student demonstrations.
''
        At Beloit, where she was president from 1975 to 1981, Miss Peterson was credited with restoring fiscal stability when enrollment and the endowment were shrinking.
In May 1967, Miss Peterson was chosen the seventh president of Barnard.
Desiring to return to her Midwest roots, she took the job of president of Beloit.
Beloit's current president, John E. Burris, said that Miss Peterson's ''down-to-earth style, mixed with congenial good humor, worked well for Beloit at a time when severe personnel and fiscal decisions were necessary.
Lydia Yarde-Buller, the duchess was a member of a family whose genealogical tentacles connected her to an array of notables, including Sir Walter Raleigh, Robert E. Lee, Olivia de Havilland and President Benjamin Harrison.
''The company called us Ike and Mamie,'' Mr. d'Amboise said, referring to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and his wife.

        Alice Stone Ilchman, an economist and political scientist who was president of Sarah Lawrence College for nearly 20 years, died on Friday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 71.
The eighth president of Sarah Lawrence, Ms. Ilchman (pronounced ILTSCH-man) was also its longest serving, holding the post from 1981 until 1998.
She was previously an assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs in the administration of President Jimmy Carter.
Besides her husband, a former president of Pratt Institute in Brooklyn who is now the director of the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowships for New Americans, Ms. Ilchman is survived by a son, Frederick, of Boston; a daughter, Sarah Hollinger of New York; two sisters, Nancy Dickinson of Indianapolis and Elizabeth Stone of Los Angeles; and a brother, Donald C. Stone Jr. of Oakland, Calif.
      
Theodore M. Hesburgh, former president of Notre Dame University, writes: ''Anyone who knows ECD knows that it is as much Iris's creation as it is Stan's.
'' At her death, Mrs. Ovshinsky was vice president and a director of the company, formally listed as Energy Conversion Devices.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the 1988 Democratic convention in Atlanta, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
Cecile Richards, who became president of Planned Parenthood this year, lives in New York; the other siblings live in Austin.
The same year, she was named chairwoman of the Democratic National Convention, which nominated Bill Clinton for president for the first time.
'' Among her subjects were Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of the Iranian revolution; Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader; Golda Meir, the Israeli prime minister; Indira Gandhi, the longstanding Indian prime minister; Nguyen Van Thieu, the South Vietnamese president during the war years; and Henry Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon's secretary of state.
'' Among her subjects were Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of the Iranian revolution; Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader; Golda Meir, the Israeli prime minister; Indira Gandhi, the longstanding Indian prime minister; Nguyen Van Thieu, the South Vietnamese president during the war years; and Henry Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon's secretary of state.

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 82 and also had a home in Manhattan.
As early as 1946, she campaigned for her brother John during his first run for Congress, organizing highly effective women's coffees in Boston and Cambridge neighborhoods, and when he ran for President in 1960 she often substituted at events for his pregnant wife, Jacqueline Kennedy.
The house became a recreation center for other family members, and the President would spend time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, she was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children.
As recently as 1986, she joined Senator Kennedy on an official visit to Chile that was marred by egg-throwing protestors angered by Mr. Kennedy's criticism of President Augusto Pinochet.
Correction:  September 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary in some copies yesterday about Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, misstated the location of her death.

        Patricia Kennedy Lawford, who as a sister of President John F. Kennedy had a front row seat to history and forged new links between her brother's administration and Hollywood through her marriage to the actor Peter Lawford, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
When he ran for president in 1960, she often substituted at events for his wife, Jacqueline Kennedy, who was pregnant.
The house became a recreation center for other family members; the president spent time lounging at his sister's pool when he was on the West Coast.
After the assassination of President Kennedy in 1963, Mrs. Lawford was often seen in the company of his widow and their two children, Caroline and John Jr.
In 1986, she joined Senator Kennedy on an official visit to Chile that was marred by egg-throwing protesters angered by Mr. Kennedy's criticism of President Augusto Pinochet.
Correction:  September 19, 2006, Tuesday  An obituary in some copies yesterday about Patricia Kennedy Lawford, a sister of President John F. Kennedy, misstated the location of her death.
That project led to the creation of the Brooklyn Stained Glass Conservation Center, a nonprofit studio, of which she was the president.
On Jan. 19, 1977, she was pardoned, without comment, by President Gerald R. Ford on his last full day in office, and her citizenship was restored.
President Ford pardoned Mrs. D'Aquino after she appealed to him in writing.
''It is hard to believe,'' Mrs. D'Aquino said on receiving word of President Ford's action.
Ernestine Bayer became the club's president, the members receiving instruction from her husband.
He held the title of president and she was secretary-treasurer.
Her death was confirmed by a spokeswoman for the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma and Immunology, of which Dr. Shapiro was a past president.
She was the first president of the L.P.G.A.
Later that year, Berg was elected president of the fledgling L.P.G.A., and in 1950 the organization officially began with Berg and 12 other golfers recognized as the founders.
She was challenged by a committee member, Edgar F. Berman, a retired surgeon and a confidant of Hubert H. Humphrey, the former vice president.
''If you had an investment in a bank,'' Dr. Berman said, ''you wouldn't want the president of your bank making a loan under these raging hormonal influences at that particular period.
''
        He continued: ''Suppose we had a president in the White House, a menopausal woman president who had to make the decision of the Bay of Pigs?
''
        He continued: ''Suppose we had a president in the White House, a menopausal woman president who had to make the decision of the Bay of Pigs?
''
        She went on to remind the public that during the Cuban missile crisis, the nation had a president who suffered from a severe hormonal imbalance: John F. Kennedy, who had Addison's disease, an endocrine disorder.
A founder and former president of the Association for Women in Science, she also was a past member of the President's Advisory Committee for Women.
A founder and former president of the Association for Women in Science, she also was a past member of the President's Advisory Committee for Women.
Her defeat by the future president was one of the chief markers of the end of generations of Democratic dominance in Texas.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the Democratic convention in 1988, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
''Poor George, he can't help it,'' Ms. Richards said at the Democratic convention in 1988, speaking about the current president's father, former President George Bush.
Besides her son Lawrence, of Los Angeles, Miss Bigley is survived by her husband of 53 years, Lawrence R. Barnett, whom she met when he was president of the Music Corporation of America, a major talent agency; three other sons, Robert, of Denver, William, of Los Angeles and James, of Atherton, Calif.; two daughters, Claudia Scott of Concord, N.H., and Laurey Treiger of Los Angeles; 16 grandchildren and 4 great-grandchildren.
Rwanda's genocide started in 1994 after President Juvénal Habyarimana was assassinated.

        Wang Guangmei, the widow of President Liu Shaoqi and a powerful figure in China before she was imprisoned during the Cultural Revolution, died Friday in Beijing.
Liu Shaoqi was president from 1959 to 1967, when he became one of the first high-level officials to be denounced as a ''capitalist roader'' and purged by Mao during the Cultural Revolution.
She was released in 1979, just before Mao's wife, Jiang Qing, a leader of the Gang of Four, was put on trial and accused of leading the effort to destroy President Liu and his wife.
In 1959 Mr. Liu was named president, making him the second most powerful man in the country.
Her daughter, Ting Liu, graduated from Boston University and Harvard Business School and is chairman and president of the Asia Link Group, consultants in corporate finance.
      
''The Ploughshares Fund moves faster than almost anyone else,'' said George Perkovich, a vice president at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace.
The couple lived in the same town house that the Cerfs had purchased in 1941 but made regular forays to Rome in the late '70s when Mr. Wagner was President Jimmy Carter's envoy to the Vatican.
The couple lived in the same town house that the Cerfs had purchased in 1941 but made regular forays to Rome in the late '70s when Mr. Wagner was President Jimmy Carter's envoy to the Vatican.
Dr. Donald E. Melnick, an internist and the current president of the board, said that Dr. Levit had found earlier clinical exams to be ''not scientifically valid'' and made changes that ''were instrumental in setting a course that guided the board for the next 30 years.
From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.

        Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston.
''She really helped shape President Carter's thinking on making Africa a priority for his administration.
Dr. Smith joined Harlem Hospital in 1968 and served as president of its medical board from 1984 to 1987.
The couple lived in Englewood, N.J., where Dr. Smith was president of the Board of Health in the 1980s.
Earlier, in the 1970s, she served as president of Englewood's Board of Education.
She was a president of the Poodle Club of America and the English Cocker Spaniel Club of America, co-wrote ''The International Encyclopedia of Dogs'' and published a compilation of her monthly columns for Dogs in Review magazine called ''Annie on Dogs!
From 1978 to 1990, Joshua Lederberg was president of the Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in New York.
Yesterday, President Bush announced that he was a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian award.
She was the only woman, and the only Democrat, in President Ronald Reagan's National Security Council.
''When she put her feet under the desk of the Oval Office, the president listened,'' said William P. Clark Jr., Mr. Reagan's national security adviser during 1982 and 1983.
''
        President Reagan brought her into his innermost foreign policy circle, the National Security Planning Group.
She changed her political affiliation after leaving the Reagan administration and thought hard about seeking the Republican nomination for president.
But she decided against it, fearing she would split the conservative vote and help elect Vice President George H. W. Bush.
Fifteen years later, in March 2003, President Bush recalled Ambassador Kirkpatrick to active duty and sent her to Geneva, said Alan Gerson, who had served as her general counsel at the United Nations.
Her high-profile performance at the United Nations made her President Reagan's favorite envoy.
''You're taking off that big sign that we used to wear that said, 'Kick Me,' '' the president told her.
She had something Mr. Haig found that he lacked: the president's ear.
''
        Role as Adviser Blocked
        In 1983, Ms. Kirkpatrick was a strong candidate to become President Reagan's third national security adviser.
President Reagan warned that if the story leaked, ''we'll all be hanging by our thumbs in front of the White House.
The next year, as the Iran-contra story began unfolding, Mr. Casey urged the president to make her secretary of state, but Mr. Reagan rejected the idea.
Until her death, Ms. Webb was president and chief executive of the Ruth Webb Talent Agency, which she founded in 1962 and presided over from her unusually appointed bedroom.
