''She was a president who was ahead of her time,'' Judith Shapiro, Barnard's president, said at a gathering in 1998 at the McIntosh Student Center to mark Mrs. McIntosh's centennial birthday.
''She was a president who was ahead of her time,'' Judith Shapiro, Barnard's president, said at a gathering in 1998 at the McIntosh Student Center to mark Mrs. McIntosh's centennial birthday.
''
        Leora Hanser, Barnard student government president at the time of the celebration, said Mrs. McIntosh ''came from a different era, but the work and family issue is really very important, and a lot of Barnard students struggle with this today.
As a college president, she swept her own vestibule and weeded her own garden.
Her aunt, M. Carey Thomas, was a pioneer in women's education, a founder of the Bryn Mawr School (a girls' school in Baltimore) and president of Bryn Mawr College.
In late 1946, before Barnard had its own president (she was given the title in 1952), Mrs. McIntosh was chosen from more than 60 candidates to succeed Virginia Gildersleeve as Barnard's dean.
She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and was the president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
Tanya J. Glazebrook, president and chief executive of the foundation, said that MedicAlert had grown to more than four million bracelet-wearing members and that at least 80,000 lives were believed to have been saved by its efforts.
In 1991 she was named president of the designer clothing line Anne Klein Collection; while working there, she earned a master's degree in literary criticism from New York University.
One of her center's staunchest supporters and fund-raisers was Celeste Holm, its president for 18 years.
Dr. Schaeffer died in the early 1960's and Mrs. Schaeffer became the owner and president of Schaeffer Galleries until her death.
Schaeffer Galleries is now owned and directed by the Schaeffers' daughter, Cornelia Bessie, who had been its vice president.
Gilbert S. Edelson, the administrative vice president of the Art Dealers Association of America, which is based in Manhattan, said the Schaeffers ''were knowledgeable, they were articulate, they had all the qualities that make truly distinguished dealers.
She also served on President John F. Kennedy's Commission on Juvenile Delinquency at the United Nations in 1961.
''It was quietly marvelous, sort of like Mozart,'' said Peter Workman,  the publishing house president, of the book's success.
Last summer, she also led protests against United States military bases on Okinawa after a United States Marine was charged with molesting a 14-year-old Japanese girl in her own bed on the eve of President Clinton's visit to the island for a summit meeting.
In 1958 she was elected third president of the Federation of Japanese Women's Organizations, a group opposed to nuclear weapons and committed to promoting peace.
The cause was brain cancer, said Nancy Toff, a flute historian and a former president of the National Flute Association.
Ms. Lawrence, who was also known by her married name, Eleanor Steindler, was born in Boston and grew up in Athens, Ohio, where her father, John C. Baker, was president of Ohio University.
She was the president of the New York Flute Club for three nonconsecutive terms from 1973 to 1989.

        Kitty Buck, who with her husband, Otto, ran Cake Masters Bakery, an institution on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that made cakes for Liberace, President Kennedy and Elizabeth Taylor -- and for less famous families' celebrations -- for more than half a century, died on Jan. 9 in Oceanside, N.Y.
        She was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
In 1961, it was a Cake Masters technician who was sent to Washington to confect a huge cake for President John F. Kennedy's inaugural ball.

        A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan.
Ransom, was the company's general manager and lawyer during the years A'Lelia Walker was president, and named his daughter for her when she was born on Aug. 14, 1918.
Ms. Nelson became vice president of Walker Manufacturing.
In 1953, she became president.
Walker's will decreed that the president must always be a woman.
She was overjoyed at the great-granddaughter's birth, and always advised the child's mother, her granddaughter, Dana Walden, who is president of 20th Century Fox Television, not to get caught in grief when loved ones died.
From 1990 to 1994, she also served as president of the Canadian Olympic Association.
She mentioned winning support from President John F. Kennedy, who had a cousin with the disease, and Grace Kelly, whose first fiancé had it.
She was also president of the national organization from 1946 to 1952 and afterward was an honorary board member.
Her mother was Elizabeth Reeve Cutter Morrow, an educator and poet who was Smith College's acting president in 1939 and 1940 and who publicly criticized her daughter and son-in-law for their America First views.
In a review of a book she wrote in 1987, ''A Death in November: America in Vietnam, 1963,'' Thomas Omestad wrote in The New York Times Book Review, ''The title of this carefully researched book refers to the death of Ngo Dinh Diem, president of South Vietnam from 1955 to 1963, and that of his brother and adviser, Ngo Dinh Nhu.
She was also president of the Philip and Janice Levin Foundation.
Ms. Nelson was a prolific songwriter whose most famous composition, ''Make a Rainbow,'' was sung by Marilyn Horne at President Bill Clinton's 1993 inaugural ceremony.
In 1969, Ms. Hunter was elected president of the Women's National Press Club.
It was easy to understand why Randall Bourscheidt, president of the Alliance for the Arts, after referring to Ms.
In 1960, she became a vice president of Lord & Taylor, in charge of advertising, promotion, display and public relations, and in 1965 she was named editor of House Beautiful, where she remained until 1971.
She was also president of the Fashion Group from 1960 to 1963 and was for a time president of the Decorators Club.
She was also president of the Fashion Group from 1960 to 1963 and was for a time president of the Decorators Club.
''
        In 1987, President Ronald Reagan presented Dr. Anastasi with a National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for scientific achievement.
In 1972, she became the third woman to be elected president of the American Psychological Association.

        Jennifer Moyer, president of Moyer Bell Ltd., book publishers, died on June 10 at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 52.
and served as its president in 1976-77.

        Evalyn A. Clark, a retired Vassar College history professor who was an early member and former president of the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, died on Sunday in Beacon, N.Y. She was 98 and lived in Poughkeepsie.
Ms. Porcher became president of Jean Rosenthal Associates in 1976.
Although she had asked the provincial government to encourage tourism to her village, she had little patience with visitors and is still famous for having kept President Nelson Mandela waiting.
F. W. de Klerk visited her when he was president, and his predecessor, P. W. Botha, visited her mother.
Zanele Mbeki, wife of President Thabo Mbeki, is expected to attend her funeral on Sunday.
She served as the president of Big Sisters and for 25 years was on the board of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, where she focused on programs for the elderly and public social policy.
She was a board member of the Leopold Schepp Foundation, and its president for 27 years.
''She was a marvelous lecturer and she knew so much,'' said Gregory Long, the president of the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx.
''
        Years later, when he became the president of the New York Botanical Garden, he would ask her to design an ornamental vegetable garden for the Bronx, complete with cold frames for extending the seasons and herbs that are used by gardeners from other cultures.
''
        Long before Mr. Long became president of the New York Botanical Garden, he made a gardener's pilgrimage to Barnsley, to learn some secrets for his place upstate.
While she was headmistress, she also became president of the Guild of Independent Schools of New York, vice president of the New York State Association of Independent Schools and a trustee of Barnard and of what is now Collegiate School, a boys' school in Manhattan.
While she was headmistress, she also became president of the Guild of Independent Schools of New York, vice president of the New York State Association of Independent Schools and a trustee of Barnard and of what is now Collegiate School, a boys' school in Manhattan.
Her father was Hugo Blumenthal, a banker and philanthropist who was president of the Mount Sinai School of Nursing for many years.
Her father was Hugo Blumenthal, a banker and philanthropist who was president of the Mount Sinai School of Nursing for many years.
She was also predeceased by her brother, H. Walter Blumenthal, a financier and art collector, who died in 1969, and a cousin, George Blumenthal, a banker and president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who died in 1941.
      

        Lindsay Findlay, president of the David Findlay Galleries in Manhattan, was found dead on July 5 at her home in Manhattan.
In 1958, she went to work in her father's gallery, and became its president at his death in 1989.
She was president of the local irrigation association, an unheard-of post for a woman at the time, and adjudicated heated disputes over irrigation ditches.
It was only after she succeeded her father and her husband as president and later publisher of The Washington Post, a newspaper with a modest circulation and more modest reputation, that it moved into the front rank of American newspapers, reaching new heights when its unrelenting reporting of the Watergate scandal contributed to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974.
It was only after she succeeded her father and her husband as president and later publisher of The Washington Post, a newspaper with a modest circulation and more modest reputation, that it moved into the front rank of American newspapers, reaching new heights when its unrelenting reporting of the Watergate scandal contributed to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974.
Her father, Eugene Meyer, made his fortune on Wall Street, became a governor of the Federal Reserve Bank, went on to organize the Reconstruction Finance Corporation and was appointed the first president of the World Bank.
Later Mr. Graham became an even more influential figure in Washington, a close friend of President John F. Kennedy and Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson.
Later Mr. Graham became an even more influential figure in Washington, a close friend of President John F. Kennedy and Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson.
She was elected president of the company, but she felt ''abysmally ignorant'' about how to proceed.
''
        In 1969, and still with considerable trepidation, Mrs. Graham added the title of publisher to her position as president of the Washington Post Company.
President Bush recalled in a statement yesterday how Mrs. Graham had welcomed him and his wife, Laura, to Washington with a dinner at her home, as she had with other presidents.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
The two started the Clairol company, with Mrs. Gelb as president, and set up offices at 1600 Broadway.
She was inducted into the French Legion of Honor and received the Medal of Freedom in 1980, presented, she said happily, by ''one of my great Southern heroes, President Jimmy Carter.
''Midwife Roy addressed each client as if this mother-to-be was a sacred individual on a nine-month journey to deliver a miracle,'' said Dorothea Lang, a former president of the American College of Nurse-Midwives.
Because of Ms. Roy's experiences in India, she was ''totally calm'' about things like home births that made others nervous, said Ina May Gaskin, president of the Midwives Alliance of North America.
At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market.
She left in 1986 to open her own agency, Creative Resources Management, and later operated shops under the names Caroline Jones Advertising and Caroline Jones Inc., where she was president at the time of her death.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Mr. Milstein, who is president and chief executive of the chain, Burlington Coat Factory.
Mrs. Milstein served as vice president of children's wear and juvenile products from 1974 to 1997.
Best known as Eliza Parkinson, Ms. Cobb was a niece of Lillie Bliss, one of the museum's founders, and a stepdaughter of the museum's first president, A. Conger Goodyear.
Agnes Gund, president of the museum, said on Monday, ''Though she was not herself able to collect on the scale of either her aunt or her stepfather, she came to feel so deeply for the museum's collections in all their variety that she regarded every one of them as her own.
She was president of the museum from 1965 to 1968, was vice-chairwoman from 1968 to 1993, and was named a life trustee in 1993.
Chairwoman of the council's membership committee in its early days, she later served as its vice chairwoman and, from 1957 to 1966, as its president.
She called up her nephew Mark Newhouse, who later became the opera board's president.

        Maureen Reagan, the outspoken daughter of former President Ronald Reagan who was often at odds with her father's policies, died yesterday at her home in Sacramento.
A thaw between father and daughter began when Mr. Reagan ran for president in 1980.
''When he was elected president, she had more communication and involvement with her father than she had had for the rest of her life,'' her friend Judy Carter, the daughter-in-law of former President Jimmy Carter, said in 1989.
''When he was elected president, she had more communication and involvement with her father than she had had for the rest of her life,'' her friend Judy Carter, the daughter-in-law of former President Jimmy Carter, said in 1989.
Her first campaign was undermined by reports that her father, then president, did not want her involved in the race, but a decade later he endorsed her Congressional run.
'' She noted that people who accused her of exploiting family ties ''forget I was a Republican before the president was.
''
        In 1987, after the Iran-contra affair, when Ms. Reagan asserted that Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security aides,  should be court-martialed for their actions, Mr. Reagan told Republican leaders, ''I gave up arguing with my daughter long ago.
''
        Larry Speakes, a White House spokesman in the Reagan administration, noted in his book ''Speaking Out,'' that the president's aides, including Secretary of State George P. Shultz, were afraid of Ms. Reagan, known to many as Big Mo.
Mrs. Quinlan, known as Liz, was a trustee of Vassar College and president of its alumni association.
In the late 1960's, Ms. Cincotta became president of the Organization for a Better Austin.
She was born Sallie Marie Busch on Aug. 22, 1931, in St. Louis to Catherine Milliken Busch and Adolphus Busch III, who became president of Anheuser-Busch in 1934.
Ms. Brée also served as president of the Modern Language Association.
Ms. Brée also served as president of the Modern Language Association.
President Bush named Mr. Olson the nation's solicitor general, the official who formulates the administration's strategy before the nation's courts.
As chief counsel for the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee's Republican majority from  1995 to 1996, Mrs. Olson led the investigation into President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton's role in firing longtime employees of the White House travel office.
She was 42 and lived in Great Falls, Va.
        Ms. Raines was senior vice president for government relations at the Genzyme Corporation, a biotechnology company in Cambridge, Mass.
Modernization Act of 1997 was signed into law, Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of of Massachusetts, gave the pen he received from President Bill Clinton to Ms. Raines for her role in pushing for the law, which streamlined the drug approval process.
''Ninety percent of the time we were on the opposite sides, but you had to have the utmost respect for her,'' said Abbey Meyers, president of the National Organization for Rare Disorders, an advocacy group for people with rare diseases.
''
        Ms. Raines is survived by her husband, Stephen Push, a former vice president for corporate communications at Genzyme; her father, Arthur Raines of Lovettsville, Va.; her mother, Marilyn Raines of Boynton Beach, Fla.; and a brother, Douglas Raines, of Wayland, Mass.
      
'') After leaving the convent school, she went to Pine Manor Junior College in Wellesley, Mass., where she was president of the Mimes and Masks drama club.
She then taught physical education and coached drill teams at Santa Monica College, whose president, Richard Moore, said, ''With her batons, hats and costumes, she established college pride, no matter what the prowess of the athletic crew.

        Joan L. Ellenbogen, the main founder and first president of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was its president from 1980 to 1982.
Once when she played the president in a comedy sketch, she said: ''I've had a very busy day.
''
        Soon after ''Beacon Hill,'' Ms. Babbin became vice president of novels and mini-series at ABC.
Ms. Babbin's marriage in the late 1940's to Alan Shayne, a former president of Warner Brothers Television, ended in divorce.
She was a founding member and the second president of the Women's Bar Association of Westchester.
''
        Last month she received the President's Award of the organization Women Chefs and Restaurateurs, of which she had been a founder.

        Rose Shapiro, the president of the New York City Board of Education during one of its stormiest times, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Lauderville, Fla. She was 97 and a former resident of Manhattan and Westport, Conn.
        Mrs. Shapiro, a campaigner for a strong parental voice in the schools, came to the board in 1963.
She was vice president of the board in mid-1967 and was voted acting president and president the following May.
She was vice president of the board in mid-1967 and was voted acting president and president the following May.
She was vice president of the board in mid-1967 and was voted acting president and president the following May.
The teachers, led by Albert Shanker, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, organized a walkout.
Mrs. Shapiro, favoring a more gradual, carefully planned approach, lost her position as president.
In 1944 she was elected president of the citywide United Parents Association, helping to boost its strength from 80,000 to 250,000 dues-paying members in her four years in charge.
When Ms. Shalala was named president of Hunter College in New York, she brought Ms. Limmer to her staff.
She was its national president in the 1960's, when it was called the Orton Society.
''She outsells Picasso,'' said Julie Fleischmann, president of Shorewood Fine Art, a unit of the New York Graphic Society, which licenses art and sells prints by both the Campanellis and Picasso.
In 1962, as president of its Child Development Center, she guided the center's merger with the Jewish Board of Guardians.
