She was the president of the book division of Times Mirror Magazine.
Mrs. Cosnow, a co-founder of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, also served in the 1960's as president of Friendly Visitors Inc., a women's volunteer group that provided social and recreational services to inmates of the city's Women's House of Detention in Manhattan.
She gave a White House command performance for President John F. Kennedy.
She was the founding president of the Friends of the Vienna Philharmonic and served on the boards of the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Community Arts Music Association of Santa Barbara.
She remained president of the business until 1979, when Random House acquired it.
"It was really a pioneering piece of work," Rhoda Karpatkin, president of Consumers Union, said of Mrs. Willner's efforts at the United Nations.
Mrs. Vaill was the former president of Seaman Schepps, the Park Avenue jewelry design firm founded by her father in 1921.
Mrs. Dance was a former president and chairman of the Sigma Gamma Association, a women's volunteer group in the Detroit area.
Her father, John W. Davis, subsequently ran for President on the Democratic ticket, losing to Calvin Coolidge in 1924.
She was a former president of the Freehold Board of Education and a trustee of the New Jersey Mental Health Planning Commission and Freehold Hospital.
She worked at Duraloom Carpet Mills in the Bronx, where her husband, Godfrey Bloch, was president.
She was president of the Daughters of the British Empire in New York State and was made a member of the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II.
A founder and past president of the National Center for Clinical Infant Programs, she received many honors, including the C. Anderson Aldrich Award of the American Academy of Pediatrics.
She was the editor of the National Women's Health Network Series for Pantheon Books and president of Healthright, a nonprofit organization.
From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines.
She also served as the president of the International Council of Christians and Jews in 1975-77 and of the Jewish-Christian-Fellowship of France from 1968 to 1981.

        Margaret M. Mills, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Naples, Fla., Hugo Weisgall, the academy's president, announced.

        Mildred Collins, president of Mildred Collins Inc., a Manhattan-based sales promotion and publicity company, died on Sunday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Before founding her business in 1969, Miss Collins was vice president of sales promotion for the Stern Brothers department store chain, a division of the Allied Stores Corporation.
She was president of the American Theater Wing and the American National Theater and Academy and was the national chairwoman of women's activities for the March of Dimes.
President Reagan and his wife, Nancy, presented her with the nation's highest civilian award, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1986.
One case arising during her tenure involved charges of corruption against Donald R. Manes, the Queens Borough President who committed suicide in 1986.
She was board president of the Metropolitan Institute for Training in Psychoanalytic Psychotherapy, which is associated with the center.

        Mrs. Silverstone co-founded the Jerusalem center with her husband, the late Murray Silverstone, former president of 20th Century Fox International.

        Bertha Mather McPherson, founder and first president of the Darien (Conn.) Historical Society, died Friday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital.
Ms. Rothschild was a founder and president of the American Abstract Artists Association.
Mrs. Everson was a past president, chairwoman, board member or officer of Brooklyn's first Planned Parenthood committee, the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, United Neighborhood Houses of New York, Colony House, the Brooklyn Central YWCA, Civitas, the Brooklyn Tuberculosis and Lung Association, the Brooklyn Women's Club, the Brooklyn chapter of the American Red Cross, and the Brooklyn division of the Protestant Council of the City of New York, among others.
She also served as a vice president of the board of governors of the New York University College of Medicine Alumni Association.
Her brother Lewis, of Manhattan, is president of Cullman Ventures Inc., a private holding company.
She sang at President Dwight D. Eisenhower's inauguration in 1957, and at President John F. Kennedy's in 1961, and later that year for American troops in Berlin.
She sang at President Dwight D. Eisenhower's inauguration in 1957, and at President John F. Kennedy's in 1961, and later that year for American troops in Berlin.
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan awarded her the National Arts Medal.
President Eisenhower appointed her an alternative representative in the United States delegation to the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations.
In the fall of 1991 she was named executive director of the new panel set up to advise President George Bush on ways to protect the environment without excessive cost.
Dr. Boone was a vice president and scholarship chairwoman of the Roothbert Fund, which aids students training for education careers.
Later, in Delaware, she was the founding chairman of that state's Mental Health Association and an officer and fund-raiser in the National Association for Mental Health, of which she was a past president.
At her death, she was vice president and director of media relations at Bantam Books in New York.
"She was that rare publicist equally adept at getting attention for literary, serious kiss-and-tell and pop entertainment novels," said Stuart Applebaum, vice president of publicity and public relations at Bantam Doubleday Dell.
In 1989, Jane Pack, as she was known professionally, was named an executive vice president of Levine, Huntley, Schmidt & Beaver, a subsidiary of Grey Advertising.
Mrs. Rader was born in Brooklyn, the daughter of Edward G. Sperry, who was for some years president of the Sperry Products Company, which manufactured railroad and subway track-testing equipment and other products in Connecticut and on Long Island, and the former Mary Elizabeth Garvin, who was a company director.
She was its vice president, and he was president until his death in 1972, when she took over.
She was its vice president, and he was president until his death in 1972, when she took over.
Her association with George Washington University began after her husband, a former vice president of Sol Hurok Concerts in New York, was named executive director of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.

        Margaret Bush Clement, an aunt of former President George Bush, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford.
Mrs. Clement was the daughter of Samuel Prescott and Flora Sheldon Bush, President Bush's grandparents.

        Anne M. Johnson, a former vice president of Beginner Books, a children's book division of Random House, died on Sunday at her home in Clifton, N.J. She was 62.
From 1966 she was the assistant to the chairman and president while Mr. Bernstein held those positions at Random House.
Mrs. Johnson was the widow of Hugh Johnson, executive vice president of Hammond Publishing, who died in 1987.
      
At the time of her death, Mrs. Hartstein was vice president of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue's Women's Club, co-president of AMIT, the national Zionist organization of religious women, and a board member of Re'uth, an international Jewish social service agency based in Israel.
She was a member of a task force of 20 women who worked closely with President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Joint Chiefs of Staff in setting a policy for the recruitment of women into the American military and defining their roles.
After the two merged, she became a vice president and, in 1978, a senior vice president.
After the two merged, she became a vice president and, in 1978, a senior vice president.
She was a past president of the International Linguistic Association, American Society of Geolinguistics, the American Name Society and New York City chapter of the American Association of University Women.
She died after a heart attack, said her son-in-law, W. Tapley Bennett Jr., president of the Atlantic Treaty Association, a private group that supports the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and a former Ambassador.
She said former President Nixon and the Nixons' two daughters, Tricia Nixon Cox and Julie Nixon Eisenhower, were with Mrs. Nixon when she died at 5:45 A.M. She also said that Mr. Nixon, who visited Russia in February and China in April, was "in excellent health as evidenced by his recent travel schedule.
"
        Former President Ronald Reagan issued a statement that Mrs. Nixon was "a pillar of great strength during a time of turmoil.
" Dislike of Politics
        On the eve of Richard Nixon's inauguration as President in 1969, Pat Nixon was asked if she had ever encouraged her husband to enter politics.
What Mrs. Nixon did was subjugate her instinct for privacy and homemaking and become her husband's faithful companion in his turbulent years in the political arena, from the happy early years after his election as United States Representative from California in 1946 until his humiliating resignation as President of the United States in August 1974, under the shadow of impeachment proceedings that grew out of the Watergate scandals.
In Mr. Nixon's years as Representative, Senator, Vice President, candidate for governor of California, Presidential candidate and President, his wife was a fixture at his side, always seeming to listen raptly to his speeches and maintaining a gracious, if thin, smile.
In Mr. Nixon's years as Representative, Senator, Vice President, candidate for governor of California, Presidential candidate and President, his wife was a fixture at his side, always seeming to listen raptly to his speeches and maintaining a gracious, if thin, smile.
" Image as President's Wife
        Although her years before the public exceeded those of her two predecessors at the White House, Mrs. Nixon did not seem to stamp her personality on the nation's consciousness.
As the President's wife, Mrs. Nixon traveled more than 100,000 miles, campaigning for her husband, accompanying him to foreign countries and, on several occasions, representing him at ceremonies abroad.
Foreign Affairs Duties
        She was the first wife of a President designated to head a United Nations delegation abroad, to the inauguration of President William R. Tolbert Jr. of Liberia in 1972.
Foreign Affairs Duties
        She was the first wife of a President designated to head a United Nations delegation abroad, to the inauguration of President William R. Tolbert Jr. of Liberia in 1972.
Besides her husband and her daughters, Ms. Cox of Manhattan, whose husband, Edward F. Cox, is a lawyer, and Ms. Eisenhower of Berwyn, Pa., whose husband, David Eisenhower, is a military historian and grandson of President Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mrs. Nixon's survivors include two grandsons, Christopher Nixon Cox and Alex Richard Eisenhower, and two granddaughters, Melanie and Jennie Eisenhower.
She also was vice president of the International Cerebral Palsy Society in London and a board member of Rehabilitation International.
She was also the president of the Alliance Francaise de Chicago from 1990 to 1992.
"
        She was born in Newport News, Va., where her father was the president of the Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock Company.
She was a former president of the American Dental Hygienists Association.
"
        She was a past chairwoman of the Council of Auxiliaries of the American Association of Dental Schools, president of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York City and an executive board member of the Dental Hygienists Association of New York State.
As the student government president of Bennett College in Greensboro, N.C., Mrs.
From 1959 until her death she was president of the Committee for the Blind of Poland.
In 1976, President Gerald R. Ford visited the district to proclaim its national landmark status, and the National Trust for Historic Preservation gave Mrs. Kramer an award.
She served as a vice president of the museum until 1937.
Jose Figueres Ferrer, then the President of Costa Rica and himself a resolute champion of democracy, paid tribute to Miss Grant in a public address in New York in 1951.
The next year she ran for City Council President as a Republican.
Already active professionally, she was named first vice president of the Women's Lawyers Assocation in 1956.
Mrs. Jacobs was former president of the Urban League of Greater New York and the National Council of Women.
She was active in the Urban League movement for more than 20 years and served as vice president and trustee of the National Urban League.
She became president of the National Council of Women in 1960 and was chairwoman of the 75th anniversary of the International Council of Women and the national affiliate, in Washington in 1963.
Dr. James Ebert, vice president of the National Academy of Science, called Dr. Ramsey "the world's leading student of the anatomy of the placenta.
She was also a past vice president of the American Association of Anatomists.
Upon his death in 1950, she took over as president and chairwoman.
Mrs. Beech was a past president of the Women's International Association of Aeronautics and a leader in other aviation organizations.
President and Mrs. Dwight D. Eisenhower were among her numerous clients.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
She was married for 30 years to Stanley Yagoda, who was president of the Hot Dogger clothing company.
She served on state commissions on aging and was founding president of the Michigan Society of Gerontology.

        Alice Wicks Olson, who received an apology from President Gerald R. Ford years after her husband committed suicide following a secret Government drug experiment, died last Thursday in Frederick, Md.
In addition to apologies from President Ford and the Director of Central Intelligence, the family was awarded $750,000 by Congress.
Mr. Shwayder, who invented devices for the company, was its president.
She also was treasurer and president of the New York State Society of Public Accountants.
's first student residence for women in the late 1940's and was president of the Matrons Association, an organization of wives of faculty and administration members.
She was also president of the Women's City Club of Boston.

        Doris G. Ross, a volunteer worker for children's welfare for half a century and former national president of the Girls Clubs of America, died on Friday at White Plains Hospital.
She was the first president of the Theater Arts Players.
She became president of the Girls Clubs in 1957, after serving as vice president.
She became president of the Girls Clubs in 1957, after serving as vice president.

        Terry Morris, a magazine and short-story writer and past president of the American Society of Journalists and Authors, died yesterday at her home on Central Park South in Manhattan.
Miss de la Torre, a former president of the Mystery Writers of America, wrote for nearly half a century and was working on manuscripts at her death.
Miss de la Torre, a former president of the Mystery Writers of America, wrote for nearly half a century and was working on manuscripts at her death.

        Susan K. Johnson, the senior vice president for account management at Mediamark Research Inc., a Manhattan-based media and market research company, died on Friday at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens.
She was previously a vice president and associate media director of Backer Spielvogel Bates Worldwide Inc., a Manhattan-based advertising agency.
At her death, she was also vice president of the Media Research Directors Association.
Mrs. Coker was the widow of James Lide Coker 3d, former president of the Sonoco Products Company.

        Nadia Stark, a founder and president of the Stark Carpet Corporation in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at Sloan-Kettering Memorial Hospital.
She died of cancer, said her husband, Michael, who stepped down in June as president of Columbia University.
She established a recording studio in a two-room office on West 44th Street in 1951 and became president of Recording for the Blind in 1952.
She was vice president of the Hispanic AIDS Forum, secretary of the Latino Commission on AIDS and a member of the Health and Human Services H.I.V.
Based on research in personal papers of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and high officials dealing with East Asian affairs, it chronicled events leading to Pearl Harbor, starting with Japan's invasion of Manchuria.
In addition, she was the president of the Doris Duke Foundation, based in Somerville, whose areas of interest have ranged from social and health services to cultural programs.
The president of Duke University, Nannerl O. Keohane, said yesterday, in a statement released by the university, that Miss Duke's "recent gift in support of AIDS research at Duke is but one of many programs here that she supported, from our Primate Center to other programs across the campus.
In an act of personal generosity in 1988 that involved an old friend, Miss Duke posted $5 million bail for Imelda Marcos, the wife of the former Philippine president, Ferdinand Marcos, who died in 1989.
Fenced with barbed wire and guarded, Rough Point was part of her inheritance from her father, known as Buck, who was president of the American Tobacco Company and had other extensive business interests.
Mrs. Jablons helped found the City Opera Guild in 1959 and for six years served as its president.
That year, she also became the first president of the Society of Stage Directors and Choreographers.
Mrs. Giordano served as president of the Ladies of Charity of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York for 25 years starting in 1952.
She was a graduate of the College of New Rochelle, a past president of its alumnae association, and a former trustee.
president, Judy Dickinson.
She first came to Sarah Lawrence in 1937, teaching part time at the invitation of Constance Warren, then college president.
Started in a Chorus Line
        From her father, a state legislator who was an advocate of President Woodrow Wilson's crusade to establish the League of Nations, she gained a sense of public service that lasted a lifetime.
Started in a Chorus Line
        From her father, a state legislator who was an advocate of President Woodrow Wilson's crusade to establish the League of Nations, she gained a sense of public service that lasted a lifetime.
Mrs. Gerrity, a great-great-great niece of President Martin Van Buren, was a former president of St. Margaret's Center for Children, in Albany.
Mrs. Gerrity, a great-great-great niece of President Martin Van Buren, was a former president of St. Margaret's Center for Children, in Albany.
She was a past president and board chairman of the New Canaan Community Nursery School, president of the Southern Connecticut Wellesley Club and an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan.
She was a past president and board chairman of the New Canaan Community Nursery School, president of the Southern Connecticut Wellesley Club and an elder of the First Presbyterian Church of New Canaan.
Mrs. Heineman was a board member of the National Coalition Against Censorship and was a member of the President's Council at the New School for Social Research.
So I went to William Schuman, who was president of Lincoln Center at the time, and I said: 'You're a tall man.
