" Joseph Polisi, president of the Juilliard School, said yesterday, "Ms. Marcus dedicated her career here at Juilliard to her students and her life to her art.

        Mabel Olsen Phillips, who was president of the United Nations Delegations Women's Club from 1971 to 1973, died on Monday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia.
She was elected president of the cultural, philanthropic and social organization in 1971 while her husband was the Deputy Permanent United States Representative, from 1969 to 1973.
She later became vice president of Charles of the Ritz, headed fashion merchandising for Yves St.Laurent and became an independent consultant, with clients like the Limited and Arthur D. Little.
"
        Khrushchev was understandably restrained when Mrs. Smith, a consistent advocate of a strong military, criticized President John F. Kennedy because she thought he lacked the will to use nuclear weapons and concluded that such restraint weakened America's struggle against the Soviet Union.
"
        Shortly before his assassination, President Kennedy called Mrs. Smith a "formidable political figure" against whom he would not like to campaign.
As a member of Congress she supported President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal legislation, much to the dismay of her more conservative colleagues.
Over the years, she angered fellow Republicans by supporting Federal aid to education in 1948, by voting against Lewis L. Strauss, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's nominee for Secretary of Commerce in 1959, and by opposing President Richard M. Nixon's unsuccessful nominees to the Supreme Court, Clement F. Haynsworth in 1969 and G. Harrold Carswell in 1970.
Over the years, she angered fellow Republicans by supporting Federal aid to education in 1948, by voting against Lewis L. Strauss, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's nominee for Secretary of Commerce in 1959, and by opposing President Richard M. Nixon's unsuccessful nominees to the Supreme Court, Clement F. Haynsworth in 1969 and G. Harrold Carswell in 1970.
In 1964 Mrs. Smith announced her candidacy for President and ran in the New Hampshire primary that year.
"Jean was unique and original and irreplaceable," said Geraldine Stutz, the former president and owner of Henri Bendel in New York, which carried Miss Muir's clothing from the early 60's until the late 80's.
For 10 years, from 1967 to 1977, she was the president of the American Federation of the Arts, where she developed many traveling exhibitions and produced an educational film, "The Art of Seeing.
Dr. Bain, a former President of the Ontario College of Physicians and Surgeons, was  held 40 percent liable.
In the 1950's she served as president of Women United for the United Nations.
Her husband was a New York lawyer and civil rights advocate who served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and was president of the New York City Board of Education in the mid-1960's.
She was board president of the museum from 1973 to 1975, a trustee from 1957 to 1977 and an honorary trustee until her death.
Mrs. Hooper was the president of the Bryn Mawr School in North Baltimore, a private school for girls, from 1963 to 1970.
Agnes Gund, president of the Museum of Modern Art, said yesterday: "Louise Smith brought to art a real, true love.
Miss Cook also served two terms under President Richard M. Nixon as a member of his Advisory Council on Adult Education.
      
At her death, she was honorary president of the Samuel and Saidye Bronfman Family Foundation, which supports a variety of charitable and community causes.
For nearly three decades, she was associated with the Women's City Club of New York, holding various offices, including that of president in the 1950's.
She was a past president of the Women's Medical Association of New York City and was active in the League of Women Voters, the Women's Prison Association and the Society of Friends.

        Joan L. Hafey, a retired vice president for the New York advertising agency Young & Rubicam who was active in public-service advertising campaigns, died July 24 at Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center.
After retiring in 1992, Ms. Hafey served as vice president for the agency's foundation and as the editor of its alumni magazine.
She was the daughter-in-law of Michael I. Sovern, president emeritus of Columbia University.

        Jolie Hammer Kinsolving, a government affairs adviser and a former deputy borough president of Manhattan, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital.
She went to work for City Council President Sanford Garelik in 1970, often representing him on the Board of Estimate.
Manhattan Borough President Percy Sutton named her his deputy in 1974.

        Marcia Cayne, president of the Association of Reform Zionists of America and a member of the Conference of Major American Jewish Organizations, died on Saturday at Tarzana Medical Center in Los Angeles.
She was elected president of the organization's Pacific-Southwest Region in 1987 and president of the association in 1993.
She was elected president of the organization's Pacific-Southwest Region in 1987 and president of the association in 1993.
Not long after her election as president, she became a leading defender of a gay synagogue in New York, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah, which the American Zionist Youth Foundation suddenly shut out of the 1993 Salute to Israel Parade.
Mr. Fox had been president of Jay Thorpe, a New York women's specialty store that has since closed.
As the publisher's wife, she became president of the Texas League of Women Voters, a member of the board of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, a member of the Houston Symphony Orchestra Committee and regional chairman of the Mobilization for Human Needs, all before she was 35.
Back in Houston, she renewed her political contacts and expanded the circulation of The Post, where she was an executive vice president and a director of KPRC, which came to include not only the AM station but also FM and television outlets.
Thomas E. Dewey of New York, a Republican, when he ran for President in 1948, and Dwight D. Eisenhower in his successful Presidential campaign in 1952.
Mrs. Hobby was the nation's second woman to hold a Cabinet post; the first, Frances Perkins, was Secretary of Labor under President Franklin D. Roosevelt from 1933 to 1945.
In a breakthrough for women in the ski industry, she was hired in 1971 by the Big Sky Resort near Bozeman, Mont., to be director of marketing, and later, a vice president.
From 1975 to 1983, she was president and general manager of Burke Mountain, Vt.
For the wedding of President Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci, in 1966, Mrs. Simpson designed for the mother of the bride a wrinkle-resistant yellow silk street-length coat, matching princess-line dress and hat.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
She was the president of the Roy and Niuta Titus Foundation, an honorary trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, a director of the Children's Blood Foundation, president of the Zion Orphanage in Jerusalem, a member of the international board of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and honorary director of the Helena Rubinstein Foundation, which is devoted to the health, education and welfare of women and children.
In time, President John F. Kennedy sent a dozen members of the White House staff to the Evelyn Wood Reading Dynamics Institute in Washington.
President Richard M. Nixon sent 35 high-ranking members of his Administration, and President Jimmy Carter followed suit.
President Richard M. Nixon sent 35 high-ranking members of his Administration, and President Jimmy Carter followed suit.
While she declined to move to Washington, she was a frequent hostess on the social scene, especially after Kennedy became President.
She was a vice president of the National Anti-Vivisection Society, and no animal escaped her sympathy.
Mrs. Roosevelt was the widow of President Theodore Roosevelt's grandson, Quentin Roosevelt.
As president of the community board of the hospital, Ms. Bell helped to write its patient's bill of rights.
She was a member of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy for 19 years, and its senior vice president since 1991.
In 1954, at the invitation of Chiang Ching-kuo, a son of Chiang Kai-shek who later became President of Taiwan, Ms. Hsu visited Taiwan and joined the Government newspaper, China Daily News, where she covered international politics.

        Anyone attending the inauguration this weekend of Ruth Simmons as Smith College's ninth president will be likely to note the presence of such luminaries as Toni Morrison, the Nobel Prize-winning author; Johnnetta Cole, the president of Spelman College; Cornel West, the scholar, and Henry Louis Gates, the writer and chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard.

        Anyone attending the inauguration this weekend of Ruth Simmons as Smith College's ninth president will be likely to note the presence of such luminaries as Toni Morrison, the Nobel Prize-winning author; Johnnetta Cole, the president of Spelman College; Cornel West, the scholar, and Henry Louis Gates, the writer and chairman of the Afro-American studies department at Harvard.
But they might miss the people who Ruth Simmons believes are the most important -- those responsible for her becoming the first black president of one of the country's most elite women's colleges.
"It never would have occurred to me before Ruth became president.
"One of my friends said, 'You won't believe what's happened: we have a black president!
She also has a good handle on how to be not just the black president, on how not to cater to just black students.
"
        At her inauguration, the new president will be carrying a Bible her mother gave her father on the day they were married.
Ms. Burke came to national attention in 1945 with a 2 1/2-by-3 1/2-foot bronze plaque commemorating President Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Four Freedoms.
She won the commission for it in a nationwide competition, and President Harry S. Truman spoke at the unveiling in September 1945 at the Recorder of Deeds Building in Washington.
Her other work included likenesses of Booker T. Washington, the abolitionist John Brown and President Calvin Coolidge.
At her death, Mrs. Kean (pronounced cane) was president of the Elizabethtown Historical Foundation in New Jersey.
From 1956 through 1960, she was the president general -- the ranking officer -- of the Colonial Dames of America, a Manhattan-based society whose members trace their ancestry to Colonial times.
The Colonial Dames own the site on East 61st Street that includes what is now the Abigail Adams Smith Museum, which once stood on an estate owned by President John Adams's daughter Abigail and her husband.
Over the years, she was also president of the New York Chapter of the Descendants of the Signers of the Declaration of Independence, a directress general of the Society of Daughters of Holland Dames and a trustee of St. Bernard's School in Manhattan and of Cooper Union.
He was president of the National State Bank, the Elizabethtown Consolidated Gas Company and the Elizabethtown Water Company, all in Elizabeth, N.J. Thomas H. Kean, the former Governor of New Jersey, is his nephew.
Dr. Richard A. Lerner, president of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif, said: "She, like Mary Lasker, was one of the great ladies of American science.
Dr. Martin Meyerson, a former president of the University of Pennsylvania who was chairman of the workshops for a decade, noted that she insured that participants ranged from Nobel laureates to junior scientists and that "she relished providing a bit of luxury to them, a good dinner, putting them up in pleasant places.
Mr. Hazen, a former vice president and director of Warner Brothers, wrote the contract between the studio and Edison Vitaphone that resulted in "The Jazz Singer," the first movie with sound.
Calvin Griffith became president of the franchise after Clark Griffith died and moved the team to Minnesota in 1961.
Mrs. Haynes served as an executive vice president and assistant treasurer and each owned 26 percent of the team before it was sold to Carl Pohlad in 1985.

        Clelia Benjamin Delafield, a philanthropist and founding president of the Society of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died on Tuesday in Union Memorial Hospital in Baltimore.
She was also vice president of the Scholarship and Welfare Fund of the Alumni Association of Hunter College and a founding member of the Friends of the Hunter College Library.
She also represented Mothers' Voices in Washington, where she met with members of Congress and President Clinton.
President Harry S. Truman chose Mrs. Gray to be Treasurer in 1949, a year the Democratic Party promised a New Deal for women aspiring to high office.
When Dwight D. Eisenhower became President in 1953 he selected another woman to succeed her, Ivy Baker Priest, a Utah Republican.
At her father's death in 1937 she became president of the bank; in 1964 she moved it to Topeka and renamed it the Capital City State Bank.
She was 60, and until she went on medical leave at the end of 1994, she was a senior vice president of the Urban Development Corporation.
While in Washington, she was president of the Congressional Club, a group of Congressional wives.
Grant, president of  the Mormon Church and Emily Wells Grant in Salt Lake City.

        Anne E. Sullivan, a vice president at Farrar, Straus & Giroux, the New York publishing house, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital.

        Hannah Hirschhorn Baumann, a former national vice president of the American Jewish Committee who was active in many charitable, cultural and religious organizations, died on Sunday at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 79.
Her husband of 50 years, Jay S. Baumann, the president of Terminal Barber Shops and treasurer of Sierra Realty Corporation, died in 1991.
" Her movies included "Klute," "The Omega Man," "Hickey and Boggs," "The New Centurions," "Uptown Saturday Night" and "Wrong Is Right" (in which she played the first black woman to become Vice President of the United States).

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
Among her other jobs for the organization, she was  president of its women's organizations in the West Indies and Caribbean Territory and territorial president of its Women's Services in the southern states and Mexico.
Among her other jobs for the organization, she was  president of its women's organizations in the West Indies and Caribbean Territory and territorial president of its Women's Services in the southern states and Mexico.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
Her husband, William E. Chamberlain, was the Salvation Army's national president.
She joined the hospital as director of nutrition in 1945,  retired as president and chief executive officer in 1980 and continued as a volunteer until this year.
She returned to  St. Vincent's in 1971 to become its president.
Sister Evelyn was also the first woman to be elected president of the Greater New York Hospital Association, a position she filled for a year.

        Kathleen Overmyer Elliott, a former vice president of Radcliffe College, died on Monday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass.
She retired in 1976 as vice president, associate dean and senior tutor at South House, now Cabot House.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.

        Rebecca C. McGreevy, a senior vice president of public relations at the Estee Lauder Companies, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
She was promoted to vice president of public relations in 1971 and to senior vice president in 1981.
She was promoted to vice president of public relations in 1971 and to senior vice president in 1981.
"
        Her husband, who worked for every President from Harry S. Truman to Gerald R. Ford, was called out of retirement to head the American delegation at the Paris  peace talks on Vietnam in 1970, and again in 1973 to be chief of the United States mission to Beijing.
Previously, Ms. Bregman was president of Bask Press, a book packager and literary agency she founded in 1983, and a former senior editor at Warner Juvenile Books and at Bantam Doubleday Dell.
Before her appointment, Dame Nita, who was a nurse and public health expert, served as the Barbados representative at the United Nations and was previously president of the World Y.W.C.A.
After college, she worked in the film industry, becoming a vice president of  creative affairs at United Artists and 20th Century Fox.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.
Over the years, Mrs. Loring was a consultant to the National Endowment for the Humanities, president of the Adult Education Association/ U.S.A. and a board member of the National University Extension Association.
She was a past vice president of the Planned Parenthood Association of Bergen County, president of the Herb Society of America and member of the editorial board of Vassar Alumnae Magazine.
She was a past vice president of the Planned Parenthood Association of Bergen County, president of the Herb Society of America and member of the editorial board of Vassar Alumnae Magazine.
She was a past president of the Jewish Family Service of Atlantic County and chairwoman of the Lion of Judah for the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
"
        President Clinton extended his condolences last night.
"Very few Americans have endured as much personal sacrifice for their country as Rose Kennedy," the President said.
President Kennedy was slain by an assassin in Dallas in 1963.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
Soon, Mr. Kennedy gained control of the Columbia Trust Company in Boston and, at 25, became the youngest bank president in the country.
" An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F. Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.

        Rose Fitzgerald Kennedy, the mother of President John F. Kennedy and of two United States Senators, the wife of a fabulously wealthy businessman-ambassador and the matriarch of a family whose political triumphs and personal tragedies she carried with quiet dignity for 80 years, died yesterday at the Kennedy family compound in Hyannis Port, Mass.
"
        President Clinton extended his condolences last night.
"Very few Americans have endured as much personal sacrifice for their country as Rose Kennedy," the President said.
President Kennedy was slain by an assassin in Dallas in 1963.
: Reckless Youth," by Nigel Hamilton (Random House, 1992), called the President's mother a chilly, remote woman, obsessed with religion, personal hygiene and designer clothing, and incapable of giving her children the affection they craved.
Soon, Mr. Kennedy gained control of the Columbia Trust Company in Boston and, at 25, became the youngest bank president in the country.
"
        An Inauguration Of a Son
        The high point of her life, perhaps, was the inauguration of her son John as the 35th President of the United States on Jan. 20, 1961.
Her other children were not in the center of public life, although Eunice married Sargent Shriver, who became director of the Peace Corps and the Democratic Vice-Presidential nominee in 1972, Jean was named the Ambassador to Ireland by President Clinton, and Patricia married the actor Peter Lawford, who died in 1984.
Her grandchildren include the son and daughter of President Kennedy, John F.  Kennedy Jr., a lawyer, and Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg, who has been active in family interests, including the John F. Kennedy Library in Boston.
Her last living son, Edward M. Kennedy, eulogized the mother of a President, two Senators and an Ambassador and the grandmother of two United States Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor and a state representative in Maryland, saying, "She was ambitious not only for our success, but for our souls.
"
        The Cardinal read a letter of condolence from President Clinton and an apostolic blessing from Pope John Paul II, and called Mrs. Kennedy "a woman of great strength and deep faith, who is unequaled in the way her life was at the service of the commonweal.
"
        Along with personal friends of Mrs. Kennedy and her children, the congregation of more than 700 included Tipper Gore, the wife of the Vice President, Mayor Thomas M. Menino of Boston and Senators John Kerry of Massachusetts, Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and John D. Rockefeller 4th of West Virginia, all Democrats.
She was a past vice chairman of the New Jersey Democratic State Committee and in 1977 became the first woman to be elected president of the National Association of State Chairmen.
Mrs. Pincus was a director of the Citizens' Committee for Children, a board member and past president of the Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center and a founder of the Professional Committee of Elem-Youth in Distress in Israel.
She was its first president and became honorary president in 1962.
She was its first president and became honorary president in 1962.
At her death, Mrs. Straus was president of Executive Service Strategies, a management and consulting firm that she founded in 1986.
Born in Fort Worth, a grand-niece of President Woodrow Wilson, she first offered help to the disadvantaged when, as a teen-ager, she tutored a neighbor who had been dismissed from school because of a learning disability.
She was a member of the President's Council on Handicapped Children for more than 20 years and worked as a consultant to Governments in Canada, Colombia and Venezuela.
Her husband, Edward C. Sweeney, a former president of the Explorers Club, died in 1967.
She was twice president of the Decorators Club of New York.
Until her death, Mrs. Unterberg was active in a nursing scholarship program at Monmouth College in Long Branch, N.J. She was former president of the School of Nursing at Monmouth Medical Center, where she established the Center for Nursing Excellence, an educational program.
She was also a former vice president of the board of governors at the medical center.
Her second husband, Charles Solomon, a former president of the American Contract Bridge League and the World Bridge Federation, died in 1975.
Mrs. Mercati served as a member of the national council of the Metropolitan Opera, a director of the English Speaking Union and in many capacities with Recording for the Blind, including vice president of its board and director emeritus, a post she held at her death.

        Norma Fields Furst, the president of Baltimore Hebrew University for the last three years, died on March 7 at her home in Wynnewood, Pa. She was 64.
She then was president of Harcum Junior College in Bryn Mawr, Pa., before joining Baltimore Hebrew in 1992.
Shortly after 9:30 P.M. a 32-year-old woman identified by the young singer's father as the former president of her fan club abruptly surrendered after keeping the police at bay for nearly 10 hours as she sat in a red pickup truck in the motel parking lot with a gun pointed at her temple.
Mrs. Herling was owner and president of the Jolie Gabor Jewelry Store in Manhattan.
But Heide Lange, vice president of the Sanford J. Greenburger agency, with which Ms. Cleaver was affiliated, said the doctor who had examined Ms. Cleaver said that the cause of death appeared to have been either a heart attack or stroke.
Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
She was a vice president and director and wrote editorials while her husband was overseas during World War II.
She was its president until 1967, and helped found the Virginia Federation of Humane Societies in 1959.
Among her former students are Paul Tobias, a faculty member of the Mannes College of Music and the Manhattan School of Music, and Bonnie Hampton, the president of Chamber Music America and a member of the San Francisco Trio.

        Vita R. Ostrander, a former president of the American Association of Retired Persons who helped make the health care system a major national issue a decade before last year's debate on overhauling it, died on Tuesday at Crawford Long Hospital in Atlanta.
's board from 1976 to 1988 and its president for two of those years, 1984-86.
"She really brought us into health care," the current president, Eugene Lehrmann, said yesterday, recalling that she had often built support for her views even as she formed them, in informal chats with fellow board members.
In an organization that likes to precycle as well as recycle its executive talent, Mrs. Ostrander was a representative at news conferences during her two years as president-elect, testified at Congressional hearings during her two years as president and continued to speak out during her two years as "immediate past president," an official association position.
In an organization that likes to precycle as well as recycle its executive talent, Mrs. Ostrander was a representative at news conferences during her two years as president-elect, testified at Congressional hearings during her two years as president and continued to speak out during her two years as "immediate past president," an official association position.
Mrs. Goldman was the president of the sisterhood of the Fifth Avenue Synagogue and the chairwoman of the book and author series of UJA-Federation of New York.
