She was decorated by President Franklin D. Roosevelt for leading the New York State women's division of the War Bond drive in the 1940's.
She was a past president of the community-based National Council of Jewish Women, which supports the Lighthouse, day centers for the elderly and Libraries on Wheels.
She was the widow of Norman Tishman, former president of the Tishman Realty and Construction Company, who died in 1967.
Correction:  February 2, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Rita V. Tishman, a New York benefactor of Jewish and civic causes, referred incorrectly to a Jewish women's organization she served as president, and to an organization it sponsored for the blind.
Mrs. Owings was the founder and first president of Friends of the Sea Otter and won a battle to end the bounty-hunting of mountain lions in her state.

        Dr. Miriam Freund-Rosenthal, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Saturday at her home in Miami Beach.
Dr. Freund-Rosenthal, whose doctorate was in history from New York University, was known as Miriam K. Freund when she was Hadassah's president.
Before and after Dr. Freund-Rosenthal was Hadassah's president, she held a variety of other posts overseeing the organization's education and youth programs.
''
        In 1991, Ellen V. Futter, who was Barnard's president at the time, said Professor Komarovsky's ''research has been crucial to our understanding of today's women and the choices they make.
Earlier, in 1973 and 1974, she was the second female president of the association, which was founded in 1905.
Reviewing that book in The New York Times Book Review, Adele Simmons, then president of Hampshire College in Amherst, Mass., wrote: ''The impact of the women's movement on higher education becomes apparent to even the most skeptical reader.
She was chairman of the sociology department at Barnard from 1949 to 1968 and was president of the Eastern Sociological Society in 1955 and 1956.
Dr. Hawkins became a vice president of that association, which, like the Center for Children and Technology, is a nonprofit research and development group financed by grants and contracts with foundations and government institutions.
''
        In 1991, President George Bush awarded Ms. Elion a National Medal of Science, saying her work had ''transformed the world.
President Clinton said, in a statement: ''A white woman, born to privilege in the Deep South, Mrs. Durr refused to turn a blind eye to racism and intolerance in our society.
In 1961 she performed for President John F. Kennedy and Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru during Nehru's official visit to Washington.
She was recommended by Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan and appointed by President Carter in 1978.
She received a bachelor's degree in 1952  from Hunter College, a law degree with honors in 1954 from Brooklyn Law School, where she was president of her class and the first black editor in chief of the law review, and a master's degree in 1955 from Columbia Law School.
President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent the 101st Airborne Division to Little Rock and placed the Arkansas guardsmen under Federal control to insure the black students' admission in the face of mob action.
She was also executive director and president of the American Nurses Association, which inducted her into its Hall of Fame last year, and was a board member of the International Council of Nurses, which honored her with its highest award, the Christiane Reimann Prize, in 1997.
After returning to China, she taught at McTyeire and taught physical education at Ginling College in Nanjing, and from 1935 to 1947, she was a vice president of the world Young Women's Christian Association.
In 1997, Ms. Tilberis became president of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund.

        Lois Borwick Herman Rivkin, the founder and president of an organization linking business organizations and cultural institutions to New York City public schools, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

        Adele Woodhouse Erb Sullivan, who was president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution in the 1960's, died on April 22 in Wilton, Conn., at the home of her daughter, Nancy E. Thorne.
''That trip to Vietnam meant a great deal to the national society,'' said Sarah King of Murfreesboro, Tenn., who was president general of the D.A.R.
In 1956, she was elected recording secretary general of the national society, and in 1959, she was elected first vice president general.
She was elected president general in 1965, serving one term until 1968, when she was made an honorary president general for life.
She was elected president general in 1965, serving one term until 1968, when she was made an honorary president general for life.
In 1980, President Jimmy Carter appointed her one of the three negotiators in the Long Island Rail Road strike.
After Robinson won the gold, Douglas MacArthur, then the president of the American Olympic Committee, presented her with a small gold charm shaped like the world.

        Beverly Lewis, a vice president and senior editor at Bantam Books,  died on Monday in Manhattan.
Ms. Lewis had been named a vice president on May 18.
In a memo to his colleagues today, in which he had intended to announce Ms. Lewis's recent appointment, Irwyn Applebaum, the president and publisher of Bantam Books, said, ''She had the sharp eye to know when her writers could do better'' and, he added, ''she had the unwavering resolve and confidence to motivate and inspire her writers to reach down and indeed improve their work.
Ms. Carter's response was to take an old phonograph onto the porch and play a recording of a speech by President John F. Kennedy on civil rights.
That sensibility shone through one of her last columns, ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' in which she discussed the attitude of President Clinton's supporters toward Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia.
The piece was inspired by an embarrassing mistake at The Boston Globe that let a joke headline, ''More Mush From the Wimp,'' sneak into the newspaper over an editorial about a speech by President Jimmy Carter.
That year, she assumed the top position of managing director next to her father, Luigi, who remained president of the company but concentrated on the engineering side of the business.
Sonny Werblin later became an officer of Monmouth Park race track and president of the New York Jets football team, built the Meadowlands Sports Complex and was chairman of Madison Square Garden.
When she wanted to feature the black model on the cover of Glamour in 1968, the issue was debated at every level of the company, all the way up to the president.
The federation president wrote:
        ''When I learned in recent weeks that athletes who refused to serve as window-dressing for the Hitler regime received a lifetime ban  .
Mrs. St. Louis was senior vice president of Festival Productions Inc., which promotes the JVC Jazz Festival, the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival, the Newport Jazz Festival and other major events.
Ms. Shacklock was a professor at the Royal Academy of Music from 1968 to 1984, and became president of the Association of Teachers of Singing in 1995.
She edited Media Report, now a quarterly, until selling it in 1987 to another publisher, but continued as president of the institute at her home to the end, organizing conferences and writing in an effort to get a woman's point of view across in communications here and abroad.
As vice president in charge of creative services, Ms. Rubinstein was responsible for training beauty consultants in department stores, an idea originated by Helena Rubinstein Inc.
They appeared at the Moscow Exhibition, a trade fair, the site of a famous impromptu debate between Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet premier, and Richard M. Nixon, then Vice President of the United States.
''
        In 1984 she became president of the Association of Relatives of the Detained-Disappeared, an organization that seeks an accounting of those who vanished under General Pinochet and prosecution of those involved in their deaths.
She was president of Brandon Petroleum Properties, an oil and gas exploration company, and of the Chisholm Foundation, an educational foundation established by her father in 1960.
The country's president bestows the award to distinguished scholars, writers, artists and public figures.
''
        After leaving the program and becoming a popular lecturer, Ms. Rountree in 1965 founded Leadership, a nonprofit political research foundation based in Washington, and served as president of the organization until 1988.

        Evelyn Shrifte, the longtime president of Vanguard Press, which published the first books of Saul Bellow, Dr. Seuss and Joyce Carol Oates, died on Aug. 8 at her home on the West Side of Manhattan.
She began working for the independent Vanguard full time in the early 1930's and was its president from 1952 until it was sold to Random House in 1988, when it was 62 years old.
She returned to Dallas in July 1963 and was the local White House liaison for President John F. Kennedy's visit on Nov. 22, 1963.
Ms. Harris was the first president of the Women's Forum, a networking organization, served on the board of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and was a trustee of Mount Vernon College and Tusculum College in Tusculum, Tenn.
        No immediate survivors were reported.
      
Her brother, Shmuel Tamir, served as Justice Minister, and an uncle, Zalman Shazar, was Israel's third President.
Mrs. Murray had been the executive vice president of the dance-studio empire built by her late husband, Arthur Murray, and played such an important part in promoting their ''dancing in a hurry'' business that the entertainer Sam Levenson joked that Mr. Murray had become rich ''by the sweat of his frau.
''
        By 1976, when Mrs. Braden took up her State Department posts, her friends included Vice President  Rockefeller, Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and many other powerful figures, who would assemble at the Bradens' large yellow clapboard house in Chevy Chase, Md., a Washington suburb.

        Raisa Maksimovna Gorbachev, who broke Kremlin tradition by sharing the spotlight with her husband, the former Soviet President Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and did so with bold self-assurance and flair, died today in Munster, Germany.
President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Gorbachev's bitter rival in the early 1990's, sent a message of condolence today, and in a statement he said that a ''wonderful person, a beautiful woman, a loving wife and mother is no longer with us.
Visiting the United States for the first time in 1987, she irked Nancy Reagan with lectures on subjects ranging from architecture to socialism, reportedly prompting the American President's wife to quip, ''Who does that dame think she is?
''Dear God,'' the former Soviet President, visibly exhausted, told a Russian television reporter on Aug. 9, ''for her to undergo such a drama these two days before my very eyes.

        Judith Campbell Exner, who asserted in a 1988 interview in People magazine that she had been having an affair with John F. Kennedy when he was elected President, died late Friday at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a suburb of Los Angeles.
Dave Powers, a Kennedy aide who Mrs. Exner said had assisted in setting up her encounters with the President, said in 1991, ''The only Campbell I know is chunky vegetable soup.
But Giancana's daughter, Antoinette, said that Giancana disliked Kennedy and that he never mentioned any contact with Kennedy while he was President.
Mrs. Exner also said that while Kennedy was in the White House she shuttled messages -- on topics including a plan to kill President Fidel Castro of Cuba -- between him and Giancana.
It quoted assertions she had made over the years that she had had an affair with John F. Kennedy before and after he was elected President.
The article reported that aides of President Kennedy's, including Dave Powers, denied the affair.
The woman who had gone out only for some preaching at the Friendship Baptist Church in Hattiesburg and to buy groceries would be honored by the United Nations, would shake hands with President Clinton and would receive more than 300 awards.
''People treated her like a monument,'' said Jewel Tucker, the secretary to the president of the university and Miss McCarty's traveling companion in those almost giddy years after the gift.
Friends like Aubrey K. Lucas, president emeritus of the University of Southern Mississippi, said it warmed him and others that came into contact with her to know that a lifetime of loneliness had been pushed aside by all the positive attention that her gift brought.
Horace Fleming, the university's president, said he sometimes wondered if all the attention that came her way was really welcome.
''
        The university's president said that a New York reporter once asked him out of earshot of Miss McCarty to tell him the true story of her gift.
The president told the reporter that it happened just as Miss McCarty said, that she had wanted to do something good with the money she had made.
In addition, Professor Lax ''led the way in changing mathematical pedagogy, in exploring the connections of mathematics to the larger curriculum, in understanding the interplay between language and mathematics,'' Joanne V. Creighton, president of Mount Holyoke College, said in awarding her an honorary degree in 1997.
President Creighton said Professor Lax's experiences in mathematics and family life had endowed her with a special awareness of the challenges confronting young women interested in mathematics.
Mrs. Hirschland was born in Baltimore, the daughter of Sidney Berney, a vice president at Isaac Hamburger, a clothing store in Baltimore, and Dorothy Long Berney, a niece of Etta and Claribel Cone, who amassed a world-class collection of 19th and 20th century art, including 42 Matisse oil paintings, which they bequeathed to the Baltimore Museum of Art in 1949.
Phyllis W. Curott, president emeritus of Covenant of the Goddess, a New York-based umbrella organization for witches, said that in recent years millions of people had been drawn to witchcraft, but that the words written by Ms. Valiente remain central in virtually every ceremony.
She also worked for the International Labor Organization in Geneva, the United States Agency for International Development in Washington, the Parks and City Planning departments in New York and the City's Public Development Corporation, where she was a vice president.
'' Then, at a party, she met the president of a local college who opened the way for her to give labor seminars and thereby build her reputation.
Mrs. Bates, as Arkansas president of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, was a central figure in the litigation that led to the confrontation in front of Central High, as well as the snarling scenes that unfolded in front of it.
''
        President Clinton yesterday called her a dear friend and a heroine and said her death ''will leave a vacuum in the civil rights community, the State of Arkansas and our country.
president in 1952, and as a result of the 1954 Supreme Court decision, Mrs. Bates became a particularly forceful advocate of desegregation.
Then President Dwight D. Eisenhower sent in the federal troops, rebuffing Governor Faubus's pleas for a one-year cooling-off period.
''She gave so much to the birding world and had so much more left to give,'' said G. Stuart Keith, the birding association's first president.
She spent the last 20 years at G. P. Putnam's Sons, where she was vice president and senior executive editor and is said to have introduced a more literary sensibility.
Gershon Kekst, president of Kekst & Company, a New York public relations firm, said that Mrs. Resnick's character and charm were as important as her ability to raise money.
At 11, she made her first public appearance, delivering a radio address on behalf of a charity headed by President Herbert Hoover.
She was particularly remembered for a work called ''The Love Song of R. Milhous Nixon,'' in which she borrowed from T. S. Eliot to lampoon President Nixon at the height of the Watergate scandal in 1973.

        Nilde Iotti, an early leader of the Italian Communist Party and the first woman to become president of the lower house of Parliament, died Friday night of heart failure after a long illness, the news agency ANSA reported.
From 1979 until 1992, she served as Italy's president of the lower house of Parliament, a role similar to that of the speaker of the house in the United States.
2 in line to succeed the president.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
''
        Linda Ligon, president of Interweave Press, which specializes in traditional textile crafts, said Mrs. Zimmermann ''brought intelligence and validity to a craft that had been trivialized as women's work.
