
        Agnes Eisenberger, a manager of classical musicians who was the president and owner of Colbert Artists Management, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
The cause was cancer, said Charlotte Schroeder, who succeeds Ms. Eisenberger as president of Colbert Artists.
She became the owner and president after the retirement of Mrs. Colbert in 1991.
At her death, she was president of the Irene Diamond Fund, which she established in 1994 to support, in particular, the performing arts and the fight against AIDS.
President Bill Clinton recognized her philanthropy in 1999 with the National Medal of Arts, and in 2001 she received the Andrew Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy.
President, Mr. President!
President, Mr. President!
But through the 1990's, she checked the White House's recorded announcement of the president's schedule before dawn.
'' Early in his tenure, the first President Bush publicly warned her that ''the loudest voice won't always get recognized because it isn't fair to the others.
''Many a president thought he could change the subject by calling on Sarah and lived to regret it,'' said Michael D. McCurry, press secretary for President Bill Clinton.
''Many a president thought he could change the subject by calling on Sarah and lived to regret it,'' said Michael D. McCurry, press secretary for President Bill Clinton.
In 1974, she drew criticism for asking President Richard M. Nixon about delays in processing G.I.
Ms. McClendon disclosed that the Secret Service had warned her never again to aim a ballpoint pen at President Nixon when questioning him.
In 1984 she became the president of the New Jersey Society of Architects.
Her father, who had arrived from Germany with only a few coins in his pocket, eventually became president of Consolidated Paper Mills.
Mrs. Miller, an expert on the Shaker religious movement, was president of Hancock Shaker Village Inc. from 1959 to 1990.
She helped develop the company's programs and was a director and vice president of Weight Watchers International until the H. J. Heinz Company acquired it in 1978.
In awarding the prize, Roman Herzog, then president of Germany, called Ms. Schimmel ''one of the few Western scholars who is able and ready to think herself totally into the mental world of this different culture.
After his death more than three decades later, she married Ed Flynn, president of a Pacific shippers association, who had long skirmished with Mr. Bridges across bargaining tables and picket lines.
In that bitter struggle, Mr. Bridges's major adversary was Ed Flynn, president of the Pacific Maritime Association.
Just one day earlier, President Bush had awarded her the National Humanities Medal, one of numerous honors she had won for turning a historical landmark into an important place to learn and enjoy American history and culture.
She served as a trustee for the Massachusetts state college system and the University of Massachusetts and was president of the Friends of Boston University Libraries.
Mrs. Wilson was the president and general manager of the Macmillan Publishing Co. Children's Book Group from 1988 to 1994.
Dr. Klawe, now president of the Association of Computing Machinery, said support from those on Systers helped her achieve that position.
Ms. Zorina and the harpsichordist Paul Wolfe, whom she married after the death her second husband, Goddard Lieberson, the president of CBS Records, moved in 1990 to Santa Fe, where she continued a career as an opera director for several troupes, including the Santa Fe Opera.
He later became its president.

        Ella King Torrey, former president of the San Francisco Art Institute and an innovative arts administrator, died Wednesday at her home in San Francisco.
She was charter president of Afro-American Quilters Inc., a nonprofit cooperative in Oxford, Miss.
Ms. Torrey became president of the San Francisco Art Institute in 1995, when it was in physical and financial disarray.
Correction:  May 17, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on May 3 about Ella King Torrey, a former president of the San Francisco Art Institute, misstated its fiscal situation in 1995, when she took the post.
She earned a bachelor's degree at Cornell University, where she later helped found the President's Council of Cornell Women, and an M.B.A. in marketing at the New York University Graduate School of Business.
She left her first advertising agency, Trahey/Cadwell, in the early 1960's to form Cadwell Davis, a boutique subsidiary of Compton Advertising, with Ms. Cadwell as president and Hal Davis as creative director.
Ms. Lalique became both the president and creative mind of Lalique S.A., headquartered in Paris.
In 1994, President Clinton gave her the National Medal of Arts.
Mrs. Warnke, born Jean Farjeon Rowe in Ossining, N.Y., was a member of the board of Family and Child Services Inc. of Washington, serving as its president from 1984 to 1986.
She won four Edgar Allan Poe Awards, known as Edgars, from the Mystery Writers of America, of which she was a past president.
''Pat Goldman-Rakic was one of the most distinguished neuroscientists of her generation,'' said Richard C. Levin, Yale's president.
Mrs. Lezama-Clark is the efficient, soft-spoken center of it all, the president of the West Indian American Day Carnival Association, which for 36 years has organized what has become New York City's largest parade.
She was the first woman elected to the Roxburghe Club, an English association of bibliophiles, and one of the first to join the Grolier Club, another bibliophile's group, in New York City; she was vice president from 1982 to 1992.
Mrs. Bronander is past president of the Montclair Lions Club and the Mercier Club, and a sustaining member of the Junior League.
Mr. Bronander is past president of the Commonwealth Club and, until 1986, managed the Wedgwood, a storied but now-defunct cafeteria.
President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the law creating the Women's Reserve of the Navy on July 30, 1942.
Among the speakers will be Sharon Isbin, a guitarist who studied with Ms. Tureck, and Kevin Kleinmann, president of the Tureck Bach Research Institute in New York, which was founded by the pianist two years ago.
      
Gibson, who had been in poor health for many years, died at East Orange General Hospital, where she was treated for an infection and respiratory illness, said Dr. Duane J. Dyson, its senior vice president for medical affairs.
      
In 1959 Ms. Marlow joined the Curtis Brown literary agency, and she remained there, becoming executive vice president.
Earlier this year, during Sweden's six-month presidency of the European Union, she called President Bush ''a Lone Ranger'' for his decision to go to war in Iraq without United Nations approval, although she expressed support for his campaign against global terror.
On March 11, when President Lyndon B. Johnson went on national television to announce that he would send Congress a strong voting rights bill, it was in Mrs. Foster's living room that Dr. King watched and wept at the news.
''Her motto always was 'Don't look back,' '' said John Loring, a longtime friend and the design director and a senior vice president of Tiffany & Company.
In 1965, she was one of President Johnson's first appointees to the National Council on the Arts.
A longtime official of the Wilderness Society, she was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the nation's highest civilian honor, by President Bill Clinton in 1998.
Four years later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower designated eight million acres as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; President Jimmy Carter more than doubled the protected area in 1980.
Four years later, President Dwight D. Eisenhower designated eight million acres as the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge; President Jimmy Carter more than doubled the protected area in 1980.
She was invited to the White House by President Lyndon B. Johnson to attend the signing of the act.

        Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
From 1991 to 1998 she was president and owner of the J. H. Mello Company, an investment banking and consulting business, which became known as the Mello Corporation in the mid-1990's.
She then became president and chief executive of World Learning Inc., a nonprofit organization with programs in 110 countries.
Correction:  October 30, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, misstated the day of her death.
Although Madame Chiang developed a stellar image with the American public, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other leaders became disillusioned with her and her husband's despotic and corrupt practices.
''
        General Chiang resigned as president of Nationalist China in January 1949 and fled to Taiwan that May, taking with him a national art collection that was kept in crates in Taiwan for years as the Chiangs clung to the ever-diminishing hope that they would some day take it back to Beijing.
Only in 1971 did the United Nations allow the government of the world's most populous country to be represented, a prelude to President Nixon's trip to Beijing in 1972.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
Chiang tried unsuccessfully to block his successor as president, Lee Teng-hui, from succeeding him as chairman; she did not seek office for herself, nor was she eligible to do so.
      
Madame Chiang's second sister, Soong Qing-ling, was the wife of Sun Yat-sen, China's first president after the last emperor was toppled in 1911.
Although Madame Chiang developed a stellar image with the American public, President Franklin D. Roosevelt and other leaders became disillusioned with her and her husband's despotic and corrupt practices.
On Jan. 1, 1912, Sun became China's first president.
Yet Congress had recently assigned $1 billion more to China, and President Truman was impatient with the Chiangs and what had become an apparently hopeless effort to shore up the Nationalist government.
''
        General Chiang resigned as president of Nationalist China in January 1949 and fled to Taiwan that May, taking with him a national art collection that was kept in crates in Taiwan for years as the Chiangs clung to the ever-diminishing hope that they would some day take it back to Beijing.
But Lee Teng-hui, chosen as vice president both because he was Taiwan-born and because he was considered a pushover by fellow Nationalists, proved more adept at politics than expected, and he gradually solidified his control.
Chiang Kai-shek on Oct. 25 and in some late editions on Oct. 24 referred imprecisely to her attempt to influence political control in Taiwan in 1988, after the death of her stepson, Chiang Ching-kuo, who had been president as well as chairman of the ruling Nationalist Party.
Chiang tried unsuccessfully to block his successor as president, Lee Teng-hui, from succeeding him as chairman; she did not seek office for herself, nor was she eligible to do so.
      
President Kennedy came to hear her and Alma Gates White play as the ''piano mamas'' at the Panama Club in Hyannis.
in the 1960's, a former state secretary of education and a former president of the Boston School Committee.
''I think she was exemplary in her willingness to come to her own conclusions and really very bravely act on her convictions,'' said William M. Bulger, a former president of the State Senate and the University of Massachusetts and a native of South Boston.
She joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Guild in 1966, became first vice president in the late 1970's and was president and chief executive from 1979 to 1986.
She joined the board of the Metropolitan Opera Guild in 1966, became first vice president in the late 1970's and was president and chief executive from 1979 to 1986.
In World War II, Mrs. Love served as president of the American Women's Voluntary Service.
She had previously worked as a fashion director at Look magazine and as an accessories stylist and senior vice president at Macy's.
Mrs. Deane was a former president of the Fashion Group International and a founder of the Council of Fashion Designers of America.
She had been a Philip Morris board member since 1981, when she was the executive vice president leading the sprawling fashion group of General Mills, later spun off as Crystal Brands.
By the time she was 25, in 1970, she was named president of I. Miller.
Three and a half years later, Ms. Evans became president of Butterick Fashion Marketing, makers of zippers and sewing patterns sold under the Butterick and Vogue names; its corporate parent was American Can.
She went to lead the apparel group of General Mills where, as an executive vice president, she was responsible for fashion labels like Izod Lacoste, Ship 'n Shore and Monet Jewelers.
In 1984, she became president and chief executive officer of Monet, a big maker of quality costume jewelry, and stayed on when General Mills spun off its fashion components.
But she returned to retailing in 1989 as president and chief executive of the Interpacific Group, an operator of hundreds of specialty stores under various names at resorts in Hawaii and the Far East.
She became its executive vice president in 1995.
From 1983 to 1985, she was president and chief operating officer of Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield, where she worked for 20 years.

        Gertrude Ederle, who was called ''America's best girl'' by President Calvin Coolidge in 1926 after she became the first woman to swim across the English Channel, died yesterday at a nursing home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 98.
The family kept the historic winery in Sonoma, with Mrs. Sebastiani's daughter, Mary Ann Cuneo, as president.

        Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said.
Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
That year, the trustees of the City University recalled her as Hunter's acting president, to replace Paul LeClerc, who became president of the New York Public Library.
That year, the trustees of the City University recalled her as Hunter's acting president, to replace Paul LeClerc, who became president of the New York Public Library.
She remained at Hunter, also teaching a course, until the long-delayed arrival of David A. Caputo as the college's 12th president in 1995.

        Isabelle Stevenson, the president of the American Theater Wing for more than 30 years, its chairwoman for the last five years and one of the best-known figures in the theater world, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan, her daughter Laura said.
In 1956 when all the children were in school, Mrs. Stevenson joined the board of the American Theater Wing, and when Helen Menken, then the president, died in 1965, she was elected president.
In 1956 when all the children were in school, Mrs. Stevenson joined the board of the American Theater Wing, and when Helen Menken, then the president, died in 1965, she was elected president.
Mr. Russell, who later became president of Doyle Dane Bernbach, the advertising agency, proposed on his return from the war, suggesting Dec. 21 for their wedding because, as he said, it was the longest night of the year.

        Ethel Winant, who became one of the first female executives in network television when she was awarded a vice president's title at CBS in 1973, died on Nov. 29 at a hospital in Canoga Park, Calif. She was 81.
Ms. Winant was made vice president for talent and casting after having been director of casting for CBS in Hollywood since 1966.
When Ms. Winant began her first vice president's job, she told of finding that the single restroom in CBS's executive dining room had a door without a lock.
