''Florence Eiseman has been one of the most influential figures in the children's fashion industry over the last several decades,'' said Carla Slocum, vice president and merchandise manager of children's wear for Saks Fifth Avenue.
Their sons, Robert and Laurence Jr., then shared management with their mother and today are chief executive officer and president of the Florence Eiseman Inc. respectively.
Mrs. Short's husband, Joseph, became Truman's press secretary in 1950, and the President hired her as correspondence secretary when Mr. Short died in 1952.
      
She was president of the American Society of Zoologists and a fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She was president of Burr Artists, an artists' collective, and was active in many other organizations, including the National Arts Club and the National Museum of Women in the Arts.

       Patricia Anne Hoffman Friedman, executive vice president and a partner in International Contract Furnishings, an importer and manufacturer of modern office and residential furniture, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital.
Patricia Anne Hoffman Friedman, executive vice president and a partner in International Contract Furnishings, an importer and manufacturer of modern office and residential furniture, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital.
Ms. Hoffman is survived by her husband, Samuel Friedman, president of I.C.F.
Powers, president of New York Typographical Union No.
Powers, president of New York Typographical Union No.
She was president of the Murray Hill Democratic Club from 1967 to 1969 and was a member of Community Planning Board 5 in midtown Manhattan in the 1970's.
She contributed to several Nancy Drew mysteries, compiled a book of games from around the world, published many magazine articles and wrote a number of biographies geared to children, including a 1967 work on President Kennedy.
Thousands of her husband's followers - dressed in the black garb of the Hasidim - lined the streets for the funeral procession that began outside her home on President Street yesterday afternoon and moved slowly past the headquarters of the Lubavitch movement at 770 Eastern Parkway, near Brooklyn Avenue.

       Gladys Gilkey Calkins, a former president of the Y.W.C.A.
Gladys Gilkey Calkins, a former president of the Y.W.C.A.
In 1941, she became vice president of the Y.W.C.A.
's of the United States and was the group's president from 1943 through 1949.
She was vice president for North America of the World Council of Y.W.C.A.
's, and a vice president of Church Women United.
Mrs. Krock was related to William Tecumseh Sherman, the Civil War general, and to John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury under President Rutherford B. Hayes and Secretary of State under President William McKinley.
Mrs. Krock was related to William Tecumseh Sherman, the Civil War general, and to John Sherman, Secretary of the Treasury under President Rutherford B. Hayes and Secretary of State under President William McKinley.

       Lois C. Campbell, vice president of Willliam Altman Advertising Inc., died of complications after surgery Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Lois C. Campbell, vice president of Willliam Altman Advertising Inc., died of complications after surgery Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
A member of the National Academy of Design since 1941, she was vice president of the National Institute of Arts and Letters from 1944-46, a Benjamin Franklin Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in London in 1964, a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1971, and the recipient of honorary doctorates at Bates College, Mount Holyoke College and Syracuse University.
She also received the gold medal of the National Arts Club in 1968 and 1970, the Outstanding Achievement in the Arts award (presented by President Carter) in 1979, and the gold medal for painting from the National Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters in 1987.
Studied Fish on Sea Floor
        Born in New York City, she graduated in 1924 from Connecticut College for Women, where she was twice chosen class president, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and was selected a member of the All-America girls' hockey team.
In 1975, she became president.

       Marilyn R. Menge, vice president of the New York State Women's Bar Association, died of ovarian cancer Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Marilyn R. Menge, vice president of the New York State Women's Bar Association, died of ovarian cancer Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mrs. Van Santvoord had been married to Thaddeus Reynolds Beal, the first president of the Hudson Gas and Electric Company.

       Pearl E. Joseph, a senior vice president at Young & Rubicam Inc., died of a heart attack Sunday at her home in Carmel, N.Y. She was 47 years old.
Pearl E. Joseph, a senior vice president at Young & Rubicam Inc., died of a heart attack Sunday at her home in Carmel, N.Y. She was 47 years old.
She became senior vice president of the advertising agency in 1985.
Mrs. Winkler was a former president of the Decorators of New York Club and a member of the American Institute of Decorators.

       Betty Throne-Holst, founder and president of the Swedish chapter of the African Medical and Research Foundation, died of intestinal cancer March 1 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Betty Throne-Holst, founder and president of the Swedish chapter of the African Medical and Research Foundation, died of intestinal cancer March 1 at Lenox Hill Hospital.
Mrs. Shattuck, who from 1970 to 1984 was a professor of government at City University, was living in Cambridge, Mass., with her husband, John Shattuck, a vice president of Harvard University.
An active participant in New York City civic affairs, she served as president of the Women's City Club from 1936 to 1940, and was later president of the Cosmopolitan Club.
An active participant in New York City civic affairs, she served as president of the Women's City Club from 1936 to 1940, and was later president of the Cosmopolitan Club.

       Doris P. Haywood, a retired vice president at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died of cancer of the trachea on Sunday in Baltimore.
Doris P. Haywood, a retired vice president at the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died of cancer of the trachea on Sunday in Baltimore.
Miss Ravera was a close friend of former President Sandro Pertini, a Socialist, who nominated her as senator for life.
''Why not,'' President Pertini replied.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
She was president from 1957 to 1959 of the New York chapter of Artists' Equity and president of National Artists' Equity from 1962 to 1964.
In 1959, Dr. Arter founded and became president of Research and Action Inc., a social research company in Manhattan.
'' She was president of the New York Shell Club in 1975 and was the author of ''She Sells Sea Shells.
At the time of her death, she was president of the International Women's Forum at the United Nations.

       Dorothy M. Bell, former president of Bradford College in Massachsetts, died April 8 of pulmonary fibrosis in Oxford, Md., where she lived.
Dorothy M. Bell, former president of Bradford College in Massachsetts, died April 8 of pulmonary fibrosis in Oxford, Md., where she lived.
She was president of the school from 1940 to 1967, when it was a junior college.
Miss Bell was former president of the American Association of Junior Colleges, a former board member of the Massachusetts Board of Collegiate Authority and former executive committee member of the New England Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools.
'' On Broadway, Miss Rich was the nation's first female President, deftly cueing one-liners for the madcap comic Bobby Clark in the long-running musical ''As the Girls Go'' in 1948-50.
Judge Matthews was named to the bench by President Harry Truman in 1949 and assumed senior status in 1968, allowing her to go into semiretirement while still hearing cases.
One of her most notable cases was when she presided over the 1957 trial of Jimmy Hoffa, at that time the vice president of the teamsters union, on charges that he had bribed his way into the files of a Senate committee that was investigating him.
President Reagan in 1984 wrote to her that ''in furthering the administration of justice in our legal system,'' her ''diligence, distinguished efforts and pioneering spirit serve as an inspiration to all.
Judge Matthews was named to the Federal District Court for the District of Columbia by President Truman in 1949.
Judge Matthews presided over a number of major trials, including the 1957 bribery trial of James R. Hoffa, then vice president of the teamsters' union, at which he was acquitted.
Upheld Right of Black Muslims
        In 1949, President Truman named her to one of 20 new district judgeships that Congress had created to relieve a backlog in district court dockets.
In 1984, President Reagan commended her for her ''diligence, distinguished efforts and pioneering spirit.

       Martha Kime Piper, 56 years old, president of Winthrop College, died Sunday at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, N.C. She had been suffering from colon cancer for a year.
Martha Kime Piper, 56 years old, president of Winthrop College, died Sunday at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, N.C. She had been suffering from colon cancer for a year.
Ms. Piper became the first woman president of a public four-year college in the Carolinas when she was named to the post on June 2, 1986, after serving as chancellor at the University of Houston at Victoria, Tex.

       Grace Bechtold, a vice president and executive editor of Bantam Books, died of cancer Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Grace Bechtold, a vice president and executive editor of Bantam Books, died of cancer Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
'' She edited ''The Report of the Warren Commission on the Assassination of President Kennedy,'' published in September 1964, the first of many Bantam ''instant'' paperback books.
''Grace's editorial vision was matched by a tireless devotion to nurturing young editorial talent,'' said Alberto Vitale, the president of the Bantam Doubleday Dell Publishing Group.
She was a member of Local 29 of the Office and Professional Employees International Union until this year and was president of the women's auxiliary of Local 16 of the longshoremen's union.
'' Husband Interned in War
        In 1942, after the bombing of Pearl Harbor, President Roosevelt signed an order for the internment of people of Japanese ancestry.
Brown, president and editor of Editor & Publisher magazine, died of cardiac arrest May 2 at the couple's Manhattan apartment.
Brown, president and editor of Editor & Publisher magazine, died of cardiac arrest May 2 at the couple's Manhattan apartment.
Well-wishers from around the country, including President Reagan and Frank Sinatra, donated more than $350,000 to help meet her medical expenses.
She was president-elect of the New York chapter of the National Association of Social Workers and past president of the Alumni Association of the Columbia University School of Social Work.

       Sister Mary Celeste Beck, the president of Molloy College in Rockville Centre, L.I., until 1972, died Saturday at the Queen of the Holy Rosary residence in Amityville, L.I., after a long illness.
Sister Mary Celeste Beck, the president of Molloy College in Rockville Centre, L.I., until 1972, died Saturday at the Queen of the Holy Rosary residence in Amityville, L.I., after a long illness.
Sister Mary Celeste, who held a Ph.D. from St. John's University, was community supervisor of schools in the Brooklyn Diocese in 1962 when the trustees elected her president of what then was Molloy Catholic College for Women.
After her retirement as president, she remained director of special events until 1986, four years after the college became co-educational.

       Florence Salomone, vice president and general manager of The Rockland Journal-News in West Nyack, N.Y., since 1982, died of a heart attack yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
She was 43 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y.
        Florence Salomone, vice president and general manager of The Rockland Journal-News in West Nyack, N.Y., since 1982, died of a heart attack yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
Ms. Wood held various jobs with the American National Red Cross during World War II and until 1953, and in 1947 she was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Truman for her services.
She moved to Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
She moved to the Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
In 1967, she was appointed by President Johnson to the Advisory Commission on Intergovernmental Relations.
Ms. Mayer was the New School's vice president from 1950 to 1962.

       Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass.
Frances Midlam Kennedy, a former executive vice president of the advertising firm Saatchi & Saatchi DFS Compton, died of lung cancer Saturday at the home of her daughter in Weston, Mass.
She moved to the company's office in New York two years later to become a senior vice president and creative director.

       Dorothy Cimberg Finkelhor, founder and first president of Point Park College in Pittsburgh, died Tuesday at her home in Ocean Ridge, Fla., the college announced.
Dorothy Cimberg Finkelhor, founder and first president of Point Park College in Pittsburgh, died Tuesday at her home in Ocean Ridge, Fla., the college announced.
Mrs. Finkelhor, a native of New York City, was president of the college until 1971.
She was named editor of the Journal of Nutrition in 1984 and had served as president of three national scientific organizations.
She was named editor of The Journal of Nutrition in 1984 and had served as president of three national scientific organizations.
Mrs. St. Johns was awarded the Medal of Freedom by President Nixon in 1970.
Mrs. Palmer, who was the widow of Carleton Humphreys Palmer, a former president and chairman of E. R. Squibb & Sons, was 88 years old.
Mrs. Palmer, who was the widow of Carleton Humphreys Palmer, a former president and chairman of E. R. Squibb & Sons, was 88 years old.
And Miss Dawn said that when West Point's cadets tossed their hats onto the stage, one hat belonged to a cadet who later became President, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
In 1984 she became president of the United Way of North Essex.
Earlier this year, she became president of the Volunteer Center of Essex County, which acts as a central clearinghouse for corporate volunteers.

       Joy Tannian, senior vice president and general counsel of the Consolidated Edison Company, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Sands Point, L.I.
Joy Tannian, senior vice president and general counsel of the Consolidated Edison Company, died of cancer Wednesday at her home in Sands Point, L.I.
She began as a junior lawyer in the utility's legal department in 1957 and rose to become its first female vice president.
She became senior vice president and general counsel in 1984.

       Marisa Bellisario, president of Italy's Italtel telecommunications company and former head of Olivetti Corporation of America, died of cancer today at her home in Turin.
Marisa Bellisario, president of Italy's Italtel telecommunications company and former head of Olivetti Corporation of America, died of cancer today at her home in Turin.
Before joining Italtel, Miss Bellisario was president and chief executive of Olivetti of America.
A granddaughter of a former president of Dartmouth College, Miss Stimson was born in St. Louis and graduated from Vassar in 1912.
She retired as administrator of the hospital in 1984, but stayed on as president until 1987.
      
Mrs. Develin was the founding president of Equal Retirement for New York City Teachers, a lobby for improved retirement conditions.
She had been president of the 67th Precinct Youth Council in Brooklyn and had fought to ban such weapons as switch-blade knives and zip guns.

       Martha Bruner, a philanthropist and former foundation president, died of a stroke on Aug. 28 at Long Island Jewish Hospital.
She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan before moving recently to Tucson, Ariz.
        Martha Bruner, a philanthropist and former foundation president, died of a stroke on Aug. 28 at Long Island Jewish Hospital.
She was president of the Bruner Foundation from its founding in 1967 upon the death of her husband, Rudy, until 1987.
In a statment by the White House yesterday, the President and his wife lauded Mrs. Wrather as ''a warm and caring friend'' who had for so many years ''enriched our lives with her sparkling personality, her wonderful sense of humor, her loyalty and her love.
Civic Appointments
        Mrs. Wrather was the chairman of the American Film Institute, a trustee of the John F. Kennedy Center and of Loyola Marymount University, a director and former president of the Los Angeles Orphanage Guild, a member of the advisory committee of the Children's Bureau of Los Angeles, a founder and board member of the Los Angeles Music Center and a board member of the Women's Council of the Public Broadcasting Service's Channel 28 there.
In 1963 Miss Nordstrom published Maurice Sendak's ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' filled with the aggressive and hairy monsters of a child's fantasy, after other publishing houses had rejected it, said Charlotte Zolotow, a former vice president of Harper & Row and Miss Nordstrom's colleague.
She became head of the children's book department in 1940 and in 1960 became the publishing company's first female vice president.

       Alma Cunningham, retired vice president of fashion design for the Simplicity Pattern Company, one of the world's leading manufacturers of paper patterns for clothing, died of breast cancer on Oct. 10 at a hospital in Dallas.
Alma Cunningham, retired vice president of fashion design for the Simplicity Pattern Company, one of the world's leading manufacturers of paper patterns for clothing, died of breast cancer on Oct. 10 at a hospital in Dallas.
She became a vice president in the late 1960's and retired in 1975.
They included the artists Jasper Johns, Marisol, Claes Oldenburg, George Segal and Saul Steinberg; the art dealer Leo Castelli; the actress Sigourney Weaver; the musician John Cage; the couturier Arnold Scaasi; the photographer Arnold Newman, and the museum directors Philippe de Montebello, Richard Oldenburg and Robert Buck, along with William Luers, the Metropolitan's president.

       Helen B. O'Bannon, senior vice president of the University of Pennsylvania and a former Secretary of Welfare in Pennsylania, died of cancer yesterday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.
She was 49 years old and lived in Bala Cynwyd, Pa.
        Helen B. O'Bannon, senior vice president of the University of Pennsylvania and a former Secretary of Welfare in Pennsylania, died of cancer yesterday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia.

       Judith Epstein, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
Judith Epstein, a former national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.
She was a member of Hadassah for 72 years, becoming a national secretary of the organization and serving as president from 1937 to 1939 and 1942 to 1947.
Dr. Bloustein, the wife of Edward J. Bloustein, president of Rutgers University, was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the University of Vermont and the Long Island College of Medicine.
Mrs. Johnstone, known to her friends as Milly, was the widow of William Harcourt Johnstone, vice president in charge of financial and legal matters for Bethlehem Steel.

       Louise Constantine, a former vice president of Aquascutum of London Inc., died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital.
Louise Constantine, a former vice president of Aquascutum of London Inc., died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital.
And Ari Onassis, in 1968, married Mrs. Kennedy, the widow of President John F. Kennedy, whom he first met in 1963.
Mrs. Gottlieb was the founder and president of the Adolph and Esther Gottlieb Foundation, set up in 1976 according to provisions in her husband's will to assist older artists in need.
Mrs. Frank was president of the New Dramatists Committee, a group supporting new playwrights, from 1960 to 1969.
The John Birch Society first gained national attention in the 1950's when it accused former President Eisenhower and Secretary of State John Foster Dulles of being implicated in a Communist plot to take over the United States Government.
After his death, she became president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, which gave about $6 million a year to local organizations devoted to the arts, community service, health and education.
President Harry Truman, however, favored Mrs. Cafritz's competitor, Perle Mesta.
She earned a master's degree in social work from Columbia University and served as president of the board of trustees of the School of Social Work.
As president of the Morris and Gwendolyn Cafritz Foundation, she oversaw annual contributions of about $6 million to local community and arts organizations.
Correction:  December 16, 1988, Friday, Late City Final Edition
        An obituary yesterday about Sister Catharine Marie O'Brien, former president of the College of Mount St. Vincent, characterized the colleg incorrectly.
As the vice president of Western Publishing Company, Golden Books's parent company, she helped develop the format for the low-priced books, which told simple stories and were among the first children's books with full-color illustrations.
Miss Boney was instrumental in building President Herbert H. Hoover's porcelain collection of Ming Dynasty (1368 to 1644 A.D.) and Manchu Dynasty (1644 to 1912 A.D.) objects.
Book for Children
        Miss Kahane was a fellow and former treasurer of the American Institute of Interior Designers, a former president of the Decorators Club and an honorary life member of the American Society of Interior Designers.
Miss Kane prepared the charter for the Nassau County Women's Bar Association and served as its president.
Ms. Odover eventually became publisher of Jove, and in 1983 she was named president and publisher of Pinnacle Books, a mass-market publisher.
