
       Margaret E. Hasebroock, former president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, died Sunday at Bryan Memorial Hospital, Lincoln, Neb., after a brief illness.
Margaret E. Hasebroock, former president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, died Sunday at Bryan Memorial Hospital, Lincoln, Neb., after a brief illness.
Mrs. Hasebroock served as president of the organization, which has members in 41 countries, including 500,000 in the United States, from 1964 to 1966.

       Marilyn Neale, a vice president of Ruder Finn & Rotman Inc., the public relations firm, died on Sunday of breast cancer at her home in Manhattan.
Marilyn Neale, a vice president of Ruder Finn & Rotman Inc., the public relations firm, died on Sunday of breast cancer at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Van Ness was a founder and past president of the American Saddlebred Horse Association of New Jersey, and past president of the New Jersey Horse Council.
Mrs. Van Ness was a founder and past president of the American Saddlebred Horse Association of New Jersey, and past president of the New Jersey Horse Council.

       Patricia Clark Greene, former president of the Rehearsal Club, a low-cost residence for women in the performing arts, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after a long illness.
Patricia Clark Greene, former president of the Rehearsal Club, a low-cost residence for women in the performing arts, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after a long illness.
Mrs. Greene, widow of the late William D. Greene, a communications lawyer, was president of the club when it closed in 1979 after the city withdrew its exemption from property taxes.
At one point the President turned to her and sighed.
Largely because of Mrs. Edwards's influence, Mr. Truman appointed more women to top jobs than any preceding President.
Ms. Vale was deputy public affairs director of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and public affairs director and Congressional liaison aide of the President's Commission on the Environment from 1982 to 1987.

       Doris Bernstein, a psychoanalyst and past president of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Doris Bernstein, a psychoanalyst and past president of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Manhattan.
Ran for Council President
        Before joining the commission, Mrs. Hedgeman was a consultant to the American Missionary Association of the United Church of Christ.
In 1965 she was an unsuccessful candidate for City Council President on the Reform Democratic ticket with Representative William Fitz Ryan.
These were the films for which she was most noted:
        The Killers
        The Hucksters
        One Touch of Venus
        Show Boat
        Pandora and the Flying Dutchman
        The Snows of Kilimanjaro
        Mogambo
        Knights of the Round Table
        The Barefoot Contessa
        Bhowani Junction
        The Sun Also Rises
        The Naked Maja
        On the Beach
        The Night of the Iguana
        The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean
        The Cassandra Crossing
        The Kidnapping of the President
      
In 1966 she succeeded her father as president of the Campbell Farming Corporation, of Hardin, Mont., and held the post until 1982.
Her survivors include a niece, Margaretta Fitler Rockefeller of Pocantico Hills, N.Y., the widow of Nelson A. Rockefeller, who was Vice President from 1974 to 1977 after being Governor of New York.
      
President Ronald Reagan recognized her in 1983 for her expertise in singing old Shaker songs, many of which were recorded on four albums.

       Gertrude Simon Kosting, a health-care worker and the president of the Huxley Institute of Connecticut, died of an embolism on Tuesday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 84 years old and lived in Weston, Conn.
        Gertrude Simon Kosting, a health-care worker and the president of the Huxley Institute of Connecticut, died of an embolism on Tuesday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital.
For the last 15 years, she served as president of the institute, organizing seminars and lectures on nutrition and biochemical disorders like schizophrenia, alcoholism and drug addiction.
Among her former posts were those of vice president of The Women Poets, director of the African Wildlife Foundation and trustee of the Environmental Defense Fund and Milton Academy.
For many years Miss Klein raised money for Kingsbrook as president of the Miriam Klein Research Foundation, which was founded by her mother in memory of a sister.

       Hope Sweetser Dean, a founder and former president of the Foundation for Children's Books, which sponsors teacher workshops and seminars to encourage children's reading, died Jan. 24 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
Hope Sweetser Dean, a founder and former president of the Foundation for Children's Books, which sponsors teacher workshops and seminars to encourage children's reading, died Jan. 24 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
She was also president of the Roosevelt Island Historical Society and was on the boards of the Good Shepherd Corporation, Goldwater Hospital and the Roosevelt Island Youth Center.
For 20 years while her husband was president of Colgate University, Mrs. Case taught a literature course at Colgate and published ''Written in Sand'' (1945), a historical novel, and ''Freedom's Farm'' (1946), a poetry collection.

       Julia Davis Stuart, president of the League of Women Voters of the United States from 1964 to 1968, died Saturday at her home in Spokane.
Julia Davis Stuart, president of the League of Women Voters of the United States from 1964 to 1968, died Saturday at her home in Spokane.
In 1969 she was honored on the 50th anniversary of the league by President Richard M. Nixon at a White House ceremony.
Mrs. Stuart also served on President Lyndon B. Johnson's Commission of Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice and on the National Citizens Commission on International Cooperation.
At her death, she was also vice president and director of planning for Todd Lee/Clark/Rozas Associates Inc.
        Also surviving are a daughter and three sons, Story Clark Resor of Jackson, Wyo., Joseph 3d, of Los Angeles, Christopher, of Manhattan, and Laurance, of Cambridge, Mass.

       D. Veola Lederer, a former executive of a Manhattan leather boutique and a former museum vice president, died of a heart attack on Wednesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., while spending the winter in Pompano Beach.
Mrs. Lederer was the widow of Ludwig G.
        D. Veola Lederer, a former executive of a Manhattan leather boutique and a former museum vice president, died of a heart attack on Wednesday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., while spending the winter in Pompano Beach.
Mrs. Lederer was a board member and president of Young Audiences Inc., which presents classical music programs for schoolchildren.
In the 1970's and 1980's, she was a volunteer, a board member and vice president of Hancock Shaker Community, a nonprofit museum in Pittsfield, Mass.
She disagreed with Mr. Sulzberger by siding with the Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War against the Franco forces, by favoring statehood for Israel to provide a home for displaced European Jews and by preferring Adlai E. Stevenson instead of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for President.
She became its president in 1934 and held the office until 1950, when she was elected chairman.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
Mr. Sulzberger, who had been president and publisher for 22 years, turned his presidency over to Orvil E. Dryfoos, then 44, husband of the Sulzbergers' daughter Marian.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the youngest Sulzberger child and the only son, was named president and publisher.
President Ronald Reagan named Mrs. Bissell to the court in 1984.
She had been vice chairman and chief administrative officer of the South Carolina National Corporation and senior vice president and general counsel for South Carolina National Bank.
Mrs. Greneker was also an architect, contractor, bricklayer and corporation president.
She became president of the company.
She worked for Russian War Relief, became director of the Westchester Chapter of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and president of the Utopia Day Care Center in Harlem.

       Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
It was in December that Mrs. Spann was found to be suffering from the disease, which killed her father, James Earl Carter; her sister, Ruth Stapleton, and her other brother,
        Gloria Carter Spann, the last surviving sibling of former President Jimmy Carter, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at Sumter Regional Hospital here.
Judge Rinenberg was a charter member and former president of the Queens County Women's Bar Association.
She was a vice president of the board of Louise Wise Services and a board member of Edwin Gould Services for Children.
Mrs. Ittleson, a native of Elberon, N.J., was vice president and director of the Ittleson Foundation and had been a board member of the Women's City Club of Manhattan.
From 1982 to 1985 she was second vice president and corporate responsibilities officer for Chase Manhattan in Manhattan.
For many of her later years she was vice president of the privately financed College of Psychic Studies in London.
President Yang Shangkun and military officers paid last respects to her on Thursday, the newspaper said.
She was also the founder and former president of the East End chapter of the National Organization for Women.
''Jo Hughes was a dynamo, with the most fiercely loyal customers,'' said Lynn Manulis, president of Martha, where Miss Hughes spent the last seven years of her working life.
Chapters in Other Towns
        Mrs. Capitman, president of the Art Deco Society of America, helped found chapters of the society in several cities, including New York, Washington, Chicago, San Francisco and Los Angeles.
She became the company's vice president and director of international projects.

       Paule Marie Boulin, for more than 30 years the president of the New York chapter of the Conseil National des Femmes Francaises aux Etats-Unis, a Paris-based cultural group formed to strengthen Franch-American relations, died of a heart attack on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She was 89 years old and lived in
        Paule Marie Boulin, for more than 30 years the president of the New York chapter of the Conseil National des Femmes Francaises aux Etats-Unis, a Paris-based cultural group formed to strengthen Franch-American relations, died of a heart attack on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital.
She was the president and owner of the Hasler-Tel Company, a Swiss-based maker of precision instruments, which she took over after the death of her husband, Camille H. Boulin.
''
        Everyone from the president of the library to her assistants called Dr. Szladits by her first name.
In a statement yesterday, John Brademas, the university's president, hailed the ''vision and continued generosity'' of ''this remarkable actress.
From 1977 to 1986 Dr. Boschan was a vice president of Citibank, which took over the economic data bank, now known as Citibase, from the National Bureau.
She was a national co-chairwoman of President Ronald Reagan's 1984 re-election campaign.
She also was a trustee of the United Conference of Mayors, a director of the National League of Cities and a former president of the National Conference of Republican Mayors.
She was also the first woman to be elected president of the United Nations Correspondents Association.
She also testified in 1988 about medical costs before a Congressional committee, and received the Medal of Courage from President Ronald Reagan.

       Barbara H. Talbot, vice president of KST International Inc., consultants in Ridgewood, N.J., died of cancer on Monday at her house in Ridgewood.
Barbara H. Talbot, vice president of KST International Inc., consultants in Ridgewood, N.J., died of cancer on Monday at her house in Ridgewood.

       Betti S. Whaley, president of the Washington Urban League and a former commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development, died of the effects of diabetes and septicemia on Sunday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
Betti S. Whaley, president of the Washington Urban League and a former commissioner of the New York City Agency for Child Development, died of the effects of diabetes and septicemia on Sunday at Howard University Hospital in Washington.
She was the president for the theater for 30 years.
Mrs. Church was a trustee of the National College of Education, a member of the American Association of University Women and former president of the National Alumnae Association of Wellesley College.
Mrs. Picker was appointed a delegate by President Johnson in 1968.
Mrs. Coleman became president and chairwoman of the 67-year-old company in 1968, succeeding her late husband, Dr. Joseph A. Coleman.
President Jimmy Carter appointed her to the National Commission for Unemployment Compensation.
Mrs. Mazer was a former president of the Manhattan chapter of the Muscular Dystrophy Association Inc.
She was a founder and the president of Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising company.
She was decorated by President Woodrow Wilson for her services in the Red Cross in World War I.
She was a founder and the president of Keeble Cavaco & Duka, a public relations and advertising company.
President of Company
        For many years she served as president of Tisch Hotels while the chain included the McAlpin in Manhattan and Traymore and Ambassador in Atlantic City.
President of Company
        For many years she served as president of Tisch Hotels while the chain included the McAlpin in Manhattan and Traymore and Ambassador in Atlantic City.
Mrs. Dunham was a founding member of the Westchester Adoption Service and a former vice president of the Westchester Children's Association and the Westchester Mental Health Association.
Mrs. Dunham was a founding member of the Westchester Adoption Service and a former vice president of the Westchester Children's Association and the Westchester Mental Health Association.
She was also a past president of the Citizens Advisory Group of the New York State Mental Health Association and past president of the Broome County Mental Health Association.
She was also a past president of the Citizens Advisory Group of the New York State Mental Health Association and past president of the Broome County Mental Health Association.

       Daryl Davis Furno, executive vice president of Halbrecht Associates of Stamford, Conn., an executive-search firm in the field of artificial intelligence, died on Friday at her home in Cos Cob, Conn. She was 51 years old.
Daryl Davis Furno, executive vice president of Halbrecht Associates of Stamford, Conn., an executive-search firm in the field of artificial intelligence, died on Friday at her home in Cos Cob, Conn. She was 51 years old.
But at 14, as the president of her class, she complained to the headmistress that because the school was all white she was not being prepared for the world in which she was going to live.
She was a past president of the Women's Medical Society of New York State which named her Woman of the Year in 1965.

       Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 64 years old.
Louise A. Baum, president of the Eastern Bag & Paper Company of Bridgeport, Conn., died yesterday at her home in Fairfield, Conn. She was 64 years old.
Mrs. Baum became president of the company, a major wholesale paper distributor, in 1983, after the death of her husband, Gerald, whose parents founded the company.
Mrs. Joy, a graduate of Barnard College, was president of the New Jersey division of the American Association of University Women from 1948 to 1950 and served on several committees of the national organization.
She also served as president of the Citizen's Help Council of New Jersey and of the New Jersey Welfare Council.
She was a founder and past president of the Montclair (N.J.) Rehabilitation Organization and of Handicrafters Inc., sheltered workshops providing job training for the disabled.
Mrs. Joy also served as president of the Barnard College Alumni Association.
But when Mr. Young retired as a vice president of Pan American World Airways more than 20 years ago, the couple moved permanently to Sedona.
In France she met Jane Addams, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize and first president of the women's league, whose example inspired Mrs. Olmsted to work for peace.
Miss O'Brien did portraits and wood engravings of Irving Berlin, President Dwight D. Eisenhower, William L. Shirer, Winston S. Churchill, Eleanor Roosevelt, Grandma Moses and many others, often for the subjects.

       Lois Korey, president of Korey, Kay & Partners, a Manhattan advertising agency, died on Thursday at a Manhattan restaurant.
Lois Korey, president of Korey, Kay & Partners, a Manhattan advertising agency, died on Thursday at a Manhattan restaurant.

       Betty Burnham Hinckley, president of the real-estate firm of Wood Associates of Greenwich, Conn., died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital.
Betty Burnham Hinckley, president of the real-estate firm of Wood Associates of Greenwich, Conn., died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital.
She waa a former president of the Greenwich Real Estate Board.

       Dr. Margaret Brown, a former president of the Panzer College of Physical Education and Hygiene in East Orange, N.J., died on Monday at the Hospital Center at Orange.
She was 98 years old and lived in Maplewood, N.J.
        Dr. Margaret Brown, a former president of the Panzer College of Physical Education and Hygiene in East Orange, N.J., died on Monday at the Hospital Center at Orange.
She was 98 years old and lived in Maplewood, N.J.
        Dr. Brown was dean of Panzer College, now part of Montclair State College, from 1921 to 1932, when she became president and a professor of education.
She was president of the New Jersey Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance in 1948 and president of the New Jersey Association of Colleges and Universities in 1950.
She was president of the New Jersey Association for Health, Physical Education, Recreation and Dance in 1948 and president of the New Jersey Association of Colleges and Universities in 1950.
Active in civic affairs, she was on the founding board of the Tennessee School of Social Work, and was president of the Tennessee Conference of Social Work and of the Women's Civic Forum.
She was vice president of the Manhattan chapter of the Industrial Home for the Blind.

       Mildred Devereux Barlow, founder and president of the International University Foundation, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Mildred Devereux Barlow, founder and president of the International University Foundation, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
At one point the show went to Washington and President Lyndon B. Johnson attended a performance.
It was probably the first time that a President of the United States served as a chorus boy.
Once President Nixon invited her to the White House and asked her to become his ''ambassador of love.
She was a member and official of many education organizations and was vice president of the United States National Committee for Childhood Education and of the World Organization for Childhood Education.
At one point the show went to Washington and President Lyndon B. Johnson attended a performance.
It was probably the first time that a President of the United States served as a chorus boy.
Once President Richard M. Nixon invited her to the White House and asked her to become his ''ambassador of love.
Ms. FitzSimons and Mr. Weintraub founded Weintraub & FitzSimons Public Relations, of which she was executive vice president and senior partner, in 1951.
She had earlier been director of public relations for the Morris Morgenstern Foundation and asssistant to the president of Heublein, Inc., and also served with the public relations firm of Steve Hanagan Asosicates and with the United States Trust Company.

       Mary Papajohn Haris, vice president of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan.
Mary Papajohn Haris, vice president of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan.
Before that, she was vice president of the American Standards Testing Bureau and from 1969 to 1984 directed marketing strategies for the MRC Television Network's teleconference system.
It told of her four years in Berlin beginning in 1933 when her father, William E. Dodd, was appointed by President Franklin D. Roosevelt as Ambassador to Germany after Adolf Hitler's rise to power.
A lawyer and financier, he was president of Montefiore Hospital for many years.
After her husband's death, she became president of the Henry and Lucy Moses Fund, which the couple established in 1942 to support education, music and the arts.
She also headed the Republican Town Committee from 1980 to 1983 and was a former president of the Darien Library.
In 1966, she was president and chairman of the American corporation for the First Festival of Negro Arts in Dakar, Senegal.
She served as president of Group Attitudes before and after it became a subsidary of Hill & Knowlton.

       Dr. Jane Cary Peck, an educator, author and a vice president of the National Council of Churches, died Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
''
        The actress, a native of London, was a 1908 honors graduate and later president of the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art.
She is survived by two sons, Harold, of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Arthur, of Manhattan, president of The New York Times Foundation; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., sanctions against South Africa and the subsequent Congressional override of President Ronald Reagan's veto.

       June Roth, the author of 36 books and a past president of the American Society of Journalists and Authors, died on Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital.
A leading proponent of good nutrition, Mrs.
        June Roth, the author of 36 books and a past president of the American Society of Journalists and Authors, died on Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital.
After Franklin D. Roosevelt's election as President, she played a valuable back-room role in the appointment of Secretary Perkins, the first woman ever named to a Cabinet, and in the development of much of the social legislation that marked the New Deal: establishing worker safety, maximum hours, minimum wages and Social Security.
Ms. Sutton, who spent 30 years in advertising, became a vice president in 1962 at Grey Advertising Inc. in Manhattan.
An active Republican, she was named an alternate delegate to the 1957-58 United Nations General Assembly by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
She was named an alternate delegate to the 1957-58 United Nations General Assembly by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.

       Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        She died of arteriosclerotic heart disease, a family spokesman said.

       Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Marion Rosenwald Ascoli, a philanthropist who was a former chairwoman and president of the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, died yesterday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was 88 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        She died of arteriosclerotic heart disease, a family spokesman said.
She was active with the Citizens Committee for almost four decades and served as its president from 1960 to 1962 and chairwoman from 1962 to 1964, when she stepped down and became head of the committee's health section, a post she held until 1981.
Married Housing Specialist
        At her death Mrs. Ascoli was an honorary vice president of the committee.
She was also a former president of the New York Fund for Children and, from 1948 to 1960, was president of the Northside Center for Child Development in Harlem.
She was also a former president of the New York Fund for Children and, from 1948 to 1960, was president of the Northside Center for Child Development in Harlem.
She was president of the board in 1979 and 1980.
Mrs. Yuspeh was president of Sonia Yuspeh Inc., an advertising and marketing firm she started in Manhattan in 1983.
Before that, she was a senior vice president and director of research and planning at J. Walter Thompson, which she joined in 1972 as a vice president.
Before that, she was a senior vice president and director of research and planning at J. Walter Thompson, which she joined in 1972 as a vice president.
She became a senior vice president a year later and was named to the board in 1981.
She was a graduate of Syracuse University and Cornell University and was a past president of the American Marketing Association's New York chapter.

       Helen D. Johnson, the retired president of the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was 70 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Spring Lake, N.J.
        Helen D. Johnson, the retired president of the Charles E. Culpeper Foundation, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was president of the foundation, located in Manhattan for many years but now in Stamford, Conn., from 1968 until illness forced her to retire in May.
She served on what is now Community Board 2 for almost four decades, having been appointed in 1951 to its predecessor, the Community Council for the Greenwich Village area, by the Manhattan Borough President, Robert F. Wagner.
Mrs. Schwartzman, who was born in Chelsea, was an early member of the block association movement in New York City in the 1950's and was the first president of the West 22d Street Association.
She was a founder and past president of the Chelsea Independent Democrats.

        Ruth Bishop, past president and a board member of the New York chapter of the United Nations Association, which promotes the United Nations, died on Wednesday at the home of her son Arthur Lipper 3d in White Plains.
Mrs. Woodburn was a founding member and a former president of the Antiquarian Booksellers of America, and a founding member of the Council of Botanical and Horticultural Libraries.
She was a member of the Danbury Zoning Commission and was president of the Danbury chapter of the League of Women Voters.

        Vijay Lakshmi Pandit, an Indian independence fighter, diplomat and politician, and the first woman to serve as President of the United Nations General Assembly, died today in the northern town of Dehra Dun.
President Ramaswami Venkataraman described Mrs. Pandit today as a "luminous strand in the tapestry of India's freedom struggle.
Later, as a consultant to and vice president of the Center for Community Change, Mrs. Gabel helped develop housing programs in cities and states across the country.
The organization's president, Justice Christine Durham of the Utah Supreme Court, said in a 1987 interview that Justice Gabel was revered as "one of the grand dames of the New York legal community, who has been a mentor and supporter of women in the profession for decades.
She was a past president of the National Association of Women Deans and Counselors.
She died of lung cancer, said a daughter, Katherine Knapp of Stamford, Conn.
        Mrs. Falise retired as an assistant vice president at the Bank of New York in 1984 because of ill health.
Then, in 1982, Knight-Ridder Newspapers, the Herald's corporate parent, appointed her president and publisher of The Daily Camera in Boulder, Colo., making her the first female chief executive of one of the organization's newspapers.
In 1943 Mr. Straus bought WMCA radio and became its president.
Mrs. Straus became vice president of the station in 1948.
She was a member of the Cosmopolitan Club in New York City and a former president of the New York City Women's Club.
Mrs. Greenberg was president of New York Pro Musica and was the widow of Noah Greenberg, founder and musical director of the early-music ensemble, who died in 1966.
She served as assistant to the president of the Mannes College of Music from 1966 to 1970 and was acting director of the New York University Institute for the Humanities in the late 1970's.
