From 1946 to 1952, she was president of the New Jersey Federation of Republican Women.
"
        Her only survivor is her husband, who is executive vice president of the Sam Ash Music Corporation.
Surviving are a daughter, Katharine P. Darrow, who is vice president of The New York Times Company for broadcasting, information services and corporate development; a sister, Marion Schild of Brooklyn, a retired librarian at the Library of Congress, and three grandchildren.
      
Mrs. Craig, who was a recipient of the Carl Sandburg Literary Arts Award in 1985, was elected president of the Mystery Writers of America last year.

        Ruth McAneny Loud, a former president of the Municipal Arts Society, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
She was a daughter of George McAneny, who was Manhattan Borough President from 1910 to 1913 and president of the New York City Board of Alderman from 1914 to 1916.
She was a daughter of George McAneny, who was Manhattan Borough President from 1910 to 1913 and president of the New York City Board of Alderman from 1914 to 1916.
In 1965 she was elected president of the Municipal Arts Society and remained a member of its board of directors until her death.
Characteristically, she shrugged off the distinction, as she did again in 1962 when President John F. Kennedy appointed her to head the Office of Technical Cooperation and Research at A.I.D., making her the highest-ranking woman in the United States Government at the time.
She was credited with persuading President Lyndon B. Johnson to reverse a policy that had prevented the agency from including birth control in its support of health programs in underdeveloped countries.
Allowed to Keep Position
        At the time of her defection in 1948, the year a Communist Government took over her country, Mrs. Provaznik was president of the women's divisions of both the Czechoslovak gymnastics organization and the International Gymnastics Federation in Geneva.
Mrs. Henabery was president of Jeanne Henabery Associates, a public relations firm she started in 1970, and was also affiliated with her husband in his broadcast consulting company, Bob Henabery Associates.
President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, sent remarks in a videotape.

        Charlotte L. Peskin, chairwoman and president of Polyplastex United, a producer of interiors for aircraft cabins, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 76 years old and lived in Tamarac, Fla.
        She died of peritonitis after surgery, her family said.
She was named chairwoman and president two years ago.
In 1952 she married Arthur O. Dietz, president of the CIT Financial Corporation, who died in 1967.
In the Johnson Administration, McMillen Inc. also decorated the President's private quarters in the White House.
"She came in regularly for five years after that," said Betty Sherrill, president of McMillen.

        Sylvia Weiner Leiferman, an artist, philanthropist and president of the Leiferman Investment Company, died on Thursday at the Heartland of Miami Lakes, a nursing home in North Miami, Fla. She was 77 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla.
        She died of a respiratory ailment, a family spokesman said.
Mrs. Auchincloss, a past president of the New York Parks Council and of the Park Association, was appointed deputy administrator of parks in 1974 by Mayor Abraham D. Beame and served for one year, until the post fell victim to the city's fiscal crisis.
In 1980, she was president of the Central Park Task Force.
In 1952 she was president of the American Statistical Association.
President John F. Kennedy gave her a post in the State Department, and within two years she was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, at that time the highest job in the department ever held by a woman.
She moved to other State Department posts through the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson and was United States Ambassador to the United Nations Economic, Scientific and Cultural Organization until 1969, when the Republicans took power under President Richard M. Nixon.
She moved to other State Department posts through the Administration of President Lyndon B. Johnson and was United States Ambassador to the United Nations Economic, Scientific and Cultural Organization until 1969, when the Republicans took power under President Richard M. Nixon.

        Ruth Mary Hill, a teacher and a vice president of Friends World College in Westbury, L.I., died on Feb. 6 in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 73 years old and lived in Fort Myers and Fort Myers Beach.
She was also president of the Arnoldo and Alberto Mondadori Foundation, which supports writers and intellectuals.
She died of heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Binghamton, N.Y.
        Mrs. Schumann was the principal donor to the Florence and John Schumann Foundation, which she established with her husband, John J. Schumann Jr., a former president and chairman of the General Motors.
Mrs. Brown, an appointee of President Lyndon B. Johnson, also was the first woman to serve on the commission, which was founded in 1887.

        Anne Walsh Poggi, a former vice president of Dun & Bradstreet, died on Wednesday at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass.
At the time of her retirement in 1971, Mrs. Poggi was vice president of the business education division of Dun & Bradstreet, in New York City.
Active in several women's and professional organizations, she was a former president of the Zonta Club of New York and a member of the Ladies of Charity of New York.

        Anne Walsh Poggi, a former vice president of Dun & Bradstreet, died on Wednesday at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass.
At the time of her retirement in 1971, Mrs. Poggi was vice president of the business education division of Dun & Bradstreet, in New York City.
Active in several women's and professional organizations, she was a former president of the Zonta Club of New York and a member of the Ladies of Charity of New York.
She served as vice president of the Woman Lawyers Association, the Business Women's League and the Commercial Law League of America.
Mrs. Ginsberg was a past president of the Women's Prison Association and Home, Inc., an organization that helps female ex-offenders rejoin society.

        Charlotte Baruth, a former president of the New York Federation of Women's Clubs, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
She raised money for several organizations, including the International Sephardic Education Foundation, which gave scholarships to Sephardic youths in Israel, and Fountain House, a Manhattan rehabilitation center for the mentally ill.
        She is survived by her husband, Salvador J. Assael, president of Assael International, which produces cultured pearls; a daughter, Arlette, of Sausalito, Calif.; and two brothers, Daniel Vock, a lawyer, of Greenwich, Conn., and David Vock, a businessman, of Nice, France.
      
Active in Democratic Party campaigns, she was named to the National Planning Commission by President John F. Kennedy.
Ms. Rosen, a native New Yorker, had been vice president for public affairs at the Battery Park City Authority since 1984.
Before joining the authority, she was executive assistant to the president of Federal Metal Maintenance in Manhattan, and from 1974 to 1978, she was the director of executive staff relations for the New York City Off-Track Betting Corporation.
She was a past president of the district's local teachers union.

        Rose M. Singer, an original member of the New York City Board of Correction and founder and president emeritus of the Friendly Vistors, a service group that helps women in prison, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
In the early 1950's, she was founder and first president of the Friendly Visitors, in which she remained active until her death.
After his death in 1965 she served as president of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, which supports scientific education and research.

        Louise Brayton Kline, a preservationist who oversaw the construction of several buildings at Bard College when her late husband was president there, died on Monday at her home in Barrytown, N.Y. She was 79 years old.
She was president of the New York section of the American Camping Association from 1966 to 1968, and a board member of Trail Blazers Camp, which provided camping for disadvantaged children, from 1974 to 1989.

        Lola Popper Kramarsky, former president of Hadassah, the national women's Zionist organization, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Kramarsky was president of Hadassah from 1960 to 1964 and was active in the organization for much of her adult life.
At her death she was an honorary vice president of the organization, whose current membership is 385,000.
The Kramarskys came to the United States from the Netherlands in 1940, aided by Dr. Chaim Weizmann, a family friend who became the first president of Israel.

        Viola Hymes, a former president of the National Council of Jewish Women, died Friday at Methodist Hospital in St. Louis Park, Minn. She was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis.
Mrs. Hymes was national president of the organization from 1959 to 1963.
Mrs. Hymes was appointed to the Commission on the Status of Women by President John F. Kennedy, serving from 1961 to 1963, and to the Council on the Status of Women by President Lyndon B. Johnson, serving from 1963 to 1968.
Mrs. Hymes was appointed to the Commission on the Status of Women by President John F. Kennedy, serving from 1961 to 1963, and to the Council on the Status of Women by President Lyndon B. Johnson, serving from 1963 to 1968.
Mrs. Rosenthal was president of the Friends of the Upper East Side Historic District, a preservationist group she helped found to monitor compliance after the district's 1981 designation by the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission.

        Teddy R. Zausner, the first president of the Manhattan chapter of Women's American O.R.T, or Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Gross was the head of the Office of College and Career Planning at the New York City Board of Education from 1985 to 1988, when she moved to Chicago after her husband, Theodore L. Gross, was named president of Roosevelt College.
Dr. DuBois was president of the American Anthropological Associaton in 1968-69 and of the Association for Asian Studies in 1969-70.
From 1940 to 1965 she was president of Hartley House, a settlement house on West 46th Street that was named for her great-grandfather, Robert Milham Hartley, a New York civic leader.
For more than 40 years, Mrs. Mead was president of the Hartley Corporation, a philathropic foundation that has contributed to charitable and educational institutions.
She was born in Morristown, the daughter of George W. Jenkins, president of the family-owned Remington Arms Company, and Helen Hartley Jenkins, a benfactor of Columbia University.
Mrs. Shatz also served as vice president and director of the Mahopac Hospital, now known as the Putnam Hospital Center in Carmel, and was active in the Red Cross.
Eleanor Roosevelt invited Miss Graham to perform at the White House in 1937, and in 1976 Miss Graham became the first dance personality to receive, from President Gerald R. Ford, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the country's highest civilian honor.
"If there is a single person whose vision and guidance have been most influential in shaping F.I.T., that person is Shirley Goodman," Marvin Feldman, the president of the institute, said.
At her death, she was the institute's executive vice president emeritus and executive director of the Educational Foundation for the Fashion Industries, a fund-raising and advisory group for the college, which has been a part of the State University of New York since 1951.
She was a former president of the Estates, Trusts and Surrogate's Court Committee of the New York County Lawyers Association.
Besides her husband, who is the president of Metaform Inc., a design concern, Mrs. Masey is survived by a sister, Virginia Olinger of Worthington, Ohio.
      
She was on the staff of the President's Fine Arts Commission in Washington from 1958 to 1962 and membership director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington from 1962 to 1966.
She was on the staff of the President's Fine Arts Commission in Washington from 1958 to 1962 and membership director of the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington from 1962 to 1966.
She served as president of the Victorian Studies Association and of the Victorian executive committee of the Modern Language Association.

        Lucy Jane Ford Buhler, former president of the Women's Investment League, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
She was also president of The Women's Aid Society of 1844 and a volunteer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's costume institute.
Her mother started the Red Cross chapter in her hometown of Bloomfield, N.J. Mrs. Teaze's late husband, Moses, was president of the chapter and of the Westport-Weston chapter after the couple moved to Connecticut in 1950.
She was a director of Beneficial from 1972 to 1984 and was also president of the Westby Corporation, a real-estate firm in Florida.
Dr. Lundberg, a 1925 graduate of Vassar College, was an editor at several magazines, including Cosmopolitan, and an assistant to the president of an educational consulting firm before earning a Ph.D. in 1957 from the New School for Social Research.
She was a former president of the Milton Society of America and in 1972 was named an honorary scholar by the group.

        Doris Malkin Curtis, president of the Geological Society of America, died Sunday at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Research Institute in Houston.
She died of pneumonia, said a spokeswoman for the geological society, a 17,000-member organization based in Boulder, Colo. Dr. Curtis became its president last October.
She was a past president of the American Geological Institute and the Society of Economic Paleontologists and Mineralogists, and headed the national committee on geology at the National Academy of Sciences.

        Sadie Daniels, for many years a leader in the Ladies Auxiliary of the Jewish War Veterans and a former president of the organization's New York State chapter, died on Monday at Long Beach Memorial Hospital on Long Island.
She interviewed heads of state, and entertained Vice President and Mrs. Richard M. Nixon in her Washington home.

        Goldie Bober Kweller, the president of Mercaz, the Zionist organization of the Conservative movement, died on Sunday at her home in Kew Gardens Hills, Queens.
Mrs. Kweller, a native of Brooklyn, was national president of the Women's League for Conservative Judaism from 1978 to 1982.
She was a member of the board of overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary and the board of directors of the United Synagogue of America, vice president of the World Council of Synagogues and secretary of the national association of Solomon Schechter Day Schools.

        Shirley E. Naaman, a vice president of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, died on Wednesday at Elmhurst General Hospital in Queens.
Mrs. Naaman joined the staff at Metropolitan Life in 1949 as a file clerk and advanced to become vice president of personal insurance financial management in 1986.
In 1955, when she was a teacher at Flushing High School in Queens, she was elected president of the High School Teachers Association, where she sought to improve working condition for city high school teachers.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, William Randolph Hearst 3d, publisher of The San Francisco Examiner, and Austin, of Manhattan, vice president of Hearst Entertainment and Syndication, a division of the Hearst Corporation, of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
In 1986, President Ronald Reagan awarded her the National Medal of Arts.
In 1957 she joined the staff of Vice President Nixon.
As special assistant to President Ford she edited the daily news summary, prepared the Presidential briefing books and managed research projects.
She was called back to the White House by President Reagan in 1985 and was named special assistant to the President in the office of communications, where she remained until the end of his second term.
She was called back to the White House by President Reagan in 1985 and was named special assistant to the President in the office of communications, where she remained until the end of his second term.
In 1940, Miss Suckley, who raised Scottish terriers, gave the President a puppy he named Fala.
Center of Political Uproar
        Fala became the center of a political uproar in the 1944 Presidential campaign, when Republicans charged that the Navy had sent a warship to rescue the dog after he had been left behind during a visit by President Roosevelt to the Aleutian Islands.
The President turned the story to his advantage by expressing mock indignation that his Republican adversaries would attack "even my little dog Fala.
"
        Miss Suckley was largely invisible to the general public although she traveled with the President on wartime inspection trips and to meetings with heads of state and allied military leaders.
She was at the Little White House in Warm Springs, Ga., when President Roosevelt suffered a fatal cerebral hemorrhage on April 12, 1945.
She is survived by her husband, Albert, executive vice president of Complus Data Innovations Inc. in Hawthorne, N.Y.; a daughter, Lisa Schnall of Brooklyn; three sons, Michael, of White Plains, David, of Bedford, N.Y. and Peter, of Washington; a brother, Dr. Robert Ascheim of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
She was a past president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis.
From 1969 to 1986, when she retired, Mrs. Mast was president of Aug Millang, realtors in Manhasset, L.I.
She was named Ambassador to Nepal by President Lyndon B. Johnson in 1966 and remained in the post until 1973.
For nearly six years after their marriage the couple saw each other only once a month when Ambassador Laise would take a plane provided by President Johnson and fly to Saigon, where Ambassador Bunker was trying to stabilize the situation in South Vietnam.
" An Adviser in New Delhi
        When Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey went to India and Pakistan in 1965, Miss Laise went along as his adviser.

        Florence Cohen, president emeritus of the Volunteers for Israel, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.

        Sister Elizabeth Cavanagh, a former vice president and dean of students at Manhattanvlle College in Purchase, N.Y., died on Sunday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany.
She was past president of the Hunter Faculty Club, the Hunter Chapter of the American Association of University Professors and of the Hunter Unit of the National Conference of Christians and Jews.

        Marguerite Feinstein, founder and director of the retiree division of Local 237 of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters, which represents 23,000 municipal workers in New York City, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. She was 57 years old and lived in Clinton Corners, N.Y.
        Mrs. Feinstein, who was known as Maggie, was the wife of Barry Feinstein, president of Local 237.
In 1966, President Lyndon B Johnson named her husband Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, making him the first black Cabinet member in the nation's history.
She was on the New York State Democratic Committee from 1954 to 1960 and was one of Adlai E. Stevenson's chief aides when he ran for President against Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 and 1956.
After John F. Kennedy was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Tree to the United Nations job, where she served when Mr. Stevenson was the top United States representative there.
She was an officer and past president of the United Nations Hospitality Committee and often headed its fund-raising galas.
Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until last May.
"
        Last year, as president of Equity, Ms. Dewhurst became embroiled in the union's dispute with the producer Cameron Mackintosh over whether Jonathan Pryce should be allowed to perform the role of a Eurasian pimp that he created in the London production of "Miss Saigon" when the show opened on Broadway.
"  Led Actors' Equity
        Ms. Dewhurst also served two terms as president of the Actors' Equity Association, the 39,000-member union of professional actors and stage managers, holding office from June 1985 until May of this year.
"
        Last year, as president of Equity, Ms. Dewhurst became embroiled in the union's dispute with the producer Cameron Mackintosh over whether Jonathan Pryce should be allowed to perform the role of a Eurasian pimp that he created in the London production of "Miss Saigon" when the show opened on Broadway.
Mrs. Mayer exhibited in many group shows with the National Association of Women Artists, winning several of its awards, and was a past president of the New York Society of Women Artists.
In 1961, President John F. Kennedy named her director of the Mint.
President Lyndon B. Johnson reappointed her in 1966 and she retired from the post in September 1969 for yet another career, as a management consultant in Reno.
President Carter appointed Mrs. Schapiro to the Tax Court Nominating Commission in 1978, and she served as a member of the panel until 1981.
Mrs. Greenland, a graduate of Brooklyn College, was the senior vice president for human relations at Smith/Greenland Advertising Inc. in New York.
Long a prominent figure in the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, Mrs. Prelinger served as its president from 1975 to 1977 and last year was a member of its nominating committee.

        Carolyn Elsinger, executive vice president of CKDC Steel Inc., died on Tuesday in New York.

        Belinda Mason, a member of the National Commission on AIDS who pleaded with President Bush in a letter in August not to support proposed Federal policies that she said would further stigmatize AIDS sufferers, died this morning at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville.
'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
'An AIDS Poster Child'
        She later became president of the National Association of People With AIDS and was appointed by President Bush to the National Commission on AIDS in 1990.
"Mr. President, doctors don't give people AIDS -- they care for people with it," she wrote.

        Ann C. Whitman, an influential figure in the White House as the personal secretary to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and later as chief of staff to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, died Tuesday at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Clearwater.

        Ann C. Whitman, an influential figure in the White House as the personal secretary to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and later as chief of staff to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, died Tuesday at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Clearwater.
Among her chores was supervising the President's responses to correspondence, which reached hundreds of thousands of letters a year.
In 1974, when President Gerald R. Ford named Rockefeller as Vice President, she served as his chief of staff.
In 1974, when President Gerald R. Ford named Rockefeller as Vice President, she served as his chief of staff.
She was a past president of Community School Board 3 and of the Parent-Teacher Association of Wadleigh Junior High School and was a member of the Sojourner Truth Democratic Club.
Among her early activities, she organized and was chairwoman of the Women's Division of the National Jewish Welfare Board and was a vice president of the board for 19 years.
She also had been an honorary governor of Hebrew Union College, vice president of the New York City Y.W.H.A., vice president of the national Girl Scouts and chairwoman of its American Girl magazine, executive committee member of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Parsons School of Design.
She also had been an honorary governor of Hebrew Union College, vice president of the New York City Y.W.H.A., vice president of the national Girl Scouts and chairwoman of its American Girl magazine, executive committee member of the New York Blood Center and a trustee of the Parsons School of Design.
She married Alfred R. Bachrach, a prominent accounting executive and president of Temple Emanu-El, the world's largest Reform Jewish congregation.
"
        In South Africa, President F. W. de Klerk extended his congratulations to Miss Gordimer for what he called "this exceptional achievement which is also an honor to South Africa.
When Parke-Bernet was acquired by Sotheby & Company, an English auction house, in 1963, she was named executive vice president of the new firm, Sotheby Parke Bernet.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
Mrs. Blum was a past governor and president of the Cosmopolitan Club of New York, a founder of the Brooklyn Committee for Planned Parenthood and a former president of the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center.
Mrs. Blum was a past governor and president of the Cosmopolitan Club of New York, a founder of the Brooklyn Committee for Planned Parenthood and a former president of the Brooklyn Juvenile Guidance Center.
In Bal Harbor, Me., she was a trustee of the Mount Desert Island Hospital, a founder and former vice president of the Mount Desert Island Highway Safety Council and a trustee of the Mount Desert Biological Laboratory.

        Lois Scheerer McGraw, a philanthropist and the widow of a former president and chairman of McGraw-Hill publishers, died on Friday at her home in Jupiter Island, Fla. She was 99 years old.
She was also a member at large of the College Entrance Examination Board, and held the posts of secretary and president of the Head Mistresses Association of the East.
Mrs. Rindlaub, in 34 years at the Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn agency in Manhattan, rose to head of a copy group and in 1946 became a vice president, the first woman at that level in the company.
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M. of New York, chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Frances Kohn, of Shaker Heights, Ohio, and five sons: James M., of New York, who is the current chairman of the Nederlander Organization; Robert, also of New York, who is the organization's president; Harry, of Bloomfield Hills, Mich.; Fred, of Franklin, Mich., and Joseph, of Birmingham, Mich.
      
'Extraordinary Devotion'
        Besides her counseling activities, Ms. Savoyka was president of the New York General Committee for Immigration, grouping 30 private agencies, and was a member of the National Advisory Council on Immigration and Naturalization.
She was also vice president of the Ukrainian Institute of America and president of the Self-Reliance Senior Citizens Club.
She was also vice president of the Ukrainian Institute of America and president of the Self-Reliance Senior Citizens Club.

        Harriet Feldman, a former school board president in Roslyn, L.I., died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
She was president of the Parent-Teacher Association at six Roslyn schools.
She served as vice president and later president.
She served as vice president and later president.

        Greta Kempton, a painter whose portrait of President Harry S. Truman hangs in the White House, died on Monday at her home in New York City.
In the 1940's she painted portraits of several members of the Truman Administration and their families, which led to commissions for portraits of the President, his wife and daughter.
