The star's death was announced by Paul Mills, a longtime friend and film producer, who said she had been ill for some time, particularly with respiratory problems, and had a stroke more than three years ago.
She also was ballet producer for British Broadcasting Corporation Television from 1949 to 1955.
Her mother, Sadie, was an actress in the Yiddish theater, and her father, Isadore, a play producer.
In the 1950's, she assisted the Broadway producer Saint-Subber before becoming an agent specializing in handling young writers and directors.

       Lorraine Lester, a producer who worked in theater, films and television, died after a heart attack on Wednesday in the Coronary Care Unit of the New Rochelle Medical Center.
She was 88 years old and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        Lorraine Lester, a producer who worked in theater, films and television, died after a heart attack on Wednesday in the Coronary Care Unit of the New Rochelle Medical Center.

       Victoria Crandall, a theatrical producer who for three decades staged Broadway musicals for summer audiences in Maine, died Sunday at a hospital in New York.
Victoria Crandall, a theatrical producer who for three decades staged Broadway musicals for summer audiences in Maine, died Sunday at a hospital in New York.
Miss Roberts, the daughter of a West Virginia oil producer, was the author of 14 books, the most popular of which was ''The Enchanted Cup,'' based on Malory's version of the legend of Tristan and Isolde.
It was for Pablo, run by the jazz producer Norman Granz, that she recorded the most critically acclaimed album of her career, ''How Long Has This Been Going On?
In her early 20's she became a regular guest at San Simeon, the Hearst estate, and in 1941 Gary Cooper gave her away when she married Howard Hawks, the director and producer.
Two days after she and Mr. Hawks were divorced in 1949, she married Leland Hayward, the movie and theatrical producer, at the Manhasset, L.I., estate of William S. Paley.

       Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago.
She was 63 years old and had homes in New York, Southampton, L.I., and Boca Raton,
        Mary Lea Johnson Richards, a founder and partner of the Producer Circle, a New York film and theatrical production company, died yesterday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh, where she had a liver transplant two weeks ago.
Since it was formed in 1976, the Producer Circle - founded by Mrs. Richards with her husband, Martin Richards, Robert Fryer and James Cresson - won 22 Tony Awards.

       Scotti D'Arcy, a producer of poetry records and theatrical works, died on July 18 at the Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J., where she lived.
Scotti D'Arcy, a producer of poetry records and theatrical works, died on July 18 at the Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J., where she lived.
Ms. D'Arcy was a native of Lewistown, Pa., a graduate of Teachers College at Columbia University, a writer for the Office of War Information, an associate editor of Poetry Digest and a producer of the Poetry Theater Series for Folkways Records.

       Alice Pentlarge Loeb, a writer and producer, died Friday at her home in Baltimore.
Alice Pentlarge Loeb, a writer and producer, died Friday at her home in Baltimore.

       Lida Brodenova, a singer, producer and teacher of Czechoslovak opera, died on Monday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
Lida Brodenova, a singer, producer and teacher of Czechoslovak opera, died on Monday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.

       Joan M. Alvarez, a television producer who in 1979 shared an Emmy Award for a documentary titled ''Angela's Island,'' died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Joan M. Alvarez, a television producer who in 1979 shared an Emmy Award for a documentary titled ''Angela's Island,'' died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Stern was a story editor and assistant producer for Edgar Sherrick and Sue Pollack, Manhattan film and television producers, from 1978 to 1980.
The producer Lee Shubert saw a performance at the Pasadena Playhouse and offered Miss Arden a part as a showgirl in the 1934 "Ziegfeld Follies" on Broadway.
She was 62 years old and had homes in New York City and Malibu, Calif.
        Miss Kirk died of lung cancer, said her husband, the lyricist and producer Robert Wells.
"
        Another member of the audience was Lawrence Schwab, a producer who took charge of her career.
He also became her producer and closest professional adviser and the father of their daughter, Heller Halliday.
She died of leukemia, said a friend, Tom Seligson, a television producer.
The leading mentor of Miss Bennett's career was a celebrated producer, Walter Wange.

        Sonya Selby-Wright, an associate producer of special programs for "Good Morning America," died on Wednesday in her home in Point Pleasant, N.J. She was 54 years old.
She was an associate producer of "The Mike Douglas Show" before taking over special programs at "Good Morning America" in 1977.
Correction:  December 24, 1990, Monday
        An obituary on Friday about Sonya Selby-Wright, a television producer, misidentified her residence.
