Ms. Van Horne was married to David Lowe, a documentary producer who died several years ago.
Soon, however, they became a force to be reckoned with, and by the early 1980's had amassed a portfolio of residential and commercial projects for boldface celebrities like the artist Kenneth Noland, the television producer Douglas Cramer and the fashion designer Bill Blass.
From 1934 to 1940, she was married to Sidney Harmon, a film and theatrical producer.
Working with  Billy Sherrill as producer, she also became the standard-bearer of an elaborately orchestrated Nashville sound, with pedal steel guitars underlined by strings and backup choruses.
Working with the producer Billy Sherrill, with whom she wrote her biggest hit, she also became the standard-bearer of an elaborately orchestrated Nashville sound, with pedal steel guitars underlined by strings and backup choruses.
Mr. Gelman at once recognized his potential, and became both the producer of his prodigiously successful movies and a full partner in the company that they formed together.
''
        When she was 21, Ms. Merritt was chosen by Billy Rose, the Broadway producer, to join the cast of his 1943 musical, ''Carmen Jones.
''
        She retired from full-time filmmaking in 1942 to bring up the children (eventually seven) she had with her husband, John V. Farrow, a movie writer, director and producer, and made only occasional films until 1963.
Ms. Perles's clients over the years included Woody Allen; Nancy Allen, the actress-wife of Brian De Palma, the movie director; the former Eve Ella Sherpick Green, the first wife of Harry B. Helmsley, the New York real estate titan; David Merrick, the producer; and Ethel Scull, who once was called the doyenne of the pop art world.
The producer Alexander Korda then signed her to a contract to appear in his films, including ''The Private Life of Henry VIII'' and ''The Private Life of Don Juan,'' opposite Douglas Fairbanks.
Friends said her first marriage, in the 1930's, to Jack Jenney, a trombonist, ended in divorce, as did her later marriage to William Spier, a radio producer.
      
As the wife of Kabir Bedi, a well-known film actor and producer in India, she had been leading the life of a heedless socialite, she said in an interview in The New York Times in 1996, when she caught sight of a guru teaching the dance form and found her life's goal.
After her retirement from private practice in 1989, she sought a wider audience for her approach to medicine as a television and radio producer.

        Jean Dalrymple, who abandoned a nascent acting career to become a successful publicist, then an even more successful manager of concert artists and finally a dynamic producer of musicals and plays for City Center and other stages, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home, across the street from City Center.
''Jean always had a kind of solid serenity about her,'' said Robert Whitehead, the producer.
As a producer, Miss Dalrymple tended to play down her adroit handling of the press, which is critical in the success of even the most expertly produced play.
Mr. Lear, who was the executive producer of ''All in the Family,'' from which ''Maude'' and ''Good Times'' were later spun off, said one of his most vivid memories of Ms. Rolle was a musical number she performed with Beatrice Arthur, the actress who played Maude.
Andre Bishop, the artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, said Ms. Roberts had ''a real ability to think like a producer, feel like an artist and act like an agent.
After graduation, she worked as an all-purpose assistant to Kermit Bloomgarden, the producer.
In response, Ms. Hellman told the producer to give his assistant a raise, adding, ''She's right, and I don't think I can fix it.
