
        Julia Phillips, the Hollywood producer who turned her rage at the stars and power brokers into the best-selling chronicle ''You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again,'' died Tuesday at her apartment in West Hollywood.
Julia Phillips was a producer of classics including ''Taxi Driver'' and ''Close Encounters of the Third Kind.
One producer described the book as ''the longest suicide note in history.
Mr. Phillips became an investment banker and producer.
'' She also edited the memoirs of Bolossy Kiralfy, a 19th-century producer, titled ''Bolossy Kiralfy: Creator of Great Musical Spectacles.
''
        She became a hat-check and cigarette girl at the Roosevelt Hotel, where she met the film producer Joe Pasternak, who offered her a screen test.

        Rosetta LeNoire, a theatrical producer and a pioneer of nontraditional casting who also played the sweet, all-knowing Mother Winslow on the television show ''Family Matters,'' died on Sunday in Teaneck, N.J. She was 90.
Her sister said her name was changed at the suggestion of a Hollywood producer.
Miss Ferrer is survived by a sister, Dr. M. Irene Ferrer of Manhattan; and a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor, film director and producer, of Carpinteria, Calif.
      
In 1998, Mrs. Spaisman was shocked when the Folksbiene board eliminated her position -- executive producer -- to hire younger producers attuned to younger audiences.

        Irène Lidova, a dance critic and producer who played a major role in founding creative ballet companies in postwar France, died on May 23 in Paris.
The producer of the play, the Rev.

        Edith Lutyens Bel Geddes, a costume designer for theater, ballet and film and a theatrical producer, died on Aug. 16 at her home in Hudson, N.Y. She was 95.
''
        Ms. Lutyens was also a producer of the 1947 Broadway presentation of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Medium'' and ''Telephone,'' working in partnership with the industrial designer Norman Bel Geddes, her husband, and the producer Blevins Davis.
''
        Ms. Lutyens was also a producer of the 1947 Broadway presentation of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Medium'' and ''Telephone,'' working in partnership with the industrial designer Norman Bel Geddes, her husband, and the producer Blevins Davis.
She was also associated with the producer Cheryl Crawford and Eva Le Gallienne and her American Repertory Theater.

        Marjorie Goldwasser Wyler, for many years the producer of ''Eternal Light,'' a weekly radio program on Jewish themes, died July 22 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86 and lived in Westport, Conn., and Manhattan.

        Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant.
At the Pasadena Playhouse in California, in ''Arsenic and Old Lace,'' she was spotted by a talent scout and signed to a contract with the producer David O. Selznick.
For her 1943 screen debut, Selznick loaned her to the horror-film producer Val Lewton, for whom she played a young woman battling devil worshipers in ''The Seventh Victim.
She was the widow of Roger Lacey Stevens, the New York real estate magnate, Broadway producer, fund-raiser, arts patron and founding chairman of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts.
After graduating from the Katharine Gibbs School in 1948, Mrs. Grossman worked as an associate producer for her father's television opera venture and as a translator for NBC.
Correction:  November 25, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the opera translator and writer Anne Chotzinoff Grossman on Nov. 9 misstated the life span of the NBC Opera Theater, where she was an associate producer.
Her involvement with ''Phantom'' began when the producer Cameron Mackintosh saw her work for the Royal Shakespeare Company's production of ''The Tempest,'' which starred Derek Jacobi.
Mr. Grealy commuted to work as a producer for ABC and CBS in New York, while Mrs. Grealy stayed home, rearing the children.
