At a meeting with the producer Hal B. Wallis, she began a 25-year collaboration in which she made recommendations on the work of as many as 32 writers.
After a brief stint working for the producer Sam Goldwyn, she again worked with Mr. Wallis at Paramount Pictures as a story editor and was head of the talent division until 1970.
She wrote entertainingly and often about show business, musing about what to say when lunching with a prospective producer (order a drink, so you look relaxed, but don't touch it lest he think you're an alcoholic), or gloomily anticipating negative reviews of her latest work (''If I have to commit suicide, I have nothing but Gelusil'').
Arthur Hammerstein, the producer, ordered it written especially for her, and long before Jeanette MacDonald's hit version of ''Indian Love Call'' from the 1936 film adaptation, critics universally hailed Miss Ellis's highly trained singing.
Against all advice, she left the Met to act in Shakespearean productions on Broadway for the actor and producer David Belasco.
Mrs. Hewitt, who was then married to Don Hewitt, producer of ''60 Minutes'' on CBS, argued that it should be more than a testament to the awful historical episode and should make an active contribution to cultural life.
She also was executive producer of more than 15 network television specials broadcast from Ford's Theater.
In Munich she started her own small group, and around 1951 a friend sent a tape to the American jazz critic and record producer Leonard Feather.
In an interview with The New York Times in 1969, Miss Scott recalled her brief audition with Jed Harris, the original producer and director of ''Our Town.
Her first marriage, to Carlton Alsop, a radio and film producer, ended in divorce in 1946.

        Lois Fried Rosenfield, a theatrical and film producer with her husband, Maurice, died on May 25 at her home in Glencoe, Ill. She was 78.

        Beverly Bailis Karp, a producer of films and plays and a co-producer of the film ''My Dinner With André,'' died on Tuesday at her home in New York.
The film was directed by Louis Malle, who also directed the 1994 film ''Vanya on 42nd Street'' (an adaptation of a Chekhov tale), of which Mrs. Karp was associate producer.
After working as a script reader for the producer David Brown at 20th Century-Fox and for independent producers, she returned to New York in 1968.
In New York she became a magazine writer as well as a producer.
(The names of her Jewish co-writer, Bela Balazs, and the film's Jewish producer, Harry Sokal, were removed from the credits when ''The Blue Light'' was reissued in 1938.
The cause was cancer, said the daughter, June Cross, the producer of the documentary, ''Secret Daughter,'' which PBS broadcast in 1996.
''
        Neither did Ms. Cross, even after graduating from Harvard and making a successful career as a television producer, with PBS's MacNeil-Lehrer Report, then at CBS News and later with ''Frontline'' on PBS.
The cause was cancer, said Ira Glass, her son and the producer of ''This American Life'' on public radio stations.
In 1996, PBS showed a documentary by the producer Roger Weisberg about her mother's group, called the Star Theater.
The exile ended when her old friend Mr. Nichols, a producer of ''Annie,'' persuaded her to try out for the role of Miss Hannigan.
The exile ended when her old friend Mr. Nichols, a producer of ''Annie,'' persuaded her to try out for the role of Miss Hannigan.

        Jenifer Estess, a theatrical producer who set up a foundation for research into Lou Gehrig's disease after she learned she had it, died yesterday at her apartment in Manhattan.
With friends and family members, Ms. Estess set up Project A.L.S., and, calling on her experience as a producer, she raised more than $17 million and brought together scientists from different laboratories to cooperate in the search for a cure.
At 14, to take off weight, she began dance classes in Manhattan and met Harry Foster, a producer from England who was interested in organizing a line of dancers.
''
        When she visited the set of the CBS drama ''Studio One'' she talked her way into a job, and stayed until 1958, when she returned to California to work on ''Playhouse 90'' as casting director and associate producer.
Later she was casting director of ''The Twilight Zone'' and an executive producer of ''Hogan's Heroes'' and ''The Wild Wild West.
She is survived by three sons, William Winant, a musician, of Oakland, Calif.; Scott Winant, a television producer and director, of Santa Monica, Calif.; and Bruce Winant, an actor, of West Milford, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
