''
        Fred Foster, Mr. Orbison's producer and the discoverer of Dolly Parton, the only woman songwriter whose output rivals Ms. Walker's, said in an interview with The Austin American-Statesman in 2004, ''Cindy Walker has never written a bad song in her life.
Her big breakthrough came the next year, when she starred in a television production of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' directed by Mario Lanfranchi, a producer for RCA Victor and RAI.
She married Max Allentuck, general manager for the producer Kermit Bloomgarden.
''She taught the top,'' said Ms. Kaplan, a producer at Showtime.
In a plot development worthy of an MGM musical, the producer George Abbott saw her performance and offered her a small featured role in his next musical, ''Best Foot Forward.
They divorced in 1960 because of the duke's affair with the French television producer Nicole Milinaire, who became his third and last wife.
Over her career, Ms. Cajori worked as a director, producer and writer.
I'm a great producer of oil.
At the time, her mother, Maria Javor, a noted coloratura soprano, and her father, Alexander Varnay, a tenor who became a stage director and producer, were working at the Royal Swedish Opera in Stockholm.
She flew to New York on a Sunday and read for Mr. Ustinov and the producer David Merrick on Monday.
''
        Ms. Klotz is survived by her niece, Suzanne DeMarco; her companion, the producer and stage manager Ruth Mitchell, died in 2000.
The television producer Norman Lear gave her a role in the sitcom ''Hello, Larry.
In the years that followed Ms. Comden and Mr. Green teamed up with the composer Cy Coleman for ''On the Twentieth Century'' (1978), based on the Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur play about a flamboyant movie producer (John Cullum) and his leading lady (Madeline Kahn), traveling from Hollywood to Broadway on the Twentieth-Century Limited in the 1930s.
''
        Ms. Campbell's other novels, all published by G. P. Putnam's Sons, are ''Brothers and Sisters'' (1994), written in the wake of the Los Angeles riots of 1992; ''Singing in the Comeback Choir'' (1998), about a black television producer feeling cut off from her roots; and ''What You Owe Me'' (2001), about the friendship between two women, one African-American, the other a Jewish Holocaust survivor, in the 1940's.
In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration.
