With her first husband, Walter Charles Wicker, a radio writer, producer and actor, she performed in two early soap operas, ''Today's Children'' and ''Harold Teen.

       Elizabeth Corday, the longtime executive producer of the daytime drama ''Days of Our Lives,'' died of respiratory failure Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here.
Elizabeth Corday, the longtime executive producer of the daytime drama ''Days of Our Lives,'' died of respiratory failure Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center here.
In later years, she also assisted Mr. Ross, by then a well-known film and stage producer and director, in his projects.
Miss Kaye served as executive producer of ''The Turning Point,'' a 1977 film whose story was said to have been drawn from her own life, though she denied the rumor.
''
        Other credits included work as executive producer or co-producer on the films ''The Last of Sheila,'' ''The Seven Percent Solution,'' ''Nijinsky,'' ''Pennies From Heaven'' and ''The Secret of My Success.

       Catharine Sargent Huntington, an actress, director and producer and a manager of the Provincetown Playhouse on the Wharf on Cape Cod, Mass., died Friday at Sherrill House, a Boston nursing home where she had lived for several years.
Catharine Sargent Huntington, an actress, director and producer and a manager of the Provincetown Playhouse on the Wharf on Cape Cod, Mass., died Friday at Sherrill House, a Boston nursing home where she had lived for several years.
Spotted by a Fox Producer
        Mr. Cansino's career took the family to Los Angeles, where his daughter attended school through the ninth grade.
Then she joined her father's act and performed in clubs in Tijuana and Agua Caliente, Mexico, where, when she was 16 years old, she was spotted by a Fox Film Company producer, who signed her to a contract.
She divorced Aly Khan two years later and was subsequently married to and divorced from the singer Dick Haymes and then James Hill, a movie producer.
At the end of the evening show, the play's producer, Karl Allison, announced that she had died.

       Mary E. Harris, an editor, producer and director of radio and television shows for many years, died of a heart attack in her Manhattan apartment on July 19.
Mary E. Harris, an editor, producer and director of radio and television shows for many years, died of a heart attack in her Manhattan apartment on July 19.
Miss Harris, who retired last December after nearly 50 years in broadcasting, had been a story editor for the CBS television anthology, ''Studio One,'' a producer of the daytime serial dramas, ''As the World Turns'' and ''Another World'' and a story consultant for ''All My Children.
