The producer Richard Barr and his partners were bringing a new play by a new playwright to Broadway, ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?
In the midst of being treated for breast cancer, in 1998, she married Mr. Benabib, a television producer, whom she had met on a blind date in 1995.

        Joan Cullman, a Tony Award-winning producer on Broadway, died yesterday at her winter home in Tryall, Jamaica.
Ms. Cullman was a producer of at least nine Broadway shows, including Yasmina Reza's ''Art,'' which won the Tony and New York Drama Critics Circle awards for best play in 1998.
She was also a producer of several Tony-nominated plays and musicals, including David Hare's ''Skylight'' in 1996, ''Sweet Smell of Success'' in 2002 and ''The Play What I Wrote'' last year.
In 1960 she married Ted Mills, a film producer and writer, whom she first met when he interviewed for a film he was making, ''Maurice Chevalier's Paris.
''Gorillas in the Mist: The Story of Dian Fossey'' (1988), ''Emma'' (1996) and ''Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World'' (2003), she was associate producer of ''A Dry White Season'' (1989) and producer of ''Wuthering Heights'' (1992).
''Gorillas in the Mist: The Story of Dian Fossey'' (1988), ''Emma'' (1996) and ''Master and Commander: The Far Side of the World'' (2003), she was associate producer of ''A Dry White Season'' (1989) and producer of ''Wuthering Heights'' (1992).
By 1965, she was a researcher in the special events unit, and in 1968, she became a full producer.
''
        From 1973 to 1975, Ms. Richman worked as senior producer for ''The Reasoner Report'' for ABC News, before returning to CBS.
Ms. Richman became executive producer of the weekend editions of the CBS Evening News in 1976, while also producing special events coverage, including the election-night specials in 1976, 1978 and 1980.
She signed with Liberty Records in 1959 and recorded ''Hurt'' with Clyde Otis, who had been a producer for Dinah Washington.
Micheaux was one of the key figures of this African-American cinema as both producer and director.
The show soon closed, but she received good reviews, and Warner Brothers signed her for ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' a blockbuster musical of 1942 with James Cagney as the producer and songwriter George M. Cohan.
In 1992, Ms. Breslin married Anthony Dunne, an independent builder of movie sets who later became a producer of documentary films.
In 1960 she married Leonard B. Kaufman, a television producer, who also survives her.
Petite and pretty, she got her professional start at 18 when the producer Winthrop Ames hired her to perform in a series of Gilbert and Sullivan revivals.
The portrayal impressed show-business insiders, including the television producer Norman Lear, who in 1971 hired Ms. Sanford to play a Queens neighbor to the confrontational Archie Bunker, and an eventual friend to his wife, Edith, in ''All in the Family.
In many ways, her life paralleled the history of Hollywood's film studios, first as a contract player with Metro Goldwyn Mayer, later at 20th Century Fox and at Universal under the guidance of the producer Ross Hunter.
Her marriage to Bill Arp, a television producer, ended in divorce.
Russell Morash, who became her producer, recalled the sight: ''I thought to myself: Who is this madwoman cooking an omelet on a book-review program?
Mr. Drummond, her producer, also debunks another myth.

        Barbara Schwei, a founder and the producer of the American Indian Dance Theater, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Manhattan.
She was a producer of the 1973 Broadway stage musical ''Nash at Nine'' and, with James Nederlander, the ''International Music Stars'' series.
The company also released an original cast album for which Ms. Schwei was nominated as producer for a Grammy Award in 1990.

        Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78.
In the 1983-84 season she worked as a producer or co-producer on the plays ''Edmund Kean,'' ''La Tragédie de Carmen'' and ''Play Memory.

        Sylvia Herscher, whose 50-year career in theater included stints as an agent, a general manager and a producer, died on Wednesday at her home in New York, her son David said.
As the longtime aide-de-camp of the composer and producer Jule Styne, she assisted in the fabled 1952 rebirth of ''Pal Joey,'' easing the tension between the composer, Richard Rodgers, and the book writer, John O'Hara.
She was also associate producer of the 1955 comedy ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?
