Her 1946 marriage to Luther Greene, a theatrical producer, ended in divorce in 1950.
Her father, who was an acrobat, asked his agent to send her to see the producer George Abbott, who was auditioning actors for a new comedy, "Best Foot Forward.
Her father, who was an acrobat, asked his agent to send her to see the producer George Abbott, who was auditioning actors for a new comedy, "Best Foot Forward.
She was born in Philadelphia and grew up in Atlantic City, N.J., where she danced in amateur musicals and caught the eye of Earl Lindsay, a dance producer.
In the 1970's she was an associate producer with Harry Rigby for the revival of "Irene," starring Debbie Reynolds.

        Jacqueline Smith, a television producer who led ABC Entertainment's daytime programming to six consecutive years of top ratings from 1978 through 1983, died on June 3 at her home.
Awards for Children's Programming
        Ms. Smith was a native of Philadelphia, and attended Antioch College before starting her broadcasting career as a writer and producer at KPIX, the CBS affiliate in San Francisco.
"
        She is survived by her husband, Joseph, a theatrical producer and manager; three sons, James, of Pomona, Jeremiah, of New York City, and Joseph Jr., of Teaneck, N.J., and a daughter, Jennifer, of New York City.
      
For nearly 52 years she was married to the Hollywood producer Ray Stark, who produced the movie "Funny Girl" in 1968.
The producer of "Oliver!," Lionel Bart, had grown up in the same neighborhood and recognized her when she walked in, shouting the name he knew her by.
" Stint as BBC Producer
        In the 1970's Miss Brown was a producer for the BBC.
" Stint as BBC Producer
        In the 1970's Miss Brown was a producer for the BBC.
She later became the executive producer of classical attractions for the Nederlander Organization.

        Lillian Vallish Foote, a theater and film producer who worked closely with her husband, the playwright Horton Foote, died on Wednesday in Princeton, N.J. She was 69 years old and had homes in New York City and Wharton, Tex.
Mrs. Foote was the producer of several plays and films, among them "1918," "On Valentine's Day" and "Courtship," all of which were written by her husband.
The performances led George Abbott, the producer and playwright, to give her the ingenue's role in "Three Men on a Horse.

        Sylvia Friedlander Robins, a theater and television producer, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan.
From 1975 until 1989 she was the producer of the syndicated television talk show "All About TV.
She attended Smith College and began her career in the 1940's working with the producer David Susskind on television projects including "The Kay Kayser Show" and "The Nash Airflite Theater.
