She moved to Los Angeles after marrying Jacques J. Pierre, a theatrical producer.
A central tenet of her career as a dance producer was that no one should be excluded from dance because of imperfect bodies or the color of their skin.

        Eleanor Prescott, a producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.
Ms. Prescott was a senior producer for ''Good Morning America Sunday.
'' She had also been executive producer of the weekly program ''Business World'' for seven years and executive producer of ''Lifetime Magazine,'' a women's news magazine program produced by ABC for the Lifetime cable network.
'' She had also been executive producer of the weekly program ''Business World'' for seven years and executive producer of ''Lifetime Magazine,'' a women's news magazine program produced by ABC for the Lifetime cable network.
She was also a producer for the network's ''20/20'' news show.
Before joining ABC in 1979, Ms. Prescott was a writer and producer in Washington for NBC's ''Today'' show.
Later she moved on to America, where she charmed, and married, Leland Hayward, the renowned Broadway agent and producer.
During a visit to New York she was introduced to Leland Hayward, the Broadway producer of such hit musicals as ''South Pacific'' and ''The Sound of Music.
When her husband died in 1991, she became sole producer of the English Theater.
Later she worked as a director and a producer, before opening the York Theater, paying for its first work with a $50 gift from the church rector.
She began her advertising career two years later at McCann-Erickson, where she was hired as vice president, executive producer.
Her second session for the label yielded ''Tweedlee Dee,'' which its producer, Jerry Wexler, called ''a soulful nursery jingle''; it had originally been intended as the B-side of a single.
''
        In 1987, Mrs. Cullman traced the origins of the firm to a movie script that she and Ms. Kravis showed to Stanley Jaffe, a film producer and old friend.

        Joan Heming Frank, a television producer who worked on the original ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' drama series in the 1950's and 60's when the performances were broadcast live from a studio in Brooklyn, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
The film, ''Robert Frost: A Lover's Quarrel With the World,'' won an Academy Award in 1963 not for her but for its producer, Robert Hughes.
      
She did well as a producer, although she had never done it before, and as a result was named associate producer of ''Face The Nation,'' when CBS started that successful interview program in the middle 50's.
She did well as a producer, although she had never done it before, and as a result was named associate producer of ''Face The Nation,'' when CBS started that successful interview program in the middle 50's.
She and her husband, William Durney, established the Durney Vineyard, a major California producer of wine.
Charles Roven, Ms. Steel's husband, a film producer, said Ms. Steel had been suffering from a malignant brain tumor.
''
        She was once compared to a tank by the producer Dan Melnick.
Lynda Obst, a producer who was given her early producing jobs by Ms. Steel, said that one of the personal high points of her tenure at Columbia was the decision to restore and reissue the David Lean classic ''Lawrence of Arabia.
