In addition to Mrs. Lazarus, of New York and Washington, she is survived by another daughter, Carole Avnet Rocherolle of Stamford, Conn.; a son, Jonathan Avnet, a film director and producer of Topanga Canyon, outside Los Angeles, and eight grandchildren.
      

        Emily Jordan Boxer, a television producer who arranged book interviews for NBC television's "Today" show in the 1980's, died yesterday at New York Hospital.
After that, until last February, she was the special-features producer for "The Home Show" on ABC.
The cause was congestive heart failure, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and her recording producer.
In 1965 Ms. Nichtern won the Tony Award as best producer of a drama for her Broadway production of Mr. Schisgal's comedy "Luv," directed by Mike Nichols and starring Mr. Wallach, Ms. Jackson and Alan Arkin.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX-TV in New York City and a longtime friend of Ms. Harper.
She married Mr. Midgley, a CBS News producer, in 1967.
The cause was a heart attack, said Karen Scott, an executive producer at WPIX in New York City, and a longtime friend.
Ms. Gair was the executive producer of an hourlong program of world news and public affairs on WBEZ-FM, the National Public Radio affiliate in Chicago.
"From her earliest days as a student and master at the Bauhaus in the 1920's, Anni Albers was an explorer and form giver in textiles," said Jack Lenor Larsen, the New York designer and textile producer.
The center was named in honor of her daughter, a journalist and radio news producer who died of cancer in 1986.
While performing at the Club Alabam in Manhattan, she was noticed by the producer Lee Shubert, who recommended her for the co-starring role opposite Paul Robeson in the play "Black Boy" (she played the role under the stage name Edith Warren).
The cause was vascular disease, said her record producer, Anthony Heilbut.
" 'Wedding Band'
        One of her plays was "Wedding Band," an interracial love story set in Charleston, S.C., at the time of World War I. Ms. Childress wrote the play in 1965 but was unable to find a New York producer until the New York Shakespeare Festival presented it in 1972.
"
        But it was through her association with George C. Wolfe, the playwright and director who is now the producer of the New York Shakespeare Festival, that Ms. Vance was best known to theatergoers.

        Joan Harrison, a producer and screenwriter who helped write the scripts for "Rebecca," "Foreign Correspondent" and other films directed by Alfred Hitchcock, died on Aug. 14 in London.
" In 1943, she was hired as a producer at Universal, where her first film was "Phantom Lady," a melodrama starring Franchot Tone.
In addition to Mrs. Dawe, of Milwaukee, she is survived by a son, Simpson Markson of New Jersey; a brother, the producer and director Edwin Sherin of New York City, and three grandchildren.
      
The producer Norman Taurog saw her perform, and the next day she was working with Bing Crosby on the 1936 film "Rhythm on the Range.
"
        Since 1958, she had been a producer, director, coach and actress at St. Michael's Playhouse in Vermont.
