Mrs. Lippmann, a niece of the Broadway producer John Golden, first worked in his office as a script evaluator and, eventually, producing associate.
In early 1939, she met Gene Markey, a writer and producer in Hollywood, and they  eloped to Mexico.
They also mingled at Ms. Howard's Spanish-style home on Coldwater Canyon Drive in Beverly Hills; she and her first husband, Charles K. Feldman, who used his success as the first super-agent to become a producer, bought it for $18,000 in 1942.
Miss Von Scherler followed her mother, an actress trained by the playwright and producer David Belasco, into a life in the theater.
Her third marriage, to Milton Bren, a film producer, lasted from 1948 until his death in 1979 of a brain tumor.

        Christie R. Basham, a former executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' who was one of the first women to work as an executive in television network news, died on Sunday at her home in Washington, D.C. She was 68.
She also held other executive posts besides being executive producer of ''Meet the Press.
''
        In 1971 Michael Butler, the producer of ''Hair'' on Broadway, financed a shop for Ms. Porter in New York.
She also worked in television as a producer and in other capacities.
In 1940, she married Thomas H. A. Lewis, an advertising executive who later became a producer of her television series.
The couple, who divorced in 1969, had two sons, Christopher, a producer, and Peter, a guitarist and songwriter.

        Jacquelyn Reinach, a writer, composer, television producer and co-creator of the ''Sweet Pickles'' series of children's books, which featured characters like Accusing Alligator and Smarty Stork, died on Sept. 30 at her home in Los Angeles.

        Lyn Austin, an innovative theatrical producer who, as the founder and head of the Music-Theater Group, discovered, nurtured and produced the work of Martha Clarke, Julie Taymor, Richard Foreman and other major experimental theater artists, died on Sunday in New York after being struck by a taxi.
''
        In 1971 Ms. Austin gave up her successful career as a Broadway producer to develop bold new works in musical theater, or, more accurately, music-theater, a category she created to indicate a cross-pollination of the arts.
At the same time, as a producer, Ms. Austin invested herself in the artists.
After teaching English, she entered the theater, joining Thomas Noyes as a producer of Louis Peterson's ''Take a Giant Step'' on Broadway in 1953, followed by ''Copper and Brass,'' a musical comedy starring Nancy Walker; ''Joyce Grenfell Requests the Pleasure .
'' Through that association, she earned a reputation as a perceptive producer of Broadway plays.
While other theaters disbanded, the Music-Theater Group remained a continuous and consistent producer of new work.
In 1946 she married George Abbott, the Broadway producer and director.
In 1933, she married Louis F. Edelman, a Hollywood motion picture and television producer.
''
        Later, working with her longtime mentor, the director and producer Hal Prince, Ms. Mitchell also helped  produce ''Cabaret,'' ''Company'' and ''A Little Night Music,'' each of which won the Tony Award for best musical.
In 1952 she helped Lawrence Langner found the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn., serving first as executive director and later as associate producer.

        Teresa Sterne, a pioneering producer of classical recordings, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Ms. Sterne never anticipated becoming a record producer.
She landed in Cuba and soon went on to Mexico City, where in 1944 she married Manuel Reachi, a film producer.

        Lori Ledis, an art dealer and producer of concerts and music documentaries, died on Saturday at her home in Brooklyn.
''
        She married the producer Steve Lillywhite in 1984.
