In a business notorious for typecasting, Miss Meadows quickly discovered that every producer wanted to keep  her in the kitchen.
She was 15 when the producer Florenz Ziegfeld asked her to join the Ziegfeld Follies in 1922.
While dancing as a Rockette at Radio City Music Hall, she was discovered by Arthur Freed, the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer producer, and he brought her to Hollywood.
While dancing as a Rockette at Radio City Music Hall, she was discovered by Arthur Freed, the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer producer.

        Helen Keane, a manager and producer who was one of the few women on the business side of jazz, died at Cabrini Hospice in New York on Monday.

        Lynn O'Donnell, the producer of the documentary film "Crumb," died in San Francisco on April 17.
Correction:  April 30, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary yesterday about the producer of the documentary film "Crumb" misspelled her surname in some references.
Under Ms. Nichols's leadership, the radio station became an important contributor to the city's cultural life and a major producer of programs for National Public Radio, including "Kids America," a live call-in program for children that won several broadcasting awards.

        Shelley List, a novelist and a producer of the television series "Cagney and  Lacey," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
List and her husband were the supervising producers of "Cagney and Lacey, " a role they assumed when the original producer of the series, Terry Louise Fischer, left to develop "L.A.
Correction:
        An obituary on Thursday about Shelley List, a television producer, misidentified the character who struggled with alcoholism in an episode of "Cagney and Lacey" written by Ms.
An obituary on Thursday about Shelley List, a television producer, misidentified the character who struggled with alcoholism in an episode of "Cagney and Lacey" written by Ms.
That same year, she married the film's producer and  screen writer, Casey Robinson; the marriage ended in divorce.

        Marjorie Gross, a writer and producer of the television series "Seinfeld," who also wrote a humorous article about her ovarian cancer in The New Yorker in  April, died of the illness on June 7 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles.
Under the commercially astute supervision of the producer Milt Gabler, she was teamed with the vocal group the Ink Spots for several hits, including the million-selling "I'm Making Believe" and "Into Each Life Some Rain Must Fall.
Five years earlier, Mr. Granz had sold Verve records to MGM, and when her contract came up for renewal in 1966, she was not re-signed to the label, but Mr. Granz moved her to Capitol, where her producer,  Dave Dexter, promised to give her "a totally different sound.
In 1927 the young Leland Hayward, who would become a celebrated theatrical producer, told the director Frank Capra that Miss Colbert was "a real headline maker, the finest young actress that's hit Broadway in years.
She began her career at the urging of a former husband, Errol Wetson, a film producer and a founder and former owner of the Wetson hamburger chain.

        Helen Kushnick, who managed Jay Leno's rise from small-time comic to star of the ''Tonight'' show but was dismissed as the program's executive producer four months after Mr. Leno succeeded Johnny Carson as host, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Her first job was as secretary to the producer David Gerber at 20th Century Fox in New York.
Ms. Lear was married for 28 years to Norman Lear, the highly successful television producer of series like ''All in the Family'' and ''Maude.
She and Mr. Seitzer were married in 1926 and divorced in 1932, three months before Miss La Plante, who had been making a movie in London, married Irving Asher, a producer who had been running the Warner Brothers studio in London.
For a time, Mr. Kahlenberg was a producer with Telenews, which provided newsreels to movie theaters.

        Marian Shaw, a theatrical producer and the widow of Irwin Shaw, the novelist and playwright, died on Friday in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 80 and lived in Klosters, Switzerland, and Mougins, France.
After a few years, she left briefly to work as a theater producer, but she returned in the late 60's and remained.
