She auditioned for the role of Anne Frank, but the producer Kermit Bloomgarden made no decision about casting and the show was postponed.
The act was spotted by the producer Max Liebman, who invited Ms. Kallen to hone her craft at Camp Tamiment, a Poconos resort renowned for its Saturday night shows.
Ms. Cooper, associate director of the society's performing arts and public programs, also praised Indrani's role as a producer of concerts in New York by younger Indian dancers.
After turns as a stenographer, telephone operator, advertising solicitor and model, she finally convinced a producer that she was an actress.
'' Soon after, the producer George Abbott hired her for the 1949 Broadway musical ''Touch and Go.
''When the White Barn began, it was to summer theater what Off Broadway is to the commercial theater,'' the actress and producer Eva Le Gallienneonce said.
Embarking on a career in show business, they changed their name to Brox when a producer persuaded them the new spelling looked better on a marquee.
Miss Brox's marriage to William Perlberg, who was her agent before becoming a film producer, ended in divorce in the 1960's.
'' Her family fled the Nazis when she was 9, moving first to France and then to New York, where she came to the attention of the Broadway producer Herman Shumlin.

        Shirley Potash Clurman, a retired magazine editor and television producer, died yesterday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan.
When she retired, she was working for ABC News as an associate producer of the news magazine program ''20/20.
''
        The former actor and award-winning filmmaker and producer William Greaves said that Ms. Everett  ''was a true legend of black film and theater, one of the top stars of the 40's race movies.
From 1979 to 1987 she was executive producer of a series of public television specials, ''SUNY in the Arts on Television.
Survivors include her brother, Jack Barrow; her son, Marc St. Louis, a music producer, and a grandson, Cameron.
      
Robert Whitehead, the theatrical producer, recalled last night, ''I could see that she got a kick out of the theater and a kick out of being associated with it through investment.
Ms. Paterson and Ms. Dickson Wright were unknown to each other until they were brought together by a BBC producer in what was described as a match made in ratings heaven.
''Actually, I thought of you for the other girl,'' said Mr. Kramer, then serving as the film's producer.
The daughter of a lawyer and a socialite, Ms. Leslie was a 15-year-old student at the Brearley School on the Upper East Side when she was discovered by the producer George Abbott and cast as the girl next door in the 1944 Broadway production of ''Snafu,'' a comedy.
Soon after, she married Jeffrey Dell, a scriptwriter for the movie producer Alexander Korda, and they wrote a play called ''The Judge,'' which was staged in London in 1938.
