After three years of intensive training, she made her television debut in the 1950's television playhouse series "Robert Montgomery Presents," of which her father was the producer and host.
She is survived by her husband, the actor Robert Foxworth, and three children from an earlier marriage to William Asher, the producer of "Bewitched.
Recalling "The Bad and the Beautiful," John Houseman, the producer, said he and Vincente Minnelli, the director, had agreed Miss Turner "was capable of brilliant individual scenes, but seemed to lack the temperament or the training to sustain a full-length performance.
Her discovery in a soda shop led to an interview with Mervyn LeRoy, the director and producer, who advised her to chose a catchy first name and began guiding her career.
Other major roles were a rebellious student in "These Glamour Girls" (1939), a shallow performer in "Ziegfeld Girl" (1941) and an alcoholic actress in the thrall of a megalomaniac Hollywood producer (Kirk Douglas) in "The Bad and the Beautiful" (1952).
Recalling "The Bad and the Beautiful," John Houseman, the producer, said he and Vincente Minnelli, the director, had agreed Miss Turner "was capable of brilliant individual scenes, but seemed to lack the temperament or the training to sustain a full-length performance.
Her discovery in a soda shop led to an interview with Mervyn LeRoy, the director and producer, who advised her to chose a catchy first name and began guiding her career.
"
        In 1949, Miss Lupino and Collier Young, a movie executive and producer who was then her husband, founded Filmakers, an independent production company, for which she directed candid films with feminist themes.
Her second marriage, to the composer and producer Sam Coslow, ended in divorce in 1948.
She is survived by her husband, the writer and producer Norman Corwin; a daughter, Diane Corwin Okarski of Spokane, Wash., and a son, Anthony, of Thousand Oaks.
      

        Charlotte Morris, an Emmy Award-winning television producer and director for WNYW-TV, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
She was 85 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., served on the board of directors of the Westport Country Playhouse and fought to save the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley was also active in radio and television as a weekly panelist on "What in the World," a quiz show, for WTIC-TV in Hartford and as a writer and producer of her own television interview show for WICC-TV in Bridgeport.
Later she became a production assistant and associate producer at a New York radio station.
In 1936, she married Joseph H. Hazen, a lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist at a double ceremony in which Mrs. Hazen's sister, Enid, was married to the investment banker Ira Haupt.
Later, he and Hal B. Wallis, the producer, became partners.
Her husbands were Henry Hasso, a Swedish cinematographer; Folke Rogard, a Swedish attorney; Mr. Siegel, the director, and George Tabori, a Hungarian writer, producer and director.
The producer and director John Houseman, for whom she designed on Broadway and at the Shakespeare Festival in Stratford, Conn., said he knew after five minutes of watching Huston's final  film, "The Dead," in 1988, that Ms. Jeakins was the costume designer.
A native of Greenwich, Conn., she graduated from Vassar College in 1961 and started a career as a network radio producer at NBC.
In the 1950's, she was associate producer for the Broadway productions of "Red Roses for Me," "The Innkeepers" and "Wake Up, Darling.
Ms. Roker moved to California when the producer Norman Lear cast her in "The  Jeffersons," a 1975 spinoff of his series "All in the Family.

        Kay Brown Barrett, who bought "Gone With the Wind" for the movie producer David O. Selznick after discovering the novel as his New York representative, died yesterday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where she had lived for the last 14 years.

        Aylin Radomisli-Cates, a psychiatrist who was the wife of the producer Joseph Cates, died on Jan. 17 in a car accident outside her home in Bedford Hills, N.Y. She was 57.
In 1987, she married Mr. Cates, a producer of Broadway shows and television programs.
The actress was married five times: to Edward Culpepper, a dancer and actor known in vaudeville as Jack Pepper (1928 to 1931); the actor Lew Ayres (1934 to 1940); Jack Briggs, another actor (1943 to 1949); Jacques Bergerac, a French actor and businessman (1953 to 1957), and William Marshall, a director and producer (1961-1967).

        Marion Burbank Stevens Rice, a noted teacher and producer of dance by the pioneering modern dancers Ruth St. Denis and Ted Shawn, died on April 12 at the Highlands Long Term Care Center in Fitchburg, Mass.. She was 90 and lived in Ashby, Mass.
