
        Wendy Carol Roth, whose disappointment that she could marvel at the Grand Canyon only from a parking lot led to a book to help other disabled people enjoy the national parks and a campaign for easier access to them, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        Ms. Roth, a television producer, contracted multiple sclerosis 30 years ago and died of complications of the disease, her husband, Michael Tompane, said.
As a television producer, she worked with Phil Donahue on several programs and developed, wrote and produced ''The Human Animal,'' a five-part series on human behavior first broadcast by NBC in 1986.
Early in her career a producer tried to mold her as a blues singer, but, as Ms. Rutherford told Mr. Baker in a taped interview, it did not fit.
The producer said, ''Honey, you stick to bubbles.
When Ms. Sothern quarreled with the show's other producer over her right to take on movie roles, she left the series and sold her 104 episodes for well over $1 million.
When he saw ''Trade Winds,'' Walter Ruben, the producer of ''Maisie,'' refused to cast one of MGM's contract actresses as Maisie; he insisted on Ann Sothern for the role that would define her career for the next decade.
The producer of a television remake of ''A Letter to Three Wives'' thought it would be a great marketing ploy to get one of the original stars, Jeanne Crain or Ms. Sothern, to play a cameo role.
''
        Throughout her life, Ms. Straight was also a producer and teacher.

        Frances Ann Cannon Dougherty, a theatrical producer, died on April 25 at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 82.
In 1961 she and another producer, Michael Dewell, founded the National Repertory Theater.
Her radio producer, Jean Bach, recalled suggesting that Ms. Francis ask Barry Goldwater about gun control.

        Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88.
Ms. Dance -- who often worked  with her husband, the jazz historian and record producer Stanley Dance -- began as a pioneering female jazz critic in the 1930's but soon began to play a role in exposing a wider American audience to jazz.

        Judith Moses, a television news producer and teacher who also worked to expose the abuses confronted by journalists working on dangerous assignments abroad, died at home in Manhattan on Saturday.
From 1979 to 1989, she was an investigative producer for ''20/20,'' the ABC News magazine.
After studying on a Fulbright scholarship in Germany, she worked as a translator, then began her career in news as an associate producer at ABC News, her husband said.
In addition to her husband, a producer for ''60 Minutes II,'' she is survived by their daughter, Anne Moses, and a granddaughter, both of San Francisco.
      
Her radio producer, Jean Bach, recalled suggesting that Ms. Francis ask Barry Goldwater about gun control.
But Mr. Liebman, the producer, kept ''Your Show of Shows'' on kinescopes, 16-millimeter films.
More good notices followed her next appearance, as St. Joan at the Equity Library Theater, and when the producer Kermit Bloomgarden called to invite her to replace Julie Harris in Lillian Hellman's ''Montserrat,'' she made the leap to Broadway.
''
        Aaliyah was featured in the movie ''Romeo Must Die'' in 2000 and was an executive producer for its soundtrack album, which included her hit single ''Try Again.

        Alice Stewart Trillin -- an educator, film producer and author also known as the muse of her husband, the humorist Calvin Trillin -- died on Tuesday evening at New York Presbyterian Hospital.
But in 1941 she heard that the producer John Golden and the author Rose Franken were looking for someone to play the title role in ''Claudia,'' Miss Franken's play  about a child-wife.
Miss McGuire was married to John Swope, a photographer and producer who died in 1979.
'' Many of these productions were produced under the auspices of the New York Shakespeare Festival, whose longtime producer, Joseph Papp, also cast Ms. Foster as modern-day characters, including Miss Molly Hoffenburg in Bill Gunn's ''Forbidden City,'' for which she won a third Obie in 1989.

        Jacqueline T. Babbin, a television producer who won an Emmy Award for ''Sybil,'' a 1976 TV drama, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 80.
She was born in Philadelphia in 1908 and had her first indoctrination into theater from her father, Philip Goodman, a theatrical producer.
After the couple finished the play, a producer persuaded them to contrive a happy ending, in which the daughter, Catherine, reconciles with her faithless suitor.
Person became her manager and record producer through 18 records.
