One participant was Mr. Trudeau, then a law professor and editor; another was Rene Levesque, a radio commentator who would later became a secessionist and Premier of Quebec, and a major adversary of Mr. Trudeau.
Her husband, Mario Fratti, a playwright and a professor of Italian at Hunter College, said she died after kidney failure.

        Mitzi Berger Hamovitch, an English professor who taught at Queens College for more than 30 years, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I.
She died after heart surgery, said her husband, William Hamovitch, a retired economics professor and provost at Queens College.

        Jean Strachan Wilson, professor emeritus of history at Smith College, died Monday at Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. She was 89.
A native of Duluth, Minn., Professor Wilson graduated from Smith in 1924 and earned a doctorate from the University of London in 1927.
Professor Wilson was an authority on 17th-century England.
In 1963 she was appointed the Sydenham Clark Parsons Professor of History.
At the time of her death, Dr. Clark was an adjunct professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College and an active member of the Columbia Teachers College Alumni Council, of which she was moderator in 1988 and 1989.
As a professor of sociology and psychiatry at the University of Minnesota and the University of Pittsburgh, Dr. Simmons was one of the first to study the psychological consequences of organ transplants for both donors and recipients.
Levy, a professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College in Valhalla, said Dr. Simmons's most important research focused on kidney transplants.
"The Professor and I" (1959) told of life with her husband the poet, and "Men, Women and Cats" (1960) reported further observations on family life.

        Sally A. Provence, professor emeritus in the Child Study Center and the Pediatrics Department at Yale University, died on Saturday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 76 and lived at Branford.
A member of the Barnard faculty since 1968, she was the Samuel R. Milbank Professor of Asian and Middle Eastern Culture.
Professor Miller was best known for translations of Sanskrit literature, including "The Bhagavad-Gita: Krishna's Counsel in Time of War" (Bantam Books and Columbia University Press, 1986).
She became clinical professor of radiology in 1950 and was chairwoman of the radiology department from 1959 to 1965, when she became professor emeritus.
She became clinical professor of radiology in 1950 and was chairwoman of the radiology department from 1959 to 1965, when she became professor emeritus.

        Tess Cogen, a lawyer, psychotherapist and college professor, died on Thursday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington.
She taught family life and sex education at Pace University for nine years before becoming professor emeritus.
She also taught for many years as a clinical assistant professor of medicine at New York Medical College and worked on the staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center and Beth Israel Hospital North.
Dr. Boone, a professor of art history and Afro-American studies, specialized in African art, female imagery, women's arts and masks.
After earning master's and doctoral degrees in art history there, she joined the faculty in 1979 and was promoted to a tenured, full professor in 1988.

        Dr. Monica Healea, physics professor emeritus and former chairman of the physics department at Vassar College, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 93.

        Alice Green Fredman, professor emeritus of English and comparative literature at Columbia University and an authority on the 18th- and 19th-century novel, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Dr. Fredman began teaching English at Columbia in 1953 and became a full professor in 1972, retiring in 1991.

        Mary Spencer Nay, a painter and retired art professor, died on Saturday at her home in Provincetown, Mass.
She began teaching art at the university in 1942 and was a professor of art education when she retired in 1979.

        Maria Tolstoy, a professor of Russian language and a granddaughter of the novelist Leo Tolstoy, died on Monday at home in Manhattan.
While she was a professor at Hunter College in New York, she established one of the nation's first on-campus college placement offices.
Dr. Cooper retired from Hunter College as Professor Emeritus in 1976.
Dr. Bryant was a retired English professor and author.
Professor Bradbrook, who wrote as M. C. Bradbrook, was the first woman to become a professor of English at Cambridge.
Professor Bradbrook, who wrote as M. C. Bradbrook, was the first woman to become a professor of English at Cambridge.
In the United States, Professor Bradbrook was in residence at the Folger Library, in Washington, and at the Huntington Library, in California, in 1958 and 1959; a visiting scholar at Kenyon College, in Ohio, in 1977, and an honorary member of the Modern Language Association of America.
Ethel and Jack Hausman endowed chairs bearing their names for a professor of pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital and for cerebral-palsy research at Harvard University.
On the faculty since 1925, Professor McManus served as director of the Division of Nursing Education at Teachers College from 1947 until her retirement in 1961.
Professor McManus was a native of North Smithfield, R.I.
        She was a past chairman of the nursing council of the Florence Nightingale International Foundation.
Professor McManus is survived by four daughters, Joan Lawrence of Natick, Madeline Frankenhauser of Falmouth, Mass., Catherine Myers of Wilmington, Del., and Anna McThaden of Seattle; 23 grandchildren, 37 great-grandchildren, and a great-great-grandchild.
      
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
The cause was heart failure, said her son, Joseph, a professor in the Harvard School of Business Administration.

        Vivian E. Browne, a professor of art at Rutgers University and a painter whose work linked abstraction to nature, died on July 23 at her home in Manhattan.
She headed the department from 1975 to 1978, becoming a full professor in 1985.
From 1978 until two years ago, she also was a medical professor at the School for Biomedical Education of the City University Medical School at City College and, until 1985, a member of the college's graduate faculty of biochemistry and biology.
She had various teaching and research jobs at Yale before joining the State University of New York in Buffalo as an associate professor of anatomical sciences in the mid-1970's.
She taught high school English in Ohio and was an assistant professor at Bryn Mawr College before she went to Rochester.
There, she was named Joseph H. Gilmore Professor of English in 1948.
In 1950, Dr. Koller married William Diez, professor of political science at Rochester.
Mrs. Horwood was active in organizations at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where she studied and where her husband, Murray, was a professor.
After stepping down as dean, she continued as a professor and associate dean of the nursing school's continuing education division.
Born in Mikulov, Austria, on May 29, 1896, Professor Kramrisch earned a doctorate of philosophy in Vienna in 1919.
When she became the first professor of Indian art at the University of Calcutta in 1923 and published "Principles of Indian Art" in 1924, Professor Kramrisch laid the foundations for the systematic study of Indian art.
When she became the first professor of Indian art at the University of Calcutta in 1923 and published "Principles of Indian Art" in 1924, Professor Kramrisch laid the foundations for the systematic study of Indian art.
From 1932 to 1950 the professor co-edited the Journal of the Indian Society of Oriental Art.
In 1950 she moved to the United States, where she was both professor of South Asian art at the University of Pennsylvania, and curator of Indian art at the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
In 1964 she was appointed professor of Indian art at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
The professor's last exhibition was "Painted Delight," a show of Mogul paintings, also at the Philadelphia, in 1986.
      
Miss de la Torre was married for 52 years to George McCue, an English professor at Colorado College who died in 1984.
Miss de la Torre was married for 52 years to George McCue, an English professor at Colorado College who died in 1984.
She was an adjunct professor of law at the University of Detroit and a member of the Anti-Defamation League and the Jewish Welfare Federation of Metropolitan Detroit.

        Diana Vincent-Daviss, a professor of law and law librarian at Yale University Law School, died on Tuesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Dr. Roe was a professor emeritus of nutritional sciences at Cornell University.

        Nina Berberova, a Russian-born poet, novelist, playwright, critic and professor of literature whose biography is a classic of the Russian emigre Diaspora, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Philadelphia.
At Purchase she became an assistant professor of language arts in 1973 and an associate professor five years later.
At Purchase she became an assistant professor of language arts in 1973 and an associate professor five years later.

        Charlotte Catherine Campbell, a retired professor who advanced the knowledge and treatment of infections caused by fungi, died on Friday at Brigham & Women's Hospital in Boston.
A specialist in medical mycology, the study of fungi, Professor Campbell wrote or was the co-author of more than 100 treatises, particularly on the causes and cures of histoplasmosis, lung diseases caused by fungus.
She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970.
She left in 1962 to become an associate professor of medical mycology at Harvard University's School of Public Health and advanced to full professor in 1970.
Three years later she accepted an appointment as professor of medical sciences at Southern Illinois University and also served as department chairwoman from 1974 until her academic retirement in 1977.
Professor Campbell is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Flint of Daytona Beach, Fla.
      

        Dr. Harriet L. Hardy, a pioneer in occupational medicine and the first woman to become a full professor at Harvard Medical School, died on Wednesday in Boston.
Dr. Hardy was not the first woman appointed to the Harvard Medical School faculty but was its first full professor.
That appointment did not come until the end of her career, in 1971, when she was made clinical professor of medicine.
Professor Dembo, who had taught at Clark University in Worcester, did important early work in Gestalt psychology in the United States, particularly in rehabilitation psychology.
Native of Russia
        Professor Dembo was born in Baku, Russia, and grew up in St. Petersburg.
In 1948, she became an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York and then a research fellow at Harvard University in 1951.
Professor Dembo, who lived on the Clark University campus, retired from active teaching in 1972 and was made a professor emeritus.
      
Professor Dembo, who lived on the Clark University campus, retired from active teaching in 1972 and was made a professor emeritus.
      
Denied Re-Election
        She was working an assistant professor of health at Lehman College of the City University of New York when she was appointed as the second woman ever to serve on the Board of Regents, which supervises all education in the state.
For many years Mrs. Judge was associated with Sarah Lawrence College, where she was professor emeritus of childhood development, and the Community Service Society of New York.
She retired as a professor in 1971 but remained a consultant and director of its early-childhood center for five more years.

        Nancy Lyman Roelker, a retired professor of European history at Boston University, died Saturday at her home in East Greenwich, R.I. She was 78.
In 1985, Professor Roelker was awarded the Gold Medal of Paris for her contributions to the city's history.
Dr. Roelker came to Boston University as a full professor in 1971 and retired in 1980.
While there she met and married a fellow student at the Sorbonne, Julien Feydy, who became a political scientist and university professor.
She moved to Vermont in 1987, and the next year she married Mr. Perrin, a writer and professor of environmental studies at Dartmouth College.
For almost 30 years Dr. Ingalls was associated with a variety of medical and scientific groups, including the Columbia School of Public Health, where she was an adjunct associate professor from 1958 to 1964, and the Albany Medical School, where she taught bacteriology from 1936 to 1943.
