The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Jennifer Thelen of Richmond, Calif.
        Dr. Thelen, a psychology professor at Indiana University, was known for studying childhood development through the conceptual framework called dynamic systems theory.
''She had a profound impact on the way people think about how kids develop,'' said Dr. John Spencer, a psychology professor at the University of Iowa, a friend and former colleague of Dr. Thelen's.
In addition to her daughter, Dr. Thelen is survived by her husband, David, a history professor at Indiana; a son, Jeremy, of Providence, R.I.; a sister, Harriet Saeck of Sacramento; and one grandson.
      
''She was an important voice in the early writing on the civil rights movement,'' said Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, a professor of African-American studies at Harvard.
Her death was reported by her son Michael Janeway, a writer and editor who is a professor at the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism.
Dr. Curtis L. Patton, professor of epidemiology of microbial diseases at Yale, said that Dr. Buckley had provided strongly persuasive ''in vitro evidence'' of both the virus and the effectiveness of its antibodies, and ''went on in very remarkable work to demonstrate that antibodies taken from survivors were protective of tissue cultures'' and could be used in treatment.
Miriam Hansen, a professor of English and cinema and media studies at the University of Chicago, said Ms. Fittko became well known in postwar Germany because Germans liked to find and honor people who resisted Hitler.
A versatile scientist with degrees in biology, chemistry and physics, Ms. Lathrop was named a professor of radiology at Chicago, where she taught for four decades, without having received a doctorate.
Dr. Robert Beck, an emeritus professor of radiology at Chicago and a member of Dr. Harper's team, recalled that Ms. Lathrop was ''an indispensable part of Paul Harper's team.
In 1978, she was appointed professor of radiology at Chicago, a position she held until retiring in 1985.
Until her retirement in 1985, Dr. McCaslin was a professor of educational theater at New York University; she continued to teach at N.Y.U.
At the time of her death, she was also an attending surgeon in the Breast Service of Memorial Sloan-Kettering's Department of Surgery, and a professor of surgery at Cornell University School of Medicine.
From 1980 to 1984 she was an assistant professor of surgery at Emory University School of Medicine and was on the staffs of Grady Memorial and Emory University Hospitals.
Her death was announced by her son, Roger Wilkins, the Robinson professor of history and American culture at George Mason University.
''The message of the Ladies' Home Journal and magazines like that is, 'Hey, we're willing to acknowledge the choices that women have in life, but in the end, we will maintain that most women will choose home and family,''' Professor Scanlon, a historian at Bowdoin College, said.
Ms. Zames, a retired mathematics professor, was a past president of Disabled in Action of Metropolitan New York, an advocacy group.
She was a professor of science, primarily alpine ecology, and later a professor of information technology.
She was a professor of science, primarily alpine ecology, and later a professor of information technology.
In 1930, she married Livingston Hall, who was later a professor and administrator at Harvard Law School.
''
        Mary Ann O'Brian was born on March 13, 1913, in Altoona, Pa. She earned an undergraduate degree from Pennsylvania State University in 1937, married a professor and moved with him to New York.
Dr. Robert L. Plaisted, an emeritus professor of plant breeding at Cornell, said that Dr. Mondy tested big king, Atlantic, Katahdin and other potato varieties, and investigated why some varieties darkened after cooking, a trait considered undesirable by consumers.
Dr. Mondy was appointed an associate professor of food and nutrition at Cornell in 1953, and became a professor there in 1961.
Dr. Mondy was appointed an associate professor of food and nutrition at Cornell in 1953, and became a professor there in 1961.
Her longest association was with Bard College, where she was an associate professor from 1965 to 1976.
Harvard appointed her an associate professor of medicine in 1992 and a professor of pathology in 2002.
Harvard appointed her an associate professor of medicine in 1992 and a professor of pathology in 2002.
From 1964 to 1990, she was adjunct professor of conservation at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University.
She worked as a staff nurse in hospitals before becoming an associate professor of nursing at Duke in 1967.
Dr. Crouwel became professor of Aegean archaeology at the University of Amsterdam.
She later was a story specialist for the Pittsburgh Public Schools and joined the faculty of the University of Pittsburgh School of Information Sciences, from which she retired as a professor emerita in 1978.
