Besides serving as an attending physician at Roosevelt, she was the chief of the Adult Orthopaedic  Foot Clinic of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center; a co-director of the Combined Foot and Ankle Fellowship at the Hospital for Special Surgery, and a clinical assistant professor of orthopedics at Columbia University's College of  Physicians and Surgeons.

        Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego.
Ms. Maxwell, who was professor emeritus at San Diego State, worked in various positions at the National Federation of Settlements and Neighborhood Centers in  New York from 1944 to 1953, when she joined with other new faculty members at N.Y.U.
Professor Maxwell later became associate dean at San Diego and taught as a full professor.
Professor Maxwell later became associate dean at San Diego and taught as a full professor.
In 1933, she married Christopher Hawkes, a professor of archeology, and they had a son, Nicolas.

        Dr. Helene Wickham Koon, an author, scholar of 18th-century dramatic literature and former professor of English at California State University in San Bernardino, died on Feb. 13 at her home in Hollywood.
That year she joined the faculty of what was then California State College and was appointed a full professor in 1978.
She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emeritus of Biology and History of Science at Bryn Mawr College, where she had taught and done research for more than four decades.
" In an appreciation in The Irish Times, Maurice Harmon, professor emeritus of Anglo-Irish Literature at University College in Dublin, wrote: "She  drew upon her own experience.

        M. Shanara Gilbert, an associate professor of law at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, was killed on Tuesday in a highway accident in South Africa.

        Dr. Henriette R. Klein, clinical professor emeritus of psychiatry at Columbia University and a pioneer in the study of childhood schizophrenia, died on May 11 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Instead, the study found that having a child can aggravate underlying disturbances in women who are severely maladjusted or mentally ill.
        With her husband, Dr. William A. Horwitz, a professor of psychiatry at Columbia, she explored the mechanisms of paranoia and helped broaden the dynamic explanations of that disorder.
She then became a  visiting professor of journalism at New York University, a post she held until her death.

        Mary Rosamond Haas, a professor of linguistics whose interests ranged from American Indian languages that were dying to the prehistory of languages and modern Thai, died on May 17 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 86.
She suffered a long illness, according to the University of California at Berkeley, where she retired as professor emerita in 1977.
She helped prepare Thai materials for the armed  forces and taught the language in a special training program at Berkeley, an experience that led to her appointment as an assistant professor of Siamese and  linguistics in 1947.
She was promoted to professor of linguistics in 1957.

        Dr. Rachel Dunaway Cox, an emeritus professor of education and psychology at  Bryn Mawr College who was a leader in the field of child development, died on April 24 at the Quadrangle, a retirement village in Haverford, Pa. She was 92.
Her father, Dr. Eliot  R. Clark, was later a professor of anatomy at the University of Pennsylvania.
She is survived by a brother, Douglas N. Clark, a professor of mathematics at the University of Georgia in Athens.
      
While in Sydney, a city of some three million, she happened to mention to an Australian sociology professor that she had never seen a live kangaroo.
The professor told her not to feel bad.

        Dr. Constance B. Wofsy, a medical professor and clinician who created a program to educate health workers about advances in AIDS treatments, died on Monday at her home in San Francisco.
She joined the faculty of the University of California at San Francisco in 1975 and became a full professor in 1989.
She is survived by her husband, David, who is also a medical professor at the university, a son, Kevin, and a daughter, Susan, all of San Francisco, and her mother, Ruth Blitman, of Novato, Calif.
      

        Peg Weiss, an art historian, research professor and leading scholar on the Russian modernist Wassily Kandinsky, died on Wednesday at her home in Syracuse.
Besides being a research professor at Syracuse University, Mrs.  Weiss was also a Getty scholar from 1989 to 1990.
Professor Zorbaugh died in 1965.
She was later appointed an assistant dean and associate professor of educational administration at New York University.
Dr. Corwin, as she was know to her students and colleagues, was a professor emeritus of religion and biblical literature at Smith College, where she taught from 1930 until  retiring in 1966.
Originally a specialist in early Christianity, Dr. Corwin's intellectual curiosity about Buddhism, Confucianism, Hinduism, Islam and Shinto was stimulated by a course in world religions she taught as a young assistant professor.
''Her generation was involved in the forming and shaping of a whole new field of study, especially for liberal arts colleges, that changed the focus of study from normative Christianity to a whole range of religions,'' said Diana L. Eck, a professor of comparative religion and Indian studies at Harvard University, who took Dr. Corwin's class at Smith and became a lifelong friend.
Dr. Broverman went on to be an associate professor at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center, becoming director of the psychology service in 1980.
She was 84 and lived in Homestead, Fla.
        Mrs. Morton had been critically injured in an automobile accident on Aug. 28, said officials at the University of Miami, where she was a professor for about four decades until retiring in 1993.
''She was the poison plant center'' in South Florida, said Lawrence Kaplan, an emeritus professor of botany at the University of Massachusetts at Boston and editor of the journal of the Society of Economic Botany, which Mrs. Morton helped found.
''Some women were happy having Masako-san enter the family, hoping the imperial system itself might change, but I said it would not be like that,'' said Mikiyo Kano, a professor who focuses on women in history.
Dr. Squire retired in 1993 as Distinguished Service Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
From 1972 until her retirement, she was a professor of radiology at the center.
Although the enzymes Dr. Jones studied eventually turned out not to hold promise for cancer therapy, several of them ''are still seen as limited targets for a few diseases,'' said Dr. Traut, an associate professor of biochemistry and biophysics.
After leaving Massachusetts General in 1957, she was a professor at Brandeis University until 1966.
She became an associate professor at North Carolina that year, left in 1971 for a seven-year stint at the University of Southern California and then returned to North Carolina as chairwoman of the department of biochemistry and nutrition at the medical school.
Professor Epstein retired in 1985 after 18 years as an instructor and professor in the university's School of Social Service Administration.
Professor Epstein retired in 1985 after 18 years as an instructor and professor in the university's School of Social Service Administration.
At the time of her death, she was an associate professor of dance and women's studies at the university.
Dr. Penrose, whose doctorate was from Johns Hopkins University, retired in 1978 as a professor at the University of London's School of Oriental and African Studies, where she concurrently headed the school's economics department.
In later years she was a professor and a dean at the Institut Europeen d'Administration des Affaires in Fontainebleau, France.
Jay B. Barney, a professor of management at Ohio State University, writing in a management journal last year, called it a seminal work about ''the competitive implications of a firm's internal strengths and weaknesses.
''
        Dr. Penrose's interest in oil originated in the late 1950's, when she was a visiting professor at the University of Baghdad.
Sir Alec wrote that after a campaign she and her husband, Ernest F. Penrose, a British-born economist and writer, ''conducted in support of Owen Lattimore, a professor accused of un-American activities,'' the couple ''fell afoul of McCarthy and were more or less exiled, first to the Australian National University in Canberra and then to Baghdad University.
She was an adjunct professor of labor studies at Rutgers-Newark and spent her last 10 years in education as director of public relations and development for Essex County College.
Widow of Distinguished Professor and Literary Critic Lionel Trilling.

        Barbara C. Salken, a professor at the Pace University School of Law in White Plains, died on Oct. 17 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla.
For three of the last seven years, she was voted the outstanding professor of the year by the graduating class, most recently at the 1996 commencement.
Professor Salken, who was a native of Richmond and a graduate of Skidmore College and Brooklyn Law School, first practiced with the Legal Aid Society in New York City.
Professor Salken is survived by her husband, Matthew Rosen; a son, Billy; a sister, Judy Salken of Mahopac, N.Y., and her parents, Doris and Irvin Salken of Williamsburg, Va.
      
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
Despite the contrast between their social backgrounds, author and subject managed to share emotions and to bridge the gulf of geography and social background, said Ms. Shostak's husband, Dr. Melvin Konner, who is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of Anthropology and an associate professor of psychiatry and neurology at Emory University.
Beginning in 1983, both were associated with Emory University, where she was an adjunct assistant professor of anthropology.
Indeed, when Betty Friedan revived feminist fervor with the publication of her landmark ''Feminine Mystique'' in 1963, Dr. Bernard was a 60-year-old Penn State professor a year away from retirement.
After marrying her professor she began a peripatetic life, following him band from academic post to post, including a sojourn to Argentina, where she helped him with the research that would win him wide acclaim.

        Dr. Roma Gans, an emeritus professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University who wrote several classic texts on teaching children to read, died on Oct. 4 at the Springside Nursing Home in Pittsfield, Mass.
''Her work in the 1950's really provided the framework within which the American Psychiatric Association could rethink its viewpoint,'' said Dr. Richard A. Isay, clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.
Dr. Goldberg, a professor of psychology and education, was co-author, with A. Harry Passow and Abraham J. Tannenbaum, of ''Planning for Talented Youth'' (1955, Teachers College).
Dr. Fahmy, a professor of clinical psychology at the University of Ain Shams in Cairo for many years, was a founder of the Egyptian Psychological Association and its president from 1972 to 1981.

        Amelia Agostino del Rio, a professor, author and longtime head of the Spanish department at Barnard College, died on Wednesday in Spring Lake, N.J., where she lived.
Correction:  December 17, 1996, Tuesday
        An obituary on Saturday about a professor, author and longtime head of the Spanish department at Barnard College misspelled her maiden name.
Dr. Rioch was a professor emeritus of psychology at American University here.
John J. Stephan, a friend who is a professor of history at the University of  Hawaii, said the manuscript of "Sofiya Petrovna" was passed along and hidden at  a time when its possession would have been tantamount to a death sentence.
Dr. Rudzinska, who was an emeritus professor of parasitology  at Rockefeller University, was 92.
"It is a common way for cells to feed," said Dr. Trager, now an emeritus professor of parasitology at Rockefeller.
Dr. Rudzinska became an emeritus professor in 1975, but was still active in the lab.
