
        Dr. Dorothy M. Horstmann, an epidemiologist, virologist, polio pioneer and the first woman appointed as a professor at the Yale School of Medicine, died on Jan. 11 in New Haven.
I. George Miller, a colleague and professor of virology at Yale.
Ms. Johnson also served on the faculty of the School of Sacred Music, Union Theological Seminary (1960-65), and the Manhattan School of Music (1982-1989), and was an adjunct professor at the Conservatory of Music, Brooklyn College.
faculty in 1946 and became a full professor of psychiatry at the its medical school in 1969.
In 1959, Dr. Adler married Dr. Halfdan Gregersen, a former dean and professor of Romance languages at Williams College.
Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.
In that essay, as Cora Diamond, a professor at the University of Virginia, explained, Miss Anscombe argued that the concepts of moral obligation and moral beauty were legalistic and should be abandoned.
From 1970 to 1986, she was a professor of philosophy at Cambridge.
The cause was bacterial meningitis, said Prof. Jack E. Shepherd Jr., a friend and colleague at Dartmouth, where she was an adjunct professor of environmental sciences.
In 1972, she joined an interdisciplinary program at Dartmouth, the Resource Policy Center, rising to associate professor.

        Emily Vermeule, an emeritus professor of classical philology and archaeology at Harvard University who started her career with the discovery of an ancient Mycenaean tomb and went on to conduct excavations in Greece, Turkey, Libya and Cyprus, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Cambridge, Mass.
''Professor Vermeule's role in supervising the excavation of a particularly rich Mycenaean chamber tomb in Athens -- and publishing it -- was a wonderful way to get started as a specialist in the Bronze Age of Greece,'' said Sarah Morris, a professor of classics and archaeology at the University of California at Los Angeles and a former student.
''
        Gloria Serrari Pinney, a professor of classical archaeology and art at Harvard who was an admirer but never a colleague of Dr. Vermeule, added, ''Her book on Greece in the Bronze Age was for many years a standard in the field.
From 1970 until her retirement in 1994, Dr. Vermeule was the Samuel Zemurray Jr. and Doris Zemurray-Stone Radcliffe Professor at Harvard, teaching in both the classics and the history of art and architecture departments.

        Helen Smith Bevington, a poet, essayist, English professor and tireless tourist who roamed the world in search of her own Shangri-La, died on Friday at the home of her son, David, in Chicago.
Mrs. Bevington was a professor emeritus at Duke University, where she joined the faculty in 1943 and retired in 1976.
In 1968 she became a professor of medicine at State University of New York's Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She was a professor of psychology at Livingstone College in Salisbury, N.C.; Virginia State University; what is now Elizabeth City State University in North Carolina; and Howard University.
She wrote at length about Chinese dissidents, often befriending them when they visited the West, said Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University.
Dr. Dunham, a retired professor in the Slavic department at Wayne State University in Detroit, also translated Russian poetry by writers like Yevgeny Yevtushenko, Andrei Voznesensky and Anna Akhmatova, and was a scholar of Soviet and Russian works.
She married H. Warren Dunham, a professor of sociology at Wayne State, in 1942.
Hunter, was a professor and her mother, Minna, taught in the local school system.

        Dorothee Metlitzki, a retired professor of English at Yale and a prominent scholar of medieval Arabic, Middle English and Herman Melville, died on April 14 in Hamden, Conn. She was 86.

        Marie Jahoda, one of the world's foremost social psychologists and an emeritus professor at the University of Sussex, died on April 28 at her home in Keymer, in southeast England.
In New York from 1949 to 1958, she was a professor of social psychology at N.Y.U.
Dr. Jahoda is survived by a daughter from her first marriage, Lotte Bailyn of Belmont, Mass., a professor of management at M.I.T.
He became a professor of sociology at Columbia University and died in 1976.
Dr. Anastasi, a former professor at Fordham University who remained professionally active until shortly before her death, was known as the ''test guru.
Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
In 1947, she joined the faculty at Fordham, and was promoted to full professor in 1951.
''She collected drawings, poetry and everything else,'' said Dr. Marvin Reznikoff, a close friend and emeritus professor of psychology at Fordham.
Mrs. Moses, a Fulbright scholar, was an adjunct professor of journalism at the New York University Graduate School of Journalism last year and had taught in 13 African countries since 1991 as part of the United States Information Agency's Visiting Scholars Program, her husband said.

        Evalyn A. Clark, a retired Vassar College history professor who was an early member and former president of the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, died on Sunday in Beacon, N.Y. She was 98 and lived in Poughkeepsie.
She was associate dean of the college for 10 years, chairwoman of its history department for 6 years and the Eloise Ellery professor of history from 1962 to 1968.
She was an emeritus professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago's Center on Aging, Health and Society.
Perhaps her best-known comic partnership was with Jerry Lewis, with whom she tangled in eight films, including ''The Nutty Professor'' and ''The Ladies' Man.
She worked as a lecturer in creative writing at the University of California, Riverside, from 1980 to 1984 and as an assistant professor of English at Yale from 1984 to 1986.
''It is clearly a hot area right now,'' said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the chief science officer for the American Heart Association.
Mrs. Fabricant retired about 15 years ago, and she never achieved an academic rank higher than acting assistant professor.
Ms. Brée was 93 and had been Kenan professor of humanities at Wake Forest from 1973 until 1984.
Ms. Brée was 93 and had been Kenan professor of humanities at Wake Forest from 1973 until 1984.
Dr. Calloway had Parkinson's disease, said the University of California at Berkeley, where she was a professor and a provost emeritus.
They were directed by Dr. Calloway with Dr. Sheldon Margen, now an emeritus professor of public health.
After a job at the Stanford Research Institute, she was appointed a professor of nutrition at Berkeley in 1963.
Afterward, she was a Fulbright fellow at Macquarie University in New South Wales, Australia, and a visiting professor at Mills College in Oakland, Calif.
        She wrote extensively in journals and books, some of which remain in print as classic textbooks.
She returned to Columbia in 1952 and was a professor of psychology and education until 1971, the year she joined the faculty at Berkeley.
Born in Manhattan, Ms. Limmer received a bachelor's degree from Brooklyn College and a master's degree in English and writing from Mills College in Oakland, Calif.
        She became a professor of English and writing at Western College for Women in Oxford, Ohio, where she taught for 20 years.
Dr. Schor, the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale University, brought French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory to French studies in the United States, said Joan W. Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        As one example of how this worked, she cited Dr. Schor's essay on fetishism in the novels of George Sand, the cigar-smoking, cross-dressing novelist who was the most widely celebrated female writer in France in the 1800's.
Dr. Schor, the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale University, brought French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory to French studies in the United States, said Joan W. Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        As one example of how this worked, she cited Dr. Schor's essay on fetishism in the novels of George Sand, the cigar-smoking, cross-dressing novelist who was the most widely celebrated female writer in France in the 1800's.
''
        Her literary and philosophical interests always seemed to be slightly ahead of the newest academic currents, said Sharon Marcus, an English professor at the University of California at Berkeley and a former student of Dr. Schor's.
''Betty Holberton was a real software pioneer,'' said Donald E. Knuth, a professor emeritus at Stanford University and author of the three-volume ''The Art of Computer Programming,'' the profession's defining treatise.
