In 1984 she was a distinguished visiting professor at Middlebury College in Vermont, and in 1986 she was a distinguished visiting scholar at the London School of Economics.
In 1966 Dr. Baumgartner was named visiting professor of social medicine at the Harvard Medical School, a post she held until she retired in 1972.
She is survived by her husband, Alfred, professor of the humanities at Quinsigamond Community College in Worcester; her mother, Beth Arick of Brookline, Mass.

        Marie Therese Gehin, a professor of French at Manhattanville College for 30 years, died on Saturday at the Holmdel Convalescent Center in New Jersey.
She is survived by a son, Eugene, a certified public accountant in New Rochelle, N.Y.; a daughter, Dr. Irene Thompson, professor emeritus at the University of Florida at Gainesville, and four grandchildren.
      

        Gail Paradise Kelly, a professor of comparative education at the State University of New York at Buffalo, died on Friday at Buffalo General Hospital.
A professor of education at SUNY for 16 years, she was the author or editor of 13 books, including such standard texts as "New Approaches to Comparative Education," (University of Chicago Press, 1986) and "Comparative Education" (Macmillan Press, 1982).
She was also a former Andrew Mellon Professor at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art.

        Dorothy Wite, a professor at the Hunter-Bellevue Nursing School of the City University of New York, died last Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
She became a professor at the Royal College of Music in London and married Sir John Barran in 1946.
Ms. Sullivan, an associate professor of journalism at the University of Florida, was also an author and a lawyer.
She went to the University of Florida as the Gannett Distinguished Visiting Professor of Journalism in 1986, and was named associate professor in 1987.
She went to the University of Florida as the Gannett Distinguished Visiting Professor of Journalism in 1986, and was named associate professor in 1987.
She became a professor at the Royal College of Music in London and married Sir John Barran in 1946.
Miss Carter was a professor of political science at Smith College from 1943 to 1964, where she held the Sophia Smith Chair from 1961 to 1964.
She also taught at Northwestern University (1964-1974), where she held the title of Melville J. Herskovits Professor of African Affairs; Indiana University (1974-1984) and the University of Florida (1984-1987).
She died of lymphoma, said her husband, William R. Ginsberg, a professor of environmental law at Hofstra University Law School.

        Dr. Margaret K. Chandler, the first female professor at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, died on Monday at the Somerset Medical Center in Somerville, N.J. She was 68 years old and lived in Piscataway.
She was a 1944 graduate of the University of Chicago, where she also received a master's degree and a Ph.D. From 1947 to 1965 she was a professor at the University of Illinois.
She is survived by her husband, Louis Chandler, retired professor of nuclear physics at Rutgers University.
      
Dr. Sherwin graduated from the medical college at the University of Zurich in 1942 and since 1950 had been a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Cornell University Medical College.

        Margaret Atwood Judson, a historian, educator and author, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 91years old and lived in Highland Park, N.J.
        Dr. Judson was professor emeritus of history at Douglass College of Rutgers University.
A chair at Rutgers, the Margaret Atwood Judson Professor of History, is named for her.
Her husband, Leon R. Whipple, a professor of journalism at New York University, died in 1964.

        Olga Kattan, a professor of Spanish language and literature at Brooklyn College for the last 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. DuBois was the Zimurray Professor of Anthropology at Harvard University and Radcliffe College when she retired in 1969.
She is survived by her husband, a former professor of music at Trenton State College.
      
She is survived by two sons, Ernest, a television writer, of Williamsville, Vt., and Arthur of Montclair, N.J., a Rutgers University law professor; four grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      

        Frauke Petersen Haasemann, the assistant conductor of the Westminster Choir and professor of conducting at the Westminster Choir College, died last Friday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 68 years old.
She was an honorary professor of the Bunka College of Fashion in Tokyo.
She is survived by her son, Robert, an astonomer, author and professor of earth sciences at Dartmouth College; a daughter, Dorothy Heller of Creston, N.C., and a sister, Yolanda Pesce, of Tucson.
      

        Irene Samuel, an authority on the poet John Milton and a professor emeritus of English at Hunter College, died on Thursday at her home in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 76 years old.
She became an assistant professor in 1949, associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1965.
She became an assistant professor in 1949, associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1965.
She became an assistant professor in 1949, associate professor in 1962 and professor in 1965.
She was named professor emeritus at her retirement in 1971 and continued as a visiting professor at universities across the country and in Canada until 1976.
She was named professor emeritus at her retirement in 1971 and continued as a visiting professor at universities across the country and in Canada until 1976.
In 1942 she was named professor of Arabic literature and Islamic culture at the Asia Institute in New York.
Since 1983, Dr. Schachter had been supervising pediatric psychologist at Metropolitan Hospital and an associate professor of clinical pediatrics at New York Medical College.
From 1974 to 1982 she was an assistant professor of psychology at Barnard College, and in the early 1970's she was a pychologist at the Bank Street College of Education.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. David Schachter, professor of physiology and cellular biophysics at Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons; a son, Jonathan, a post-doctoral researcher at the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics in Cambridge, Mass.

        Alice Fetzer Carse, a professor of comparative humanities at the State University of New York at Old Westbury, L.I., died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
She is survived by her husband, James Carse, a professor of religion at New York University; her daughter, Alisa, a professor of philosophy at Georgetown University, and two sons, Keene and James, both professional musicians, of Manhattan.
Four years later she joined the New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center as associate professor of clinical medicine.
Dr. Roe, who used her maiden name, retired in 1984 as an adjunct professor of psychology at the University of Arizona.
She is survived by three stepdaughters, Helen Vishniac, a professor at Oklahoma State University; Joan Burns, a writer, of Williamstown, Mass., and Elizabeth Wurr, a psychologist, of Woodside, Calif.; a brother, Robert of Alexandria, Va.; a sister, Pat Oldt of Little Switzerland, N.C.; six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren.
      
She is survived by a daughter, Claudette, a concert pianist and a professor of music at the State University of New York at Fredonia, of Manhattan.
      
Eleven books that followed were written in collaboration with her first husband, Dr. John L. Beatty, a professor of history at the University of California at Riverside, who died in 1975.
She is survived by her second husband, Dr. Carl Uhr, a professor of economics at the University of California at Riverside; a daughter, Alexandra Beatty, and two grandchildren.
      
In addition to her son David, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she is survived by another son, John, Centennial Professor of English at Vanderbilt University.
      
In addition to her son David, a professor of literature at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, she is survived by another son, John, Centennial Professor of English at Vanderbilt University.
      

        Elizabeth Vera Loeb Stern, professor emerita of English at Hunter College, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
She retired as an associate professor in 1963.
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      
Ms. Piper is survived by her husband, E. Digby Baltzell, a professor emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Pennsylvania and the man who coined the term WASP; two daughters, Eve Baltzell of Boston and Jan C. Baltzell of Philadelphia, and two sisters, Helen Piper Cresswell and Eleanor Piper De La Cour, both of Bryn Mawr, Pa.
      

        Dr. Frances G. Dell, a retired English professor at Pace University, died on Sunday in Beverly Hospital in Beverly, Mass.
She was professor emeritus of literature, communications and the performing arts, and she specialized in 19th-century literature, particularly the works of Thomas Hardy, James Fenimore Cooper and the Brontes.
She is survived by her husband of 45 years, Dr. Robert Dell, who also is a retired Pace professor of English, and two sons, Douglas, a Nynex executive in Middleton, Mass., and Blair, a law student in Texas.
      

        Lina Lee Brock, a professor of anthropology at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
She has also been an adjunct professor law at the Brooklyn Law School for the last decade.
Around 1930, she married Norman Ramsay, a professor of psychology, and with him moved to England; shortly afterward, their marriage ended.
Professor MacVicar believed in educating students about their social responsibilities.
Professor MacVicar, a professor of physical science, had held the endowed chair as Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Education since 1980.
Professor MacVicar, a professor of physical science, had held the endowed chair as Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Education since 1980.
Professor MacVicar, a professor of physical science, had held the endowed chair as Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Education since 1980.
As dean, Professor MacVicar's responsibilities included oversight of M.I.T.
Professor Allen said the disagreements within the academy that had prevented the prize from going to Miss Gordimer before this would remain a secret for 50 years, like most other details of the prize committee's deliberations.
"The Nobel Peace Prize is a political award," Professor Allen said, "and it will be announced in Oslo.
Her mother was Catholic; her father, a professor of anatomy, Jewish.
"
        In 1950, she married Gabriele Baldini, a professor of English literature at the University of Rome.

        Esther McDonald Lloyd-Jones, a retired professor of education at Teachers College of Columbia University, died on Nov. 25 at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 90 years old.
Professor Lloyd-Jones was an authority in the field of guidance to secondary school pupils and to college and university students.
She retired as a full professor in 1966.

        Eleanor Tufts, a professor of art history at Southern Methodist University in Dallas, died on Dec. 2 at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas.
