Partly, perhaps, because she and her husband, Jose Ezequiel Rosario, an economics professor who died in 1963, had no children, Dr. Barbosa began receiving her students for informal consultations on Saturday afternoons.
She accepted and remained as associate professor and department chairwoman until her retirement two decades later.
She studied there with the pioneering Sinologists Marcel Granet and Paul Pelliot and was Professor Granet's research assistant in the 1930's.
Dr. Wu, the Michael I. Pupin Professor Emeritus of Physics at Columbia University, where she carried out research and taught for 37 years, was known throughout her career as a meticulously accurate experimental physicist who was in demand to put new theories to the test.
She was named a full professor in 1958 and was appointed the first Pupin Professor of Physics in 1973.
She was named a full professor in 1958 and was appointed the first Pupin Professor of Physics in 1973.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
Her husband, Dr. Solomon G. Hershey, a professor of anesthesiology at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died in 1992.
She was also a professor of cellular genetics at the medical school from 1975 until she retired from that post in 1988 as a professor emerita.
She was also a professor of cellular genetics at the medical school from 1975 until she retired from that post in 1988 as a professor emerita.
Dr. Charles D. Stiles, a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Institute, said Dr. Sager had made a ''revolutionary discovery'' while doing research at the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, and later at Columbia University.
Before her research, Professor Stiles said, the view was widespread ''that all genetic information was sequestered in the nucleus of the cell.
Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, the Maria Moors Cabot Professor of Biology emeritus at Harvard University, said the alterations that Dr. Sager achieved ''in the way people thought about extranuclear genetic material, that is, genes in the cell outside the nucleus,'' had proved to be highly significant.
After becoming a senior research associate at Columbia, she was a professor at Hunter College from 1966 to 1975.
In addition to her husband, a professor emeritus of biological chemistry and molecular pharmacology at Harvard Medical School and chief of the division of cell growth and regulation at the Dana-Farber Institute,  Dr. Sager is survived by two sisters, Esther Altschul of Wilmette, Ill., and Dr. Naomi Sager of Manhattan.
      
Mrs. Heins's husband, Paul, an English professor, author and translator of the Brothers Grimm, was editor of Horn Book from 1967 to 1974.
Mrs. Heins was a founder of the Center for the Study of Children's Literature at Simmons College in Boston, where she also taught as an adjunct professor for 10 years.
But she had received a B in the course, and apparently had made an impression on the professor.

        Selma Weintraub Greenberg, an expert in early childhood education who retired two years ago from Hofstra University as an emeritus professor, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science.
Dr. Ray F. Evert, the Katherine Esau Professor of Botany and Plant Pathology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, who accepted the medal on her behalf, said she was the first full-fledged botanist to win that award.
Dr. Esau had planned to retire after she became professor emerita in 1965, but a fascination with electron microscopy led her to spend her final decades working in that area.
The cause was an aneurysm, according to Towson State University in Maryland, where she was professor emeritus of English and until last year directed the women's studies program, which she founded in 1972.
She also shared her insights abroad, by lecturing in Beijing and in two stints as a visiting professor of American studies at the Freie Universitat in Berlin.
Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
She eventually became an associate professor and worked to establish one of the first gerontological nursing programs in the country.
in 1959 and kept teaching long after her formal retirement as a full professor in 1972, was so uncommonly good at it and partly because she was as passionately interested in her students as in her subject.
She was an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn.

        Meribeth Elliott Cameron, professor emeritus of history and former acting president at Mount Holyoke College, died on Saturday at Mount Holyoke Hospital in Massachusetts.

        Jeannette E. Fleischner, a professor of education at Columbia University Teachers College who devoted her career to the advancement of children with disabilities, died last Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 57 and lived in Woodstock, N.Y., and on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
She began her career at Teachers College as an assistant professor and coordinator of the Special Education Child Study Center in 1974.
Toward the end of World War II, she was appointed instructor and then assistant professor of French at Syracuse University.
As a full professor, she was chairman of the department from 1977 to 1985, when she retired as professor emerita.
As a full professor, she was chairman of the department from 1977 to 1985, when she retired as professor emerita.
She was a psychiatric consultant to the Brooklyn Juvenile Court, the Max Planck Institute in Munich and the New York Foundling Hospital and was a clinical associate professor and supervisor in child psychiatry at New York University Hospital.
From 1975 to 1983, Miss Clarke was a professor of film at the University of California at Los Angeles.
Miss Pepper was a professor of interior design at Pratt Institute from 1950 to 1970 and headed the interior design department there from 1951 to 1959.
Miss Pepper also was a professor in the architecture department of the New York Institute of Technology, taught and lectured elsewhere and remained active as a teacher into her 80's.
Dr. Rees was an associate professor during World War II, when she went to work for the Government, helping to direct research in  modern mathematics for the war effort.
Dr. Rees returned to Hunter in 1953, as a professor and dean of students.

        Marian E. Koshland, an immunologist and professor of molecular and cell biology at the University of California at Berkeley who studied the ways antibodies fight off disease, died on Tuesday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley.
She was named a professor in the department of microbiology and immunology in 1970, and headed the department from 1982 to 1989.
''
        In 1962, Miss Harshaw became a professor of voice at Indiana University, where she taught until 1993.
As a Columbia University graduate student, she worked as secretary to the historian Jacques Barzun and the literature professor Lionel Trilling, impressing both scholars so much that when Mary McCarthy abruptly quit her teaching post at Bard College in 1946, they recommended her as a replacement, which is how a 23-year-old secretary came to spend three years teaching literature to returning G.I.
In 1960, in the pattern of the era, she followed her husband to the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he began a long career as a history professor and she helped make feminist history.
The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husband, Peter P. Rogers, a professor of environmental engineering at Harvard University.
At her death she was the Kriser Distinguished Professor of Anthropology at N.Y.U.
faculty in 1981 as a professor and chairman of the Department of Anthropology.
She is survived by her husband, Dr. William E. Mitchell, a retired professor of anthropology at the University of Vermont; a daughter and son by her first marriage, Linda Hoffman Matisse of Groton, Mass., and Jon Winer of Owings Mills, Md.
Dr. Weintraub, who also kept a home on Fire Island in Seaview, was a professor of political science at Hunter from 1951 to 1972.
She joined the Hunter faculty as an instructor after her graduation in 1929 and advanced to full professor in 1951.
She retired as a professor emerita in 1988 but continued to do research.
