She taught at schools in Oakland, Calif., from 1938 to 1942 and was an associate professor of zoology at the University of Washington from 1945 to 1976.

        Lillian Weber, a City College of New York professor who was known for her work in early childhood education, died on Tuesday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx.
Professor Weber was professor emeritus of education at the time of her death, and her work continues to influence public-school education.
Professor Weber was professor emeritus of education at the time of her death, and her work continues to influence public-school education.
Professor Weber is survived by two sons, Prof. William Weber of Los Angeles and Prof. John Weber of suburban Chicago; two brothers, John Dropkin of Brooklyn and Henry Dropkin of Sarasota, Fla., and seven grandsons.
      
Dr. Hunter had a series of strokes, said the Graduate School of Education at the University of California at Los Angeles, where she was an adjunct professor.
She served as its principal from 1963 until 1982, when she became a full-time professor in administration and teacher education at the graduate school.
faculty in 1963 and served as professor of European archeology until her retirement four years ago.
She became an associate professor before retiring in 1971.
Breakthrough in 'Torment'
        Her sensitive portrayal of a simple girl victimized by a sadistic professor in "Torment" (released in the United States in 1947), created a sensation and is now considered a landmark of the Swedish cinema.
At her death, Dr. Porada was Arthur Lehman professor emeritus of art history and archeology at Columbia and honorary curator of seals and tablets at the Pierpoint Morgan Library.
In addition to her son, a professor of music and classics at Dartmouth College, she is survived by a stepson, Nikolaus Wolff of Norwich, Vt.; a stepdaughter, Maria Stadelmayer of Hamburg, Germany; a brother, George Mosel of Santiago, Chile; a sister, Elizabeth Steinbeis of Brannenburg, Germany, and 10 grandchildren.
      
Dr. Clarenbach, known as Kay, was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Wisconsin, where she earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in that subject.
Until last fall, Dr. Liskin was director of Mental Health Services at Barnard College, an assistant professor of psychiatry and pediatrics at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, and an assistant attending physician at Presbyterian Hospital.
She earned undergraduate and doctoral degrees at the University of Philadelphia, where her father, the biochemist Dr. George W. Raiziss, was a professor.
At her death, she was an adjunct professor at the Pace University School of Law.

        Muriel R. Cooper, a graphic designer and professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Thursday at the New England Medical Center in Boston.
Professor Cooper, who lived in Brookline, Mass., was 68.
She became an assistant professor in 1977 and a full professor in 1988.
She became an assistant professor in 1977 and a full professor in 1988.
At her death she was a professor of photography at Pace University.
From 1933 to 1939, she was an assistant professor of art at Black Mountain.
She was a professor of theater and a former chairman of the theater department at Williams College, a trustee of the Williamstown Theater Festival and a director of the Theater Communications Group in New York.
from Montclair State College, where she became an adjunct professor.
The cause was leukemia, said Maryann Hedaa, an associate professor at the business school.
Beginning in 1988, she was named a research professor and an associate dean, becoming one of the highest-ranking women at the school.
Dr. Gordon was a professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, where she had served as associate director of the Institute of Industrial Relations from 1954 until 1969.
Dr. Gordon's husband, Robert A. Gordon, who died in 1978 after the couple had been married 42 years, was also a Harvard-educated ecomonics professor, as were her two sons.
Her husband was also a professor of economics at Berkeley.
She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.
She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.

        Dr. Florence Shishko Schwartz, a retired professor of social work at the Hunter College School of Social Work, died on Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut.
Dr. Schwartz was on her school's faculty for 33 years, rising from instructor to full professor and retiring in 1991.
In addition to her daughter Deborah of Scarsdale, N.Y., Dr. Schwartz is survived by her husband, Dr. Martin F. Schwartz, a professor at Rockland Community College; another daughter, Nomi Schwartz Freed of Armonk, N.Y., and six grandchildren.
      

        Dr. Gladys W. Natchez, a retired professor of education at City College of New York, died on Sunday at her home in Walnut Creek, Calif. She was 78.
She also was a professor of music and head of the voice department at the C. W. Post campus of Long Island University, where she also directed the Summer Opera Workshop.

        Phoebe Helman, an artist and professor at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor.
Professor Hodgkin was the chancellor of Bristol University from 1970 until her retirement in 1988, and also taught at Oxford.
Professor Hodgkin had used X-rays to probe into the inner architecture of key biochemical compounds, elucidating their structures and providing essential aid for those seeking to understand how and why these compounds work in living organisms.
"
        The Swedish Academy of Science, in announcing Professor Hodgkin's prize, praised her "exceptional skill, in which chemical knowledge, intuition, imagination and perseverance have been conspicuous.
"
        In 1965, Queen Elizabeth II made Professor Hodgkin the first woman since Florence Nightingale (1820-1910), the founder of modern nursing, to become a member of the Order of Merit, Britain's most respected royal order.
Years before, in 1947, Professor Hodgkin was elected a fellow of the Royal Society for her analysis of penicillin.
In 1960 she became Royal Society Wolfson Research Professor at Oxford, and she retired from that chair in 1977.
In addition, Professor Hodgkin was a member or fellow of numerous learned bodies in Britain, the United States and other countries.
Professor Hodgkin was born Dorothy Mary Crowfoot in Cairo, where her father worked for the Egyptian Government.
Dr. Peschel was an adjunct assistant professor of internal medicine and co-director of the program for humanities in medicine at the School of Medicine at Yale.

        Helen F. Cserr, a professor of physiology at Brown University in Providence, R.I., whose research focused on the anatomy and mechanism of the human brain, died on Aug. 11 at her home in North Dighton, Mass.

        Rose Laub Coser, a sociologist and professor emeritus at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on Sunday at her summer home in Wellfleet, Mass.
At her death she was an adjunct professor of sociology at Boston College, specializing in the family and medical sociology.
In 1959 she began teaching at the Harvard University Medical School as an assistant professor of sociology in the department of psychiatry, and later became an associate professor.
In 1959 she began teaching at the Harvard University Medical School as an assistant professor of sociology in the department of psychiatry, and later became an associate professor.
An English translation of one of her most widely read novels, "Memoirs of Leticia Valle," won praise when it was published earlier this year by the University of Nebraska Press in a translation by Carol Maier, a professor of Spanish at Kent State University.
Susan Kirkpatrick, a professor of Spanish at the University of California at San Diego, wrote, in the preface to her translation of Miss Chacel's novel "The Maravillas District," which was published in 1992 by the University of Nebraska Press: "Chacel's writing is dense and labyrinthine, but at the same time it is open-ended and dynamic, shaping a narrative design that ends with a query instead of a conclusion.

        Prof. Marion Wilson Starling, a scholar of African-American history and professor emeritus at Brooklyn College, died on Oct. 14 at her home in Manhattan.
Professor Starling drew national attention in 1981 with the publication of "The Slave Narrative: Its Place in American Literary History," which told the history of slavery in America in the words of its victims.
Born in Zion City, Ill., Professor Starling graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1928 from Hunter College, where she majored in Latin and Greek.
From 1930 to 1943 she taught at Spelman College in Atlanta as a professor of English and speech.
She was also a visiting professor of African-American history and literature at Morris Brown College in Atlanta.
Professor Starling is survived by her daughter, Tiffany Starling, also of Manhattan.
      
"
        Miss Primus continued to perform until 1980, after which she was the director of the Cora P. Maloney College, a black studies school at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and was Five-College Professor of Ethnic Studies at schools in Massachusetts in the 1980's.
In the spring of 1993 she led the organization's defense of Lani Guinier, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was nominated by President Clinton to head the Justice Department's civil rights division.
She had suffered a long illness, said the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, where she had been professor emeritus of health education since 1966.
The cause of death was complications from a stroke, according to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she was an adjunct professor emeritus in community medicine.
She was also an adjunct professor at the Hunter School of Social Work.
She retired last year as a professor of fine arts and drama at St. Michael's College in Colchester after 30 years on the faculty.

        Ella Keats Whiting, an administrator and English literature professor at Wellesley College for 33 years and a great-niece of John Keats, died on Thursday at her home in the Carleton Village retirement community in Bedford, Mass.
Ms. Whiting joined the Wellesley faculty in 1928 and became a professor in 1942, specializing in medieval English literature.
Dr. Gardner was an associate research professor at the Heller Graduate School of Advanced Studies and Social Welfare at Brandeis; she was acting director of the school two years ago.
She was professor emeritus of history and international relations at Sarah Lawrence, where she taught from 1947 to 1977.
Professor Bozeman, as she was known professionally, was the author of many articles and papers as well as influential scholarly books.
She received a doctorate in law at Southern Methodist University and did postgraduate studies at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University before being appointed an associate professor of history at Augustana College in Rockville, Ill. She started as a full professor at Sarah Lawrence in 1947.
She received a doctorate in law at Southern Methodist University and did postgraduate studies at the Hoover Institute of Stanford University before being appointed an associate professor of history at Augustana College in Rockville, Ill. She started as a full professor at Sarah Lawrence in 1947.
Professor Bozeman is survived by her husband of 44 years, Dr. Arne Barkhuus; a daughter, Anya B. Taylor of South Nyack, N.Y.; a brother, Bodo von Bruemmer of Colares, Portugal, and two grandsons.
      
The cause was heart failure, said the University of Pennsylvania, where Dr. Phillips became a professor emeritus in 1967.
At her death, Dr. Oppenheim was a professor of history at American University in Washington, where she had taught since 1975.
"
        In a 1987 interview, Professor Oppenheim said some feminist historians had suggested that Victorian women had been especially prone to mental and emotional illness because of the confining nature of their lives.
"
        Among Professor Oppenheim's other books was "The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914" (Cambridge, 1985), which the journal Victorian Studies called "a major contribution to the history of ideas.
"
        Courses that Professor Oppenheim taught at American University included "Men and Women in Victorian Culture: Gender Roles and Stereotypes" and "Selected Topics on the Condition of Women in Victorian England.
" She was a visiting professor at Princeton University in 1979 and Bryn Mawr College in 1986, and a Guggenheim Fellow in 1988.
Professor Oppenheim was born in Manhattan and graduated from the Brearley School there and, in 1970, from Bryn Mawr College, where she was summa cum laude.
In addition to her mother, who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her husband, John Salmon, a retired Bryn Mawr history professor; a daughter by a previous marriage, Ashley Minihan of Villanova, and a sister, Barbara Berresford of Manhattan.
      
