''Polly Bunting was always ahead of her time in anticipating the needs of women and of Radcliffe College,'' said Derek Bok, president emeritus of Harvard and a professor there.
She was a professor in the department of bacteriology there and an honorary professor at the Rutgers Institute of Microbiology.
She was a professor in the department of bacteriology there and an honorary professor at the Rutgers Institute of Microbiology.
My father was a professor of philosophy.
Over the years, she was an adjunct professor at Cornell University and the Johns Hopkins University.
Professor Cook began work at Cornell in 1954 and was associated with the university for almost two decades, specializing in labor history in the School of Industrial and Labor Relations.
''She was not only interested, but concerned in every aspect of the working woman's life,'' said Jennie Farley, a Cornell professor of industrial and labor relations.
''
        Speaking at a 1993 showing of ''Never Done: The Working Life of Alice H. Cook,'' a documentary film on her career, Professor Cook described her mother and grandmother as turn-of-the-century suffragists who had brought her up to believe that ''girls deserved education as much as boys.
Professor Cook's career spanned five spheres: social work, labor organization, labor education, foreign service and the academy.
As a professor of education and an author who specialized in curriculum development, Dr. Miel (pronounced mile) taught and left her imprint on the subject throughout the country and around the world.
In 1945, she was appointed a professor at Teachers College and staff researcher at the Horace Mann-Lincoln Institute of School Experimentation.
She joined the faculty of Harvard Medical School as an instructor in pediatrics in 1969, rising to become an assistant professor of pediatrics and chief of the behavior unit in the Children's Service of the Massachusetts General Hospital.
A workhorse who cheerfully accepted administrative tasks others shunned, Dr. Wakin never became a full professor.

        Rose Steinberg Stamler, a pioneer in the prevention and treatment of high blood pressure and a professor emeritus of preventive medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School, died on Feb. 28 at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona.
The cause was heart failure, said her husband, Dr. Jeremiah Stamler, also a professor emeritus at the school.
Beginning in 1958, Professor Stamler, a sociologist by training, and her husband, a cardiovascular specialist, conducted studies to identify risk factors linked to heart disease.
Professor Stamler was also involved in other research projects, including a survey of more than 10,000 people worldwide that reaffirmed sodium as a factor in high blood pressure.
At her death, Professor Stamler was involved in a study to examine how protein, carbohydrates and fats in the diet affect blood pressure, said Alan Dyer, associate chairman of the department of preventive medicine at the medical school.
In addition to her husband, Professor Stamler is survived by a son, Paul J., of St. Louis, and a sister, Gertrude Asher of the Bronx.
      
Her father was Dr. Harvey Cushing, a neurosurgeon who was a professor of surgery at various times at Johns Hopkins, Harvard and Yale Universities.
A workhorse who cheerfully accepted administrative tasks others shunned, Dr. Wakin never became a full professor.
She was named an assistant professor at Marymount College in 1944.
She then served as provincial superior and, after her term expired, became Professor Egan at Empire State College-State University of New York in 1972.
Over the next 20 years, she was an associate dean and professor of cultural studies and French literature.
She remained at South Alabama until she had obtained a doctorate in Latin American studies from the University of Texas and become a professor of art there in 1981, but Dr. Schele spent virtually every spare moment at Palenque and other Mayan sites.
In 1955 she joined the Westminster Choir College in Princeton as head of its piano department and served as adjunct professor of piano pedagogy from 1981 to 1994.
      
At her death, she was clinical professor emeritus at the Psychoanalytic Center for Training and Research at Columbia.
The cause was complications of leukemia, said Dr. Nicholas Rand, her husband and a professor of French literature at the University of Wisconsin.
Ms. Torok's work, much of it published with Nicolas Abraham, her main collaborator, rejected most of Freud's core ideas, said Dr. Nelly Furman, a professor of French at Cornell University.

        Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Only the third woman to be named to the faculty of the University of Pennsylvania's medical school, Dr. Mudd, who later became the first woman to become a full professor there, taught the first course at an American medical school dealing with sexuality, a speciality that led her to help edit Alfred Kinsey's book on female sexuality and to work closely with the Masters and Johnson clinic in St. Louis, to which she contributed thousands of case histories from her own practice.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.
In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.

        Mary Elizabeth Grenander, a longtime professor of English who was an authority on the American writer Ambrose Bierce, known for his satirical wit and his horror stories, died in her sleep on Thursday at her home in East Berne, N.Y. She was 79.
Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Grenander, taught at the State University of New York at Albany  from 1948 until she retired in 1989 as a Distinguished Service Professor of English.
Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Grenander, taught at the State University of New York at Albany  from 1948 until she retired in 1989 as a Distinguished Service Professor of English.
''
        Professor Grenander received a Fulbright Fellowship and grants from institutions including the National Endowment for the Humanities, the New York Council for the Humanities and the Rockefeller Foundation.
She gave more than $1 million to SUNY Albany, including $500,000 to establish a professorship in memory of her husband, James W. Corbett, a  professor of physics at the same university, who died in 1994.
Lisa James of the university's Office of University Relations said that Professor Grenander and her husband prospered ''through long-term investments in the stock market.
She married Professor Corbett in 1972.
Ms. Jones retired as professor emeritus from Howard in 1977 but continued her career as an artist and lecturer, and exhibited in the United States, Europe and Asia.
She is survived by two sons, Carl, of Washington, where he is the bureau chief of The Dallas Morning News, and John, of Manhattan, a law professor at Rutgers University, and three grandsons.
      
Never one to be hampered by convention, Miss Smith went to work for the agriculture department of the Connecticut Agricultural College before she received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago; became an assistant professor at the University of Connecticut (as the agricultural college became in 1938)  before she received a master's degree from Radcliffe College, and never did bother to get a doctorate, although she did complete postgraduate studies at the London School of Economics.
Later, after becoming an assistant professor in 1943 and spending three years with the O.P.A.
She remained an assistant professor, but her work as a teacher and consumer marketing specialist -- among other things turning out pamphlets and conducting radio and television programs stressing thrift -- was so impressive that when she retired in 1961, she was named professor emeritus.
She remained an assistant professor, but her work as a teacher and consumer marketing specialist -- among other things turning out pamphlets and conducting radio and television programs stressing thrift -- was so impressive that when she retired in 1961, she was named professor emeritus.
She was the daughter of Abraham B. Hurwitz, a college professor who doubled as a magician, and Ann Hurwitz, a music coordinator for the New York City Board of Education and an accomplished pianist.

        Anna Jane Harrison, an emeritus professor of chemistry at Mount Holyoke College and the first woman to be president of the 150,000-member American Chemical Society, died on Aug. 8 at Holyoke Hospital.
She joined the faculty at Mount Holyoke College as an assistant professor in 1945, rose to professor in 1950 and headed the department of chemistry from 1960 to 1966.
She joined the faculty at Mount Holyoke College as an assistant professor in 1945, rose to professor in 1950 and headed the department of chemistry from 1960 to 1966.
Professor of Chemistry in 1976 and held that post until she retired in 1979.
In the early 1980's she was associated with the University of Maryland School of Medicine in Baltimore and  was chief of the clinical studies section in its Center for Vaccine Development in 1985 when Johns Hopkins named her an associate professor in the Department of International Health, School of Hygiene and Public Health.
She advanced to tenured professor in the department of international health in 1990 with a joint appointment in the department of molecular microbiology and immunology.

        Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State English professor who drew on her experience as a high school teacher in collaborating on an acclaimed series of books for young teen-agers, died Sept. 13 at a daughter's home in Des Moines.
Her daughter Sara Thompson said the cause was complications from hepatitis C.
        When Mrs. Irwin and her young partner, Lee Hadley, also an Iowa State English professor, put their heads and names together in the early 1970's, their target audience was 12- to 16-year-olds, an age group known in the publishing trade as young adults.

        Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home in Windham, Conn. A resident of Mansfield Hollow, Conn., she was 85 and had been a professor at the University of Connecticut.
While it continues for Dr. Rosenbloom, a retired professor at the Hunter School of Social Work who lives in Manhattan, the story has now ended for Mrs. Rosenberg, and with satisfying flair.
Her death on Sept. 11 at her apartment in Manhattan -- at the age of 85, in her own bed, after a long, peaceful retirement and a distinguished career as an assistant professor at the Columbia University Graduate School of Social Work -- was a triumphant flick of her hand, almost six decades coming, to the German soldiers who had arrived in the small city of Kolomyja in eastern Poland (now Ukraine) on July 3, 1941, and tacked up posters that declared in three languages, ''Death to All Jews.

        Carol Kay, a professor of 18th-century literature and culture at the University of Pittsburgh, died on Sept. 12 at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh.
Claudia L. Johnson, a professor of English at Princeton University, called the book ''one of this generation's most important studies of 18th-century fiction.
In 1989 she became an associate professor of English at the University of Pittsburgh.
In the 1930's, Frances Hamerstrom was one of the first women to ''crash the barrier into the all-male wildlife research profession,'' said Dr. Ray Anderson, a retired professor at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
''Mother Cleusa represented the continuity of an important line in Candomble,'' said Jeferson Bacelar, an anthropology professor at the Center for the Afro-Oriental Studies at the Federal University of Bahia.
After stepping down from the presidency, she joined New York University as an adjunct professor in its program on human sexuality.
Throughout her life Ms. Katzen was a visiting professor at schools around the country, including Wichita State University, Lehman College in New York and Cranbrook Academy of Art in Bloomfield Hills, Mich.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Denize, and a son, Hal, all of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
      
The writer James Michener introduced her to Edwin O. Reischauer, a widower with three children and a Harvard professor of Japanese Studies.
''
        Ms. Crockett was born April 20, 1919, in Tucson, Ariz. Before joining the Wharton faculty in 1954, she was a mathematics instructor at the University of Arizona, an assistant professor of economics at the University of Illinois, a staff researcher for the Cowles Commission at the University of Chicago and an economist with the Commerce Department.
She was promoted to full professor at Wharton in 1966 and named chairwoman of the finance department in 1977.
''
        As Maria Flores, Ms. Main wrote two other books based on events in Latin American dictatorships: the novel ''The Call From Calle Moreno,'' about a doctor called in to treat a victim of Juan Peron's police, and ''The Benefactor,'' a story inspired by the disappearance of the Columbia University professor Jesus de Galindez, who was widely assumed to have been kidnapped by agents of Rafael Trujillo, the Dominican dictator.
After attending Barnard College for one year, she married Mr. Cahn, a lawyer and later a constitutional law professor at New York University, who died in 1964.
Tenure did not come easily for Professor Owens.
Speaking to a reporter for the Harvard Law Bulletin in 1988, another professor at the law school,  Milton Katz, described the granting of tenure for her as ''a delayed justice,'' and Professor Owens herself said at the time, ''It was a decision that I also felt was overdue.
Speaking to a reporter for the Harvard Law Bulletin in 1988, another professor at the law school,  Milton Katz, described the granting of tenure for her as ''a delayed justice,'' and Professor Owens herself said at the time, ''It was a decision that I also felt was overdue.
Even after Professor Owens had gained tenure, said Ms. Harris, her niece, she was assigned, condescendingly, to teach women's' studies.
Asked once by a reporter how she had decided to concentrate on tax law, she said: ''I think at one point Professor Surrey asked me, 'What is creditable tax?
''
        Professor Owens was the author of ''The Foreign Tax Credit'' (I.T.P., 1961), which Prof. Oliver Oldman of Harvard called ''one of the best tax books ever written.
'' Professor Oldman said the beauty of the work was the way it organized ''the law into a structured, reasoned whole.
''
        Professor Owens was also the author, with Gerald Ball, of the two-volume ''The Indirect Credit'' (I.T.P., 1975 and 1979).
In midcareer, Professor Owens also developed an interest in natural resources law.
In her 40's when she married Harold G. Henderson, a Columbia professor of Japanese art who had served on General MacArthur's staff and composed Emperor Hirohito's renunciation of divinity, Miss Benjamin soon drew her husband into her scholarly detective work.
Dr. Alexander later became a professor at Jackson State University, where she founded the Institute for the Study of the History, Life and Culture of Black People in 1968.
She was  dean at Russell Sage College and Nazareth College of Rochester before moving to Oswego as executive vice president, provost and professor of English in 1974.
She was a professor of public health there until her retirement in 1957.
Her reputation has seemingly been eclipsed by that of her late husband, Yvor Winters, the poet, professor and critic who wrestled Hart Crane's ''Bridge'' into print and made Stanford -- and Los Altos -- a magnet for three generations of poets.
''
        The daughter of a poetry-spouting English professor, Miss Lewis was born in Chicago and grew up in Oak Park where she and her 1899 contemporary, Ernest Hemingway, contributed their first works to the same high school literary magazines, she deriving inspiration by summering even deeper in the north woods than he and finding a lifelong fascination with nature and the natural flow of life.
In 1978, she became an adjunct professor at the Fashion Institute of Technology in Manhattan in a program preparing young people for careers in cosmetics.
Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring from a career largely in family therapy in New York, said Dr. Samuel Roll, a professor of psychology at the University of New Mexico.
Also in 1971, she became a clinical professor of psychiatry at the University of New Mexico, and at the university's Child Guidance Center she became chief of family therapy service.
