The cause was pneumonia, said John Cummings, associate chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, where I. Michael Heyman, Mrs. Heyman's husband, is a former chancellor and a professor at the law school.
Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison, a professor of psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine who met Dr. Braiker in graduate school, said she ''brought an extremely strong theoretical background to popular writing.
Dr. Marx became a professor emerita at Einstein in 1995, and spent most of her time at home in Southbury, Conn., before recently moving to an assisted-living facility there.

        Mary A. Gardner, a journalism professor whose teaching had a strong influence on contemporary journalism in Mexico and Latin America, died Jan. 22 in East Lansing, Mich., her sister-in-law, Donna Gardner, said.
In 1961 she moved to the University of Texas, where she was an assistant professor until 1966.
In 1999, with Jeffrey L. Edleson, a professor at the University of Minnesota, she wrote a set of guidelines for professionals in civil courts, child welfare services and domestic violence programs.
She had been a clinical professor of social work at the University of Iowa since 1993.
In 12 books and many other writings, Dr. McCord, a professor at Temple University, disputed the effectiveness in fighting crime of boys' clubs, summer camps, programs in which young offenders visit prisons, D.A.R.E.
But she left after five years, pulled by her marriage in 1965 to Milton Vasil Anastos, a professor of Byzantine Greek at the University of California, Los Angeles.
in 1967, and then a professor.
She was appointed professor in the school of fine arts of the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro in 1983.
''With that action, Courtenay-Latimer became the point person and den mother for all who were to study the fish,'' said Dr. Keith S. Thomson, professor emeritus of natural history at Oxford University and author of the book ''Living Fossil: The Story of the Coelacanth'' (1991).
A small, outwardly shy woman who spoke with a heavy German accent, she was nervous when asked to fill in for a popular professor and master lecturer.
In 1965, Dr. Kübler-Ross became an assistant professor in psychiatry at the University of Chicago Medical School, where a group of theology students approached her for help in studying death.

        Anne Coffin Hanson, an art historian and curator and the first woman to be hired as a full tenured professor at Yale, died yesterday at her home in New Haven.
Professor Hanson's presence as a teacher, role model and mentor inspired many students, especially women, to become art historians and curators.
Professor Hanson initially trained as an artist.
Over the next several years Professor Hanson taught at Swarthmore College, Bryn Mawr and New York University and was a consultant at the International Study Center of the Museum of Modern Art.
In 1969 and 70 she was a visiting lecturer at Yale and later in 1970 joined the Yale faculty as full professor, the first woman to do so.
In 1971, shortly after being hired at Yale, Professor Hanson was the plaintiff in a suit to admit women on the Yale faculty to Mory's, the all-male eating club.
In 1978 she was named John Hay Whitney Professor of the History of Art at Yale.
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
Professor Goffen's method paid careful attention to the social and economic context surrounding artists.
Professor Goffen, who had been a distinguished professor at Rutgers since 1988, was born in Brooklyn in 1944 and graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1966.
Professor Goffen, who had been a distinguished professor at Rutgers since 1988, was born in Brooklyn in 1944 and graduated from Mount Holyoke College in 1966.
At the time of her death, Professor Goffen was working on a book about women in the Renaissance and the Last Judgment as painted by artists from Giotto to Michelangelo.
Serge Gavronsky, a professor of French literature at Barnard College, said in a 1995 interview that Ms. Sagan's early novels expressed the rebelliousness and cynicism of many of her peers in the French bourgeoisie.
''
        Roger Shattuck, a cultural historian and professor of French at Boston University, said in 1995 that Ms. Sagan's reputation ''had declined considerably after her first half-dozen novels'' because she wrote too much and repeated herself and because of changing literary fashions.
''Many people did not believe it was a real entity,'' said Dr. Mona Shangold, a former assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
Published by Random House in 1996, ''Ants on the Melon'' received wide attention, partly because of Ms. Adair's personal story (a retired English professor, by then blind from glaucoma, she had written poetry all her life but had published little since the 1940's) and partly for the unaffected style and universal themes of her work.
Ms. Adair held a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College and a master's from Radcliffe and was a professor at California Polytechnic University in Pomona for many years.
''It's not unlike the Leda and the swan myth,'' said Terry Matheson, a professor of English at the University of Saskatchewan and the author of ''Alien Abductions: Creating a Modern Phenomenon'' (Prometheus, 1998).
By the mid-1970's, its finances were precarious, said Samuel Walker, a professor of criminal justice at the University of Nebraska, Omaha, and the author of ''In Defense of American Liberties: A History of the ACLU.
However, Orie Endo, a language professor at Bunkyo University in Tokyo and a leading scholar of the writing system, said in an e-mail message that at least two other women knew and still used some Nushu.
Laura Miller, a professor of linguistic anthropology at Loyola University in Chicago, said in an e-mail message that she had heard reports that other anthropologists working in China had found other women who continued to use Nushu.
Professor Zhao said the belief was that ''anything to do with women was inferior, insignificant.
She practiced briefly at New York University, then returned to Columbia in 1946 and was named an assistant professor there five years later.
Dr. Ferrer was appointed professor of clinical medicine in 1972 and became a professor emeritus in 1981.
Dr. Ferrer was appointed professor of clinical medicine in 1972 and became a professor emeritus in 1981.
She was an adjunct professor at Lehigh University from 1964 to 1979 and later taught at N.Y.U.
Her death was announced by Bryn Mawr College, where Dr. de Laguna was the William R. Kenan Jr. professor emeritus of anthropology.
''She found in camp an aesthetic that was very different from what the straight world had acknowledged up to that point, and she managed to make camp 'straight' in a way,'' Arthur C. Danto, the Johnsonian professor emeritus of philosophy at Columbia and the art critic for The Nation, said yesterday in a telephone interview.
In 1943 she married Jarvis A. Thurston, whom she met in a writing class and who became a professor of English; he survives her.
