Dr. Kestenberg, a professor emeritus at New York University Medical School, taught generations of psychiatrists, psychologists, psychoanalysts and other experts on development, mental health and dance-movement therapy.
Professor Komarovsky retired in 1970 after 32 years on the faculty of Barnard College.
''
        In 1991, Ellen V. Futter, who was Barnard's president at the time, said Professor Komarovsky's ''research has been crucial to our understanding of today's women and the choices they make.
''
        In that year Professor Komarovsky received the Distinguished Career Award of the American Sociological Association.
'' She noted that Professor Komarovsky observed bleakly that, as Dr. Simmons put it, ''while attitudes have changed, institutions have not.
''
        In researching the book, Professor Komarovsky used interviews, questionnaires and surveys to study the attitudes of more than 200 students in the Barnard class of 1983.
''
        Professor Komarovsky found that 76 percent of the female students planned, at the time they entered Barnard, on combining career, marriage and children in the coming years.
Professor Komarovsky also found that most of the women she surveyed found it hard to attain relationships that they considered satisfactory with men, although those women had had chances to interact with men from a variety of backgrounds.
Rather similarly, Professor Komarovsky wrote, on the New York Times Op-Ed page in 1981: ''Young women are becoming aware that the call to equal opportunities for women outside the home is an empty slogan as long as the society insists on traditional role segregation within the family.
''We have much to learn from Sweden,'' Professor Komarovsky wrote: ''Modified work patterns for both sexes, housing patterns permitting more-cooperative ties among child-rearing families, accessible child-care centers of high quality for all economic classes.
Colleagues regarded Dr. Peplau as the ''mother of psychiatric nursing,'' said Dr. Grayce M. Sills, professor emeritus at the Ohio State University College of Nursing and a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing.
She retired from Rutgers as a professor emeritus in 1974.
Though overshadowed in history by the editor's famous second wife, the author Clare Boothe Luce, Mrs. Tyng played an important role in the life of Mr. Luce, who sought her advice even after they were divorced, said Robert E. Herzstein, a professor of history at the University of South Carolina and the author of ''Henry R. Luce'' (Scribner, 1994).
In 1972, Stanford named Dr. Payne a professor of medicine.
Three years later, her status changed again, to professor emerita.
In an interview posted on the society's Web site, Dr. Payne recalled what led up to her appointment as professor.
''No one had ever looked at that'' before Dr. Ainsworth's work, said Jude A. Cassidy, an associate professor of psychology at the University of Maryland at College Park.
''These findings had a big impact on how pediatricians advised mothers in the second half of the 20th century,'' said Robert S. Marvin, a professor of psychiatry at the University of Virginia.
She returned to the university as an assistant professor in 1946.
She became a full professor there in 1963, a year after she began her study of infant-mother attachment.
''
        In 1974 Dr. Ainsworth, who was divorced from her husband in 1960, moved to Charlottesville, home of the University of Virginia, where she was a professor from 1975 to 1984.
She retired as professor emeritus in 1984 and remained professionally active until 1992.
Frank Freidel, a professor of American history at Harvard University, wrote in The New York Times Book Review that Japanese-Americans in the western United States, numbering over 100,000, ''became the scapegoats for the attack on Pearl Harbor.
She also was an assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at Columbia University and associate attending psychiatrist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute from the 1950's until 1980.
Her father was a Spanish professor at the University of North Carolina, her mother a frustrated writer full of unfulfilled literary aspirations.
Helen Searing, a professor of art at Smith College who knew Ms. Boutelle, said her revelations about Julia Morgan were ''indispensable because before that she was virtually unknown to all but a handful of architectural historians.
''
        ''Sara Boutelle was not a feminist by today's standards and not strident at all,'' said Professor Searing, ''but she put the spotlight on women in architecture, especially on Julia Morgan.
''A professor from a leading university with a strong graduate horticulture program visited me once,'' she told an interviewer in 1978 with obvious delight.
While serving in the Senate, she was also an associate professor at Essex County College.
Ms. Ross is survived by a daughter, Linda Proctor of Concord, N.H.; her companion, George Hofmann, an artist and professor at Hunter College, and two grandchildren.
      
Ms. Shacklock was a professor at the Royal Academy of Music from 1968 to 1984, and became president of the Association of Teachers of Singing in 1995.

        Sherley Anne Williams, a daughter of migrant workers who became an award-winning novelist, poet and playwright as well as a professor at the University of California, died on July 6 at a hospital in San Diego.
More recently, she was a professor at the Foreign Service Institute and the National Defense University.
She retired that year from Cornell University-New York Hospital School of Nursing, where she was a professor for many years.

        Anneli Cahn Lax, a professor and editor who was a leader in the publishing of mathematical literature, died on Friday at her home on Manhattan's Upper West Side.
Professor Lax had pancreatic cancer, said her husband, Peter Lax.
She retired in 1992 from New York University, where she had been a professor for 31 years after holding other posts there for 18 years.
It was planned, by Professor Lax and others, to make mathematics accessible to the general reader without stinting on technical accuracy.
In addition, Professor Lax ''led the way in changing mathematical pedagogy, in exploring the connections of mathematics to the larger curriculum, in understanding the interplay between language and mathematics,'' Joanne V. Creighton, president of Mount Holyoke College, said in awarding her an honorary degree in 1997.
President Creighton said Professor Lax's experiences in mathematics and family life had endowed her with a special awareness of the challenges confronting young women interested in mathematics.
Professor Lax was a longtime active member of the New York Academy of Sciences and was instrumental in shaping its program of science education for children.
Professor Lax was born in Kattowitz, Germany.
Besides her husband of 51 years, who is also a professor of mathematics at N.Y.U., she is survived by a son, Dr. James D. Lax of Manhattan,  and three grandsons.
      

        Mary C. Weitzman, who was a chorus girl as a teenager, a college freshman at 35, later a professor and finally a respected medical researcher, died on Saturday at a Manhattan hospital.
Dr. Weitzman's impact was as much human as scientific, said Sam Seifter, a professor of biochemistry at Einstein.
1,'' said Perry Link, a professor of modern Chinese language and literature at Princeton University.
''She ran the gamut -- going as far back as China's classical period in the 5th century B.C., through later imperial works in the 7th through 19th centuries, and on to the moderns,'' Professor Link said.
''She clung to it the way someone holds on to a stock that falls in value,'' said Professor Link, who knew Mrs. Yang.
Born Faith Apfelbaum in New York in 1936, she grew up in Manhattan and in New Rochelle, N.Y., and attended Cornell University, where she came under the thrall of an authoritative English professor named William M. Sale Jr. She worked on the school newspaper with his son, Kirk, whom she would marry.
Bode was born on July 14, 1943, in Penn Yan, N.Y., the daughter of the late Carl Bode, a professor of English and American Studies at the University of Maryland, and the former Charlotte Watkins Smith.
