
        Dr. Ruth Whittemore, a Yale professor who conducted groundbreaking research in pediatric cardiology based on data from clinics she founded in 1940's, died on Dec. 27 in North Branford, Conn. She was 84.
Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      
Professor Borgese was the last surviving child of Thomas Mann.
In 1939, Elisabeth married Giuseppe A. Borgese, a professor 36 years her senior who had fled Fascist Italy; he died in 1952.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
In the 1970's, Professor Borgese formed the International Oceans Institute, which has since grown to 20 centers.
She grew up surrounded by lamas and a loving family, said William Edelglass, a professor of philosophy who specializes on Tibet at Emory University.
Shelley Smith Mydans was born on May 20, 1915, in Palo Alto, Calif., the daughter of a professor of journalism at Stanford University.
She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor of art history at Brandeis.
Wilma Cannon Fairbank was born on April 23, 1909, in Cambridge, Mass., the oldest child of Dr. Walter B. Cannon, a professor at the Harvard Medical School, and the author Cornelia James Cannon.
Her father, Dr. John Rock, was a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the first birth control pill.
The family says Dr. Rock, a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the birth control pill, did not perform abortions.
      
''She was a leader in raising awareness and funding in search of a cure for scleroderma,'' said Dr. M. Kari Connolly, a professor of dermatology and medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, who has been doing research about scleroderma for 10 years.
Catharine R. Stimpson, a professor at Rutgers, said then in an interview with The New York Times that what matters in the books ''is not her sex appeal but how tough and smart and adventurous she is.
Based on her experience in testing and teaching poor readers, Professor Roswell took a more positive tack.
Professor Roswell is survived by a son, Dr. Arthur, of Bridgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Elaine Roswell of New Haven; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      
Ms. Bober, a professor emerita of the humanities at Bryn Mawr, was known for her unusually wide range of interests, among them Roman provincial sculpture, Renaissance architectural theory, the history of collecting and antiquarianism, and the story of culture and cuisine.
Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
At the University of California, Berkeley, where she was a professor of African-American Studies, she founded Poetry for the People, which trains undergraduates to take poetry to community groups as a form of political empowerment.
'' Mr. Marshall asked, said Irven DeVore, the More research professor of anthropology at Harvard.
In 1953, she married Allen Walker Read, a linguist who is now professor emeritus of English at Columbia University, and moved the institute to New York.
She was a professor at the Juilliard School from 1985 until earlier this year.

        Eileen Jackson Southern, a scholar of Renaissance and African-American music and the first black woman to be appointed a tenured full professor at Harvard University, died on Sunday at her home in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 82.
She became a full professor in 1972 at York College, where she also served as chairwoman of the music department.
She headed the department of Afro-American studies from 1975 to 1979 and retired in 1987 as a professor emeritus.
She is survived by her husband of 60 years, Professor Southern; a daughter, April S. Reilly of Florence, Calif.; a son, Edward J., of Port Charlotte; a sister, Stella Hall of Chicago; and three grandchildren.

        Dr. Jeanne L. Noble, a professor of education who in 1962 became one of the first African-American women to receive tenure at New York University, died on Oct. 17 at New York University Medical Center.
At the time of her death, she was professor emeritus at the City University of New York's Graduate Center and at Brooklyn College.
She and a professor shuffled them on her living room floor until a larger narrative fell into place.
That year she started her academic career as an assistant professor of history at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
At her death Dr. Hareven was the Unidel professor of family studies and history, with a joint appointment in urban affairs and public policy.
