Dr. Carlson was a professor of psychology at Rutgers University, retiring in 1996.

        Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who made advances in the study of perception and learning processes in children, died on Dec. 30 in Columbia, S.C. She was 92.
Her marriage in 1932 to Dr. James J. Gibson, a psychology professor who also conducted research on perception, was both a help and a hindrance to her career.
In 1965, after the rules changed, she was appointed to an endowed chair as a professor of psychology, and the Gibsons became one of the first married couples in a single department at the university.
Correction:  January 8, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who was a pioneer in perception studies, misstated the number of her grandchildren and referred incompletely to her residence.
The cause was liver cancer, said an associate, Norma Field, professor of Japanese studies at the University of Chicago.
She was serving as stage manager of a college production of ''Romeo and Juliet'' when she met Mr. Kerr, then a professor of drama at Catholic University in Washington.
As Ms. Flynn described that first meeting to Robert Cherny, a history professor at San Francisco State University who is working on a biography of Mr. Bridges, her future husband was quite drunk.

        Anne Logan Davis Wichern, a lung specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and professor emeritus at New York University who established one of the country's first emphysema clinics, died March 9.
She started her academic career as an instructor at the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1957, rising to assistant professor of medicine in 1968.
When she died, she was an assistant professor at Mills College, in Oakland, where she taught fiction-writing to undergraduates and graduate students.
Her mother, 59, was an assistant professor and the chief librarian at Dowling College in Oakdale, N.Y.
        Ms. Davis was born in Durham, N.C., her family's longtime hometown.

        Erika Fromm, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Chicago and an expert on the use of hypnosis in therapy, died on Monday at her home in Chicago.
Professor Nelkin, a prolific author who began her research at Cornell in 1963, was a close observer of science and how it is perceived -- and, often, misperceived -- by the public.
''
        But Professor Nelkin, whose husband of 50 years, Mark Nelkin, is a physicist, was no enemy of science.
Although she never earned more than a bachelor's degree in philosophy from Cornell, Professor Nelkin rose to hold one of N.Y.U.
's highest ranks, university professor.
Professor Nelkin believed that the science would be unable to live up to the hopes floated by its promoters, many of whom stood to make a lot of money.
Her father was an English professor who adhered to Brahmo Samaj, a religious movement that rejected caste.
Her husband, who was a Charles Evans Hughes Professor of Law at Columbia, died in 1990.

        Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Correction:  September 25, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Mary Viscountess Eccles, a leading bibliophile and collector of material on Samuel Johnson, misstated the name of the New York University professor who collaborated with her and her first husband in editing a volume of Johnson's works.
In 1942, she received a call from Elizabeth Reynard, a Barnard professor who was to become assistant director of the Waves.
Professor Reynard said that Miss McAfee, who was to become Waves director, wondered if she was interested in joining.
She made her debut at the Washington National Cathedral in 1941 and was the chair of the organ department at Eastman from 1953 to 1955, when her husband, Harold Gleason, an organ professor at Eastman, retired.
He is now a professor at the University of Minnesota and helped persuade his mother to participate in the documentary.
Whether serotonin influences the anterior pituitary is an issue that many scientists debate to this day, said Dr. Marc Freeman, a professor of biological science and neuroscience at Florida State University.
Professor Heilbrun, who had written of taking her own life in a 1997 book, ''The Last Gift of Time: Life Beyond Sixty,'' committed suicide, said her son, Robert.
''
        Aside from serving as an instructor at Brooklyn College in 1959-60 and as a visiting lecturer or professor at Yale, Princeton, Swarthmore and other colleges, Ms. Heilbrun spent her entire academic career at Columbia, joining the faculty in 1960 as an instructor of English and comparative literature and retiring in 1992 as the Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities.
''
        Aside from serving as an instructor at Brooklyn College in 1959-60 and as a visiting lecturer or professor at Yale, Princeton, Swarthmore and other colleges, Ms. Heilbrun spent her entire academic career at Columbia, joining the faculty in 1960 as an instructor of English and comparative literature and retiring in 1992 as the Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities.
Her heroine, like her creator, was a professor of literature and a feminist.
The books offered scathing depictions of academic backbiting, observations on Ivy League social pretensions and thinly veiled, unflattering portraits of Columbia colleagues, including one professor who seemed to have been modeled after the writer Lionel Trilling.
She was married in 1945 to James Heilbrun, a Harvard student who became a professor of economics at Fordham University.
''
        On the Columbia faculty, Ms. Heilbrun rose through the ranks: assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, full professor with tenure in 1972, Avalon Professor in 1985.
''
        On the Columbia faculty, Ms. Heilbrun rose through the ranks: assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, full professor with tenure in 1972, Avalon Professor in 1985.
''
        On the Columbia faculty, Ms. Heilbrun rose through the ranks: assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, full professor with tenure in 1972, Avalon Professor in 1985.
''
        On the Columbia faculty, Ms. Heilbrun rose through the ranks: assistant professor in 1962, associate professor in 1967, full professor with tenure in 1972, Avalon Professor in 1985.
Dr. Whiting, who joined Harvard's faculty in 1952, became one of the first women at the university to receive tenure when she was named professor of education at the graduate school of education in 1974.
Edward Mendelson, a Columbia University professor and Auden's literary executor, said in an interview on Thursday that ''Auden in Love'' (Simon & Schuster, 1984) was important because it made it possible to understand the Auden-Kallman relationship, which endured for 34 years, ''in ways that would have been impossible without it.
''What she remembered corresponded to things she could not have looked up,'' Professor Mendelson said.
Ms. Smythe was appointed dean in 1990, when she also became professor of health policy and economics at the school.
The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of pediatrics at the University of Minnesota.
A retired professor of social work, Dr. Konopka was the author of several works, including ''The Adolescent Girl in Conflict.
She remained a professor at the University of Minnesota until her retirement in 1978.
Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
Named a full professor in 1968, she was dean of the division of social sciences from 1972 until she joined the staff at Yeshiva University in 1977.
She was the academic dean at Yeshiva until 1981 and a political science professor until 1993.
''Her testimony would help people understand the clinical impact of a cult's manipulation and exploitation,'' said Dr. Richard Ofshe, a sociology professor at the University of California at Berkeley who worked with Dr. Singer for 20 years.
She became an adjunct professor at Berkeley in the 1950's.
Dr. Bates, a professor of cognitive science at U.C.S.D.
In putting forth her ideas, Dr. Bates criticized the theories of the linguist Noam Chomsky of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and his colleague Dr. Steven Pinker, the psychology professor, now at Harvard.
