Miss Hsieh ''pioneered the literary construction of a soldier image for women -- as imaginative as it may have been -- and thereby influenced this kind of literature in China for decades,'' said Charles A. Laughlin,  professor of modern Chinese literature at Yale University.
The cause was cancer, said officials at the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Fromkin, an emeritus professor of linguistics, had taught since 1965.
Miss Miner learned of the Brooklyn children's garden, the first to be included within a scientific botanic garden, as a freshman at Smith College when her botany professor mentioned it.
Peter G. Rowe, a Harvard professor of architecture, wrote about her work in his book ''Modernity and Housing.
'' A particularly interesting and praiseworthy achievement of hers, Professor Rowe wrote, was her innovative design of a standardized kitchen.
When her husband, an Illinois Democrat, left the Senate in 1997, Mrs. Simon joined him on the faculty of Southern Illinois University at Carbondale as an adjunct professor of library affairs.
She was appointed an assistant professor in biochemistry at the medical school in 1976 and became a full professor in 1991.
She was appointed an assistant professor in biochemistry at the medical school in 1976 and became a full professor in 1991.
She was a niece of Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin, a professor of physiology who served as Cuba's provisional president in 1933 and '34 and as president from 1944 to 1948.
''
        Soon Mrs. Glover became a courier for Pierre Kaan, a philosophy professor who was a major figure in the Resistance.
Professor Kaan, who was Jewish, was eventually captured and killed in a Nazi death camp.
In addition to her husband, Professor Ronald Dworkin, who teaches at New York University and at the University of London's University College, she is survived by a son, Anthony of London; and a daughter, Jennifer Dworkin of Manhattan.
      
He died in 1987; she became an emeritus professor of biochemistry in 1995.
She was named an associate professor in 1972 and a full professor in 1980.
She was named an associate professor in 1972 and a full professor in 1980.

        Ruth D. Turner, a Harvard professor, author, curator and diver who became one of the world's leading experts in the species of mollusks that devour wooden piers and sunken ships, died on April 30 at a nursing home in Waltham, Mass.
Since 1976, she has been a professor of biology.

        Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92.
She then was a research fellow, psychologist and assistant professor at Rockford College in Illinois.
She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
''
        In 1991 she and her husband, a  retired associate professor of medicine at Columbia University's medical school, gave the center her collection of more than 100,000 photographic images, almost all taken at the center.
At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
Professor Blair was a regular guest at the White House, and the Clintons reciprocated, visiting her in Fayetteville three times in recent months during her illness.
Professor Blair was born in Washington.
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
      
From 1972 to 1982, she was a professor of public health economics at Columbia University, and from 1971 to 1982, was associate director of its Center for Community Health Systems.

        Barbara T. Christian, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California at Berkeley and a pioneer of contemporary American literary feminism, died on June 25 at her home in Berkeley.
In 1971, she was appointed assistant professor at Berkeley.
In 1986, she became the first to be promoted to full professor.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
She then taught classes as an adjunct professor at Boston University until 1993.
Dr. Milton, who lived in Chevy Chase, Md., died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said her husband, Henry Friedlander, a professor of history at the City University of New York and president of the German Studies Association.
She is survived by Professor Friedlander.
      
At her death, she was a professor in the department, a position she had held since 1973.
Besides her husband, a Cornell professor emeritus, she is survived by two daughters, Judy Salpeter of Berkeley, Calif., and Dr. Shelley Salpeter of Woodside, Calif.; a sister, Naomi Lasher of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      

        Anna Berenson Mayer, a social work policy planner and retired professor of social policy at Rutgers University, died on Wednesday at a New Brunswick, N.J., hospital.
At her death, she was also a professor in the department of Spanish and Portuguese and director of the university's graduate program in Spanish.
Born in Venezuela, she was formerly a journalist and film critic in Caracas and an assistant professor at the University of Buenos Aires.
She became a full professor this year.
