The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the University of Pittsburgh, where Professor Rubin had taught for 21 years before retiring in 1981.
Dr. Andre-Schwartz was also an associate professor of medicine at Tufts University School of Medicine.

        Elizabeth Flower, professor emeritus of philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania and co-author of a standard history of philosophy, died on Monday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.
She herself was honored in 1988 with a volume "Values and Value Theory in Twentieth Century America: Essays in Honor of Elizabeth Flower" (Temple University Press), edited by Professor Murphey and Ivar Berg.
Professor Hatfield said she had carried on the Pragmatist school of philosophy in the United States.
She received her promotion to full professor in 1974.
She also contributed to the "Oxford Garden Companion" and to books by her husband, Charles Alexander Jencks, a post-modernist architect and professor at the University of California at Los Angeles School of Architecture.
At her death, she was distinguished professor emeritus of anatomy and structural biology and of neuroscience at Einstein.
A past chairwoman of the department of professional studies, she was a professor of education and psychology.
That proved unnecessary when a family she worked for introduced her to Katherine Clark, a young Harvard graduate who came to Mobile in 1984 to teach English at the University of South Alabama and is now a professor of English at the University of New Orleans.
"As soon as I met her, I knew there was a book in her," Professor Clark said yesterday, recalling that she had taped 100 hours of Mrs. Logan's recollections before editing them into what became "Motherwit: An Alabama Midwife's Story" (Dutton, 1989).
A longtime professor of education at New York University, Miss Keliher cherished her unofficial title as the "grandmother of day care.
And in the 1960's, while winding down her wide-ranging academic career as a professor at Wheelock College in Boston, she became the Massachusetts regional training officer for Head Start, the Federal program designed to provide disadvantaged children with the preschool enrichment Miss Keliher had been preaching to parents and educators for decades.
Working as a clinical professor of psychiatry, she became the founder, in 1970, of the Human Sexuality Program at the Payne Whitney Clinic, one of the country's most prominent psychiatric clinics and part of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center complex.
From 1960 until she established her program at the Payne Whitney Clinic, she was an associate professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College and an associate attending psychiatrist at Metropolitan, Flower and B.S.
She was appointed a professor of psychiatry at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in 1970.

        Lee Hadley, an Iowa State English professor who helped turn a collaborative pedagogical sendup into an acclaimed literary career as half of a writing team known to young readers as Hadley Irwin, died on Tuesday at her home in Madrid, Iowa.
The cause was cancer, said her collaborator, Annabelle Irwin, a retired Iowa State professor.
Her main focus was her teaching, a task she accomplished with such flair that she was the only woman on the Iowa State faculty who was made a full professor without benefit of a doctorate.
"
        In years of research ignited by a professor who read her 80-page term paper at an astonishing rate while retaining its content, she found people from all walks of life who could read from 1,500 to 6,000 words a minute and sometimes more.
"
        In 1954, before she was even 30, she burst onto the literary scene when her novel "Hackenfeller's Ape," about an ape at the London Zoo and its increasingly close relationship to the professor observing its mating habits, won the Cheltenham Literary Festival First Prize for a first novel.
"She was a rarity," said Dominic Cheung, a poet and professor of East Asian languages at the University of Southern California.
C. T. Hsia, a retired professor of Chinese at Columbia University who once called Miss Chang "the most gifted Chinese writer to emerge in the 40's," compared her favorably yesterday with such widely acclaimed writers as Katherine Mansfield, Katherine Anne Porter, Eudora Welty and especially Flannery O'Connor and Franz Kafka.
Nearing, a professor of economics, left the academic world and moved far away from New York City and the Depression to the wilderness of Vermont, where they built their first farm.
" Professor Gates, who regards Dr. Simmons as a mentor, said, "She's the Jackie Robinson of college presidents.
Ms. Lillie, a professor of African studies at the University of Pittsburgh, said in a telephone interview: "She was brilliant.
She became an assistant professor of French, and later an assistant dean at the University of New Orleans.
She brought Ms. Morrison and Professor West to the Princeton faculty.
She tried to persuade Professor Gates to join the faculty, too, he said.
"We had a wish list of the qualities we wanted," said one member of the committee, Peter Rose, a sociology professor.
"
        Her friend, Professor Gates, said he was already planning ahead.
Professor Kriegel had retired from academic work after teaching at the University of Paris-Nanterre from 1969 into the 1990's.
A British historian of France, Douglas Johnson, wrote in The Independent on Friday that Professor Kriegel was respected as an individual force among French intellectuals.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
Professor Johnson -- whose French-born wife, Madeleine, roomed with Professor Kriegel in the 1940's -- said the explanation for her "remarkable career is to be found in her wartime experience" and gave this account:
        "Coming from a Jewish-Alsatian family and having passed idyllic school days in the Marais district of Paris, she encountered the anti-Semitic legislation of the occupation and then the infamous roundup of Jews on 16 July 1942.
"
        Dr. Elaine Pagels, a professor of religion at Princeton University who was a longtime friend, said: "She had a remarkable mind, and had she been born in another generation, she might well have done something herself.
Ms. Dearing was also a professor of design at Howard University.
Under her leadership, it prospered and published books by such well-known French writers as the poet and man of letters Yves Bonnefoy, currently a visiting professor at Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., and the poet Henri Michaux.

        Ruth Wilmanns Lidz, a clinical professor of psychiatry at the Yale University School of Medicine, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She was 85 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        A clinical professor since 1965, she had continued to work in the department, pursuing her interest in the psychotherapy of schizophrenia.
She was born in Heidelberg, Germany, the daughter of Karl Wilmanns, a professor and director of Heidelberg University's psychiatry department.
Dr. Lidz is survived by her husband of 56 years, Theodore Lidz, a Yale professor emeritus of psychiatry, and three sons, Victor, of Villanova, Pa., Charles, of Pittsburgh, and Jerome, of Eugene, Ore.
      
She married Charles Harris Wesley, an authority on black history and former professor and dean at Howard, in 1979.
Her brother, a former professor of medicine at Yale University, died in 1988.
      

        Elizabeth Ball Holmes, a University of Hawaii speech professor who was one of the state's foremost experts on Hawaiian pidgin English, died on Dec. 17.
Professor Holmes, also known as Elizabeth Carr, devoted most of her research  to the study of Hawaii's pidgin dialect, a combination of English, Hawaiian and  other languages.
She was an assistant professor of English at Rutgers University from 1969 to 1974, and she also held various teaching positions at Duke University, Atlanta University and Spelman College, among others.
She was on the faculty of Indiana University from 1961 until she retired as distinguished professor emeritus of history in 1993.
Some were written with her husband, Charles, also a professor emeritus of history at Indiana.
She joined the Indiana faculty as a lecturer in 1961 and by 1967 was a full professor in the history department.

        Dr. Georgia B. Christopher, a professor of English at Emory University, died on Dec. 16 in DeKalb Medical Center in Decatur, Ga. She was 62 and lived in Decatur.
After graduating from the University of Lausanne in Switzerland, she became an assistant clinical professor at Cornell University Medical College.

        Dr. Mary Dwight B. McNair Scott, a biochemistry professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was a pioneer in the identification of the B complex of vitamins and their functions, died on Feb. 9 at the Hahnemann Hospital in Philadelphia, where she lived.
The cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for breast cancer, said a spokesman for American University, where she was a professor and former dean of the school of education.
It was written in collaboration with her husband, David M. Sadker, a fellow professor at American's school of education.

        Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany.
The cause was cancer, said colleagues at the physics department at the University of Illinois, where Dr. Jones was active as a professor of physics until a month ago.
She joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1968 and became a tenured professor in 1978.
She joined the faculty as an assistant professor in 1968 and became a tenured professor in 1978.
She was associated with Temple University from 1963 to 1983 in various positions, including full professor and finally dean of student affairs.
Yet if there had not been a war on in 1944, and if Princeton had not found itself without a single Russian teacher at a time when there was a sudden, almost panicky upsurge in interest in the Soviet Union, it is doubtful that the university would have allowed the former Ludmilla Buketoff of New Britain, Conn., to be more than a faculty wife, the bride of John Turkevich, a professor of chemistry.
When Rutgers offered in 1961 to make her a full professor at Douglass, its women's division, she accepted, and spent the next 18 years dazzling students like her own daughter, Tamar Skvir, who recalled her mother yesterday as a mesmerizing lecturer who made Pushkin, Dostoyevsky and Tolstoy come alive.
Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
Professor Turkevich also served as a specialist in American education at the United States exhibit in Moscow in 1959.
Her husband, Edward Z. Rowell, a speech and philosophy professor at the University of California, died in 1975.
A professor of anthropology, she was the chairwoman of the department of anthropology at Ithaca College.
Dr. Fitchen is survived by her husband, Douglas B. Fitchen, a Cornell professor; a son, John H., of La Jolla, Calif.; and two daughters, Katherine F. Nisbet of Bozeman, Mont., and Sylvia Fitchen of Tucson, Ariz.
      
