She was an associate professor of psychology at Fordham University from 1967 to 1973, also serving as dean of St. Mary's Residence Hall for nuns doing graduate work at Fordham.

        Dr. Eileen Halsey Pike, a professor emeritus of microbiology at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died on Jan. 7 at the Ruth Taylor Institute, a nursing home in Mount Pleasant, N.Y. She was 73 years old and lived in White Plains.
She joined the faculty of New York Medical College in 1964 as an associate professor of parasitology and became a full professor of microbiology in 1976.
She joined the faculty of New York Medical College in 1964 as an associate professor of parasitology and became a full professor of microbiology in 1976.
She was a librarian and professor of library service at New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton from 1942-54, with a two-year leave as a visiting professor at the University of Teheran and library adviser to Iran.
She was a librarian and professor of library service at New Jersey State Teachers College in Trenton from 1942-54, with a two-year leave as a visiting professor at the University of Teheran and library adviser to Iran.
After receiving a Ph.D. in mathematics from Yale, she taught math at Vassar College, her alma mater, where she later became an associate professor.
"
        Dame Judith's 1937 marriage to Benjamin Harrison Lehman, a professor of English at the University of California at Berkeley, ended in divorce in 1939.
Surviving are her husband, Michael, a mathematics professor at Pace University; three stepchildren, David of Manhattan, Daniel of Highland Park, Ill., and Donald of Brooklyn, and three brothers, Charles Frank of Ardsley, N.Y., and Howard and Edward Frank, both of Boston.
      
At her retirement she was the associate chief for research in the nursing service at the hospital and an assistant professor at the University of California at San Francisco.
From 1976 to 1978, Ms. Carter was a fellow in creative writing at Sheffield University in England, and in 1980 and 1981 she was a visiting professor in the writing program at Brown University in Providence, R.I. She also taught at the Iowa Writers' Workshop.
She became a professor at the medical school and a doctor at the hospital, where she helped create the Ovarian Dysfunction Clinic.

        Evelyn Lord Smithson, a professor of classics and a noted archeologist who studied Greece in the Homeric age, died on Monday at her home in Amherst, N.Y. She was 68 years old.
At the time of her death, Miss Johnson was emerita professor of art at the college and honorary curator of modern art at the Allen Memorial Art Museum at Oberlin.
Her interest in Scandinavian art also led her to serve as visiting professor in the field at the University of Wisconsin in 1950-51, and to teach American art at Uppsala University in 1960.
She was chairman and professor of Russian at Vassar College from 1946 to 1961, after which she led the Slavic Department at SUNY, Albany, until 1972.

        Kathryn Beliveau Feuer, a scholar of Russian literature who ruffled the Soviet authorities by befriending dissident intellectuals during the cold war, died Sunday at The Cedars rehabilitation center in Charlottesville, Va. She was 65 years old and lived in Charlottesville, where she was a professor at the University of Virginia.
Surviving are her husband, Lewis Feuer, a noted sociologist, philosopher, and social critic; a daughter, Robin F. Miller of Newton, Mass., a professor of Russian literature at Brandeis University, and three granddaughters.
      
In 1964 she settled on Long Island to teach interior design at Adelphi University and the Parsons School of Design, and three years later she was appointed professor at the New York Institute of Technology.
In 1981 she moved to Richmond, where she taught at Virginia Commonwealth University until retiring as professor emerita in 1988.
Among the first American women to become a full professor of pediatrics, Dr. Nemir promoted medical careers for women as president of the American Medical Women's Association, North American vice president of Medical Women's International and its representative to the United Nations.

        Joan Hickcox Garrett-Goodyear, an associate professor of English at Smith College, died last Thursday at her home in South Hadley, Mass.
She committed suicide by asphyxiation, said her husband, Harold Garrett-Goodyear, a history professor at Mount Holyoke College.
Ms. Dryer was born in Toronto, a daughter of Pegeen Synge, an architect, and Douglas Dryer, a professor of philosophy at the University of Toronto.
She was also an associate clinical professor of psychiatry at the New York University School of Medicine, an associate psychoanalyst at the Karen Horney Clinic and a lecturer in family counseling at Iona College in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was also the author of many articles on loneliness in adolescents, the problems of obesity and women's issues.
Although in the movie's offstage scenes her 5-foot-5-inch frame seemed a bit blowzy and her manner a bit too Teutonic, her portrayal of Lola-Lola, who degrades and destroys an infatuated elderly professor (Emil Jannings), won her a Hollywood contract.
A Director's Search For a Cruel Temptress
        In early 1930, von Sternberg arrived in Berlin to make "The Blue Angel," based on the Heinrich Mann novel "Professor Unrat.

        Dr. June Louin-Tapp, a professor at the University of Minnesota's Institute of Child Development, died last Thursday in Osnabruck, Germany, while there for a two-month stay as a visiting professor at the University of Osnabruck.

        Dr. June Louin-Tapp, a professor at the University of Minnesota's Institute of Child Development, died last Thursday in Osnabruck, Germany, while there for a two-month stay as a visiting professor at the University of Osnabruck.
Her father, George Towns, was a professor at Clark Atlanta University.

        Alta Jablow, professor emeritus of anthropology at Brooklyn College, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Professor Jablow died of natural causes, said her daughter, Lisa Jablow.
Professor Jablow took particular interest in how societies used folk tales to pass their histories and customs from one generation to the next.
Born in Weehawken, N.J., Professor Jablow earned a bachelor's degree from New York University in 1940 and a doctorate from Columbia University in 1963.
She joined the Brooklyn College faculty, where her husband was also on the anthropology faculty, in 1947 as an adjunct professor and became a full-time faculty member in 1965.
Professor Jablow is survived by her husband, Joseph, and her daughter, Lisa, also of Manhattan.
      

        Dr. Joanna Hollenberg Sher, a professor of clinical pathology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn, died on July 4 at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She joined the faculty of the SUNY Health Science Center as an instructor in 1962 and was named full professor in 1977.
In 1987 she was named a distinguished service professor.
Charles Eisendrath, a professor at the University of Michigan, who oversaw the journalism prize, said the award grew out of her admiration for members of the press.
Dr. Dalven was retired as a professor of English literature and department chairwoman at Ladycliff College in Highland Falls, N.Y.
        Born in Preveza, Greece, she immigrated to the United States with her family as a youngster.
Her specialties were hematology and oncology, and she was a clinical professor at the New York University Medical Center.

        Dr. Dorothy Richardson Jones, an author and professor emeritus of English at Queens College died on Friday at Rutland (Vt.) Regional Medical Center.
Professor Jones, a native of Flushing, Queens, graduated from Hood College and held a master's degree from Columbia University and a Ph.D. from the University of Michigan.
Professor Jones joined Queens College as an instructor in 1939 and became a full professor in 1970.
Professor Jones joined Queens College as an instructor in 1939 and became a full professor in 1970.
She spent 33 years on the faculty, including five as head of the English Department and one as a visiting professor of English at the University of Leicester, England.
Professor Jones is survived by a brother, Dr. Edward R. Richardson of Dallas, and Lake St. Catherine, Vt.
Dr. Dalven was retired as a professor of English literature and department chairwoman at Ladycliff College in Highland Falls, N.Y.
        Born in Preveza, Greece, she immigrated to the United States with her family as a youngster.
Dr. Schulman, a professor of developmental biology and cancer, was known for her work with transfer RNA, or tRNA -- molecules that complete the process of synthesizing proteins according to the DNA code.
She joined Albert Einstein as an assistant professor in the Department of Developmental Biology and Cancer in 1968 and became a full professor 10 years later.
She joined Albert Einstein as an assistant professor in the Department of Developmental Biology and Cancer in 1968 and became a full professor 10 years later.
She worked variously as a technician, researcher and professor at Yale from 1928 to 1961, then worked nine years at Brown University.
Professor Sheridan was hired as dean at Brown in 1979 and remained in the post until 1987, when she resigned to return to her longtime career, the teaching of English.
She had arrived at Brown from Carleton College in Minnesota, where she had spent 26 years and had served at various times as the Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, chairwoman of the English department and faculty chairwoman.
Professor Sheridan was chairwoman of the American Association for Higher Education and a member of many educational groups, including the American Council on Education's Commission on Women in Higher Education.
After Professor Freeman died in 1953, she and another research associate, John A. Carroll, wrote the seventh and final volume of Freeman's authoritative "George Washington, a Biography" published by Scribner's in 1957.

        Judith N. Shklar, a professor of government at Harvard University, died Wednesday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston.
Professor Shklar specialized in 18th, 19th, and 20th century political and intellectual theory.
"
        Born in Riga, Latvia, Professor Shklar emigrated with her family first to Sweden and then in 1941 to Canada.
Professor Shklar is survived by her husband, Gerald Shklar, a professor at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine; two sons, David, of Cambridge, and Michael, of Leminister, N.H., and a daughter, Ruth, of Berkeley, Calif.
      
Professor Shklar is survived by her husband, Gerald Shklar, a professor at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine; two sons, David, of Cambridge, and Michael, of Leminister, N.H., and a daughter, Ruth, of Berkeley, Calif.
      
Professor Friedlaender, who held a joint professorship in economics and civil engineering, was dean of M.I.T.
Professor Friedlaender is survived by her husband, Stephen Friedlaender; two sons, Lucas Friedlaender and Nathaniel Friedlaender, both of Newton, and a brother, Alexander L. Fetter, of Palo Alto, Calif.
      

        Ruth Marguerite Vande Kieft, a professor emeritus of English at Queens College and an expert on Southern literature, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Professor Vande Kieft retired last year, ending a 30-year career at the college.

        Dr. Gloria Glikin Fromm, a professor of English at the University of Illinois in Chicago, died Nov. 12 at Governors Park, a nursing home and rehabilitation center in Barrington, Ill. She was 61 years old and lived in North Barrington.
She began her academic career at Brooklyn College in 1961 and, in 1970, moved to the Chicago campus of the University of Illinois, where she became a full professor in 1978.
After nearly 10 years of teaching at Smith, at Mount Holyoke and at Wellesley, she became an associate professor of art at Goucher College in Baltimore and remained there until her retirement at age 67.
She became an English professor at Hunter and lectured widely throughout the United States, Europe and Africa.
She became its first female full professor and helped organize its doctoral program.
from Harvard Medical School in 1959, was assistant clinical professor of psychiatry at the medical school and psychiatrist to the University Health Services.

        Dr. Dorothy Dinnerstein, a feminist author and professor emeritus of psychology at Rutgers University-Newark, died on Thursday in Englewood, N.J. She was 69 and lived in Leonia.
"The book had an enormous impact on the women's movement," said Marie M. Collins, professor of French at Rutgers-Newark and founder of its women's studies department.
She was teaching as a professor at Fordham University's School of Social Work at the time of her death.

        Marilyn Neufeld Bergner, a professor and researcher who helped to develop a widely used system for evaluating the medical condition of patients, died Dec. 12 at her home in Silver Spring, Md.. She was 59.
Since 1986, Dr. Bergner was a professor of health policy and management at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health.
"
        Besides teaching principles of characterization and script analysis at her school, Miss Adler had been an adjunct professor of acting at the Yale School of Drama and for many years headed the undergraduate drama department at New York University.
Professor Fitzgerald died of cancer at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, said Christy DeBoe Hicks, a City University spokeswoman.
A specialist in American Presidential bibliographies, Professor Fitzgerald was the series editor of three continuing multivolume bibliographies: Bibliographies of the American Presidents, Bibliographies of the United States, and Bibliographies of American Notables.
She went on to become a professor of English and creative writing at San Francisco State University from 1963 to 1979.

        Rebecca Ann Donovan, a sociologist and an associate professor at Hunter College, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Professor Donovan was the head of research at the Hunter College School of Social Work.

        Rosalind A. Lorwin, a professor emeritus of social psychology at San Diego State University and a former mayor of Del Mar, Calif., died Thursday at her home in Del Mar.
Professor Lorwin specialized in the psychological analysis of political violence.
Professor Lorwin was born in Manhattan, the daughter of Lewis Lorwin, an economist, and Rose Strunsky, a writer.
Professor Lorwin was a member of the Del Mar City Council from 1980 to 1984 and was Mayor from 1983 to 1984.
In addition to her daughter, Professor Lorwin is survived by her husband of 18 years, Alain Virnot; two sons, Tom, of Paris, and Steve, of Plainsboro, N.J; a brother, Boris, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      
