The cause was cancer, said Craig Werner, chairman of the Afro-American studies department at the University of Wisconsin, where Ms. McKay was Evjue professor of American and African-American literature.
An authority on black American literature of the 19th and 20th centuries, Professor McKay specialized in the study of fiction, autobiography and, especially, women's writing.
She was known in particular for the Norton Anthology of African American Literature, of which she was a general editor with Henry Louis Gates Jr.
        ''She was the central figure in the establishing of black women's studies as a presence in academic and intellectual life,'' Professor Werner said in a telephone interview yesterday.
''It's very necessary that we do this to establish the centrality of the African-American experience,'' Professor McKay told The New York Times in 1996.
Du Bois professor of the humanities at Harvard, said in an interview.
Professor Werner, of Wisconsin, recalled trying to assign Zora Neale Hurston's novel ''Their Eyes Were Watching God'' in the late 1970's, only to discover it was out of print.
That college students today routinely encounter Hurston, along with Alice Walker, Toni Morrison, Rita Dove and many others, is due in no small part to Professor McKay's work, several of her colleagues said.
Among Professor McKay's other books are ''Jean Toomer, Artist: A Study of His Literary Life and Work, 1894-1936'' (University of North Carolina, 1984); ''Critical Essays on Toni Morrison'' (G. K. Hall, 1988), a collection she edited; and the Norton Critical Edition, published in 2001, of Harriet Jacobs's ''Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl,'' which she edited with Frances Smith Foster.
Throughout her life, Professor McKay was circumspect about the date of her birth; accounts of her age in obituaries this week ranged from 59 to 75.
Professor McKay, who was divorced as a young woman, is survived by a sister, Constance Prout of Hollywood, Fla.; two children, Patricia Watson of St. Louis and Harry McKay of New York; one grandchild; and one great-grandchild.
      
Her most recent play, ''Third,'' about a female professor who is forced to question her staunchly held ideas about politics and ethics, opened in the fall at the Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater at Lincoln Center.
The cause was lung cancer, according to the Oriental Institute of the University of Chicago, where she was the John A. Wilson Distinguished Service Professor emeritus.
The cause was complications of ataxia, a degenerative neurological condition, according to the University of Southern California, where she was an emeritus professor of theater.
Professor Holland, who retired from U.S.C.
Few, however, disputed the hypnotic pull of Professor Holland's story.
''I knew I was a woman then,'' Professor Holland told Ebony magazine in 1992.
''I saw and heard things in that office I had never seen or heard before,'' Professor Holland told Ebony.
Professor Holland said afterward that she believed the Ku Klux Klan had firebombed the house in retaliation for her civil rights work.
Professor Holland taught at Buffalo from 1985 to 1993.
The author of a half-dozen plays, Professor Holland remained famous for ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' which has been performed by the Negro Ensemble Company, at the Goodman Theater in Chicago and at the Young Vic in London.
Professor Holland's three marriages ended in divorce.
She is survived by her son, the Laurance Rockefeller professor of philosophy at Princeton, who lives in Manhattan and Princeton, N.J., and three daughters, Isabel Endresen, an economist, of Windhoek, Namibia, Adwo Edun, a landscape gardener, of Lagos, Nigeria, and Abena Appiah of Kumasi; and eight grandchildren.
''At one time there was an effort to deport her,'' said Henry Finder, editorial director of The New Yorker, who is Professor Appiah's companion.
''She collected weights used for weighing gold but made of brass,'' Professor Appiah said.
Ms. Chaifetz was also an adjunct professor at Fordham University School of Law.
The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California.
The recipient of many awards and honorary degrees, she was a visiting professor at universities around the country, among them Columbia, Temple and the University of Southern California.
She was an adjunct professor at the University of Southern California and an instructor at the Aspen Music School until 1994.
In 1999, Ms. Caldwell accepted a post as distinguished professor of music at the University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, but left within several years because of poor health.
''
        George O'Neill, a professor of anthropology at City College in New York, died in 1980.
She arrived at Bryn Mawr in 1949, became an associate professor of classical archaeology in 1953 and was appointed chairman of the archaeology department in 1955, a position she held until 1983.
Ms. Morgan, a professor of law at New York Law School, developed key arguments in the school financing suit, in which she represented the Legislature's black, Puerto Rican and Hispanic caucus as an unpaid litigator, beginning in 1995.
''A big challenge would be just understanding what goes on in this world of cataloging because it's a really complicated world,'' Allyson Carlyle, an associate professor at the Information School at the University of Washington, said in an interview.
She deeply influenced distinguished students like Alicia Munnell, an assistant secretary of the treasury and member of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration and now a professor at the Carroll School of Management at Boston College.
Professor Munnell recounted last week how Dr. Bell's help continued through correspondence and networking for many years after graduation.
''It was just to make sure that the students she came into contact with knew they could do anything they wanted to, and that she was behind them pushing and applauding all the way,'' Professor Munnell said.

        Sister Rose Thering, a Roman Catholic nun and a former professor at Seton Hall University who battled anti-Semitism within her church and contributed to a historic Vatican declaration that Jews were not collectively responsible for the death of Jesus, died on Saturday at a convent in Racine, Wis. She was 85.
She said Sister Rose died at the Siena Center of the Sisters of St. Dominic, where she entered religious life in 1936 and had lived since retiring last year as professor emerita of education at Seton Hall, in South Orange, N.J.
A collaborator, Michael B. Sporn, a professor of pharmacology and medicine at Dartmouth, said T.G.F.-beta was later shown to have an effect on regulation of the heartbeat, the response of the eye to aging and also serves as ''a switching point, a node through which all kinds of information flows.
''Often Héloïse is seen to some extent as in the shadow of Abélard, whether one likes him or not,'' said Giles Constable, emeritus professor in the School of Historical Studies at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. ''And Mary, very correctly, I think, separated out Héloïse and concentrated on her work.
The cause was complications of a broken arm she suffered on June 30, said Sabine Feisst, a professor of musicology at Arizona State University who is writing a book on Dr. Newlin.
One continuing thread: she was a professor at various universities, until her retirement from Virginia Commonwealth University two years ago.
''
        Dr. Susan Gerbino, a professor at the New York University School of Social Work, said: ''She was way ahead of her time.
Dr. Miller is survived by her husband, S. M. Miller, an emeritus professor of sociology at Boston University.
Yet a quarter-century earlier, ''Seventeenth Summer'' anticipated many of these authors' concerns, as Teri Lesesne, a professor of library science at Sam Houston State University and a specialist in young-adult literature, explained in a telephone interview yesterday.
Dr. Shapiro was also a clinical professor of pediatrics at Washington.
Professor Ramey was most recently emeritus professor of physiology and biophysics at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, where she had taught for many years.
Professor Ramey was most recently emeritus professor of physiology and biophysics at the Georgetown University School of Medicine, where she had taught for many years.
)
        Reading Dr. Berman's remarks, Professor Ramey was moved to action.
Her comments were widely reproduced, and Professor Ramey was soon in great demand in the news media and on the lecture circuit.
Before joining the Georgetown faculty in 1956, Professor Ramey taught at Queens College, the University of Tennessee and the University of Chicago.
Throughout her research, which focused on the relationship between hormones and stress, Professor Ramey was struck again and again by the fact that men seem to be at a natural hormonal disadvantage: they are more inclined toward aggression, die sooner and are more prone to heart attacks and strokes.
''
        Dr. Berman, who helped propel Professor Ramey into the national spotlight, died in 1987, at 68, of a heart attack.
      
The death was confirmed by colleagues at the University of Illinois at Chicago, where Dr. Jonasson was a professor of surgery from 1975 to 1987.
She remained as a professor of surgery before moving to Ohio State in 1987.
She was an associate clinical professor of medicine at the New York Hospital-Cornell University Medical Center.
At her death, Ms. Willis was a professor of journalism at New York University.
She is survived by Mr. Aronowitz, a distinguished professor of sociology at the City University of New York and the Green Party candidate for governor of New York in 2002; their daughter, Nona Willis-Aronowitz, of Manhattan; two siblings, Michael Willis of Johannesburg, South Africa, and Penny Willis of Queens; four stepchildren, Michael O'Connell of Basking Ridge, N.J.; Kim O'Connell of Montclair, N.J.; Alice Finer and Hampton Finer, both of Brooklyn; and two step-grandchildren.

        Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston.
An advocate of ''bottom-up'' aid to farmers and villagers in the third world, Mrs. Morgenthau was the Adlai Stevenson Professor Emeritus of International Politics at Brandeis, where she taught from 1963 to 2003.
Ms. Kirkpatrick was a political science professor with no diplomatic experience when she arrived at the United Nations in February 1981.
In 1967, before completing her doctoral dissertation, she was appointed associate professor at Georgetown University.
Georgetown made her a full professor in 1973 and gave her the endowed Leavey Chair five years later.
