She got her first full-time newspaper job at The Greenwich Time in Connecticut, by running an ad in Editor and Publisher that began, ''Blue-eyed blonde with a nose for news and a way with words, fresh out of college.

        Ellen Scripps Davis, a horse breeder and granddaughter of the newspaper publisher Edward Wyllis Scripps, died on Feb. 8 in a fire at her home in San Diego.
She inherited the bulk of one of the great American fortunes when Jock Whitney -- sportsman, financier, publisher of The New York Herald Tribune, philanthropist, political mover and shaker, and Ambassador to Britain -- died in 1982.
The cause was liver failure after a fall at home, said a spokeswoman for her publisher, Moyer Bell.
Ms. Twigg-Smith, who had been married to Thurston Twigg-Smith, former publisher of The Honolulu Advertiser, had lived since 1970 in Hawaii, where she and her husband had put together a substantial collection of contemporary art.

        Dorothy Spence Briley, the editor in chief and publisher of Clarion Books and a vice president of the trade and reference division of the Houghton Mifflin Company, died last Sunday at her home in New York City.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
''Every publisher should have a Nostradamus title on their lists.
Looking back in 1957, Publisher's Weekly said: ''As everyone who can read must know, Eloise is an overprivileged 6-year-old, the terror of the Hotel Plaza in New York.
''
        Kim Bouchard, a senior publicist at Simon & Schuster, Ms. Thompson's publisher, said that according to records beginning in 1983, 592,000 copies of ''Eloise'' have been sold in the United States since 1983.
The cause was heart failure, said her principal publisher, HarperCollins Children's Books.
Earlier this year, Ms. Lewis said she got the idea for ''The Charlie Horse Music Pizza'' during a conversation with her husband, the publisher Jeremy Tarcher, in which they decided that what children liked most was music, pizza and the beach.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
Mr. Pillsbury, who died in 1983, was a director of The Boston Globe Company from the 1940's to the 60's and an uncle of William O. Taylor, the chairman emeritus of Globe Newspaper Company and a former publisher of The Globe.
