In addition to ''Come September,'' Ms. Dee starred with her finger-snapping husband as a jealous young wife in ''If a Man Answers'' (1962) and as a maid posing as a successful publisher in ''That Funny Feeling'' (1965).
In 1950, she took a job as a reader at Gnome Press, the science-fiction publisher, and continued to write on the side.
Barnard'' in a correspondence between Alcott and a publisher, they knew they had found what -- or whom -- they had been looking for.
''
        In 1988, after Ms. Crow accepted the job of editor in chief of Self magazine, the publisher of Parents lured her back as chief executive officer of its American division, Gruner & Jahr USA, a unit of Bertelsmann A.G. of Germany.
''
        She originally thought of her character as a girl bandit, but was talked into making her a reporter by an aide to Joseph Medill Patterson, founder and publisher of The Daily News of New York and head of The Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate.
Five years later she sold her interest, and worked as a publisher with Random House, overseeing books on Andy Warhol and Elsie de Wolfe.
She was 93 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I.
        Mrs. Hall, a sister of the late publisher Walter H. Annenberg, shared her fortune with many beneficiaries.
Peters music publisher.
Malkin, who with the typographic exactitude of a cataloguer always spelled his nickname with a period, was AB's owner, editor and publisher.
In 1983, when she wanted $25 million to provide an ambulatory care center at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, she sold 15 of her French Impressionist paintings, including works by Gauguin, Cézanne, Renoir and van Gogh, to her brother, Walter H. Annenberg, the publisher, philanthropist and former ambassador to Britain.
Mrs. Haupt was the fourth, and last surviving, of eight children of Sadie and Moses L. Annenberg, the publisher who founded Triangle Publications, whose holdings eventually included The Philadelphia Inquirer, The Philadelphia Daily News, The Daily Racing Form, TV Guide and radio and television stations.
''
        In 1954, she became the publisher of Seventeen, the magazine for teenage girls, owned at the time by the Annenberg family.
The book has more than 3 million copies in print worldwide and has been translated into 18 languages, according to its publisher, Workman Publishing.
At Fawcett, Ms. Nevler helped start the Crest Books reprint line and held various editorial positions, eventually becoming vice president and publisher of Fawcett Books.
