Mrs. Sterling recalled that when she applied for the Reporter job, Max Ascoli, the magazine's Italian-born publisher and editor, said, "If anybody's going to write about Italy around here, it's me.
Now in its third edition, it has sold nearly three million copies in the United States and has been translated into 14 foreign languages, including Hebrew, Swedish and Greek, said a spokeswoman for its publisher, Simon & Schuster.
In addition to her husband of 39 years, she is survived by two daughters, Cathy, of Chevy Chase, Md., and Cynthia, of New York City, and two stepchildren, Karen, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and Arthur Jr., the publisher of The Times, and seven grandchildren.
He was hired as publisher of The Houston Post-Dispatch at about the same time that Miss Culp, a friend of Florence Sterling, whose millionaire brother owned the paper, got a job in the circulation department.
As the publisher's wife, she became president of the Texas League of Women Voters, a member of the board of the Houston Museum of Fine Arts, a member of the Houston Symphony Orchestra Committee and regional chairman of the Mobilization for Human Needs, all before she was 35.
With more than a dozen books still in print and a new one, "Sarah With an H," which deals with anti-Semitism, coming soon from their publisher, the Simon & Schuster McElderry imprint, the women had strong steady sales, but not enough to give up their teaching jobs.

        Helen Vlachos, a publisher who closed her newspapers and fled Greece rather than submit to censorship under the military junta that ruled from 1967 to 1974, died on Saturday, Reuters reported yesterday from Athens, quoting officials at the press ministry.
Her father, Torsten, was a publisher of art books; her mother, Karen, a painter.
She lined up a publisher but shelved the project until a couple of years ago, when she rewrote the manuscript as "Napoleon and Josephine: An Improbable Marriage.
Barry Bingham Sr. had been publisher of the newspaper after his father, Robert Bingham, and, in turn, he had been succeeded by his son Barry Bingham Jr.
        After Barry Bingham Jr. and his sisters, Eleanor and Sallie Bingham, were locked in a feud over control of the company, Barry Bingham Sr. decided to sell.
"
        When her son became publisher of the paper, he exchanged houses with his parents, as was the family tradition.
