
        Marion Boyars, an independent publisher whose eclectic and internationally minded list of authors included at least four Nobel Prize winners, died on Monday at her home in London.
Divorced in her early 30's, she answered an advertisement in The Bookseller, a London trade magazine, and ended up buying a 50 percent stake in a firm run by the independent publisher John Calder.
Correction:  February 11, 1999, Thursday  An obituary last Thursday about Marion Boyars, an independent publisher with offices in London and New York, misspelled the surname of her first husband.
''
        She is survived by her husband, the publisher Bernard Geis; two sons, Peter, of La Honda, Calif., and Stephen, of Geneva; a sister, Jean S. Gottlieb of Fort Myers Beach, Fla.; eight grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      
In a memo to his colleagues today, in which he had intended to announce Ms. Lewis's recent appointment, Irwyn Applebaum, the president and publisher of Bantam Books, said, ''She had the sharp eye to know when her writers could do better'' and, he added, ''she had the unwavering resolve and confidence to motivate and inspire her writers to reach down and indeed improve their work.
She died of cancer, said The Post's publisher, Donald E. Graham.
She was also close to Mrs. Graham's son, Donald, who is the company's current chairman and chief executive as well as The Post's publisher.
Her husbands were Bennett Cerf, the publisher; Luther Adler, the actor, and Carlton Alsop, a publicity agent.
She edited Media Report, now a quarterly, until selling it in 1987 to another publisher, but continued as president of the institute at her home to the end, organizing conferences and writing in an effort to get a woman's point of view across in communications here and abroad.
While studying at Barnard College, she tutored and cared for the grandchildren of Adolph S. Ochs, then the publisher of The New York Times.

        Elizabeth Forsling Harris, who was briefly the first publisher of Ms. magazine, died on July 14 in Manhattan, where she lived.
In 1975, she filed a suit for $1.7 million against the first editor of Ms., Gloria Steinem, and Pat Carbine, the publisher, contending that they had fraudulently misrepresented the value of the magazine's stock.
In 1976, she became the publisher of Working Woman.
She later worked for the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. in New York, the Urban Institute research organization in Washington and CRM Inc., in Del Mar, Calif., the publisher of Psychology Today.
She moved to Washington when her husband, Wayne Parrish, a magazine publisher, was offered the editorship of a Washington-based aviation magazine.
She finished five years later, but it was not until 1939 that she found a publisher.
It was a major step toward recapturing women's traditionally strong role in Tibetan Buddhism, said Gene Smith, a Boston-based publisher of Buddhist books.
Michael Shermer, the publisher of Skeptic magazine, said in an interview that psychic detectives commonly make logical predictions; for example, they suggest that a corpse will be found in a remote area.
