In 1962, she married James J. Storrow III, who became publisher of The Nation magazine in 1967.
In 1973, he named her associate publisher.
The Storrows turned the magazine over to its next publisher, Hamilton Fish III, in January 1978.
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chairman of the Post Company's executive committee.
''She was fabulously in the right place at the right time,'' said James Taylor, publisher of the magazine Shocked and Amazed, which is devoted to sideshows.
They delivered their book proposal to the publisher hours before Mrs. Murkoff gave birth to a daughter, Emma.
She joined the editorial staff at Business Week, where her first husband, Glenn Griswold, was the editor and publisher.
''She always came up with an interesting idea which no one else had done,'' said Ann Durell, the former publisher of children's books at Dutton, who edited Mrs. Clymer.
Mrs. Robb, a political independent who had had training to become a legal secretary, was married to Gene Robb, who was the publisher of Capital Newspapers, including The Times Union of Albany.

        Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88.
Based in Wickford, R.I., the publisher specializes in art books and literature.
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.
Mrs. Sulzberger was the wife of David Hays Sulzberger, a stockbroker who was the brother of Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961.
It was only after she succeeded her father and her husband as president and later publisher of The Washington Post, a newspaper with a modest circulation and more modest reputation, that it moved into the front rank of American newspapers, reaching new heights when its unrelenting reporting of the Watergate scandal contributed to the resignation of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974.
He became associate publisher at 30 and publisher at 31.
He became associate publisher at 30 and publisher at 31.
Mr. Bradlee's brassy style galvanized his staff and invigorated his publisher.
''
        In 1969, and still with considerable trepidation, Mrs. Graham added the title of publisher to her position as president of the Washington Post Company.
When The Post obtained its own copy, it was left to Mrs. Graham, as publisher, to decide whether to risk publication.
Donald Graham succeeded his mother as publisher in 1979 and chief executive of the company in 1991, a company which by then was valued at nearly $2 billion.
In late 1954, she began an association with Margarete Schultz, the widow of the publisher and dealer Karl Heinz Schultz.
