Born in New York City in 1915, Ms. Fisher was the daughter of the songwriter and music publisher Fred Fisher, with whom she wrote many of her first songs.
Her husband, Lawrence K. Miller, who was editor and publisher of The Berkshire Eagle in Pittsfield, died in 1991, after 58 years of marriage,
        Her survivors include a daughter, Margo Miller of Boston; three sons, Kelton II, of Shaftsbury, Vt., and Michael and Mark, both of Pittsfield; a sister, Margery Adams of Charlotte, N.C.; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      

        Sylvia K. Burack, a retired editor and publisher of a magazine that offered advice to budding writers, died on Feb. 14 in Boston.
After Mr. Burack's death in 1978, his wife took over as editor and publisher.

        Judy V. Wilson, long a successful publisher of children's books, most recently at Orchard Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc., died in Manhattan on Friday.
From 1965 to 1985 she was a publisher within the professional group of John Wiley & Sons Inc. first developing the Self-Teaching Guide series, then computer books for Atari and Radio Shack, selling books to computer manufacturers for packing with personal computers.
MacMillan, the publisher, promoted the book with unusual vigor, hoping to emulate its 1936 success with ''Gone With the Wind.
Ms. Heldman, the founder, publisher and editor of World Tennis magazine, began playing tennis at age 25.
Correction:  August 2, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the poet Josephine Jacobsen on July 12 misstated the name of the publisher of her book ''Distances.
She worked for the publisher Harcourt Brace World before joining Curtis Brown.
While many ordinary Chinese resisted it, the campaign was popular with foreigners, particularly with Henry Luce, the publisher of Time magazine, who was born to missionaries in China.
'' John Fairchild, then publisher of Women's Wear Daily, described her as ''Southampton, Long Island American, Ivy League blond.
''
        John Fairchild, then publisher of Women's Wear Daily, described her as ''Southampton, Long Island American, Ivy League blond.
Ms. Roth joined the staff of the music publisher Boosey & Hawkes in 1939 and directed its publicity office until 1941, when she left to form her own publicity agency.
