Mrs. Hurd's first solo writing effort, ''Hurry Hurry,'' was published in 1938 by W.R. Scott, a pioneer modern children's book publisher.
As the Wife of Harriman, She Buoys the Democrats
        Five months after Hayward's death, at a dinner party given by Katharine Graham, the publisher of The Washington Post, there was a serendipitous reunion with W. Averell Harriman, who had been widowed the year before.
In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
An introduction to a Paris publisher by a noted yachtsman she had met on the Riviera helped her combine her wanderlust with professional purpose and led to two books, ''Turkestan Solo'' and ''Among Russian Youth: From Moscow to the Caucasus.
Mrs. Gleason's father, William T. Dewart, bought The Sun from the estate of Frank A. Munsey, and served as its president and publisher until his death in 1944.
Ms. Johnson wrote numerous books and catalogues including ''Georges Rouault and His Prints,'' ''20th-Century Master Drawings,'' ''American Prints and Printmakers,'' ''Isabel Bishop, Prints and Drawings: 1925-1964,'' ''Adja Yunkers: 1927-1967,'' ''The American Woodcut: 1670-1950'' and, most important, a monograph about the  French art dealer Ambroise Vollard that catalogued his activities as a publisher of prints and illustrated books.
She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
When Harry Chandler died in 1944, Norman Chandler took over as publisher, and four years later his wife was named his administrative assistant.
''
        Otis Chandler succeeded his father as the paper's publisher in 1960 and held that post for 20 years, though Norman Chandler remained an executive with the company until his death in 1974.
Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher, was one of her principal fans and consultants; he gave her a small staff and complete autonomy to design, edit and produce Times Talk.
The cause was complications from surgery to bypass an obstruction in her upper digestive tract, according to Jackie Markham, a spokeswoman for General Media, the magazine's publisher.
In an out-of-court settlement, the theatrical publisher Samuel French halted printing, sale and distribution of the van Itallie text.
Another publisher, Grove Press, also agreed to withdraw its copies of the van Itallie version.
But when that publisher shut down its offices in London, Ms.
In 1924 she was married to L. Stanley Kahn, a publisher in the Annenberg communications empire.
The cause was complications from lymphoma, said Griselda Ohannessian of New Directions, Ms. Levertov's publisher.
