Her principal publisher, Farrar, Straus & Giroux, plans to issue it in 1990.
She was the wife of John C. A. Watkins, the former chairman and publisher of The Providence Journal.
Mrs. Newhouse was the widow of Samuel I. Newhouse, the publisher who built an empire that included more than 30 newspapers, the Conde Nast group of magazines, Random House books and several radio stations and cable-television systems.

       Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Doris Duenewald Garn, a former publisher of Golden Books for children, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
She joined the Western Publishing Company in 1983 as publisher of Golden Books and retired earlier this year.
Atkins' Diet Revolution'' (McKay), one of the all-time mass-market best sellers, according to Publisher's Weekly.
She was instrumental in finding him a publisher, Editions de Minuit, and a producer, Roger Blin, who presented the world premiere of ''Waiting for Godot.

       An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 73 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn.
        An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
Backer became the nominal publisher and editor, and his wife was vice president and treasurer.
Marrying the Editor
        Mrs. Schiff took over as publisher in 1942, separated from Mr.
The publisher married the editor the next year, and while she was involved in buying radio and television stations, which were eventually sold, The Post under Mr. Thackrey was building circulation and cutting its losses.
As a publisher, she joined the strike-lockout that closed the daily newspapers in New York for 114 days beginning in December 1962.

       Cynthia Hughes, co-editor and publisher of The Grenada Newsletter, died on Wednesday after a short illness.
Cynthia Hughes, co-editor and publisher of The Grenada Newsletter, died on Wednesday after a short illness.

       Constance K. Kaiser, an executive, philanthropist and former publisher of telephone directories for Westchester and Connecticut communities, died of cancer on Wednesday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 56 years old.
Constance K. Kaiser, an executive, philanthropist and former publisher of telephone directories for Westchester and Connecticut communities, died of cancer on Wednesday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 56 years old.
