A shrewd businesswoman, Ms. Plummer persuaded one dictionary publisher to sell her a number of copies of the $5.95 book for just 65 cents each.

        Nackey Scripps Loeb, former publisher of two influential conservative newspapers, The Union Leader and The New Hampshire Sunday News of Manchester, N.H., died on Saturday at her home in Goffstown, N.H. She was 75.
She retired in May after 18 years as publisher of the New Hampshire newspapers, which are the state's largest, and as president of the Union Leader Corporation.
)
        Best known of her lawsuits was one directed in the 1960's and 70's against the publisher and ghostwriter of ''Ecstasy and Me: My Life as a Woman,'' an autobiography that was intended to revive her notoriety as a sex goddess.
''I hate writing, ,'' she told Publisher's Weekly.
''
        Correction:  May 8, 2000, Monday  An obituary of the British novelist Penelope Fitzgerald on Wednesday misidentified the publisher of ''The Means of Escape,'' her story collection due this fall.
That description could be applied to the overburdened wife she played in the 1980 Broadway revival of Osborn's ''Morning's at Seven,'' the patrician publisher on the long-running ''Lou Grant'' television series and her portrayal of Livia Soprano, the monster mother of them all, a woman bred into the Mafia who without a blink of hesitation sets up her son Tony to be assassinated because he has moved her to a nursing home.
When she played Mrs. Pynchon, the publisher of The Los Angeles Tribune on ''Lou Grant,'' the role became a keystone of her career; for it she won four Emmy awards.
Some years later on television's ''Spearfield's Daughter,'' she switched cities and became the publisher of The New York Courier.
The publisher of ''Dawn: A Charleston Legend'' was quoted as calling it the first documented interracial marriage in Charleston's history.

        Linda Grey, a top publishing executive who rose from editorial assistant to president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group, died on Aug. 30.
In 1981 she moved to Bantam Books as an editorial director and became its publisher and editor in chief in 1985.
'' The imprint was dissolved the same year after the announcement that Ms. Grey was resigning to become president and publisher of the Ballantine Publishing Group.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and persisted in keeping up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
The publisher sold 10 million copies, and the Weekly Reader Book Club, owned by Xerox, sold 40 million more.
His wife became the sole editor and publisher, and kept up the newspaper's crusading efforts.
She also published short stories and served as an editor at The New Yorker and Houghton Mifflin, the publisher.
After the publication of ''In the Mecca'' Ms. Brooks left her longtime mainstream publisher, Harper & Row.
With the new direction of her work and the lack of a major mainstream publisher, however, many of her subsequent books were brushed aside by reviewers for mainstream publications.

        Karen McCready, a print publisher, gallery owner and writer, died on Tuesday in Manhattan.
In 1982 she became director of the New York branch of Crown Point Press, a San Francisco print publisher that has published prints by Wayne Thiebaud, John Cage, Pat Steir and Tom Marioni.
After the publication of ''In the Mecca,'' Ms. Brooks left her longtime mainstream publisher, Harper & Row.
With the new direction of her work and the lack of a major mainstream publisher, however, many of her subsequent books were brushed aside by reviewers for mainstream publications.
Correction:  December 18, 2000, Monday  A obituary of the poet Gwendolyn Brooks on Dec. 5, and in late editions on Dec. 4, referred incorrectly to the publisher of her 1945 anthology ''A Street in Bronzeville.
