When her husband was publisher, Mrs. Sulzberger's influence on The Times went beyond encouraging wider news coverage, to advocating divergent editorial views.
Publisher Gets a Son-in-Law
        At college she ''very casually'' met Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the son of a cotton merchant; later she was reintroduced to him by her cousin Julius Ochs Adler, with whom Mr. Sulzberger was in military training at Plattsburgh, N.Y.
Offstage Figure at Paper
        In 1935, after the death of her father, Mrs. Sulzberger became a trustee under his will along with her husband and her cousin Julius Ochs Adler; her husband was elected president and publisher of The Times.
As the publisher's wife, Mrs. Sulzberger shared her husband's concerns and problems but remained steadfastly an offstage figure in the operation of the paper.
Mr. Sulzberger, who had been president and publisher for 22 years, turned his presidency over to Orvil E. Dryfoos, then 44, husband of the Sulzbergers' daughter Marian.
A next step was taken in 1961, when Mr. Sulzberger gave the publisher's post to Mr. Dryfoos and became chairman.
Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the youngest Sulzberger child and the only son, was named president and publisher.
Miss Simon was also married to Robert Simon, a publisher, until their divorce in 1960.
She was the widow of Dr. Max Ascoli, the editor and publisher of The Reporter magazine, who died in 1978.
For four decades she was editor in chief of the University Society, publisher of educational materials.

        Christina Ellis Gruber, editor and associate publisher of Earnshaw's Publications Inc., a group of trade publications for children's products, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center.
Hopes Turn to Agonies
        "There was a certain irony to my trip to Vilna," Mrs. Dawidowicz told an interviewer for Publisher's Weekly last year, speaking of her pre-war experience in Poland.
"
        Miss Bennett is survived by her fourth husband, David Wilde, a former critic and publisher whom she married in 1973; four daughters, Diana Anderson of Los Angeles and Melinda Bena of Chappaqua, N.Y., from her second marriage to Gene Markey, a film writer-producer whom she married in 1932 and divorced in 1937, and Stephanie Guest and Shelley Wanger, both of Manhattan, from her marriage to Mr. Wanger, and 13 grandchildren.
      
We have lost a great friend and a great editor," said The Herald's publisher, David Lawrence.
Then, in 1982, Knight-Ridder Newspapers, the Herald's corporate parent, appointed her president and publisher of The Daily Camera in Boulder, Colo., making her the first female chief executive of one of the organization's newspapers.
