The obituary also misidentified the first publisher of her debut novel, ''The First Wives Club.
''She was responsible for more than 60 books, and was one of the key people in building our editorial group,'' said Tim Zagat, the company's publisher.
Later in her career she struggled to find a publisher as a cluster of new writers, including Amitav Ghosh and Salman Rushdie, emerged in the 1980's and redefined Indian literature, pushing it toward a magical realism that captivated the American audience.
Her death was announced by Virginia Duncan, the publisher of Greenwillow Books.
The cause was complications of a heart attack she suffered on June 9, said Doug Whiteman, president of Penguin Young Readers Group, the publisher of most of her books.
The women demanded a chance to put out a ''liberated'' issue and the replacement of the editor and publisher, John Mack Carter.

        Helen K. Copley, former publisher of The San Diego Union-Tribune and its predecessors and a prominent philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in La Jolla, Calif. She was 81.
She became the publisher in 1973, taking the position after the death of her husband, James S. Copley.
In her first years as publisher, she sought to meet with all 1,500 employees of the company in small groups in an effort to improve morale.
After nearly a decade, Mrs. Child and her partners produced an 800-page manuscript that Houghton Mifflin, the publisher that had originally contracted for it, rejected as too daunting.
Her 1958 marriage to Guy Schoeller, a publisher, ended in divorce in 1960.
Ms. Corman was senior vice president of corporate communications at Scholastic, the United States publisher of J.K. Rowling's wildly successful fantasy series.
John Briggs, publisher of Holiday House, estimated her output at millions of copies, with many of her books translated for publication in other countries.
''She was at one time my publisher and at another my agent, but above all a supportive friend.
In 1966, Ms. Herscher moved to the music publisher Edwin H. Morris.
Ms. Herscher moved over to head the theater department for another publisher, G. Schirmer.
