In it, the actress portrayed the reporter Edna Buchanan, whom she had played in "The Corpse Had a Familiar Face" in 1994.
In 1952, when asked by a reporter what she would do if she woke up one morning and found herself in the White House, she replied: "I'd go straight to Mrs. Truman and apologize.
In her decades abroad, she also wrote articles for The New York Times, Atlantic Monthly, The Reporter magazine, Life, Reader's Digest, Harper's, The New Republic, The Washington Post, International Herald Tribune and The Financial Times.
" She learned Italian, and when the agency went out of business, she returned to the United States and joined the staff of The Reporter magazine, which began publication in early 1949.
Mrs. Sterling recalled that when she applied for the Reporter job, Max Ascoli, the magazine's Italian-born publisher and editor, said, "If anybody's going to write about Italy around here, it's me.
"
        Mrs. Sterling's six-month assignment lasted 17 years, ending only when The Reporter ceased publication in 1968.
Miss Turner was discovered in 1937 by a reporter as she sipped a soda in a Hollywood ice cream parlor while cutting a secretarial class at her high school.
Miss Turner was discovered in 1937 by a reporter as she sipped a soda in a Hollywood ice cream parlor while cutting a secretarial class at her high school.
A reporter on NTV, the independent television channel here, today compared Mrs. Ivinskaya's role to that of other famous muses for Russian writers.
As a reporter for Chinese newspapers during World War II, Ms. Hsu covered the Chinese resistance against the Japanese and her articles were widely read in the Far East.
When she returned to Greece, she went to work for her father as a bookkeeper, and became a reporter in 1935.
It may have been "the dawning of the age of Aquarius," as the 1960's song put it, but until Mrs. Goodman, a one-time newspaper reporter and sometime radio writer who had picked up an interest in astrology from grocery store booklets, sat down at her typewriter, the rays had not caused a blink in the publishing industry.
A writer since childhood, Mrs. Goodman worked as an itinerant newspaper reporter, radio writer and occasional broadcaster.
She attended public schools and went to Columbia University for a few years, hoping to become a newspaper reporter.
Mrs. Kuhn's many writings included a volume of memoirs, "Assigned to Adventure" (1938), which Augusta Tucker, writing in The New York Times Book Review, called "the story of an unafraid woman who has seen a lot of the world as a newspaper reporter" and added that it "has pace, it has interest, it has color, and the woman who wrote it has sense: a quality not consistently present  in the kiss-and-tell books of some of the male correspondents.".
After reporting for The Syracuse Herald and working in Paris for The Chicago Tribune, she went to China in 1922 and became a reporter for the English-language Shanghai Evening News and then for the International News Service in Honolulu.
She spent a few years as a staff reporter for The Honolulu Star-Bulletin, and after returning briefly to The Daily News and working for other news organizations, in 1939 she joined the National Broadcasting Company, for which she reported and worked in other capacities until 1950.
Once when there were complaints that large amounts of Kennedy money were being spent on a race, she told a reporter, "It's our money, and we're free to spend it any way we please.
Once when there were complaints that large amounts of Kennedy money were being spent on a race, she told a reporter, "It's our money, and we're free to spend it any way we please.
"
        When she was in her 20's, she met and married John Barry Ryan, who was working as a reporter for The Newark Ledger.
She worked as a researcher for Newsweek and as a reporter for The Observer and The Sunday Times in London.

        Joan R. Cook, a former reporter and union leader at The New York Times who was a principal organizer of a successful 1974 sex-discrimination lawsuit against the newspaper, died Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Cook was a reporter in metropolitan news when she retired from The Times in 1991.
Correction:  February 18, 1995, Saturday
        An obituary on Feb. 6 about Joan R. Cook, a former reporter and Newspaper Guild leader at The New York Times, referred incorrectly to women's history in the union leadership at The Times.
"I've always been fat, but I'm limber," she once told a newspaper reporter.
"I call it northern Appalachia," she told a reporter in 1984.
