
        Beth Fallon, a political reporter and columnist whose thrice-weekly columns in The Daily News and The New York Post brought an irreverent eye to city life in the 1970's and 80's, died Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
When she was married, in 1976, it was to Mr. Carroll, then a reporter covering politics for The New York Times, in a ceremony presided over by Mayor Abraham D. Beame in City Hall's ceremonial Blue Room.
In 1946, she took a job as a reporter with U. E. News, the weekly publication of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.
In 1946, she took a job as a reporter with U. E. News, the weekly publication of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America.
There, she met Carl Braden, a fellow reporter who was active in progressive politics.
She later went to work as a reporter for The Washington Post, where she was assigned to the women's page.
She worked as a reporter for The Morning Call of Paterson, N.J.
        Ms. Dubrow became secretary for the Textile Workers Union in New Jersey in the late 1930's and then assistant to the president of the state's C.I.O.

        Virginia K. Rosenbaum, a prominent corporate research analyst and the widow of David E. Rosenbaum, a retired New York Times reporter who was fatally beaten in January, died yesterday at her home in Washington.
Mr. Rosenbaum, 63, a longtime reporter in the Times's Washington bureau, died two days after he was found semiconscious on a sidewalk near his home.
Martha Elizabeth Peterson was born on June 22, 1916, outside Jamestown, Kan., the only child of a wheat farmer and a news reporter.
''
        In Miss Peterson's estimation, she once told a reporter, her most significant achievement was working out an arrangement between Barnard and Columbia that allowed students at both colleges to take an unlimited number of courses at the other school while retaining Barnard's autonomy.
After inheriting Woburn Abbey in 1953, with its staggering estate taxes and annual heating bills of $14,000, Ian Russell, 13th Duke of Bedford, a former newspaper reporter and rent collector, decided to make the dilapidated property pay for itself by reinventing it as a tourist attraction.
In the revised edition of his book ''The Mapmakers'' (Knopf, 2000), John Noble Wilford, a science reporter for The New York Times, described their achievement this way: ''Like other pioneering maps, the one by Heezen and Tharp is not complete and not always completely accurate.
''
        After earning undergraduate degrees in English and Latin from Rosary College in River Forest., Ill., Ms. Daly worked as a reporter and book critic for The Chicago Tribune.
