''
        She later told a reporter, ''I went to the corner and started giving them out.
She told a reporter that by 1996 her informal organization had not only met that goal but had distributed more than 17,000 copies of a paperback dictionary.
Prime Minister Lionel Jospin hailed Ms. Freund as an ''unparalleled sociologist and reporter who traveled the world with a generous and lucid approach to places and events faraway.
He played Steve Wilson, editor of the mythical Illustrated Press, and she was Lorelei Kilbourne, his ace reporter and foil.
Mrs. Fowle is survived by her husband, Farnsworth Fowle, a retired New York Times reporter and former foreign correspondent, whom she married in Europe 49 years ago.
      
Her television credits included classics of the 1950's like ''Big Town,'' in which she played Lorelei Kilbourne, a crusading reporter for The Illustrated Press in the 1950-51 season; the ''Philco TV Playhouse''; ''Playhouse 90''; ''Robert Montgomery Presents; and ''The Milton Berle Show.
While working as a reporter in the Washington bureau of The Houston Post in the mid-1960's she was recruited by President Lyndon B. Johnson for a secretarial position on his White House staff.
She quickly moved up through the ranks to become a reporter whose byline appeared frequently on the front page.
She quickly moved up through the ranks to become a reporter whose byline appeared frequently on the front page.
But then, at 17, she eloped with a writer for The Hollywood Reporter, James Henaghan.

        Andy Logan, the reporter whose witty, elegant and gently sarcastic voice dissected the goings-on at New York's City Hall for The New Yorker magazine for 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan.
''The world I cover is so full of vaudeville,'' she told a reporter in 1992.
Correction:  November 23, 2000, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Andy Logan, the longtime New York City Hall reporter for The New Yorker, referred imprecisely to her tenure.
The only candidate interviewed by a reporter for The New York Times who was willing to give her name was Policewoman Shpritzer.
At the time of her hiring, The Chicago Defender, a black-owned paper, called Ms. Cooke the first black woman to get a job as a reporter on a mainstream white-owned paper.
The family talked to her while the community barred The Compass's white reporter, Ms. Cooke told Kay Mills in an interview for a 1988 book, ''A Place in the News: From the Women's Pages to the Front Page.
