"We didn't even have a name for our club at first, but when we went down to The Milwaukee Journal to be interviewed about our organization, the reporter asked what we called ourselves," she said in the group's handbook for new members.
She became a reporter there after graduating from the  University of Dayton with a bachelor of arts degree in 1949, the same year she married William Bombeck, a sportswriter who became a high school principal.
Although she had previously stated that she looked forward to her old age, when she could sit in her rocking chair knowing all the answers, she grew incensed when a reporter for The New York Times asked  her about it in a 1994 interview.
Soon she became a mainstay of the young newspaper, first as a reporter, then  as author of "Runnin' Scared," a column about city politics.
"Mary had spies everywhere," said Clark Whelton, a former Voice reporter who  is now a speechwriter for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Texas in 1925, moved to New York and became a reporter at The Herald Tribune only to find herself relegated to "women's news.
Her father was a political reporter for The Chicago  Tribune.
After graduating from the University of Michigan, where she was a reporter and editor on the campus newspaper, she came to Manhattan at the age of 21 as an editorial trainee at Time-Life.
A brilliant student who graduated magna cum laude from Goucher College at age 20 in 1925, she had begun her career as a  college correspondent for The Sun, then worked as a Sun reporter before going to Paris in 1926.
She became a reporter for the precursor of The International Herald Tribune her first day in the city, but within a year she had married and divorced a fellow reporter, John Ashenhurst, and was back in the United States with an infant son.
She became a reporter for the precursor of The International Herald Tribune her first day in the city, but within a year she had married and divorced a fellow reporter, John Ashenhurst, and was back in the United States with an infant son.
Her greatest triumph was playing a runaway heiress opposite Clark Gable's cynical reporter in Frank Capra's film comedy "It Happened One Night," a performance that won her an Academy Award as best actress in 1934.
She is survived by a stepson, Eric Pace of Manhattan, a reporter for The New York Times; a stepdaughter, Ursula Jackson of Houston, and four stepgrandchildren.
      
Ms. Kushnick's role in Mr. Leno's rise to host of ''The Tonight Show'' was chronicled in ''The Late Shift: Letterman, Leno and the Network Battle for the Night,'' by Bill Carter, a television reporter for The New York Times.
Some of her riches she channeled into social work, and she once responded to a reporter's question about what she had done for Mexico: ''Ask the priests in the downtown churches who is the one that helps them.
She also worked as a reporter and a photographer.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Milt, who is a reporter for The New York Times.

        Barbara Yuncker, a prize-winning science reporter for The New York Post and a longtime leader of the Newspaper Guild, died yesterday.
She moved to the Post copy desk in 1946, and in 1959  became a science and medical reporter.
And as a reporter  at The New York Tribune and an assistant to the critic Heywood Broun, she wrote  book and theater reviews from 1919 to 1922 under the byline Rebecca Drucker and  the initials "R. D."
        During the same years, she became a charter member of the Lucy Stone League,  a group founded by Mr. Broun's wife, Ruth Hale, that encouraged married women to keep their names.
