On April 25, 1945, as a reporter for United Press, Mrs. Stringer was ordered back to Paris from the First Army front.
Her outstanding roles included a card-sharp and pseudo-British socialite who dupes a naive scientist (Henry Fonda) in ''The Lady Eve'' (1941), a manipulative reporter redeemed by an idealist (Gary Cooper) in ''Meet John Doe'' (1941), a millionaire haunted by a childhood murder in ''The Strange Love of Martha Ivers'' (1946) and a shrewd stockholder in ''Executive Suite'' (1954).
Her outstanding roles included a card-sharp and pseudo-British socialite who dupes a naive scientist (Henry Fonda) in ''The Lady Eve'' (1941), a manipulative reporter redeemed by an idealist (Gary Cooper) in ''Meet John Doe'' (1941), a millionaire haunted by a childhood murder in ''The Strange Love of Martha Ivers'' (1946) and a shrewd stockholder in ''Executive Suite'' (1954).
She is survived by her husband, Murray, a former reporter for The New York Times; three sons, Richard, of Lakewood, Ohio, James, of Seattle, and John, of Lakewood, Colo., and a brother, Dexter Spence of Roswell, Ga.
      
She later wrote advertising copy and was a reporter for The Atlantic City Daily World, which has ceased publication.

       Alma Sioux Scarberry, a novelist, songwriter, reporter and an entertainer whose career spanned more than seven decades, died of a stroke on Tuesday at a San Antonio nursing home.
Alma Sioux Scarberry, a novelist, songwriter, reporter and an entertainer whose career spanned more than seven decades, died of a stroke on Tuesday at a San Antonio nursing home.
She began her career in 1919 as a reporter for The Elmira (N.Y.) Advertiser.
Her work apparently caught the attention of Samuel Spewack, then a young reporter for The World.
As a reporter, Mrs. Hyde was known for covering fashion as intently as if she were covering a war, searching for the sociological significance of such trends as the development of the punk style in London.
Miss Frederick was married to Charles Robbins, a former reporter and managing editor at The Wall Street Journal, who died in August.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco, in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.
After her divorce from Mr. Cavaco in 1985, she married John Duka, a style reporter for The New York Times, and formed the present company, Keeble Cavaco & Duka.

       Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.
Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old.
She worked as a staff writer for the magazine The Reporter from 1952 to 1963.
More Than Outspoken
        Ms. Mannes's 1958 collection of essays - largely from The Reporter -was contentiously titled ''More in Anger: Some Opinions, Uncensored and Unteleprompted.
After the war, she did much free-lance writing in addition to her work on The Reporter.
Over the decades, 329 articles with her byline were published - 275 of them in The Reporter.
She was the widow of Dr. Max Ascoli, the editor and publisher of The Reporter magazine, who died in 1978.
She left in 1944 to marry Dr. Gabel, then an army dentist, and in the war years was a reporter at Fort Hood, Tex., before returning to New York.
Five Years in Colorado
        In 1968, The Herald hired her as a general assignment reporter, and, soon afterward, she was writing a column and receiving awards for her feature writing.
