Fresh out of Bryn Mawr College in 1927, she began writing for The New Republic, then became a crime reporter for a local newspaper in Albany.

        Karen Avenoso, an education reporter for The Boston Globe who also wrote about her yearlong battle with Ewing's sarcoma, a rare form of cancer, died yesterday at her home in Westfield, N.J. She was 31.
''Not everything has to be refined,'' she once said to a reporter who visited her country house in Southampton.
She was reassigned in 1948 as a general-assignment and police reporter for the city desk.
Two years later she married a newspaperman named Kenneth Douglas, but realizing her marriage was a mistake she went to Miami, where she became a reporter at her father's newspaper.
She told a reporter in 1973 that she immediately took over the operations ''so that I have no time to sit and whittle and spit.
As a reporter and editor for The Washington Star for 15 years, Ms. House had won visibility and success covering the District of Columbia Police Department and local courts, one of the few women at the time to work that beat.
She became an American citizen in 1935 and began her journalistic career a year later as a reporter for The Newark Ledger.
''
        During the war, Ms. Long married Raymond Daniell, the London bureau chief for The New York Times, and joined The Times as a reporter in February 1942.
Her first newspaper job was as a reporter for her hometown paper, The State Journal-Register, and she later worked as a reporter and city editor at The Democrat and Chronicle in Rochester.
Her first newspaper job was as a reporter for her hometown paper, The State Journal-Register, and she later worked as a reporter and city editor at The Democrat and Chronicle in Rochester.
She worked as a reporter for  The Philadelphia Inquirer and as public relations director of the Philadelphia Museum College of Art, now called the Philadelphia College of Art.
A 1952 Barnard College graduate who taught a year at a private girls' school and worked another year as a police reporter and feature writer for The Bergen Evening Record before marrying and settling into a suburban routine, Mrs. Lukens, who was born in Philadelphia and grew up in northern New Jersey, was typical of a generation of women who put their families before careers.
So she reached out to a reporter for The New York Times to say that she planned to demolish the Osborne and replace it with a new tower, her son, Dr. Julius Korein, recalled.
''First you get chased away, and then you get treated like royalty,'' she told a reporter.
Speaking to a reporter for the Harvard Law Bulletin in 1988, another professor at the law school,  Milton Katz, described the granting of tenure for her as ''a delayed justice,'' and Professor Owens herself said at the time, ''It was a decision that I also felt was overdue.
Asked once by a reporter how she had decided to concentrate on tax law, she said: ''I think at one point Professor Surrey asked me, 'What is creditable tax?
''
        As a daughter of Walter R. Benjamin, a onetime New York Sun reporter who founded what is now the nation's oldest autograph dealership in Manhattan in 1887, Miss Benjamin, a native of Yonkers who graduated from Barnard, did not so much inherit her expertise as absorb it by osmosis during a 13-year apprenticeship at her father's elbow.
