
        Lucy Freeman, a reporter and an author whose early coverage of psychiatry and mental health for The New York Times led to wider reporting on the subject, died on Wednesday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx.
In the 1960's, as a reporter for The National Guardian, she often traveled to rural Southern towns to describe demonstrations and organizations that other publications largely ignored.
''I always joked that they were like my second set of grandparents,'' said Ms. Carr, who is 23 now and lives in St. Petersburg, Fla., working as an online reporter for the Poynter Institute.
A decade later, in 1953, she was hired by the editor William Shawn as a Talk of the Town reporter.
An impossibly glamorous redhead, her appearance was inspired by Rita Hayworth; her first name came from the most famous debutante of the day, Brenda Frazier, and her last name was chosen because she was the star reporter on The Flash.
During the war she was an ace reporter, chasing spies and other malefactors in cities and in jungles, fighting off sharks, giant squids and other ravenous animals, but selling war bonds, too.
Of her heroine's profession, she once explained, ''She was already a reporter when the strip started, but she was sick and tired of covering nothing but ice-cream socials.
''Brenda Starr, Reporter'' was sometimes criticized by journalists for its outlandish depiction of their profession.
''
        She originally thought of her character as a girl bandit, but was talked into making her a reporter by an aide to Joseph Medill Patterson, founder and publisher of The Daily News of New York and head of The Chicago Tribune-New York News Syndicate.
Ms. Gardella was married to Anthony Marino, a reporter and editor at The News who died several years ago.
While in college, she worked as a copy girl for PM and after graduating became a reporter there; her first assignment was to interview the stripper Gypsy Rose Lee.
When a reporter wrote that she had demanded some action by the court, she soon corrected him:
        ''What do you mean 'I demanded the court'?
She attended William Paterson College and Rutgers University and from 1967 to 1976 was a reporter and editor at The Bergen Record.
Her death appears to have gone unrecorded by American newspapers and magazines, although it is noted on the Internet encyclopedia Wikipedia and in a footnote in a 2005 memoir, ''Omaha Blues,'' by Joseph Lelyveld, a former executive editor of The Times, who recounts his experience as the young reporter who knocked on the door of the Ryan home more than 40 years ago.
Official word of Mrs. Ryan's death came in recent weeks from the Simon Wiesenthal Center's office in Israel, in response to questions by another Times reporter who was researching an article on the former Maidanek death camp in Poland, where Mrs. Ryan was once assigned.
Mr. Lelyveld, as a young reporter, was assigned to check out the tip, but wrote that he was not given a specific address.
Her husband told the reporter that he did not know she was a prison guard until Mr. Lelyveld informed him.

        Constance L. Hays, a reporter for The New York Times for nearly two decades, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
Ms. Hays began her career as a reporter for The News and Observer in Raleigh, N.C., before joining The Times as a news clerk.
She was later a reporter on the paper's metropolitan news staff.
