She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New York Times, died of complications of breast cancer, said a friend of the family.
She was a staff reporter for the Times from 1968 to late 1973.
In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif.
        Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New York Times, died of complications of breast cancer, said a friend of the family.
She was a staff reporter for The Times from 1968 to late 1973.
In "Contemporary Authors," a series of reference books, Truman Capote is quoted as remarking that the book showed that Ms. Fosburgh "is a skillful, selective reporter and also a literary artist.
She began her career as a reporter for The Associated Press in New York City, where she also headed the adoption service of the Children's Aid Society in the early 1960's.
"
        Born in Fredericton, New Brunswick, Ms. Roberts attended the University of New Brunswick and later was a reporter for The Fredericton Daily Mail.
After working as a reporter and women's editor in the 1920's, she began reviewing crime fiction for The Albuquerque Tribune, The Los Angeles News, The Los Angeles Mirror and The New York Herald Tribune.
She was a contributor to Ms. magazine, The Calcutta Statesman and The Bengali-American Reporter, taking assignments in Sikkim, Nepal and the Himalayan kingdom of Bhutan, which was then closed to outsiders by order of the Indian Government.
She returned to New York with her husband in 1970 and for the next three years worked as a reporter for The Record of Bergen County, N.J.
She spent 14 years as a reporter and editor of The New York Herald Tribune in Paris and in New York, covering travel, society, the arts and other subjects.

        Virginia Lee Bracker, a retired reporter and foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan.
Mrs. Bracker was a women's-news reporter for The Washington Post who used the byline Virginia Lee Warren when she married Milton Bracker of The Times in 1936.
His wife rejoined The Times that year in New York as a women's-news reporter.
She retired as a reporter for the Family/Style department in 1978.
She adopted the pen name Warren to avoid confusion with another reporter whose name was Smith.
      
