Mrs. Abelson is survived by her husband, Alan, a columnist for Barron's magazine; a daughter, Reed Abelson of Manhattan, a business reporter at The Times; a son, Justin, of Greenfield, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      
Lula Jones Garrett, a reporter for The Philadelphia Afro-American, who accompanied Major West on a trip from Atlanta to Fort McClellan in Anniston, Ala., in 1944, wrote how Major West ''had been insulted by a white conductor whom she had asked to hand her baggage from the train.
During the 1950's and 60's Mrs. Katzander was a fixture at The Reporter, the liberal, anti-Communist magazine edited by Max Ascoli.
Almost immediately on graduation from high school, she was hired as a reporter at The Philadelphia Inquirer, covering the city's nightlife.
She married Howard L. Katzander, also a reporter, just as the war in Europe started.
''
        In four decades as a reporter, editorialist and quietly influential opinion maker in the nation's capital, Miss Greenfield provided a stream of informed commentary that had an impact on the public perception of six Presidential administrations and scores of policy debates, ranging from affirmative action and abortion rights to the Panama Canal treaties and the Persian Gulf war.
After considering an academic career, Miss Greenfield decided on journalism instead, joining The Reporter, a magazine of analysis and commentary, in 1957 as a researcher in its Washington bureau.
When The Reporter shut down in 1968, Miss Greenfield became the first person hired by Philip Geyelin, the newly appointed editorial page editor of The Washington Post.
In the 1930's Mrs. Kingman was a reporter for The Shanghai Evening News and other Chinese newspapers.
She then worked in South Carolina for The Columbia Record, before returning to Florida as a reporter for The Tampa Tribune.
''
        Ms. Sibley was born near Pensacola, Fla., and joined The Atlanta Constitution as a reporter in 1941, covering murder trials and Georgia Statehouse politics.
''
        Ms. Sibley also wrote 25 books, most of them mystery novels, including some that featured Kate Kincaid, a reporter at The Atlanta Searchlight.
''Dear God,'' the former Soviet President, visibly exhausted, told a Russian television reporter on Aug. 9, ''for her to undergo such a drama these two days before my very eyes.
''
        The university's president said that a New York reporter once asked him out of earshot of Miss McCarty to tell him the true story of her gift.
'' the reporter asked him.
The president told the reporter that it happened just as Miss McCarty said, that she had wanted to do something good with the money she had made.
She was dancing in the ship's Belvedere room, she told a reporter for The New York Times, when ''we heard a big explosion like a firecracker.
Ms. Roman told a reporter she was never in fear for her son's life, but felt sure he would be safe in the lifeboat, which turned out to be true.
''For a while,'' she once told a reporter, ''we were moving regularly once a month because we couldn't pay our rent.
In 1942, Ms. Murray told a reporter that she was studying art at the Art Students League in New York and that she had come to prefer the visual arts to music.
She was born in New York and graduated from Vassar College in 1937, after which she worked as a reporter and wrote dialogue for MGM films.
