Left at 35 with two children to support and little money, Ms. Kushida worked as an insurance saleswomen and magazine reporter.

        Marjorie Hunter, a reporter for The New York Times who covered the White House and Congress at a time when most other women in Washington journalism were assigned to the activities of the first lady, died here today.
The Times at first resisted assigning a woman to its Washington bureau and instead sent a reporter from New York to the White House each time that Mrs. Roosevelt held a press conference.
In time, that reporter left the paper and Ms. Hunter -- Maggie to everyone from copy boys to presidents -- was hired in 1961 as her replacement.
In ''The Girls in the Balcony,'' (Random House, 1992) Nan Robertson, a former reporter for The Times, wrote of the obstacles that women in Washington journalism faced in the 1960's.
She graduated from Elon in 1942 and then worked as a reporter for The Raleigh News and Observer, The Houston Press and The Winston-Salem Journal.
In 1961, at the urging of Mr. Bradlee, then a young reporter at Newsweek, he negotiated the purchase of the weekly newsmagazine.
Born in New York City on April 6, 1916, Ms. Williamson graduated from Hunter College and worked as a reporter for The New York Journal-American before entering public relations as an account executive at Constance Hope Associates.
''
        Nora Clemens Sayre was born on Sept. 20, 1932, in Hamilton, Bermuda, the only child of Joel Sayre, a staff writer and war correspondent for The New Yorker and occasional Hollywood screenwriter -- he wrote ''Annie Oakley'' (1935) for Barbara Stanwyck and was a co-writer on ''Gunga Din'' (1939) -- and Gertrude (Lynahan) Sayre, a reporter for The New York World.
The book grew from her work as a reporter in Europe writing on health and medical matters.
She was a reporter for Medical Tribune in New York, but she soon quit and spent eight years in Paris in the 1970's before returning to New York in 1979 as a freelance writer.

        Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today.
In 1971, The Washington Post reported an incident involving Ms. Shanahan and Maurice Stans, then head of the Department of Commerce, which Ms. Shanahan covered as a leading economic reporter for The Times.
''
        In addition to her work at The Times, from 1962 to 1977, Ms. Shanahan was an assistant managing editor at The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Washington Star, and she was a reporter for The United Press, the Research Institute of America and The Journal of Commerce.
Every reporter who was paid more was a man.
She lacked a similar command of automobiles and typewriters, and as a reporter for The New York Times, then as an editor for Vogue, Harper's Bazaar and The New York Times Magazine, she wrote all her copy by hand.
In 1955, recognizing her limitations as a designer, Ms. Donovan went to work as a fashion reporter for The Times, where, according to Mr. O'Brien, a former colleague, she felt outgunned by more experienced writers.
''We could have been rich,'' Ms. Hubley recently told a reporter.

        Laurie Johnston, a World War II correspondent, an author and a reporter for The New York Times who was cited for the humanity and wit of her writing, died at her home in Honolulu on Friday.
''
        Ms. Johnston worked as a columnist, reporter and editor for The Times, covering neighborhoods, education and the courts, among other subjects.
