Miss Torre served 10 days in the Hudson County Jail in New Jersey in 1959, the first reporter to gain national attention for going to jail for refusing to identify a news source.
She refused, arguing that a reporter should not be compelled to reveal sources in court because such an order violated the First Amendment's guarantee of press freedom.
''We're going to be dancing on 42d Street,'' she told a reporter.
Turning to journalism, she became a reporter for Reuters in Paris in 1945 and 1946 and Paris correspondent of The Economist from 1946 to 1948.
A Fling With Aly Khan, And Other Romances
        After the war she became a reporter for Lord Beaverbrook's Daily Express and Evening Standard, cabling news about politics, the arts and the social scene from London, New York, Palm Beach, Montego Bay, Paris and the south of France.
But a chorus of chortles echoed through the park when a newspaper account of the dispute quoted Mrs. Gibson (who could not believe that the perfectly nice reporter she had chatted with would repeat her exact words) as describing one of the disputants as ''a son of a bitch.
According to David Margolick, a former reporter for The New York Times who chronicled the case in his book ''Undue Influence,'' Surrogate Lambert badgered and belittled Mrs. Johnson and her lawyers, provoking her to settle the case before it went to a jury.
According to David Margolick, a former reporter for The New York Times who chronicled the case in his book ''Undue Influence,'' Surrogate Lambert badgered and belittled Mrs. Johnson and her lawyers, provoking her to settle the case before it went to a jury.
''
        Ms. Bari is survived by her daughters, Lisa, 16, and Jessica, 11; her parents, Arthur and Ruth Bari, of Silver Spring, Md., and two sisters, Gina Kolata, of Princeton, N.J., a reporter at The New York Times, and Martha Bari of Silver Spring.
      
Later, she was a reporter for The Detroit Free Press and then was managing editor of the Gannett papers in Rochester, The Times-Union and The Democrat and Chronicle.
The couple settled in Harlem, and Mrs. Petry held a variety of jobs, including writing advertising copy for The Amsterdam News and working as a reporter and editor of the women's pages of The People's Voice, a weekly started by Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
She joined Time in 1960 and was a researcher and then a reporter,  contributing editor and associate editor before her promotion in 1974.
Behind every news story there is an untold -- or rarely told -- tale of the reporter's personal experience: the hazards of covering a war or a riot, the grind of the campaign trail, a correspondent's travails with foul weather, bad food, crazy hours, unworkable communications and implausible expense accounts.
Ms. Devroy came to Washington in 1977 as a reporter for the Gannett News Service, covering first Congress in the Carter years and then the Reagan White House.
Ruth Seinfel was born in Brooklyn, graduated from Smith College in 1925 and went to work as a reporter in New York.
Besides her son Iver, of Lawrenceville, N.J., who is a reporter for The New York Times, Mrs. Peterson is survived by two other sons, Eric N.,  of Alexandria, Va., and Lars E., of Washington; a daughter, Karen K. Wilken of Fort Collins, Colo., and 12 grandchildren.
      
