
        Monte M. Williams, a reporter for The New York Times, died yesterday in Forest Hills, Queens.
After graduating from Queens College, she worked from 1986 to 1988 as a reporter for The Times Herald-Record in Middletown, N.Y. She was a reporter at The Daily News from 1989 to 1993, and at People magazine in 1993 and 1994, before joining The Times in December 1994.
After graduating from Queens College, she worked from 1986 to 1988 as a reporter for The Times Herald-Record in Middletown, N.Y. She was a reporter at The Daily News from 1989 to 1993, and at People magazine in 1993 and 1994, before joining The Times in December 1994.
'' Sidney Skolsky, the 1940's Hollywood columnist, called her ''the girl reporter of this war.
It was when her engagement was announced that Lady Elizabeth had her first and only on-the-record conversation with a reporter.
Mrs. Handler, who once described herself as a ''marketing genius,'' was often known during those years to open her blouse at interviews and ask a reporter or photographer to feel her breasts to determine which was real.
''I've always hated the name,'' Ms. Fertel told Fortune's reporter.
She is survived by a daughter, Diane Freudenheim Lange of Danbury, Conn.; a son, Milton, who is a reporter for The New York Times; seven grandchildren; and 16 great-grandchildren.
      
When interviewed by a local reporter, she said she had not seen the play before she directed it.
Mrs. Benson, her anonymous ghostwriter, took a title and few sentences of outline and turned them into 200-page novels, once churning out 13 in one year, when she was also working full time as a newspaper reporter.
''
        As the author confided to a reporter from The New York Times on the way to the Iowa conference, it can all sometimes add up to being a bit much.
She married Philip Benjamin, a novelist and a reporter for The Times, in 1955.
After receiving a graduate degree at the Columbia University School of Journalism the following year, she became a reporter for The Associated Press.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
' '' she later told Nan Robertson, a former Times reporter, who described the incident in a 1992 book, ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men, and The New York Times'' (Random House).
After receiving a graduate degree at the Columbia University School of Journalism the following year, she became a reporter for The Associated Press.
Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
' '' she later told Nan Robertson, a former Times reporter, who described the incident in a book, ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men, and The New York Times'' (Random House, 1992).
Ms. Knapp graduated with honors from Brown University and worked as a reporter for The Boston Business Journal before joining at The Phoenix, where she was a features writer and later the lifestyle editor.
Ms. Dudar, who grew up on Long Island, started her career at Newsday before working for The New York Post for more than 25 years as a general-assignment reporter, beginning in the early 1950's.
Carole Kismaric was born on April 28, 1942, in Orange, N.J. As a student at Penn State University she majored in psychology, but after graduation in 1964 she pursued a career as a newspaper reporter.
