She was the wife of Peter H. B. Frelinghuysen, a Republican who represented north central New Jersey in the House from 1953 through 1974.
She and her husband had five children, including Rodney P. Frelinghuysen, also a Republican Congressman from north central New Jersey, who was elected in  1994.
Earlier this month, Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, introduced legislation in the House and Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, in the Senate to name an eight-million-acre wilderness in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge after her.
Earlier this month, Representative Don Young, Republican of Alaska, introduced legislation in the House and Senator Ted Stevens, Republican of Alaska, in the Senate to name an eight-million-acre wilderness in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge after her.
Alfred M. Landon of Kansas and the mother of Senator Nancy Landon Kassebaum, Republican of Kansas, died on Sunday at her home in Topeka.
Mr. Landon, the Republican candidate for President in 1936, died in 1987 at the age of 100 after 57 years of marriage.
James B. Utt, then a Republican  Congressman from California, a state known for its Pharaonic funerals and ornate cemeteries, denounced Miss Mitford as "pro-Communist, anti-American.
She won a tight race in a party primary to run for the United States Senate in 1964 but then lost the election by 50,000 votes to the Republican incumbent,  Senator Hugh Scott.
Active in Republican politics, Mrs. Gerard was appointed representative to the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization in 1981 with a mandate from the Reagan Administration to clean up an agency that in its view was badly managed and had become increasingly politicized and anti-Western under its director general, Amadou Mahtar M'Bow of Senegal.
''She's the kind of Republican we tried to recruit into management when we first started out,'' Mr. Shriver said in 1982.
Mrs. Ruppe had impeccable Republican credentials.
Her husband, Philip, was a Republican Congressman from Michigan from 1967 to 1979.
President Gerald R. Ford accepted her resignation in 1976 and replaced her with Rosemary L. Ginn, a longtime Republican national committeewoman from Missouri.
If there had ever been any doubts that a woman's place is in the House, they must surely have been dispelled in 1954 when the former Coya Gjesdal unseated a six-term Republican and swept into Congress like a whirlwind from northern Minnesota.
She managed to win the primary, but lost the general election by 1,390 votes to Odin Langen, a Republican who was 6 feet 4 inches tall and campaigned on the slogan, ''A Big Man for a Man-Sized Job.
A formidable woman on or off the air, Miss Kitchell, who had been sent on cross-country speaking tours by NBC to promote radio, became an important fund-raiser for the Republican Party in New York and was named to state commissions by Gov.
This year, despite a determined Republican effort, Democrats won an additional seat in the Assembly and will hold 96 of its 150 seats when the new session begins in January.
