
        Betty Heitman, a Republican Party official who prodded two Presidents to appoint more women to high Government posts, died on Monday at her home in Baton Rouge, La.
Mrs. Heitman was co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee during the Reagan years.
A conservative Republican, she was Ronald Reagan's choice for the committee post in 1980, when he ran for President.
She had previously been president of the National Federation of Republican Women.
A graduate of Texas Women's University, she became active in Louisiana Republican politics and was a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1968 and 1976.
A graduate of Texas Women's University, she became active in Louisiana Republican politics and was a delegate to the Republican National Conventions in 1968 and 1976.
She went on to do the ads in 1952 at the Republican and Democratic national conventions.
In 1952, 1956 and 1960, Miss Furness did the Westinghouse commercials during the Republican and Democratic National Conventions and developed a strong interest in politics.
In 1942 Dr. Judd, a Republican, was elected to Congress from Minnesota and rose to prominence as a crusader against Japanese military expansionism and Chinese Communism; he retired from Congress in the 1960's.

        Josephine Moy Hong, active in Chinese-American affairs and Republican Party politics, died on Sunday in Flushing Hospital.
She turned to Republican Party politics in the 1960's and was vice president of the New York State Republican Heritage Groups Council.
She turned to Republican Party politics in the 1960's and was vice president of the New York State Republican Heritage Groups Council.
She was inducted as a Life Member of the Republican Party in 1979.
She was married to Clayborne George, a lawyer in Cleveland and a prominent Republican there.
She left Spain largely because her husband, Timoteo Perez Rubio, had been active on the Republican side, and her sympathies were also with the Republic.

        Jessie Sumner, an Illinois Republican who was the first woman elected to a county judgeship in her state and a conservative member of Congress from 1939 to 1947, died on Wednesday in Iroquois Memorial Hospital in Watseka, Ill. She was 96 and lived in nearby Milford.
An effective fund-raiser for the Republican Party, Mrs. Hilson lent her name to a series of citizens' committees to elect or re-elect Republican candidates to state and national office.
An effective fund-raiser for the Republican Party, Mrs. Hilson lent her name to a series of citizens' committees to elect or re-elect Republican candidates to state and national office.
To Fairfield County, Mrs. Walsh was a matriarch of Republican politics and a doyenne of society.
She was vice chairman of the Republican Town Committee and a member of the party's State Central and Finance Committees.
The book, which was called "a handbook on how the connected make waves in America" in a review in The New York Times, also detailed how she was able to mobilize legislators like Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, who sponsored a benefit in Washington for Mrs. Glaser's fledgling foundation.
The book, which was called "a handbook on how the connected make waves in America" in a review in The New York Times, also detailed how she was able to mobilize legislators like Senators Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, and Howard M. Metzenbaum, Democrat of Ohio, who sponsored a benefit in Washington for Mrs. Glaser's fledgling foundation.
