
       Marie Vale, a Republican fund raiser and a former government aide, died of leukemia on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center.
Marie Vale, a Republican fund raiser and a former government aide, died of leukemia on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center.
She had been a fund raiser for the National Republican Party and for New York State Republicans.
Miss Washington, a lifelong member of the Republican Party and of many civic organizations, was due to leave this week to begin her ambassadorship to the West African nation of Gambia, succeeding Herbert E. Horowitz.
She was elected to Community School Board 2 in Manhattan and was on the State Republican Committee.
She disagreed with Mr. Sulzberger by siding with the Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War against the Franco forces, by favoring statehood for Israel to provide a home for displaced European Jews and by preferring Adlai E. Stevenson instead of Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower for President.
Mrs. Quigley, a Republican, served on the Borough Council in 1985.
Mrs. Hance, a Republican, was elected in November 1975 and served four two-year terms before retiring in 1983.
She also was a trustee of the United Conference of Mayors, a director of the National League of Cities and a former president of the National Conference of Republican Mayors.

       Marguerite Stitt Church, an Illinois Republican who was a member of the House of Representatives from 1950 to 1962, died in her sleep on Saturday at her home in Evanston, Ill. She was 97 years old.
Marguerite Stitt Church, an Illinois Republican who was a member of the House of Representatives from 1950 to 1962, died in her sleep on Saturday at her home in Evanston, Ill. She was 97 years old.
In 1959, as the ranking Republican member of a subcommittee on Foreign Economic Policy, she traveled more than 40,000 miles in 17 countries.
She also headed the Republican Town Committee from 1980 to 1983 and was a former president of the Darien Library.

       Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County, died on Monday at the Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse.
She was 75 years old and lived in Norwich, N.Y.
        Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County, died on Monday at the Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse.
An active Republican, she was named an alternate delegate to the 1957-58 United Nations General Assembly by President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
She was a Republican Presidential elector in 1960.
