
        Margaret Chase Smith, a flinty, independent Maine Republican who made history as the first woman to win election to both houses of Congress and the first whose name was advanced for the Presidency at a national convention, died yesterday at at her home in Skowhegan, Me.
In time, she became the ranking Republican on the Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committees, and served as well on the Appropriations Committee.
Never anything but a Republican, Mrs. Smith was hardly the dyed-in-the-wool variety.
In the 1950's, Mrs. Smith alienated McCarthy by joining with six other Republican senators in making a "declaration of conscience" in which she took the measure of McCarthy's sensationalist, inquisitorial methods in trying to suppress Communism.
"I don't want to see the Republican Party ride to political victory on the four horseman of calumny -- fear, ignorance, bigotry and smear," Mrs. Smith said.
She was a strong supporter of civil rights and, again irritating some Republican colleagues, an early advocate of Government-financed medical care for the elderly.
Mr. Smith, who was prominent in local Republican circles, ran for office and in 1937 was elected Representative from Maine's Second Congressional District.
In 1948 Mrs. Smith entered the Republican senatorial primary and received more votes than her three male opponents combined.
She drew more than a dozen votes at the Republican National Convention, which was controlled by the conservative forces backing Barry Goldwater.

        Roberta Church, an official in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations who was the first black woman to be elected to the Tennessee Republican State Executive Committee, died on Saturday at Baptist Memorial Hospital East in Memphis.
Miss Church was the last survivor of a family of black Tennesseans who were prominent in business and Republican politics when few Southern blacks were active in either business or the party.
He died in 1952 while campaigning for a seat on the Republican State Executive Committee.
Thomas E. Dewey of New York, a Republican, when he ran for President in 1948, and Dwight D. Eisenhower in his successful Presidential campaign in 1952.
Her husband, J. Kenneth Bradley, the Republican state chairman for Connecticut for many years, died in 1969.
When Dwight D. Eisenhower became President in 1953 he selected another woman to succeed her, Ivy Baker Priest, a Utah Republican.

        Frances Grant Bennett, wife of the late Senator Wallace F. Bennett and mother of Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, died on Friday in Salt Lake City.
A former Republican campaign worker who had translated her political skills into a job peddling songs for a local songwriters, Mrs. Greenberg, who had been  married to an accountant, had already become a familiar figure on Tin Pan Alley, hobnobbing with music-industry hopefuls at the old Turf restaurant on Broadway at 51st Street.
