But it was the election of Ronald Reagan and the big Republican gains in Congress in the 1980 election that galvanized both Harrimans to action.
In 1964, she was part of the Harris team that conducted an exit poll for CBS News in the tightly contested California Republican primary between Nelson A. Rockefeller and Barry Goldwater.
She took on Tammany Hall and repeatedly ran for the State Legislature in Republican territory.
She joined the Democratic Party in part to oppose Republican isolationists in her election district and worked with Hubert H. Humphrey in the successful effort to eliminate a Communist faction within the Minnesota party.
Perhaps emboldened by Dr. Hibberd, other Republican officials also began to speak out, saying that Mr. Catterson had improperly pressured them on various issues.
Mrs. Lafontant-Mankarious, a Republican, was known as Jewel S. Lafontant when she served in the Nixon and Bush Administrations.
In 1960, she seconded the nomination of Mr. Nixon as Republican candidate for President, but he was defeated by John F. Kennedy.

        Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines.

        Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines.
Mrs. Smith was chosen to be chairman of the Republican National Committee by Gerald Ford when he succeeded Richard M. Nixon as President in 1974.
In January 1977, the Republican National Committee elected Bill Brock, a conservative former Senator from Tennessee, to succeed Mrs. Smith.
She became active and prominent in Republican politics and served on the Republican National Committee from 1964 to 1984.
She became active and prominent in Republican politics and served on the Republican National Committee from 1964 to 1984.
She was also honored by the Log Cabin Society, a gay Republican group, for consoling AIDS patients and their families.
But her period of leadership came during a time of Republican victories.
And in February 1996, Senator Bob Dole, campaigning in Iowa for the Republican Presidential nomination, declared that Mother Teresa had called to praise him for helping pass a ban against certain types of late-term abortions.
Assemblyman Robert Werts, a Republican with whom she served, remembered an event at Gov.

        Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69.
In 1972, Democratic Party leaders asked her to run for Congress from the Meyner family home in Phillipsburg, in the heavily Republican 13th Congressional District in Sussex and Morris Counties.
She lost that election to Joseph J. Maraziti, a Republican, but defeated him in 1974, the same year that Representative Millicent Fenwick, a Republican, was elected.
She lost that election to Joseph J. Maraziti, a Republican, but defeated him in 1974, the same year that Representative Millicent Fenwick, a Republican, was elected.
In 1978, she was defeated by the Republican candidate, Jim Courter.
She was the second wife of Mr. Rockefeller, the first Republican Governor of Arkansas since Reconstruction, who served two terms, from 1967 to 1970.
