Her father became a multimillionaire partner in the banking house of J. P. Morgan & Company, who went on to become a Republican Senator from New Jersey.
She was twice defeated in Republican primary races in California, for the United States Senate in 1982 and for a Southern California Congressional seat in 1992.
'' She noted that people who accused her of exploiting family ties ''forget I was a Republican before the president was.
''
        In 1987, after the Iran-contra affair, when Ms. Reagan asserted that Lt. Col. Oliver L. North and Vice Adm. John M. Poindexter, President Reagan's national security aides,  should be court-martialed for their actions, Mr. Reagan told Republican leaders, ''I gave up arguing with my daughter long ago.
Although she was an ardent Republican, Ms. Reagan angered many members of the party by her refusal to compromise and for stepping on toes.
In 1983, she was given the title of special consultant to the Republican National Committee and moved to the family quarters in the White House.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
Ms. Reagan's most active political years were in the 1980's, when she was a member of the California World Trade Commission, chairwoman of the United States delegation to the United Nations Decade for Women Conference in Kenya, in 1985; co-chairwoman of the Republican National Committee, and chairwoman of the Republican Women's Political Action League.
As Ms. Reagan became more influential, she worked to increase Republican fund-raising for women running for office.
Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review.

        Barbara K. Olson, who was killed on Tuesday on the commercial jetliner that was hijacked and flown into the Pentagon, was well known to television viewers across the nation as a combative and confident political commentator representing the conservative Republican point of view.
Mrs. Olson was the more outspoken of the two in her televised commentaries, while Mr. Olson presented a more deliberative face in his role as the reigning constitutional litigator for the Republican establishment.
As chief counsel for the House Government Reform and Oversight Committee's Republican majority from  1995 to 1996, Mrs. Olson led the investigation into President Bill Clinton and Hillary Rodham Clinton's role in firing longtime employees of the White House travel office.
She says that if Democrats had had the stranglehold on Nassau County, she probably would have been a Republican; she's contrarian that way.
