
       Marion E. Martin, founder of the National Federation of Republican Women's Clubs, died Thursday at her home here.
Marion E. Martin, founder of the National Federation of Republican Women's Clubs, died Thursday at her home here.
Miss Martin also was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee.
From 1936 to 1946, she was assistant chairman of the Republican National Committee in Washington and head of its women's division.
In that capacity, she founded what is now the National Federation of Republican Women.

       Mildred Smith Huser, a Brooklyn lawyer who was a delegate to the 1920 Republican state convention, died Monday at the New Rochelle Medical Center.
She was 94 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.
        Mildred Smith Huser, a Brooklyn lawyer who was a delegate to the 1920 Republican state convention, died Monday at the New Rochelle Medical Center.
Senator Mark O. Hatfield, a Republican who was a friend of Mrs. Green for 40 years, said yesterday: ''She was probably the most powerful woman ever to serve in the Congress.
In 1928, Mrs. Ziesing helped start the Women's National Republican Club.

       Virginia L. Blood, a former Republican state legislator in Connecticut, died of a stroke Thursday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
She was 78 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Virginia L. Blood, a former Republican state legislator in Connecticut, died of a stroke Thursday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital.
After the overthrow of the Spanish monarchy in 1931, the leaders of the Spanish Republican Government placed her in charge of reforming the country's prison system.
After the overthrow of the Spanish monarchy in 1931, the leaders of the Republican Government placed her in charge of making changes in the country's prison system.
But she won fame on her own as magazine writer and editor, author of ''The Women'' and other hit plays, controversial Republican member of the House of Representatives from Connecticut, and, finally, in the Eisenhower Administration, a hardworking and often praised Ambassador to Italy.
Criticism of Roosevelt
        Despite her friendships with early New Dealers, she was by now a Republican and made speeches critical of the Roosevelt Administration's handling of the war effort.
In 1964 she announced that she was running for the Senate in New York State as a Conservative Party candidate and supporter of Senator Barry Goldwater, whose nomination for President she had seconded at the Republican convention.
An early marriage, ended in divorce and she married William L. Butcher, a prominent Republican industrialist, in 1968.
