That edge helped her in her race against James Farmer, a leader of the Freedom Rides in the south in the early 1960's, who ran as an independent on the Republican and Liberal lines, and Ralph Carrano, who ran as the Conservative candidate.
That edge helped her in her race against James Farmer, a leader of the freedom rides in the south in the early 1960's, who ran as an independent on the Republican and Liberal lines, and Ralph Carrano, who ran as the Conservative candidate.
Ms. Fowler was vice chairwoman of the House Republican Conference and No.5 in the House leadership when she left Congress.
She got a seat on the Armed Services Committee and was elected co-chairwoman of the Freshman Republican Task Force on Reform.
In 1998, Ms. Fowler was elected vice chairwoman of the House Republican Conference on the vow that she would serve no longer than two years in the Republican leadership.
In 1998, Ms. Fowler was elected vice chairwoman of the House Republican Conference on the vow that she would serve no longer than two years in the Republican leadership.
''I'm an evangelical and I am a Republican,'' the statement read.
She lost the primary; Newt Gingrich, a Republican, won the general election.
But even as she worked hard to build good relations with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, she alienated unionists, who want it to remain united with Britain and who accused her of being too sympathetic to the republican cause.
But even as she worked hard to build good relations with Sinn Fein, the political arm of the Irish Republican Army, which wants Northern Ireland to become part of the Irish Republic, she alienated unionists, who want it to remain united with Britain and who accused her of being too sympathetic to the republican cause.
''
        In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson appointed her as a judge on the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York at the urging of Senator Robert F. Kennedy of New York, a Democrat, and with the support of Senator Jacob K. Javits, a Republican.
work and handily defeated a Republican to become the first black woman elected to the State Senate.
In citywide elections nine months later, she was re-elected to a full four-year term with the endorsement of the Democratic, Republican and Liberal Parties.
An almost life-long Republican, she became an outspoken critic of President Ronald Reagan and supported the candidacy of Walter F. Mondale and Geraldine A. Ferraro in the 1984 presidential race.
She added: ''I have worked for scores of Republican candidates, but I'm not going to toe the party line when I have a president who seeks to send me down the time tunnel as a woman.
She attended the 1980 Republican National Convention -- visibly pregnant -- with a button supporting abortion rights pinned conspicuously to her lapel.
Ms. Wilson is survived by her husband, a Republican political consultant; a daughter, Casey Rose Wilson, of New York City and Los Angeles; a son, Fletcher Todd Wilson, a student at the University of Pennsylvania; her father, Marion Higdon, of Pensacola, Fla.; and a brother, Bruce D. Higdon, also of Pensacola.
A few years ago, her sister-in-law said, she left the Republican Party.
      
In her zeal to fight gangsta rap, the fiercely partisan Democrat found herself allied with William J. Bennett, the conservative Republican who held top posts in the presidential administrations of Ronald Reagan and George H. W. Bush.
