Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud of New York City and Leslie Goodman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Besides her husband, a well-known Republican from the Upper East Side of Manhattan, Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Randy, of Palo Alto, Calif.; two daughters, Claire Cloud, of New York City and Leslie Goodman, of Los Angeles; a brother, John Furrer, of Vero Beach, Fla.; and six grandchildren.
      
Although he was just as conservative as Ms. Dubrow was liberal, Barry Goldwater, the Republican presidential candidate in 1964, was friendly with Ms. Dubrow, once telling Mr. Dubinsky, ''That's a smart little girl lawyer you've got down here.
''What most bothers me in this Republican Congress is how they make it seem a crime for anyone to be poor -- like the poor want to be poor,'' she said in a Washingtonian interview.
Active in Republican politics, Ms. Walker ran unsuccessfully for the New York State Senate in 1958 and 1964.
''
        Her defeat in 1994, coming in a year of sweeping Republican success at the polls nationwide, did not dim her celebrity on the national stage.
William P. Clements Jr., the first Republican governor of Texas since Reconstruction, decided not to run for re-election, Ms. Richards challenged a former governor, Mark White, in the Democratic primary and won.
She went on to defeat the Republican candidate, Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, in the general election after a brutal campaign.
Two years later, she underestimated her young Republican challenger from West Texas, George W. Bush, going so far as to refer to him as ''some jerk.
In 1990, when the incumbent governor, William P. Clements Jr., decided not to run for re-election, she ran against a former Democratic governor, Mark White, and won the primary, then later fought a particularly brutal campaign against Republican candidate Clayton Williams, a wealthy rancher, and won.
Two years later, she underestimated her young Republican challenger from West Texas, going so far as to refer to George W. Bush as ''some jerk,'' a commend that drew considerable criticism.
Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage was elected in 1994 as part of the Republican takeover of the House and served three terms, from 1995 to 2001, representing Idaho's First Congressional District.
The couple divorced in 1975, and Mrs. Chenoweth moved to Boise, becoming active in politics and serving for a time as executive director of the Idaho Republican Party and then as chief of staff to Representative Steven D. Symms.
She scored an upset in the 1994 Republican primary over David H. Leroy, a former state attorney general, and went on to defeat the Democratic incumbent.
But in 2004, she used the 24-hour guideline as the basis for a suit against the city, charging that it was illegally detaining protesters at the Republican National Convention.
She was a star performer at the 1984 Republican national convention, deriding the Democrats as the ''blame America first'' party.
She changed her political affiliation after leaving the Reagan administration and thought hard about seeking the Republican nomination for president.
She remained among the most highly regarded members of the Republican establishment, and her voice remained one of the strongest echoes of the Reagan era.
