Starting in 1960, the de Menils financed a research project that culminated in a monumental publication called ''The Image of the Black in Western Art.
They married in 1937 and moved to Connecticut, where he was on the faculty of Yale University and she conducted research, working on the effects of radiation on bacteria.
Its purpose was to pursue research into the psychological and cultural factors that affected women's status in society, and also to support female artists, scientists and scholars, particularly those who had suspended their careers because of family responsibilities.
Dr. Hawkins was a dance therapist and researcher at the university's Neuropsychiatric Institute from 1960 to 1977, training dance therapists and creating a series of educational research films about the field.
She was also on the board of Phoenix House and was a trustee of the New School for Social Research until her death.

        Lita S. Osmundsen, retired president of the Wenner-Gren Foundation for Anthropological Research, died last Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
The foundation runs programs to assist research in anthropology and related disciplines.
Mrs. Osmundsen was the president of the foundation, based in Manhattan, from 1978 to 1986 and was its director of research from 1963 to 1978.
Mrs. Osmundsen won hers, an American Anthropological Association publication said, ''for her contribution to the internationalization of anthropology, for her furtherance of all branches of the field through support of research and for uniquely creative use of conferences and symposia to further scholarly integration and development.
She made that observation in 1942 when she was a research physicist at the University of Illinois, but it was classified top secret and not announced until after World War II.
Born in Mannheim, Germany, she earned a doctoral degree at the University of Munich in 1935 and moved to England to do research at Imperial College in London.
She did research and taught at the University of Illinois from 1939 to 1950, when she became the first woman with a Ph.D. in physics on the Brookhaven faculty.
She retired from Brookhaven in 1977 but returned in 1985 as a research collaborator, an association she continued until 1990.
She also was an adviser and consultant  at the National Research Council, the National Science Foundation and many other scientific bodies.

        Jean Blackwell Hutson, who as curator and then chief of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture helped make it the world's main public repository of materials on people of African descent, died on  Wednesday at Harlem Hospital.
Taking no chances during a summer research vacation, she ordered her college-age daughter to go out and have fun and adventures in every city they visited.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
After years of research, including a stint in England, she produced the 1975 book.
Professor Stamler was also involved in other research projects, including a survey of more than 10,000 people worldwide that reaffirmed sodium as a factor in high blood pressure.

        Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24.
After working at the Frick for two years in the mid-1950's, conducting research for a new and complete catalogue of the museum's paintings, Ms. Davidson was chief curator of the Rhode Island School of Design Museum of Art from 1956 to 1960 and held part-time teaching positions at Brown University, Harvard University and, later, at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts.
The encounter was enough to draw Miss von Franz into the Jungian orbit, first as student, patient and research assistant, later as colleague and collaborator and eventually as successor at the C. G. Jung Institute in Zurich.
She enrolled in a pottery course at Hollywood High School, and began to research the luster-glaze process in a local library.
The daughter of Lebanese immigrants, Dr. Wakin, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., moved to California as a teen-ager, beginning her college studies at the University of California at Los Angeles before completing her undergraduate studies at the New School for Social Research in New York.
A scholar who shared her own research generously and who organized annual conferences that became a focus of Mayan research, Dr. Schele collaborated on a series of important books, among them ''The Blood of Kings'' (1986, Braziller), ''A Forest of Kings'' (1990, Morrow), ''Maya Cosmos'' (1993, Morrow) and ''The Code of Kings'' (1998, Scribner.
A scholar who shared her own research generously and who organized annual conferences that became a focus of Mayan research, Dr. Schele collaborated on a series of important books, among them ''The Blood of Kings'' (1986, Braziller), ''A Forest of Kings'' (1990, Morrow), ''Maya Cosmos'' (1993, Morrow) and ''The Code of Kings'' (1998, Scribner.
In 1960, Ms. Clark and a colleague, Louise Goss, founded the New School for Music Study in Kingston, N.J., a research center devoted to the development of piano pedagogy and materials.

        Florence Skelly Altman, an innovator in opinion research, died on Tuesday at Scottsdale, Ariz., Memorial Hospital.
Ms. Skelly, as she was known professionally, was instrumental in developing many techniques that are now standard in market research, including the use of simulated test markets to estimate the potential of new products.
''She had a great flair for the numbers side of the business, but saw the human implications of the numbers like no one I have ever known,'' said Daniel Yankelovich, a partner of Ms. Skelly at the opinion research firm that bore their names.
Mr. White recalled a meeting in the 1950's that he, Ms. Skelly and another male executive from Stewart Dougall, a New York research firm where she worked early on, were asked to attend with the board of the New York Stock Exchange.
project in New York, exhibited her interest in market research.
)
        In recognition of her contributions to the field, in 1990 the Market Research Council inducted Ms. Skelly into its Market Research Hall of Fame.
)
        In recognition of her contributions to the field, in 1990 the Market Research Council inducted Ms. Skelly into its Market Research Hall of Fame.
At her death, she was clinical professor emeritus at the Psychoanalytic Center for Training and Research at Columbia.
Four years ago, Dr. Lambertsen endowed a research program of the American Nurses Foundation.
Mrs. Maxwell returned to South America and continued her research until 1986, eventually collecting more than 350 plants used to treat more than 100 common ailments.
She later headed a Rockefeller foreign research group.
She graduated from Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, was an actress in Canada and studied drama at the New School for Social Research, in Manhattan.
That year she also founded the Gloria F. Ross Center for Tapestry Studies in Tucson, Ariz., a nonprofit research institute and educational foundation.
The center sponsors public lectures, workshops, research projects and exhibitions devoted to tapestries, from prehistory to the present.
''Her research and publications remain essential to an understanding of American folk art,'' Mr. Wertkin said.
After two years of research and attempts to raise money, she received a $60,000 grant from the Merck Family Fund.
It was through her affiliation with  Yale that she was able to apply for her patients' participation in the university's experimental research in  AIDS medication and treatment.

        Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, an epidemiologist and vaccine expert who headed the center for immunization research at the Johns Hopkins University School of Hygiene and Public Health in Baltimore, died with her husband in Wednesday night's plane crash off Nova Scotia.
Dr. Clements-Mann was to have attended a United Nations AIDS conference dealing with research into vaccines against H.I.V.
As a director of the foundation she formed with her husband, Donald D. Harrington, a Texas oil man, Mrs. Harrington also contributed large sums to dozens of diverse charities and organizations, including the Deafness Research Foundation in New York and the Harrington Arthritis Research Center in Phoenix.
As a director of the foundation she formed with her husband, Donald D. Harrington, a Texas oil man, Mrs. Harrington also contributed large sums to dozens of diverse charities and organizations, including the Deafness Research Foundation in New York and the Harrington Arthritis Research Center in Phoenix.
And she immersed herself in the politics of breast cancer, working to get insurance coverage for women who were uninsured or entering clinical trials, and in the financing of medical research.
She spoke to President Clinton and his wife, Hillary, about the need for more money for cancer research, and, on a panel with Vice President Al Gore, she described her experiences as a cancer patient.
In the 1930's, Frances Hamerstrom was one of the first women to ''crash the barrier into the all-male wildlife research profession,'' said Dr. Ray Anderson, a retired professor at the University of Wisconsin at Stevens Point.
She taught at Cooper Union, the New School for Social Research, New York University and the City College of New York and gave private lessons.
Robert Immerman, a senior research associate at Columbia University's East Asian Institute, who also worked at the American Embassy when she was there, said that before her marriage in 1956, ''she was never at home in either culture.
She received her bachelor of laws degree from Yale Law School in 1951 and subsequently became a research assistant to the tax expert Stanley S. Surrey at Harvard Law School.
Both Mrs. Shaw and the stepdaughter, Pamela Ann Shaw, became leaders in the movement for AIDS research and education, meeting with President Clinton in 1994 to urge him to increase spending for these purposes.
To do research on ''In This House of Brede,'' Ms. Godden lived for three years near Stanbrook Abbey.
She was also active in charity work, raising many millions for the American Cancer Society (she survived cervical cancer in the 1950's and spoke of it widely and often) as well as the foundations set up to research cerebral palsy, multiple sclerosis and kidney disease.
Dr. Nyswander was married for more than 20 years to George T. Palmer, former director of research for the American Child Health Association in New York.
She exploited the skills of a research chemist, a merchant and a teacher to achieve eminence in three careers over the course of 50 years.
Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring from a career largely in family therapy in New York, said Dr. Samuel Roll, a professor of psychology at the University of New Mexico.
Dr. Abel taught at the University of Illinois and at Sarah Lawrence College and later became the director of research at the Manhattan Trade School for Girls.
In 1940, she joined Letchworth Village psychiatric center in Rockland County, N.Y.,  as a research psychologist.
