After graduating with honors from Stanford, Ms. Allen moved to New York to work in the research department of the Young & Rubicam advertising agency, whose accounts included Norton Simon's food conglomerate.
Research proved not to be Ms. Frankfurt's forte.
Her research on insects eating substances that are poisonous to their predators was considered groundbreaking.
''
        She worked 16-hour days studying trematodes until a German bomb destroyed all traces of seven years of her research.

        Dr. Esther Thelen, a psychologist whose research into the way babies develop early motor and mental skills exerted a powerful influence in the field, died on Dec. 29 at a hospital in Bloomington, Ind.
Dr. Buckley, who was part of Yale's Arbovirus Research Unit at the time, began to study the virus, using samples of the nurse's blood.
Because of the risk of contagion, the research on the virus was transferred from Yale to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta.
After working as a research assistant at Johns Hopkins, she joined the Sloan-Kettering Institute, where she was chosen as head of the solid tumor program in 1949.
In 1964, the labs were transferred to Yale and became known as the Arbovirus Research Unit.
In 1966, she moved to Florida and later to Murfreesboro, where in 1999 she founded High Hallack, a retreat and research library for writers that she closed in 2004.
      
The cause was cancer, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the research and advocacy group Ms. Dolbeare founded in 1974.
Later, as part of a research effort led by Dr. Paul V. Harper, she investigated the qualities of technetium, a radioactive element discovered in the 1930's.
She next joined the staff of the Argonne Cancer Research Hospital, now the Franklin McLean Memorial Research Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Chicago.
She next joined the staff of the Argonne Cancer Research Hospital, now the Franklin McLean Memorial Research Institute, which is affiliated with the University of Chicago.
Dr. Georgeanna Jones, one of the country's first reproductive endocrinologists, was a quiet leader in her field for four decades at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, where she taught and conducted research.
Mrs. Goldenson and her husband lobbied for wheelchair access to sidewalks and restrooms; donated at least $60 million to research on neurological diseases; and even recruited NASA to their cause.
In 1955, Mrs. Goldenson convinced Dr. Sidney Farber of the need for research toward preventing cerebral palsy.
He recruited 14 other medical scientists for what became the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation.
She attended Cornell College for a year and earned her bachelor's degree in Russian studies at the New School for Social Research.
She stayed with the university's Institute of Arctic and Alpine Research for several years, climbing the tallest North American mountains and meeting many of the women she would later join on the Himalayan expeditions.
It supports hospice care in developing countries and shares expertise through international partnerships and extensive education, training and research programs.
After early research in vitamins, Dr. Mondy became passionate about potatoes in the 1950's, drawn by their nutritional richness, low cost and long life in storage.
In 1987, Dr. Mondy's research created a public stir when she and a graduate student, Barry Gosselin, released a study suggesting that a naturally occurring toxic compound found in potatoes could be hazardous to human health.
Ms. Settle, who was a National Book Award winner and the author of the novels known as ''The Beulah Quintet,'' explained her research process in an introduction to ''O Beulah Land,'' the first in an interconnected five-book saga that spanned three centuries, from Cromwell's England to what Ms. Settle called ''the feudal coal culture'' of West Virginia, her native state.
As she was being treated for her illness, Justice Sussman, helped by family and friends, raised money toward a Sussman Family Fund for research at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
Dr. Justine M. Carr, a hematologist at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center and a former director of the hematology lab there, said Dr. Kruskall began to research the viability of erythropoietin in the 1980's, helping to prove its effectiveness and determine dosages.
More recently, Dr. Kruskall pursued research to develop a kind of universal red blood cell that could be safely infused, regardless of a patient's blood type.
''
        Moving to Washington in 1977 to work as a research analyst for the Department of Labor, Ms. Wilson remained politically active.
Her death was confirmed by Mary Ballard, the senior textile conservator at the Smithsonian Center for Materials Research and Education and a former protégée.
There were also gifts to the Monet garden in Giverny, France, and the National Wildflower Research Center in Austin, Tex.
In addition to running the natural science center, Ms. Pessino supervised the Louis Calder Natural Science Laboratory at the museum, where students could conduct research.
A joint project of the museum and the Linnaean Society of New York, the committee oversees research on the island's tern population.
''
        A member of the research and development staff at General Foods, Ms. Siems was instrumental, her sister Suzanne Porter said, in arriving at the precise crumb dimensions -- about the size of a pencil eraser.
Scholars sent her their research results, commentaries and papers to edit.
