She later lectured on women and Africa at schools and colleges, including New York University and the New School for Social Research.
She also helped shape the educational and research philosophy of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, which was just getting started when she joined its faculty in 1966.
''Her presence was a major factor in establishing at the fledgling medical school a balance between emphasis on clinical care and on basic scientific research,'' said Dr. Nathan Kase, dean of the medical school.
The new concept of inducing differentiation to normalcy in cancer tissues is undergoing early tests in patients at several research centers under the sponsorship of the National Cancer Institute and other agencies.
Many years of research with animal cancer viruses was indispensible to proving the links between other viruses and human cancers.
The Friend virus has been so important in cancer research that it is the focus of an entire chapter in Oncogenic Viruses, a definitive text on cancer virus research by Dr. Ludwik Gross of the Veterans Administration Medical Center in the Bronx.
The Friend virus has been so important in cancer research that it is the focus of an entire chapter in Oncogenic Viruses, a definitive text on cancer virus research by Dr. Ludwik Gross of the Veterans Administration Medical Center in the Bronx.
Consulant to Children's Guild
        Also in 1955, Dr. Bender was appointed principal research scientist in child psychiatry, a new post in the State Mental Hygiene Department.
From 1929 to 1930, Dr. Bender was a research associate in psychiatry at the Phipps Clinic of Johns Hopkins Hospital.
On a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1980 she flew around the world to complete research on the art of all nations.
Her subsequent research provided important insights into the understanding of Rock Mountain spotted fever, rickettsia and Q fever.
      
She was a founder of the Congress on Research in Dance and its newsletter.

       Sheila Mandel, the director of public affairs for Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation in Manhattan, and a former editor at Life magazine, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
Sheila Mandel, the director of public affairs for Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation in Manhattan, and a former editor at Life magazine, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
The family requests that instead of flowers contributions be made to the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation, 1150 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10128.
She was a graduate of Connecticut College and was on the faculty of the New School for Social Research for 20 years.

       Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck.
Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck.
From 1963 to 1964, she was a member of The New Yorker's research department - then called the fact-checking department.
Other publications heralded her iconoclastic style, the precision of her technique and the research behind it.
Miss Hayworth's other daughter, Rebecca Welles, lives in Tacoma, Wash.
        Princess Yasmin, testifying in 1983 before a Congressional committee concerned with appropriating funds for Alzheimer's disease research, said that the disease had reduced her mother to ''a state of utter helplessness.
''
        Miss Gingold participated in benefits and fund raisers for causes ranging from the theater to cancer research.
After her retirement in 1968, she taught for several years at the New School for Social Research.
In the early 1960's she joined the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., as a research assistant.
She was the chairwoman of the Little Red School House and the Elisabeth Irwin High School in Manhattan, and the founder and chairwoman of the associates of the New School for Social Research.
Ms. Hagai was a former senior vice president of the Business International Corporation, a publishing, research and consulting concern serving multinational corporations.
She was a graduate of the London School of Economics and the New School of Social Research, where she received a master's degree in 1944.
In 1937 she joined the staff of the Art Institute of Chicago, where she conducted research and wrote about art.
Dr. Mumford was professor of clinical sociomedical sciences in psychiatry and public health at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University and chief of the division of health utilization and policy research at the New York Psychiatric Institute.
Marrow Professor of Psychology at the New School for Social Research.
      
She put all of her energies into two major activities - teaching, whenever possible, and working for the cause of multiple sclerosis research.
After her incapacitation, the National Multiple Sclerosis Society, in tandem with an organization called the Jacqueline du Pre Research Fund, presented several benefit concerts at Carnegie Hall.
It conducts social research, policy analysis and public education in family planning, reproductive health and population matters.
