In 1990, at age 91, with her friend Barbara Bush at her side, she cut the ribbon opening the research center of the MacArthur Memorial in Norfolk, where her husband is buried.
Her help also financed the Greenberg Lounge on the campus, the Greenberg Faculty Research Fund and the Greenberg Professorship in Contract Law.
In more than 30 years of research, she combined the tools of chemistry, biology, physics and molecular biology to explain how cells interpret the messages they get from light, hormones and neurotransmitters.
At the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture she organized a Bearden show in 1991 and a Stringfellow show in 1998.
In addition to reconstructing and staging the dances, Dr. Brainard lectured and wrote for publications including the New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, the Dance Research Journal, the Harvard Dictionary of Music and Die Musikforschung.
One of the first fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Studies in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Brainard was an artist in residence at Northeastern University and served as a director and chairwoman of the Congress on Research in Dance.
She was affiliated with Johns Hopkins University, the State University of Iowa and the Marine Biological Laboratory at Woods Hole, Mass., before she joined the staff at Columbia as a research associate in 1960.

        Dina Abramowicz, the longtime librarian at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research whose firsthand and encyclopedic knowledge of the lost Yiddish world of Eastern Europe made her a treasured resource for hundreds of scholars and writers for more than half a century, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan.
And she hunted them down for scholars like Irving Howe and novelists like Leon Uris as well as for thousands of ordinary people trying to research their family histories.
She was YIVO's head librarian for 25 years, until 1987; then in her late 70's, she was eased off to work as research librarian, a position she held until her death.
But her name endures in dozens of acknowledgments by the authors whose research she shepherded.
She loved the research involved in historical fiction, she said, but found writing incurably painful.
She was comfortable in the male-dominated society of ocean research, often enjoying poker with her male colleagues.
Her next stop was Harvard, where she worked as a research assistant as she earned a doctorate in biology from Radcliffe in 1954.
She remained at Harvard as a research assistant and biology lecturer.

        Dr. Harriet Lange Rheingold, a child psychologist and research professor emeritus at the University of North Carolina, died on April 29 at a retirement center in Chapel Hill, N.C. She was 92.
Dr. Rheingold did not begin her specialized research until she was 45, after 20 years of patient care and undergraduate teaching.
She then was a research fellow, psychologist and assistant professor at Rockford College in Illinois.
She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
She was a research psychologist at the National Institute of Mental Health in Bethesda, Md., before joining the North Carolina faculty as a research professor in 1964.
In 1985 she organized a symposium, ''Toward a Unified Science of Behavioral Development,'' for the Society for Research in Child Development.
''
        Mrs. Wilcox began her work at the center in 1957 with a day-to-day visual chronicle of clinical research relating to childhood nephrosis, a kidney disease.
Dr. Widdowson wrote it with her research partner of 60 years, Dr. R. A. McCance.
She is survived by a younger sister, Eva Crane, who also became a noted scientist and for more than 30 years was director of the International Bee Research Association.
The initial step was combining her research on fruits and vegetables and his on meat, then collecting information on foods generally.
The 1,000-word article was based substantially on The Times's research in books, but some information came as well from The Times of London and other British publications.
Over her long career, Mrs. Piore was a union organizer and supervisor of education for union members; a research economist for a Senate subcommittee dealing with health legislation; a special economic assistant in the New York City Health Department; and head of a joint project with Hunter College that analyzed the economics of health initiatives in President Lyndon B. Johnson's Great Society program.
Mrs. Rubin's field recordings are now housed in various collections, including the Archive of Folk Culture at the Library of Congress and the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research in New York.
She then worked at jobs in medical research and marine biology.
Ms. Werner had already begun clandestine transmissions from a radio set she had built in her rented house near Oxford when, in 1941, she met Mr. Fuchs, who was working at the British atomic research facility nearby.
Mrs. Wulwick was also involved in Fight for Sight, an organization that fosters vision research, and was active in groups for teenage suicide prevention.

        Rose Marie Thomas, the head of the fund-raising organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, which was founded by her husband, the comedian Danny Thomas, died on Wednesday.
During his lifetime, she also helped raise money for the hospital, a research and treatment center for catastrophic childhood diseases.
She was a member of the faculty of the New School for Social Research from 1960 until the late 1990's.
'' It took her five years of research and seven trips to Japan to prepare for the special issue on shibui.

        Dr. Miriam M. Salpeter, a neurobiologist whose research contributed to the understanding and treatment of neuromuscular disorders like myasthenia gravis, died on Tuesday at Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. A resident of Ithaca, she was 71.
After his death in 1972, Mrs. Dyk took transcripts of taped conversations and other research and wrote ''Left Handed,'' a continuation of the first book.
