Characteristically, she shrugged off the distinction, as she did again in 1962 when President John F. Kennedy appointed her to head the Office of Technical Cooperation and Research at A.I.D., making her the highest-ranking woman in the United States Government at the time.
In the national and international health arena, while serving with the Agency for International Development, she established a Research Advisory Council to improve standards of professional quality in grants for health and welfare programs around the globe.
She earned bachelor's and master's degrees from the university and was a Rockefeller Research Fellow at the Kaiser Wilhelm Institute in Munich before winning a Sterling Fellowship to study at Yale, where she took a Ph.D. in immunology and went on to receive an M.D.
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
In 1958 she established a Public Health Research Institute in New York with an annual budget of more than $7 million from municipal money to perform basic and applied research on a wide range of health problems.
She had been associated with The Network, a nonprofit research and training organization since 1980.
A few months later, she took another position that paid her $4 a week to do some law research, but in which she primarily ran errands.
The LuEsther T. Mertz Retinal Research Center at the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospital is named for Mrs. Mertz.
Mrs. Wickens retired from the Department of Labor in 1970 after a 42-year career in Fderal service that began when she joined the Federal Reserve Board as a research assistant in 1928 after having taught at Mount Holyoke College for four years.
She received a master's degree from the New York School of Social Work and a doctorate from Columbia, under whose auspices she did research among North Dakota's Ojibwa Indians.
She also served as counsel to the Child Welfare League of America; executive director of the Committee on Legal Abortion; a research assistant with the Citizens Housing and Planning Council of New York City, and a member of the board of the Scholarship, Education and Defense Fund for Racial Equality.
Besides her husband, she is survived by two sons, Mark, an architect in Manhattan, and Joshua, a biologist and a research fellow at Wolfson College, Oxford University.
      
Mrs. Weitzenhoffer was the author of "The Havemeyers: Impressionism Comes to America" (1986), an authoritative account, based on solid and original research, of a central moment in the history of American taste.
After his death in 1965 she served as president of the Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation, which supports scientific education and research.
Dr. Kattan did extensive research on the Arabic influence in Spanish literature and recently completed a translation of a medieval Hispanic-Arabic manuscript.
She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Jane, of Riverside, Conn.
        Mrs. Milliken, who opposed the use of animals in medical and scientific experiments, was a director of the Humane Society of the United States and a founder of the Manhattan-based American Fund for Alternatives to Animal Research.

        Katherine Warren, a research scientist and former grants administrator for the National Institutes of Health, died March 23 at Greater Laurel Beltsville Hospital in Laurel, Md.
She later became chief of research and analysis for the Army's Southeast Asia Command.
From 1945 to 1949 she was Southeast Asia Branch Chief in the State Department's Office of Intelligence Research.
After living in the Soviet Union in the mid-60's, she became an editor and researcher at the Dumbarton Oaks Research Center in Washington.

        Finvola Drury, who helped create and conduct research that led to a treatment for immune deficency in AIDS patients, was found dead on Thursday evening at the home of a friend in Brooklyn.
In the mid-1980's Ms. Drury assisted Dr. Bernard Bihari in research at the Kings County Addictive Disease Hospital in Downstate Medical Center that established the feasibility of using low dosages of a drug, naltrexone, to stabilize the immune systems of AIDS victims.
Dr. Lundberg, a 1925 graduate of Vassar College, was an editor at several magazines, including Cosmopolitan, and an assistant to the president of an educational consulting firm before earning a Ph.D. in 1957 from the New School for Social Research.

        Doris Malkin Curtis, president of the Geological Society of America, died Sunday at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Research Institute in Houston.
She was a board member of the East Side Settlement House and the New York City Opera Guild and chairwoman of the benefit for the American Foundation for AIDS Research.
Before joining the museum in 1947 she was a research assistant for the Office of Strategic Services.
Dr. Loveless, a 1925 graduate of the Stanford University Medical School, was a physician in San Francisco before becoming a research fellow at the Roosevelt Hospital Allergy Clinic in Manhattan in 1934.
Dr. Loveless wrote more than 70 research papers and articles and was a member of many professional organizations, including the American Academy of Allergy and Immunology and the American Association of Immunologists.
Her research included the psychology of people of superior intellect, alcoholism and its effect on creative artists and creativity in scientists.

        Agnes Waldron, a research assistant to Presidents Richard M. Nixon, Gerald R. Ford and Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday at the Washington Hospice Center.
In the 1960's she worked for the Stanford Research Institute, the American Enterprise Institute and the House Republican Conference.
In 1968 she went back to work for Mr. Nixon, to direct research activities for his Presidential campaign.
In the Nixon Administration she was director of the research office at the White House.
As special assistant to President Ford she edited the daily news summary, prepared the Presidential briefing books and managed research projects.
In 1976, Miss Waldron became research director at the Senate Republican Policy Committee and in 1980 was named senior policy analyst for the Reagan campaign.
In 1984 she was appointed director of research for the 1984 Republican platform.
She recently had become involved in the effort to expand research and medical programs for pediatric AIDS.
Dr. Scribner's research centered on cultural influences on learning and development.
She detailed her research in a book, "The Psychology of Literacy," for which she received the Melville J. Herskovitz Award from the African Studies Association in 1982.
Before joining the faculty of the CUNY Graduate School in 1981, Dr. Scribner was a research scientist at the Center for Applied Linguistics in Washington and, from 1978 to 1979, was associate director of the National Institute of Education.
From 1970 to 1978 she was senior research associate at Rockefeller University.
She graduated from Smith College in 1944 and earned a Ph.D. from the New School for Social Research in 1970.
She began her career as research director for the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America in Newark.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
While there, she served as a consultant to the Women's Job Corps, the National Advisory Research Council of the Institute of Dental Research and the Children's Hearing and Speech Center, an affiliate of Children's Hospital.
heir Huntington Hartford, the couple had founded the nonprofit Artists Technical Research Institute, whose aim was to establish reliable scientific data on artists' materials.
Mrs. Mayer also helped her husband research and edit several reference books he wrote for artists, including "The Artist's Handbook of Materials and Techniques," first published in 1940 and now considered a classic in the field.
In 1990 she was instrumental in establishing the Ralph Mayer Learning Center, successor to the Artists Technical Research Institute, at the Yale University School of Art.
The center supports research and writing on the use of materials and the study of artists' techniques.
For her pioneering research Dr. Seibert was inducted last year into the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y.
        She was born in Easton, Pa., and was stricken by polio at the age of 3.
A Public Health Consultant
        During her career Dr. Seibert taught and did research at the University of Chicago and the Sprague Institute in Chicago, and at the Henry Phipps Institute of the University of Pennsylvania.
Even after she retired in Florida, Dr. Seibert conducted research on cancer.
She is survived by a younger sister, Mabel, of St. Petersburg, who assisted in Dr. Seibert's research and lived with her.
      
After her retirement, Mrs. Reed continued her involvement in business and civic affairs in Kansas City, serving on the school board and boards of numerous social and cultural institutions, including the Kansas City Art Institute and the Midwest Research Institute.
After her retirement, Mrs. Reed continued her involvement in business and civic affairs in Kansas City, serving on the school board and boards of numerous social and cultural institutions, including the Kansas City Art Institute and the Midwest Research Institute.

        Marion Letcher Bohmrich, a research analyst with the Office of Strategic Services and with the United States Mission to the United Nations, died on Thursday at Fair Haven Home in Bostic, N.C., where she was a resident.
She had requested that her remains be made available for research at the Alzheimer's Research Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C.
        Mrs. Bohmrich, a daughter of a Foreign Service officer, traveled and studied in Western Europe, focusing on German culture and tradition.
She had requested that her remains be made available for research at the Alzheimer's Research Center at Duke University in Durham, N.C.
        Mrs. Bohmrich, a daughter of a Foreign Service officer, traveled and studied in Western Europe, focusing on German culture and tradition.
She had her first solo exhibition in 1930 at the New School for Social Research.
She established the photography program at the New School for Social Research, and published several other books.
