Dr. Horstmann spent an additional year training at Vanderbilt University in Nashville and, in 1942, she went to Yale to perform research under Dr. John R. Paul for a year before becoming a specialist in internal medicine.
In 1953, she established the Cancer Research Institute, which now has an annual budget of $14 million and provides support for scientists around the world.
At Newnham College, Cambridge, she was a research student from 1941 to 1944.
It was produced by an interdisciplinary team at Massachusetts Institute of Technology and financed by the Club of Rome, an international research organization that studies ''the complex of problems troubling men of all nations,'' like poverty, alienated youth and monetary disruptions.
She and her former husband founded the International Network of Research Information Centers, in which they organized training programs and workshops in resource management in Europe, Central America, Africa, Asia and the United States.
Partly as a result of research financed by the societies started by Ms. Lawry, scientists now suspect that the disease may be caused by a viral infection on top of an inherited genetic susceptibility, though the specific triggering mechanism remains unknown.
''
        On March 11, 1946, Ms. Lawry assembled 20 prominent research scientists to found the Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis, which was renamed the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in 1947.
''
        On March 11, 1946, Ms. Lawry assembled 20 prominent research scientists to found the Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis, which was renamed the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in 1947.
Its first research grant went toward studying the relationship between the body's immune system and the effects of multiple sclerosis on the central nervous system.
At that time, total federal appropriations for research on multiple sclerosis were $14,000.
The international organization was born after the national society realized it was giving almost one-third of its research grants to foreigners.
Mrs. Lindbergh went with her husband, who was active in commercial aviation and scientific research, on many aerial journeys to Europe, to Asia, and to the Caribbean, where he was charting airplane routes.
But what these people did have was stuff -- leaflets, lapel buttons, picket signs and photographs -- and part of Dr. Bernhardt's job was to persuade them that each of these dusty artifacts was a window on a bygone union election, organizing drive or strike; she would acquire many of them for the Tamiment Library, a research collection devoted to radical movements in the United States from the Civil War onward, as well as for the Wagner Archives, dedicated to labor studies.
Dr. Hammer received a bachelor's degree from Barnard in 1941 and worked for several years on the research staff of the Council on Foreign Relations in Manhattan.
As a scholar, ''she was one of the few Americans that got into Vietnam before the American buildup there'' in the mid-60's, said Douglas Pike, a historian and director of research at the Vietnam Center at Texas Tech University.
Her major research interest was suicide prevention.

        Dr. Rosa Susan Penelope Beddington, an experimental biologist whose research produced insights into the way an embryo becomes a fetus in mammals, died on May 18 in Great Tew, Oxfordshire, England.
Most recently she headed the mammalian development section of the National Institute for Medical Research in London.
She was a member of the dean's advisory board at the Harvard Law School, where she established, with her second husband, Jack N. Berkman, the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, a research center on legal issues in the online era.
In a long career as a researcher, teacher and writer, Dr. Jahoda, known as Mitzi, examined social issues in the field well beyond the realm of dry statistics, and in her classes emphasized a humanistic approach and adherence to scientific rigor in social research.
and was a founding director of its Research Center for Human Relations.
There her research took on topics like unemployment in the coal mines and the transition from the classroom to the work place.
She and the officers and prosecutors working with her combined extensive research from official records, interviews and other sources to bring charges against gang kingpins who had proved invulnerable to the standard tactic of arresting street dealers and persuading them to betray their bosses, and so on up the ladder.
When Dr. Neugarten began her research on aging at the University of Chicago in the 1940's, she discovered little scientific literature in the field, but many stereotypes, which she proceeded to shatter.
In 1971, Dr. Neugarten was named to the Technical Committee on Research and Demonstration for the White House Conference on Aging.
Dr. Sanger was an internationally known expert in blood grouping, having worked for many years at the Medical Research Council in London.
She received a Ph.D. from the University of London in 1948, two years after she went to work as a researcher in the blood group unit of the Medical Research Council.
Mrs. Milstein established a fellowship for medical research at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
She joined the Alzheimer's Association board and began traveling the country to raise research money.
But several studies have lent support to it, and it is the focus of many current research projects.
Her work nearly 40 years ago influenced dietary research.
In the late 1980's, during and after her tenure as a provost, Dr. Calloway led a nine-university research project in Kenya, Egypt and Mexico to measure the causes and effects of moderate malnutrition.
After a job at the Stanford Research Institute, she was appointed a professor of nutrition at Berkeley in 1963.
Dr. Almy's early research convinced her that play was essential to healthy development and an ideal way for children to start learning the ways of the world around them.
''
        In addition to her work at The Times, from 1962 to 1977, Ms. Shanahan was an assistant managing editor at The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Washington Star, and she was a reporter for The United Press, the Research Institute of America and The Journal of Commerce.
Dr. Kleber, a psychiatrist who is the director of the Division on Substance Abuse at Columbia University and the New York State Psychiatric Institute, said his wife was the first research scientist since Freud to use controlled scientific experiments with humans to directly examine cocaine's effects.
Dr. Fischman shifted her research focus to humans and from methamphetamine to cocaine.
Dr. Kleber served as deputy drug czar in the first Bush administration, and was a leader of Yale's drug research program.
Ms. Limmer also helped to develop the Lower East Side Tenement Museum on Orchard Street and edited its research newsletter, Tenement Times, for several years.
Although Mrs. Dunnett said the novels drew on her own background in music, art and sailing, they also involved a great deal of travel in search of authentic detail as well as dizzying amounts of library research.
Details of her life came to light in research for a biographical sketch.
''
        She relentlessly challenged conventional understanding in her teaching and writing as well as in a feminist journal she helped found in 1989 at the Pembroke Center for Teaching and Research on Women at Brown University.
Her main area of concentration was 19th- and early-20th century American furniture, but she arrived there after studying American 19th-century painting and architecture and, at the Met, conducting extensive research on John LaFarge's stained glass and the American Aesthetic Movement.
She also oversaw research, helped select the objects and contributed to the catalogs for ''In Pursuit of Beauty: Americans and the Aesthetic Movement'' (1987) and ''American Paradise: The World of the Hudson River School'' (1988).
