" Criticizing Kissinger
        The Atomic Energy Commission was eventually abolished and its duties were transferred to the new Energy Research and Development Administration.
's Center for International Studies, the Asia Society in New York, the Special Operations Research office in Washington and the Center for Naval Analyses in Arlington, Va.
        She wrote extensively for professional journals and was the author of several books, including "Indonesia: A Profile" (1961), and "Mohammed, Marx and Marhaen, the Roots of Indonesian Socialism" (1965).
Starting in 1949 Dr. Courain spent 32 years at Merck & Company in Rahway, N.J., where she developed research information systems and provided development and education programs for corporate management.
After his death in 1968 she was appointed to the committee on research libraries and later was its chairwoman.
She had spent over a decade writing the work and had first collected research material for it in Berlin while a Fulbright Scholar there in 1956-57.

        Mary Woodard Lasker, the philanthropist and champion of medical research and urban beautification, died on Monday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 93 years old and also had an apartment on the East Side of Manhattan.
As a patron and volunteer lobbyist, Mrs. Lasker furthered medical research on cancer, heart and eye diseases and in other fields.
In her later years she reduced her activities, but at her death she was still president of the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, honorary president of the American Cancer Society and a trustee and vice chairman of the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Education Foundation.
In almost every year since 1944, it has given Albert Lasker Awards, largely for outstanding contributions to clinical and basic medical research.
The foundation has often been quick to recognize significant new research, and its awards have great prestige.
Besides supporting medical research and health programs, it has also given its backing to efforts to beautify New York and to activities in the arts.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
"
        In addition, Mrs. Lasker strove to persuade Federal, state and city officials and legislators to provide more funds for medical research on major killing and crippling diseases.
She worked to persuade Congress to increase appropriations for the National Institutes of Health and to set up additional research centers concentrating on specific diseases.
'I Couldn't Cut Up a Frog'
        Despite her successes in furthering medical research, Mrs. Lasker used to contend that she lacked scientific and medical aptitude.
Laskers Lead to Nobels
        Over the years, the Lasker Foundation helped shape medical history by recognizing and supporting promising research, and it has repeatedly singled out future winners of the Nobel Prize in Medicine.
For instance, the foundation's prize jury, whose longtime chairman is the heart surgeon Dr. Michael E. DeBakey, chose two winners of 1985 Albert Lasker Medical Research and Public Service awards -- Dr. Michael S. Brown and Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein of the University of Texas, for their studies of cholesterol chemistry in relation to the clogging of coronary arteries.
'Annie Appleseed'
        Like her passion for medical research, Mrs. Lasker's interest in and patronage of urban beautification was long standing.
In addition, drawing on his own experience in public affairs, he encouraged Mrs. Lasker to press Washington to provide more funds for research in medicine.
She joined the City College faculty in 1967 after doing research at the University of London.
Her research challenged the view that failure to learn stems from environmental factors like poverty, broken homes or a low I.Q.
She immigrated to the United States in 1949, conducted post-graduate research at Harvard University and in 1955 was elected research fellow of the Peabody Musuem at Harvard.
She immigrated to the United States in 1949, conducted post-graduate research at Harvard University and in 1955 was elected research fellow of the Peabody Musuem at Harvard.
Dr. Yeack-Scranton, who lived in San Jose, conducted research into magnetic recording technology, in which she held several patents.
The cause was ovarian cancer, said Patricia Sears, a spokeswoman for Population Action International, a research group in Washington.
Mrs. Schwartz was active in community affairs as a trustee of the Park East Synagogue and a board member of the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation.
Dr. Ted E. Becker Sr., a former chairman of the institute's child analysis committee, said that Dr. Weil's "primary interest and research had to do with the neurological and organic aspects of child development.
Dr. Weil went on to be a junior psychiatrist on the staff of Bellevue Hospital, a senior psychiatrist at the Child Development Center and a member of the faculty of the Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research.
Panel for Humane Legislation
        Her targets included the killing of seals and their pups for fur; leg-hold traps for catching raccoons for their coats; hunters who paid thousands of dollars to shoot polar bears from the air; rodeos in which electric rods, bucking straps and steel spurs are used on broncos and bulls, and cruel uses of animals for experiments, research and testing.
Before that she was director of grants at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000.
She and her husband made major donations to research into the disease, and in 1987 the Potamkin family created the Potamkin Prize for Alzheimer Research, an annual award of $100,000.
They were also active in sponsoring fund-raising events for medical research.
Previously she had been chief research scientist at that department involved in program planning.
Dr. King was also an officer of the National Council for Research on Women, the American Antiquarian Society and the Massachusetts Historical Society.
Beginning in 1988, she was named a research professor and an associate dean, becoming one of the highest-ranking women at the school.
She is survived by her sons, Robert J., of Evanston, Ill., an economics professor at Northwestern University, and David M., of Manhattan, a professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.

        Christy Henrich, a former gymnast of near-Olympic caliber who had eating disorders, died on Tuesday in Research Medical Center in Kansas City, Mo., near her hometown, Independence, Mo.
She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942.
In 1935 she began her research on black music and started a lecture series on human relations.
In 1960 she became Royal Society Wolfson Research Professor at Oxford, and she retired from that chair in 1977.

        Helen F. Cserr, a professor of physiology at Brown University in Providence, R.I., whose research focused on the anatomy and mechanism of the human brain, died on Aug. 11 at her home in North Dighton, Mass.
She started studying philosophy at the New School for Social Research but switched to sociology at Columbia University, where she earned her Ph.D. under the supervision of Robert K. Merton.
Was a Former Caseworker
        Dr. Ehrenkranz received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College, master's degrees in English from Temple University, in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr College and in social work from the University of Pennsylvania, and a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia University.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
She began her career at the Brookings Institution as a research assistant on Soviet energy and economics.

        Dr. Margaret Olds Strahl, a retired New York psychiatrist and analyst known for her research on the clinical treatment of schizophrenia, died on Monday at the William Hill Health Care Center in Easton, Md.
She was also the chairman of the Albright Institute for archeological research in Jerusalem and served on the boards of other cultural and educational institutions.
After earning a bachelor's degree with honors in English at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa, in 1941 she studied at Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.
The Sorbonne honored her in 1967 for her research on Conrad, and L'Academie de Marines in France did so in 1969 for "The Sea Years of Joseph Conrad" (1965).
In 1980 she became director of legislative research for the Southern Regional Council, based in Georgia.
The letters called for increased research and a cancer registry.
Dr. Gardner was an associate research professor at the Heller Graduate School of Advanced Studies and Social Welfare at Brandeis; she was acting director of the school two years ago.
Dr. Gardner was a former research associate at Children's Hospital in Boston and a staff psychologist at the Judge Baker Center in Boston.
The foundation, working out of a donated room with 14 desks and 12 employees, has raised more than $30 million for pediatric education and research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
The foundation, working out of a donated room with 14 desks and 12 employees, has raised more than $30 million for pediatric education and research, much of it for the Ariel Project, which is searching for ways to block transmission of AIDS from a mother to her fetus.
After she and her husband first described the family's fight with the virus in a magazine story in 1989, Mrs. Glaser became a public crusader for more Government involvement in AIDS research and prevention.
"
        Among Professor Oppenheim's other books was "The Other World: Spiritualism and Psychical Research in England, 1850-1914" (Cambridge, 1985), which the journal Victorian Studies called "a major contribution to the history of ideas.
