She was chairman of the humanities and communications department from 1976 to 1985, and was assistant vice president for research and development before being assigned to her post in program evaluation.
In 1990, Mrs. Poston helped establish the Washington Race for the Cure, a five-kilometer run that had been held annually in other cities to raise awareness about breast cancer prevention and to promote support for research to find a cure.
During World War II she worked as a mathematician at Columbia University's Statistical Research Group, a secret project to aid the military.
Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988.
At her retirement she was the associate chief for research in the nursing service at the hospital and an assistant professor at the University of California at San Francisco.
She also worked in family therapy at the Mental Research Institute in Palo Alto.
After graduating from the University of North Carolina, she taught school and worked at the Federal Research Information Bureau in Washington during World War I.
Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.
Among her favorite causes were the Salvation Army and research on heart disease and cerebral palsy, a condition that afflicted her daughter.
Houston is a public university with 33,000 students that performs $45 million a year in scientific research.
A Start at Williamsburg
        Her museum career began in 1956 when she was hired as a research assistant at Colonial Williamsburg in Virginia.
During a research visit to Russia in 1963, she brought in miniature copies of "Doctor Zhivago" and secretly passed out the contraband to dissidents.
She earned a master's degree at Columbia University in 1954 and a doctorate there in 1965 with a thesis based on research of Tolstoy's "War and Peace" manuscripts at his estate in Russia, where she stayed in 1963.
She initiated the New York State Psychiatric Institute's mental health program for the deaf and founded New York University's research and training center for deafness rehabilitation, a forerunner of centers elsewhere.
During a 19-year teaching career at Smith, Dr. Garrett-Goodyear's research focused on 19th- and 20th-century fiction, particularly the works of Thackeray, Lawrence, and Nabokov.
After working for a law firm and Citibank, she joined the foundation in 1969, where she progressed from research assistant to program associate, program officer, associate director and vice president.
Mrs. Bryce was a granddaughter of George Huntington Hartford, the founder of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, and she was a longtime trustee of the John A. Hartford Foundation, which donates money for medical research.
She taught and did research at the University of Chicago from 1964 to 1972, when she joined the Minnesota faculty.
She had recently been accepted into a research treatment program conducted by the National Institutes of Health at the Garden State Cancer Center in Newark and had been there last week for an initial treatment with radiated monoclonal antibodies.
From 1954 to 1966 she was secretary of research and statistics of the National Lutheran Council.
From 1967 to her retirement in 1971, she was associate director of the Office of Research, Statistics and Archives to the council's successor, the Lutheran Council in the U.S.A. She also founded and directed the Oral History of Cooperative Lutheranism in America.
She studied at the New School for Social Research; the Biblical Seminary of New York, the predecessor to the New York Theological Seminary, and the Columbia University School of Library Service.
She also help to found the Kaposi's Sarcoma Research Fund in 1983.
The finding, which she made in 1948, aided multiple-sclerosis research, since the destruction of myelin causes that disease, the college said.
Dr. Mathilde Krim, co-founder of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, called her a pioneer in educating middle-class heterosexuals.
Friends of the Gertz family founded Concerned Parents for AIDS Research and have raised more than $1 million, and Ms. Gertz's friends hope to carry out her idea for an AIDS care program named Love Heals.

        Alice Woodard Fordyce, a philanthropist whose support of medical research in the last five decades included her involvement in the awarding of one of science's most prestigious prizes, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
For almost 50 years, Mrs. Fordyce and her sister, Mary Woodard Lasker, were the driving forces behind the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation, which awarded the Albert Lasker Medical Research Awards.
The $15,000 awards, given for significant achievement in basic and medical research, have long been considered second in prestige only to the Nobel Prizes.
The foundation and the awards program were founded by Mrs. Fordyce, Mrs. Lasker and her husband, Albert, in 1944 to draw attention to major achievements in basic and clinical medical research and stimulate Federal financing of research.
The foundation and the awards program were founded by Mrs. Fordyce, Mrs. Lasker and her husband, Albert, in 1944 to draw attention to major achievements in basic and clinical medical research and stimulate Federal financing of research.
The sisters' interest in supporting medical research stemmed from the ear infections that Mary Lasker endured and from both their mother and father's suffering from hypertension.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
Her efforts won the American Thyroid Association's Distinguished Service Award and the United Cerebral Palsy Award for Research.
For many years, Mrs. Ashworth was a research associate of the historian Douglas Southall Freeman, the author of a multi-volume biography of George Washington.
After Professor Freeman died in 1953, she and another research associate, John A. Carroll, wrote the seventh and final volume of Freeman's authoritative "George Washington, a Biography" published by Scribner's in 1957.
Although she never received a high school diploma or college degree, she studied philosophy under Bertrand Russell at the New School for Social Research and studied at Columbia University.
In 1975 she became the first national administrator for the Cancer Research Institute in Manhattan, which finances immunological research looking for a cancer cure.
In 1975 she became the first national administrator for the Cancer Research Institute in Manhattan, which finances immunological research looking for a cancer cure.
She was 90 years old and lived nearby at the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, where she had conducted research for more than 50 years.
Dr. Ginsburg, a native of Rochester, Minn., was a research fellow in rheumatology at Brigham and Women's from 1988 until this year, when she was appointed to the staff there and to the medical school faculty.
She was a co-founder of the Florence G. Heller Research Center.
In 1955, she married Dr. John Douglas French, a neurosurgeon who was director of the Brain Research Institute at the University of California at Los Angeles.
When Dr. French developed Alzheimer's disease in the early 1980's, Miss Kirsten testified at a hearing of the Senate Special Committee on Aging, and in 1983 she set up the French Foundation for Alzheimer Research.
Dr. Spencer was the first woman to receive the Sachs Fellowship for Research in the Fine Arts from Harvard University, which enabled her to earn a doctorate at Radcliffe College.
She devoted her life to urging the public in general and those suffering from diabetes in particular to press for more research that might lead to a cure.
The foundation is the chief private financial supporter of scientific research on diabetes.
After earning a master's degree in education from the New School for Social Research in 1970, she taught at Escuela Hispana in Manhattan until her retirement in 1980.
"
        Dr. Dinnerstein was born in New York City, graduated from Brooklyn College and earned her Ph.D. in psychology at the New School for Social Research.
She was also the president of a consulting firm, the GLM Group, which provides research, training, technical assistance and other management services to governmental and nonprofit organizations concerned with programs for children and families.
She was on the staff of the Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research in New York from 1950 until 1964.
Dr. Toolan did basic research on the transplantation of human tumors and tissues into laboratory animals.
In 1964 Dr. Toolan moved to Bennington to direct the newly established Putnam Memorial Institute for Medical Research.
In 1987 the institute was renamed the Helene W. Toolan Institute for Medical Research.
Professor Donovan was the head of research at the Hunter College School of Social Work.
Before joining the Hunter faculty, she taught at New York University and Columbia, where she was research director of the school's Industrial Social Welfare Center.
She did much of her research on the topic with her former husband, Ivo K. Feierabend.
