
        Irene Diamond, who after a successful career scouting scripts and talent in Hollywood became a major benefactor of the arts and medical research in New York City, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Among the foundation's top priorities was the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center for the City of New York, affiliated with Rockefeller University.

        Rae Carlson, a psychologist who helped shape the study of personality with her 1971 paper ''Where Is the Person in Personality Research?
She established the Society for Personology in 1982 to advance this research orientation.
Dr. Gibson, then working as a research associate at Cornell, and Dr. Richard Walk used the simulated cliff in tests to show that babies could visually distinguish depth.
Her marriage in 1932 to Dr. James J. Gibson, a psychology professor who also conducted research on perception, was both a help and a hindrance to her career.
So she worked as a research associate at Cornell.
In 1982, she was invited to Beijing to teach Chinese psychologists about recent theories and techniques of research.
She was on the boards of North Shore Hospital, the American Ireland Fund and the Cancer Research and Treatment Fund.
The couple taught at the New School for Social Research in New York, where she earned a master of social science degree in 1943.
Ms. Davis traveled with a circus to do research for the book.
''Somewhere in the middle of doing all this technical research she realized that what she really wanted to do was not study computers but use computers to link people,'' said Brian Reid, who hired Dr. Borg into his research group at the Digital Equipment Corporation's Western Research Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.
''Somewhere in the middle of doing all this technical research she realized that what she really wanted to do was not study computers but use computers to link people,'' said Brian Reid, who hired Dr. Borg into his research group at the Digital Equipment Corporation's Western Research Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.
''Somewhere in the middle of doing all this technical research she realized that what she really wanted to do was not study computers but use computers to link people,'' said Brian Reid, who hired Dr. Borg into his research group at the Digital Equipment Corporation's Western Research Laboratory in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1986.
In 1994, Dr. Borg was co-founder of the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women, a conference held every two years focusing on the research and career interests of women in computing.
Dr. Borg left Digital in 1997 and joined the Xerox Corporation's Palo Alto Research Center.
She was also active in the Steinbeck Research Center at San Jose State University in California and in 1996 donated an archive of more than 200 letters sent to Steinbeck by John F. Kennedy, Harry Truman, Carl Sandburg, Alice B. Toklas, Ingrid Bergman and others.
But many reviewers hailed the results of Ms. Winsor's five years of research, saying her descriptions of the Great Fire of London and the Great Plague seemed vivid and accurate.
Her book ''Hypnosis and Behavioral Medicine,'' written with Dr. Daniel P. Brown and published in 1987, presented research supporting those methods in treating allergies, asthma, migraines and hypertension.
She was the longtime editor of the journal Research Developments and Perspectives in Hypnosis.
She was a research assistant in psychiatry at the University of Chicago from 1939 to 1940, then spent years in practice and joined the university's faculty in 1961.
Professor Nelkin, a prolific author who began her research at Cornell in 1963, was a close observer of science and how it is perceived -- and, often, misperceived -- by the public.
Ms. Shields was working on another novel at the time of her death, and research for it brought her back to Chicago, her hometown.
She worked in a medical laboratory, did science research for Time magazine, served with the Naval Reserve in Washington in World War II and studied art history at Vassar College.

        Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
Her more recent research showed how amphetamine abuse in adolescence or early adulthood could diminish the mind's performance for years and perhaps permanently.
After years of research at U.C.L.A., New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the National Institutes of Health, she joined the Yale faculty in 1979.
While she taught some classes, she concentrated on research at Yale, Dr. Rakic said.
The cause was pneumonia, said her sister, Ruth Daziel of Milford, Conn.
        Ms. Chase had just graduated from the College of Wooster in Ohio when she was hired as a research assistant by Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, a biologist who was investigating how viruses replicate.
After recovering, Dr. Magno went to England, where the world's first research and teaching hospice was established in 1967.
research laboratory in Quantico, Va., who trained under Ms. Laybourne in the late 70's.
Ms. Selver offered some of her first sensory-awareness classes in 1950 at the New School for Social Research in New York City.
Among the speakers will be Sharon Isbin, a guitarist who studied with Ms. Tureck, and Kevin Kleinmann, president of the Tureck Bach Research Institute in New York, which was founded by the pianist two years ago.
      
Relevance was added in the 1990's, however, with Seventh on Sale, a benefit for AIDS research.
''Two in the Far North'' also recounts the couple's honeymoon, a 500-mile caribou research expedition by dogsled, as well as a later river journey taken with their infant son, Martin, strapped to their canoe.
Dr. Johns's research, published in the journal Nature in 1978, led other scientists to question, and later debunk, the long-held notion that humans were incapable of sensing pheromones.
In recent years, research has suggested that the vomeronasal organ acts on the human brain in its hypothalamus, which produces hormones and regulates appetite, anxiety, fear and other behaviors.
In the early 1980's, she did research at Mount Sinai in New York showing that cells within the pituitary gland could absorb serotonin.
In 1986 she became the first director of the university's Institute for Research on Women and Gender, which promotes feminist scholarship.
Through foundations and in her own name, she also gave major gifts for AIDS research, hospice care, environmental causes, nuclear disarmament and programs to combat drug and alcohol abuse and hunger.
One of her findings, based on her clinical research in Baltimore, was that the majority of men who have affairs characterized their marriages, including their sex life, as ''happy'' or ''very happy.
Twelve years later, they founded the Child Development Research Unit at the University of Nairobi to conduct more intensive studies in Kenya.
Guest became interested in volunteer work as a debutante in Boston and was active in numerous charitable organizations over the years, including the Children's Research and Asthma Institute, the Police Athletic League and the March of Dimes.
Guest became interested in volunteer work as a debutante in Boston and was active in numerous charitable organizations over the years, including the Children's Research and Asthma Institute, the Police Athletic League and the March of Dimes.

        Jenifer Estess, a theatrical producer who set up a foundation for research into Lou Gehrig's disease after she learned she had it, died yesterday at her apartment in Manhattan.
She was also a former trustee of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture.
and the director of its Center for Research in Language, was known for her very public stance in the debate on nature versus nurture, that is, how much of human behavior is genetic and how much is learned from the environment.
and in 1989 became the director of the Project in Cognitive and Neural Development at the Center for Research in Language.
