She also was director emeritus of the Fryer Research Center, an outpatient clinic in the former Murray Hill Hospital on East 40th Street in Manhattan.
in the late 1930's and joined its national office as associate director of research in 1942.
She studied there with the pioneering Sinologists Marcel Granet and Paul Pelliot and was Professor Granet's research assistant in the 1930's.
Dr. Wu, the Michael I. Pupin Professor Emeritus of Physics at Columbia University, where she carried out research and taught for 37 years, was known throughout her career as a meticulously accurate experimental physicist who was in demand to put new theories to the test.
Dr. Wu joined forces with a research team at the National Bureau of Standards in Washington, which had one of the few laboratories in the country that could chill materials to extremely low temperatures.
After the war Dr. Wu joined Columbia as a research associate.
In her research, she obtained the first successful measurements of low-energy electrons emitted by beta decay, providing experimental evidence for Fermi's theory of weak interactions in the nucleus.
Besides her husband, she is survived by a son, Vincent Yuan, of Albuquerque, N.M., who is a research scientist at Los Alamos National Laboratory.
      
Her academic career came to an end early in 1942, when she was recruited by the State Department's opaquely named Division of Special Research and was assigned to begin planning for a postwar international organization.
For some 20 years, first with the American Civil Liberties Union of Georgia and after 1987 at the Georgia Appellate Practice and Educational Research Center in Atlanta, Mrs. Morris worked to find legal representation for death row inmates.
She taught courses on free expression at Queens College of the City University of New York and the New School of Social Research, and wrote and lectured widely on freedom of expression.
Mrs. Clark entered the field of market research as an interviewer, going door to door and asking opinions about commercial products, often accompanied by her infant son.
She was in charge of the firm's public opinion research, and she proved to be adept at turning out high-quality surveys that newspapers and magazines could get into print quickly, Mr. White said.
Born in New York, she attended the Ethical Culture School, Fieldston and the University of Iowa and studied at the drama workshop of the New School for Social Research and the Actors Studio.
In 1992 Ms. Woodhull became a trustee of the Freedom Forum, and in 1996 she became a senior vice president and executive director of the Media Studies Center, a unit of the Freedom Forum that focuses on media issues and journalism research.

        Dr. Ruth Sager, a geneticist who carried out influential research about the location of genetic material in cells, died on Saturday at her home in Brookline, Mass.
Dr. Sager was widely known for research that altered the prevailing view about where genetic material was within the cell.
Dr. Charles D. Stiles, a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Institute, said Dr. Sager had made a ''revolutionary discovery'' while doing research at the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, and later at Columbia University.
Before her research, Professor Stiles said, the view was widespread ''that all genetic information was sequestered in the nucleus of the cell.
After becoming a senior research associate at Columbia, she was a professor at Hunter College from 1966 to 1975.
She was a member of the board of the Irvington Institute for Medical Research and the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law at Yeshiva University.
She was a past chairman of the building fund for the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center and chairman of the Hadassah Medical Organization, one of the Mideast's largest medical care and research institutions.

        Esther Goldfrank, an accidental anthropologist who did pioneering research among the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest in the 1920's and churned out papers on the experience for the next half-century, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 100.
The institute, begun in 1966 with Dr. Piers as its dean, is a private graduate school and research center for advanced study in child development, affiliated with Loyola University in Chicago.
Howard Dodson, the head of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, said in 1995 that her career constituted ''a link between the best elements of the nationalist and radical left political traditions in Harlem over the past five, six decades.
As a writer and editor, Ms. Finkel was known for her meticulous research and unequivocal opinions.
She had worked closely with Eleanor Roosevelt as chief of the research and statistics division of the Office of Civilian Defense in World War II, and with W.  Averell Harriman as chief of the Commerce Department's international economics division from 1946 to 1953.

        Dr. Katherine Esau, an international leader in studying plant structure who laid the foundation for much current research into plant function, died on June 4 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 99.
Dr. Esau's long career, which began in czarist Russia and ended with the publication of her last research paper in 1990, reflected the methodological changes of this century.
She started with techniques of agricultural research, plant selection and hybridization, then moved into light-microscope studies of plant anatomy and the damage caused by viruses.
While her thesis defense took place at Berkeley, which granted her a doctorate in 1931, her research was done on the Davis campus, and she joined the faculty there.
She did research at Johns Hopkins University and the University of Michigan and taught at Brooklyn College and New York University.

        Mary Opal Wolanin, a nurse who did research on long-term care for the elderly, died on May 22 at Methodist Hospital in San Antonio.

        Bluma L. Trell, whose unbridled enthusiasm brought ancient Greece alive to a generation of New York University students even as her meticulous research into ancient coins had given scholars their first definitive view of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. She was 94 and had lived until last year on Bleecker Street in Manhattan.
Hardly a retiring scholar, Dr. Trell, who had done much of her research at the American Numismatic Society at Broadway and 155th Street, one of the world's great repositories of ancient coins, became so incensed in 1973 when the Metropolitan Museum of Art tried to sell some 6,000 coins it had loaned the society that she organized a highly-publicized protest that led the museum to sell the coins to the society at a discount.

        Rachel Gillett Fruchter, the Brooklyn biochemist who died in a bicycle accident on Saturday, was known for her research in gynecological cancer, as well as her commitment to women's health issues.
Her research focused on gynecological cancer and the epidemiology of cancer.
Her research established that immigrant women without access to adequate health care suffer higher rates of cervical cancer.
At her death, Dr. Fleischner was director of the college's Program on the Learning and Physically Disabled as well as principal investigator in its Research Institute on Learning Disabilities.
She was affiliated for many years with the Chest Service at Bellevue Hospital, where she headed a research team that tested new drugs for tuberculosis.

        Frances Lopata, a philanthropist known for her gifts to benefit medical research, died on Aug. 9 at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 74 and had lived in New Rochelle for three decades.
In January 1993, the Herman Lopata Chair in Hepatitis Research was established there.
In 1992, Mrs. Lopata established the Herman Lopata Chair in Liver Disease Research at Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medicine.
In addition, Mrs. Lopata gave $500,000 in 1991 to the Fox Chase Cancer Center in Philadelphia to establish an endowed fund for research on hepatitis B.
''
        Her donation to the Toronto Public Library of more than 50,000 books and periodicals formed the basis of the Merril Collection of Science Fiction, Speculation and Fantasy, one of the major research libraries in the field.
Ms. Keeton also established the Kathy Keeton Cancer Research Foundation to encourage research in alternative and complementary cancer therapies.
Ms. Keeton also established the Kathy Keeton Cancer Research Foundation to encourage research in alternative and complementary cancer therapies.
Early in Dr. Sears's career, societal conventions prevented women from going to sea on research voyages, so Dr. Sears focused her energies on editing publications devoted to oceanography.
She was the founding editor of Deep-Sea Research, a journal she directed from 1953 to 1974.
Her duties included coordinating naval oceanographic research at Woods Hole, where, as part of the war effort, scientists studied such matters as the behavior of smoke at sea and the use of the temperature and water-density characteristics of ocean layers to help submarines avoid detection.
In 1932 she began working as a planktonologist at Woods Hole, and was one of the first 10 staff research assistants at the Cape Cod institution, which was then primarily a summer operation.
She was a research assistant at Harvard from 1933 to 1949, and an instructor at Wellesley College from 1938 to 1943.
She soon found a more desirable job, doing research for the Senate Committee on Foreign Relations.
Dr. Rees was an associate professor during World War II, when she went to work for the Government, helping to direct research in  modern mathematics for the war effort.
She was sent to the applied mathematics panel of the National Defense Research Committee in the Office of Research and Development.
She was sent to the applied mathematics panel of the National Defense Research Committee in the Office of Research and Development.
By 1946, she was head of the mathematics branch of the Office of Naval Research, a position that she held until 1949, after which she was deputy director of the entire science division until 1953.
She was responsible for academic affairs, including curriculum development, admissions standards, faculty recruitment and budgeting for teaching and research.
During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
During World War II, she worked on a research team that produced a vaccine for cholera, and in 1945 and 1946 she was a research assistant on the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
She moved to Berkeley in 1965 as an associate research immunologist in the virus laboratory.
She had continued to do research in her laboratory until recently.
She conducted research at the Argonne National Laboratory on the effects of ionizing radiation on the heart and blood vessels until she retired in 1981.
As a member of International Relations, she fought to stop the nuclear arms race, but she  helped prevent the Army's Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County from closing in 1976 by having the Armament Research and Development Command transferred there.
's in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., while making frequent trips back to Columbia to research her master's essay on the Socialist labor leader Eugene V. Debs.
Her more than 50 papers, monographs, book chapters and books reflected her research on international migrations, including forced migrations and refugee policies.
Her recent research was foreshadowed in an earlier book, ''Guests Come to Stay: The Effects of European Labor Migration on Sending and Receiving Countries'' (1985).
It showed her sister Lita Annenberg Hazen, a patron of medical research and cultural institutions who died in 1995.
She later joined the county executive committee and took on the chore of research director for the Democrats in the State Legislature.
She distilled her research in ''Women of Value, Men of Renown: New Perspectives in Trobriand Exchange'' (U. of Texas Press, 1976).

        Margaret Storrs Grierson, the former archivist of Smith College who built its Sophia Smith Collection into an international research center, died on Dec. 12 at the Linda Manor Extended Care Facility in Leeds, Mass.
She retired as a professor emerita in 1988 but continued to do research.
Dr. Holley gave some of the prize money to Dr. Keller and others on his research team at Cornell.
The group sponsors grants and postdoctoral and student fellowships, as well as backing basic research proposed by vision specialists early in their careers.
Her initiative won the attention of Congress in 1949, when she coordinated testimony on eye research before the House.
