The International Myeloma Foundation, which supports research into the disease, issued a paperback reprint in 1993, and a Braille version remains in print as well.
"
        In addition to her private practice, Ms. de Hirsch carried out research and wrote extensively.
When Mrs. Manz wrote TOPS's articles of incorporation in 1952, she committed it to finding a cure for obesity, and TOPS says it has contributed more than $4.5 million to obesity research.
Since 1992, Audrey Cohen College has received substantial grants from the New American Schools Development Corporation, a private, nonprofit organization based in Arlington, Va., that supports research  to find ways to revitalize teaching.
In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
Miss Henderson, who had initially planned to switch professions after two years, helped remedy that view of nurses in part through exhaustive research that helped establish the scholarly underpinnings of her profession.
Her most formidable achievement was a 19-year research project in which she gathered, reviewed, catalogued, classified and cross-referenced every known piece of research on nursing published in English, resulting in the five-volume  "Nursing Research: Survey and Assessment," written with Leo Simmons and published in 1964, and her four-volume "Nursing Studies Index," completed in 1972.
Her most formidable achievement was a 19-year research project in which she gathered, reviewed, catalogued, classified and cross-referenced every known piece of research on nursing published in English, resulting in the five-volume  "Nursing Research: Survey and Assessment," written with Leo Simmons and published in 1964, and her four-volume "Nursing Studies Index," completed in 1972.
Her most formidable achievement was a 19-year research project in which she gathered, reviewed, catalogued, classified and cross-referenced every known piece of research on nursing published in English, resulting in the five-volume  "Nursing Research: Survey and Assessment," written with Leo Simmons and published in 1964, and her four-volume "Nursing Studies Index," completed in 1972.
She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emeritus of Biology and History of Science at Bryn Mawr College, where she had taught and done research for more than four decades.
She studied social work at Baruch College and graduated from the New School for Social Research.
Another focus of her work was the training of psychiatrists at Columbia's Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, which she joined in 1949.
Ms. Meredith-Jones received a master's degree from Columbia University and taught at Teachers College of Columbia University and the New School for Social  Research.
"
        In 1994, the Modern named the Lily Auchincloss Center for Architecture and Design, a research facility, and 18 architects donated drawings to the collection in her honor.
Early in the epidemic she recognized that women were at risk and founded an organization in San Francisco called Aware (Association for Women's AIDS Research and Education), which offered confidential testing for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, and counseling.

        Peg Weiss, an art historian, research professor and leading scholar on the Russian modernist Wassily Kandinsky, died on Wednesday at her home in Syracuse.
Besides being a research professor at Syracuse University, Mrs.  Weiss was also a Getty scholar from 1989 to 1990.

        Katharine Huyck Elmore, the chairwoman of the Edmund Niles Huyck Preserve and Biological Research Station in Rensselaerville, N.Y., died Monday at the Meadow  Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. She was 92 and formerly lived in  Rensselaerville.
She was also a co-founder and honorary trustee of the Rensselaerville Institute, which organizes conferences, research and demonstration projects dealing with topics like environmental impact, land use and community renewal.
Its approximately 2,000 acres are used for research, education and recreation.
In 1963, Ms. East helped write and research a Government report titled ''American Women,'' which called for the establishment of Federal and state commissions on women.
Dr. Broverman and her collaborators did their research at Worcester State Hospital in Massachusetts in the 1960's.
Women, the research indicated, thus were in a double bind because an active, logical and independent woman would have to be sick by definition, under the terms used by the respondents.
She then worked as a research psychologist at Worcester State Hospital until 1978.
Later, she carried out research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, New York University and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.
The letters would inquire about a particular plant, and Mrs. Morton would respond after doing the necessary research in her vast collection of reports, books and newspaper clippings or, often, just pulling the information out of her memory.
With a dual interest in Old Master drawings and contemporary art, she was especially known for her connoisseurship, her meticulous research and her teaching abilities.
Her first job was as a research assistant under Paul Sachs, associate director of the Fogg.

        Vera Brodsky Lawrence, a pianist, editor and historian of American music whose research helped bring the works of Scott Joplin and Louis Moreau Gottschalk to the attention of contemporary performers, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.

        Mary Ellen Jones, a biochemist whose studies of the components of DNA were part of the foundation of basic cancer research, died on Aug. 23 in Waltham, Mass.
DNA molecules are the building blocks of life, and Dr. Jones's research helped uncover how cells make the building blocks of DNA.
Although the field expanded greatly in the 1970's, he said, Dr. Jones ''was at the front with a handful of other labs'' in the 1950's, when she did her first major research at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
She resigned as chairwoman in 1989, but she remained active in research and teaching until her retirement last year.
Much of her research involved the development of a short-term form of social work practice called the Task Centered Model.
'' Ms. Reid was Connie Sachs, George Smiley's former research aide, who, despite her drinking, retained her exceptional memory.
The organization supports research in dermatology and skin disorders and their cure.
Dr. Penrose was a lecturer and research associate at Johns Hopkins for many years.
Mrs. Farkas settled in Florida and resumed her many philanthropic and humanitarian activities and research into male and female roles through the Role Foundation, which she established in 1967.

        Jessie Bernard, a sociologist whose wide-ranging research and writings on women's issues provided scholarly foundation for the modern feminist revolution, died on Oct. 6 at a nursing home in Washington.
Although her works were based on meticulous research, as a feminist scholar Dr. Bernard had an edge.
After marrying her professor she began a peripatetic life, following him band from academic post to post, including a sojourn to Argentina, where she helped him with the research that would win him wide acclaim.

        Former Representative Coya Knutson of Minnesota, a fierce champion of family farms, medical research and campaign finance reform and the creator of Federal student loans, died at a nursing home in Edina, Minn., on Thursday, her legislative achievements all but overshadowed by her vindictive husband's ''Coya, Come Home'' campaign that led to her defeat after two terms in 1958.
She subsequently initiated the first Federal appropriations for cystic fibrosis research, introduced the first bill calling for the income tax checkoff to finance Presidential election campaigns and originated the idea and the legislation that established the Federal student loan program.
The Ullmanns established the college's Research Center for Health Sciences and a chair in molecular genetics.
At the American Society for Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, she was a principal supporter of scientific and technological research at the institute in Haifa.
She reviewed articles for professional journals and helped establish the Placek Fund of the American Psychological Foundation, which provides money for research into homosexuality.
The cause was cancer, according to the Chiron Corporation of Emeryville, Calif., where she was vice president for research in the vaccines division.
As vice president, she oversaw the vaccine research staff at Emeryville and coordinated efforts with vaccine research centers around the world.
As vice president, she oversaw the vaccine research staff at Emeryville and coordinated efforts with vaccine research centers around the world.
Mrs. Dulles, who used her maiden surname, entered Government service in 1936 as director of financial research for the Social Security Board.
Beginning in 1959, Mrs. Dulles was assigned to studying foreign aid programs and visited 60 countries on behalf of the State Department's office of intelligence and research.
In reality, the researchers thought just the opposite; they used their testing and research techniques ''as a measure of individuality, not conformity,'' he said.
In 1933, she joined the  Yale Clinic of Child Development, working as Dr. Gesell's research assistant.
Dr. Ames and Dr. Ilg moved up the hill from the campus and founded the Gesell Institute, unaffiliated with the university, to continue their research.
That research consisted largely of filming children as they played or did certain tasks.
within the Graduate Music Therapy Program, where it provides treatment, training and research.
Its science-based program, backed by research and staff training, was recognized by the Federal Government in 1983 when it cited the Institute as one of 60 exemplary private schools in the country.
In the late 1950's she became  chief of the Southern Europe branch of the State Department's Bureau of Intelligence and Research.
She graduated from the New School for  Social Research in 1984.
Mrs. Machover wrote a book on her research that is still in print, "Personality Projection in the Drawing of the Human Figure: A Method of Personality Investigation" (Charles C. Thomas, 1949).
The membership consists of parents, professional workers and advocates for the mentally retarded, with the mission of promoting services, research, public understanding and legislation.
"
        Her research helped scientists find ways to treat the disease, he said.
