She joined it as a research assistant in 1952, became an associate editor in 1956, editor in 1962, and finally editor in charge from 1973 until her retirement in 1996.
The first was to have a national holiday established in Dr. King's honor, and the second was to build the center in Atlanta to honor his memory, continue his work and provide a research facility for scholars of his work and the civil rights era.

        Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing.
Her ideas were usually backed by enormous amounts of historical research.
The notes became an annual and authoritative account of research advances in Asia Minor, said Jayne L. Warner, an archaeologist with the Institute for Aegean Prehistory in Greenwich, Conn.
        Late in her career, Dr. Mellink turned her attention to the Trojan War and Troy, Dr. Warner said, ''as a site that everybody in the field eventually thinks about, a site of monumental architecture that links the Aegean and central Anatolia.

        Dana Reeve, who devoted herself to the care of her paralyzed husband, the actor Christopher Reeve, and became a forceful advocate for research into spinal cord injuries, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
Ms. Reeve essentially suspended her career after her husband's accident, choosing to oversee his care and campaign for spinal cord research, but she did make several appearances after his death.
''Chris was all about research, research, cure and treatment,'' Ms. Goldberg said.
''Chris was all about research, research, cure and treatment,'' Ms. Goldberg said.
Her death was announced by Mac Griswold, director of archival research at the estate, Sylvester Manor.
Mrs. Fiske endowed a research center at the University of Massachusetts at Boston to unearth relics of this history.
''Less than 24 hours after I testified before a grand jury investigating those murders (and the church burning that preceded them), the Klan initiated a campaign to 'ruin' me, a WASP lady with eight great-grandparents buried in Neshoba County,'' she wrote in her book, completed with the assistance of Lynn Eden, now the associate director for research at the Center for International Security and Cooperation at Stanford University.
The error was pointed out by a reader last week; the correction was further delayed for research.
      
''
        In later research, Dr. Roberts and others found that T.G.F.-beta inhibits the growth of some cancers while stimulating growth in advanced cancers, including cancers of the breast and lung.
From 1995 to 2004, she headed the institute's Laboratory of Cell Regulation and Carcinogenesis, and continued her research until this year.
Her research focused in particular on the role of women, children and families in the Middle Ages, largely overlooked subjects when she began her career in the 1940's.

        Virginia K. Rosenbaum, a prominent corporate research analyst and the widow of David E. Rosenbaum, a retired New York Times reporter who was fatally beaten in January, died yesterday at her home in Washington.
For much of her career Mrs. Rosenbaum was a lead analyst for the Investor Responsibility Research Center, an organization in Washington for institutional investors.
Dr. Feisst called Dr. Newlin ''one of the pioneers of Schoenberg research in America.
The map was published by the Office of Naval Research in 1977.
That year, she joined Columbia's geology department as a research assistant to the eminent scientist Maurice Ewing.
Because a research vessel was considered no fit place for a woman, Ms. Tharp, working with pen, ruler and what turned out to be a dangerous bottle of India ink, plotted the data back in Palisades.
''There's no question she was a fighter, and she always chose to take risks for the hope she could be cured,'' Dr. Abkowitz, of the University of Washington Medical Center and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, said in a telephone interview.
Mrs. Ortner did much of the historical research that persuaded the New York City Landmarks Preservation Committee to designate the Park Slope historic district in 1973, her husband said.
Beginning in the 1970's, she combined research with a clinical practice in Seattle and participated in trials of antihistamines and other drugs intended to treat asthma, rhinitis, hives and eczema.
Throughout her research, which focused on the relationship between hormones and stress, Professor Ramey was struck again and again by the fact that men seem to be at a natural hormonal disadvantage: they are more inclined toward aggression, die sooner and are more prone to heart attacks and strokes.
After training at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research and at Massachusetts General Hospital, she was named an instructor in surgery at Illinois in 1963.
Since its founding, the Ploughshares Fund has given more than $40 million to research scientists, academics and civic groups for projects to improve the monitoring of underground nuclear tests, prevent the proliferation of nuclear weapons, reorient Russian nuclear weapons facilities and increase international cooperation.
''The time period ranged from 1896 to 1926, so I had to do a lot of research.
) A reader pointed out the error in an e-mail message on Tuesday, and this correction was further delayed for research.
      
Last year, Mrs. Morgenthau was a member of a committee created by the Center for Global Development, a Washington research group, to assess the danger posed by poor nations.
Dr. Lederberg was also a central member of a team led by her husband, Joshua Lederberg, who shared a Nobel Prize for genetic research in 1958.
Her research also served as a model to help unlock the mechanism of genetic inheritance in more complex viruses.
The next year, he and his wife moved to Stanford University, where she took an untenured research position.
From 1978 to 1990, Joshua Lederberg was president of the Rockefeller University, the biomedical research institution in New York.
She went to Washington as a research analyst at the Intelligence and Research Bureau of the State Department, where she met her future husband, Evron Kirkpatrick.
She went to Washington as a research analyst at the Intelligence and Research Bureau of the State Department, where she met her future husband, Evron Kirkpatrick.
