"
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research.
"
        On leaving government in 1979, she became the director of the Social Policy Research Institute at the New School for Social Research.
As a registered pharmacist, she worked at the Merck Institute for Therapeutic Research in Rahway, N.J., in the 1940's as well as in the laboratories of Thomas A. Edison Inc., which consolidated various businesses organized by her father-in-law, the inventor.
Dr. Clark was recognized for her research on remedial education for dyslexia.
Instructional Methods
        Noting that remedial practice "cannot afford to wait" for research, she presents a comprehensive study of existing instructional methods and programs for dyslexic students.
She did editorial work for the national education office of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union and for a time worked as a researcher for the National Opinion Research Center in Princeton, N.J.
        She continued to write juvenile biographies, notably "Young Mariner Melville" (1956) and "That Dunbar Boy" (1958), about the poet Paul Laurence Dunbar.

        Anna Goldfeder, a leader in cancer and radiobiology science who conducted research for 66 years, died on Monday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan.
Most of her career was at the New York City Hospitals Department, where she was the director of cancer and radiological research, with academic affiliations at New York University.
Her research drew an invitation to the United States, and she immigrated in 1931.

        Dr. Roberta G. Simmons, a sociologist who conducted groundbreaking research into the emotional effects of organ transplants, died Monday at Presbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh.
Levy, a professor of psychiatry at New York Medical College in Valhalla, said Dr. Simmons's most important research focused on kidney transplants.

        Sydelle Stephany Reisman, owner of the Westport (Conn.) Research Group and active in civic affairs in Westport, died on Wednesday in Norwalk Hospital.
The State University of New York's College of Optometry in Manhattan named its Institute of Vision Research in the couple's honor.
Mrs. Toney was born in Manhattan and studied at the New Theater School, Columbia University and the New School for Social Research.
Dr. Healea published research papers on the interaction of beams of electrons with metal surfaces.
In 1962, she received a fellowship from The American Council of Learned Societies for postdoctoral research.
Throughout her illness, she was active in Reach for Recovery, a program of the American Cancer Society, and the T. J. Martell Foundation for Cancer and Aids Research.
She also taught at Columbia, Hunter College, the University of Vermont, the University of Colorado, the University of Utah, the University of Arkansas and the New School for Social Research.
Ethel and Jack Hausman endowed chairs bearing their names for a professor of pediatrics at North Shore University Hospital and for cerebral-palsy research at Harvard University.
At the college she founded the Institute of Research and Service in Nursing Education.
She published research on phosphate metabolism in bone in the 1940's, and she founded the laboratory that evolved into the Department of Chemistry at the center.
She had first helped to refine penicillin specifically for the treatment of infections as a member of a research team at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University.
She was associated with Presbyterian Hospital and the Columbia Medical School from 1934 to 1943, after which she joined Chas Pfizer & Company to continue her research.
She left Pfizer in 1959 to become chief of research at the Veterans Administration Hospital in East Orange, N.J., where she specialized in chronic infectious diseases.
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
Wrote Monthly Column
        As head of the American Bar Association's committee on research, she was influential in drafting the 1980 reform of the New York State divorce law, which was based on the premise that marriage is an economic "partnership of co-equals.
The discovery led her to publish research on the anatomy of human embryos.
Mrs. Martineau was a supporter of the Muscular Dystrophy Research Fund at Children's Hospital in Boston.
Her research broke new ground on the elemental structures of human sperm and the endometrium, or inner lining, of the uterus, that can be detected only with an electron microscope.
She had various teaching and research jobs at Yale before joining the State University of New York in Buffalo as an associate professor of anatomical sciences in the mid-1970's.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
For the last 20 years, Mrs. Gilliam was the executive director of the Myrin Institute, a foundation whose causes include international affairs, the environment and drug-abuse education through its offshoot, the American Council for Drug Research.

        Joan Walden Fleischman, a social worker who specialized in working with families with abused or neglected children, died on Monday at the Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center in Seattle.
She directed its research division from 1950 to 1963.
In those positions, she played a central role in creating several new graduate and research programs dealing with early education theory, child psychology and social policy.
In 1973 she became a Distinguished Research Scholar Emeritus at the college, which is on 112th Street near Broadway and was founded in 1916 as a center for training and research in early childhood education.
In 1973 she became a Distinguished Research Scholar Emeritus at the college, which is on 112th Street near Broadway and was founded in 1916 as a center for training and research in early childhood education.
She also was co-author of two books reporting major research studies: "Child Life in School" (1942) and "The Pyschological Impact of School Experience" (1969).
Describing herself as a histo-detector, she used scholarly research to delve into old crimes and scandals, especially those in 18th-century Britain and arrive at her own modern solutions.
Describing herself as a histo-detector, she used scholarly research to delve into old crimes and scandals, especially those in 18th-century Britain and arrive at her own modern solutions.

        Susan K. Johnson, the senior vice president for account management at Mediamark Research Inc., a Manhattan-based media and market research company, died on Friday at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens.

        Susan K. Johnson, the senior vice president for account management at Mediamark Research Inc., a Manhattan-based media and market research company, died on Friday at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens.
Ms. Johnson joined the company, which carries out research on subjects like magazine readership, in 1989.
At her death, she was also vice president of the Media Research Directors Association.
The center promotes research and assists lawyers and organizations concerned about preserving individual rights and freedoms and acts as a clearing house for information.
She was the author of many articles and handbooks, including a three-part research guide on human rights law that was published by New York University.
"
        Her most recent research was in nutrition and aging, particularly the role of carotenoids, including beta carotene, in the protection of the immune systems of older people.
In 1948, she became chief of medical mycology at the Walter Reed Army Institute of Research in Washington.
She was head of Clark University's Rehabilitation Psychology Training Program from 1962 to 1972 and was one of two recipients of the first research awards from the Division of Rehabilitation Counseling of the American Personnel and Guidance Association.
Her research, which focused on problems in returning to a normal life after the loss of limbs or disfigurement, was applied after World War II to help injured veterans.
At Clark, she also directed research with children suffering from cerebral palsy.
She earned her doctorate from the University of Berlin in 1930 and emigrated to the United States before World War II to do research at Smith College, which she continued at Cornell University, the University of Iowa, Mount Holyoke College and Stanford University.
In 1948, she became an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York and then a research fellow at Harvard University in 1951.
In 1948, she became an associate professor at the New School for Social Research in New York and then a research fellow at Harvard University in 1951.
From 1966 until her retirement several years ago, Dr. Borg was a senior research associate at Columbia's East Asian Institute, lecturing and directing academic conferences.
Based on research in personal papers of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt and high officials dealing with East Asian affairs, it chronicled events leading to Pearl Harbor, starting with Japan's invasion of Manchuria.
This year she contributed $2 million for AIDS research at Duke University in Durham, N.C., which was named for her family, and $1 million to the Elizabeth Taylor AIDS Foundation.
The president of Duke University, Nannerl O. Keohane, said yesterday, in a statement released by the university, that Miss Duke's "recent gift in support of AIDS research at Duke is but one of many programs here that she supported, from our Primate Center to other programs across the campus.

        Dr. Barbara Feitel, a clinical psychologist and research scientist associated with the Nathan Kline Research Institute, Phoenix House and Covenant House, died on Saturday at White Plains Memorial Hospital.

        Dr. Barbara Feitel, a clinical psychologist and research scientist associated with the Nathan Kline Research Institute, Phoenix House and Covenant House, died on Saturday at White Plains Memorial Hospital.
Dr. Feitel retired in April from the research institute, at Rockland County Psychiatric Center, in Orangeburg, N.Y., where she had worked for more than 10 years.
In 1952, after a visit to England to research Gilbert and Sullivan traditions, she renamed the company the American Savoyards and took "The Mikado" and "Patience" on a cross-country tour.
Mrs. Heineman was a board member of the National Coalition Against Censorship and was a member of the President's Council at the New School for Social Research.
The headquarters of the association, whose name is Mayan for "house of the jaguar," contained her home, a library and a museum about the vast jungle, which became a focal point for environmental and anthropological research into the Mayan culture.
"
        Later, after much personal research in Europe, she was deeply involved in selecting the Theodore Kuhn Company to build the hall's organ, which experts said cost well over $250,000.
