
        Dr. Ruth Whittemore, a Yale professor who conducted groundbreaking research in pediatric cardiology based on data from clinics she founded in 1940's, died on Dec. 27 in North Branford, Conn. She was 84.
In the early 50's, she began a research study in which she examined the health histories of 837 children born to 427 of her former patients and discovered that 10 percent of the children had congenital heart abnormalities.
Throughout her career, she conducted clinical research that led to improved diagnosis and treatment of liver disease and that helped establish and later enhance the field of hepatology.
''
        In 1959, she became the first woman to be promoted to a professorship of medicine at the Royal Free Hospital in London, where she helped set up and direct a world famous clinical, research and training center on liver disease.
Dr. Sherlock helped improve understanding of the condition when she began using liver biopsies -- previously just a research tool -- to diagnose the condition.
There, while studying writing at the New School for Social Research, she met the poet Arnold Adoff, whom she married in 1960.
The music she played and sang included many works that she unearthed during her frequent research missions through European libraries and conservatories.
''Visions of Glory'' mixes her autobiography with detailed historical research.
There she studied Buddhist cave temples, ancient stone tomb carvings and bronze vessels, using her research to write scholarly articles on the methods and materials of early Chinese artists.
The article earned Mrs. Fairbank membership in China's Institute for Research in Chinese Architecture, a professional organization.
The cause was systemic scleroderma, said Charles Spaulding, a vice president of the organization, the Scleroderma Research Foundation, which Ms. Monsky founded in 1987.
''She was a leader in raising awareness and funding in search of a cure for scleroderma,'' said Dr. M. Kari Connolly, a professor of dermatology and medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, who has been doing research about scleroderma for 10 years.
Ms. Monsky's activities generated more than $14 million for research and helped expand understanding of the disease.
Money she disbursed for basic medical research on scleroderma led to the publication of scientific articles exploring potential cures.
The foundation's activities include operating two sites for research on the disease, at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and the University of California at San Francisco.
In 1970, she established the Universidad Boricua and the Puerto Rican Research and Resource Center in Washington, becoming its chancellor in 1973, the same year that she earned a Ph.D. from Union Graduate School in Ohio.
To that end she devised a system to teach library users the basics of the Internet so they could perform some of their own research.
The national Association of College and Research Libraries named her its Academic/Research Librarian of the Year in 2000.
She was co-author of a textbook, ''Learning the Library'' (Bowker, 1982), and the founding editor of the journal Research Strategies.
During the next 20 years her pioneering research broke the code of Wölfli's art and confirmed him as arguably one of the greatest artists of the 20th century.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Among her detractors were the National Rifle Association, which opposed her advocacy of gun control; groups opposing abortion, which deplored her abortion-rights position; and animal-rights organizations, angered by her support for the use of animals in medical research.
In 1971, she wrote about a bill awaiting the president's signature that would allocate $100 million for cancer research.
Among her detractors were the National Rifle Association, which opposed her advocacy of gun control; groups opposing abortion, which deplored her abortion-rights position; and animal-protection organizations, angered by her support for the use of animals in medical research.
'' Mr. Marshall asked, said Irven DeVore, the More research professor of anthropology at Harvard.
Congressional pressure, fueled by Dr. Stewart's appearances before a House subcommittee, forced the department to open the records to independent researchers in 1990 and to surrender its monopoly on government financing of radiation research.
Dr. Stewart left Oxford in 1974, and became a research fellow at the University of Birmingham in England, where she worked until about two years ago.
A meeting with Rita Hayworth, the film actress, who suffered from Alzheimer's disease, led to a gift of about $1 million last year to the Alzheimer's Association, for medical research.
Her philanthropy included the New York City Ballet, the National Museum of Racing, the National Museum of Dance and equine research at the Veterinary College of Cornell University.
Mrs. Furman wrote, edited and contributed to books based on research at the center.
Mrs. Furman's book ''Toddlers and Their Mothers'' describes her findings from a 1980's research project on the importance of the mother-child relationship, particularly in the second and third years of life.
He was known for helping develop the Hannah Perkins Center and the Cleveland Center for Research in Child Development.
Mr. Williams discovered her in 1991, after having done a research paper on the Amish as a college freshman.
Her biographies are known for their strong narrative lines and their wealth of research and detail, drawn from personal visits to historic sites.
The Lists' beneficiaries included the Metropolitan Opera, Mount Sinai Hospital, the Jewish Theological Seminary, the Jewish Museum and the New School for Social Research, now New School University.
Dr. Gesell was a pioneer in the compassionate treatment of research animals and helped his daughter shape the Animal Welfare Institute and its guiding principles.
The institute, created to gather and disseminate facts about animals used in research, followed the Stevenses to Washington in 1972.

        Patricia Hochschild Labalme, an executive and a trustee of foundations that give major support to education and scholarly research as well as a scholar of the Renaissance, died on Friday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
Dr. Labalme was a trustee and the head of the humanities program of the Gladys Krieble Delmas Foundation, which supports academic research, particularly on Venetian history.
Among the exhibitions Lookout produced were ''Talking Pictures,'' a 1994 traveling exhibition that allowed museum visitors to listen to prerecorded commentaries about how the pictures had influenced the speakers' lives, and ''Paradise Now: Picturing the Genetic Revolution,'' a 2000 exhibition at Exit Art in New York that focused on artists' responses to the promise and perils of genetic research.
She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned a wine- and spirits-importing company, donated $1 million earlier this year to endow the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program in the Center for Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.
Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned a wine- and spirits-importing company, donated $1 million earlier this year to endow the Beatrice Renfield Nursing Research Program in the Center for Home Care Policy and Research of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York.

        Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington.
Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services through which the federal government finances medical research.
''It is hard to realize today that government-subsidized research in the 1940's, when Florence Mahoney started her efforts, actually was controversial,'' said Judith Robinson, author of ''Noble Conspirator: Florence S. Mahoney and the Rise of the National Institutes of Health'' (The Francis Press, 2001).
With charm and persistence, Mrs. Mahoney and Mrs. Lasker pressed powerful politicians to support research on health issues.
