By the 1980's, the concept that there is a special time right after birth during which mothers become emotionally attached to their babies began to receive criticism from some researchers, although the changes in hospital practice that the research wrought were never questioned.
In 1972, she was a founder with her companion and longtime professional colleague, Dr. Florence H. Erickson of the Maternal Child Care Nursing Journal, the first research journal in the field.
Working with the electron microscope, she contributed to research on immunological disease.
Dr. Andre-Schwartz did much of her research in collaboration with her husband, Dr. Robert S. Schwartz, now deputy editor of The New England Journal of Medicine.
She began her historic research in 1944, after working as a draftsman and in boat design, technical illustration and cartography.
Later, she was a teacher at the New School for Social Research.
Previously, she was an independent consultant with National Economic Research Associates in White Plains and a senior consultant with Arthur Andersen & Co. in Manhattan.
After the company disbanded in the early 1930's, she founded the Apprentice Theater of the New School for Social Research.
Harvard University, conferring an honorary doctorate on Dr. Scharrer in 1982, said her "research journeys into the world of insects have profoundly affected the study of human physiology.
She reached emeritus status in 1978 but continued her research until a few months ago.
She moved to the United States in 1954 and received a master's degree in psychology at the New School for Social Research.
Most recently she directed the Center on Families, Communities, Schools and Children's Learning, and the Center on College-School-Community Partnerships, two research programs at Wheelock.
"
        In the 1930's, she conducted seminal research on childhood development with Arnold Gesell at Yale University.
She secured the job with the renowned child psychologist, she later confided, because she was the only applicant who knew how to operate a movie camera, a skill needed in research based on close observation of minute changes in infant behavior.
The program, a national referral service for sex offenders seeking therapy, grew out of her visits to prison and the Prison Research Education Action Program she founded in 1976.
Under her leadership, an affiliated service, the Safer Society Press, produced about 20 books, research studies, manuals and training videos dealing with the treatment and prevention of sex-related crimes and intended for abusers and their victims.
"
        A native of Bridgeport, Conn., she studied at the Hartford Art School, the New School for Social Research and the University of California at Los Angeles.

        Niuta Titus, whose philanthropy fostered culture and medical research, died on Tuesday in Gstaad, Switzerland, while on vacation.
With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 1989, Mrs. Titus supported endeavors like the film program at the Museum of Modern Art, biochemistry at Duke University and ophthalmological research at the Wilmer Institute at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.
"
        In years of research ignited by a professor who read her 80-page term paper at an astonishing rate while retaining its content, she found people from all walks of life who could read from 1,500 to 6,000 words a minute and sometimes more.
Mrs. Ramsay was a member of the advisory council of the African Wildlife Foundation and founder and chairwoman of the Jordan Conservation and Research Center, an organization dedicated to training African wildlife researchers.

        Lita Annenberg Hazen, a major philanthropist in medical research whose interests encompassed art, music and education, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
Dr. Richard A. Lerner, president of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif, said: "She, like Mary Lasker, was one of the great ladies of American science.
In 1963, Mrs. Hazen was a founding sponsor of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, served as a trustee of its medical center from 1976 and contributed, with her siblings, to the construction of the 33-story Annenberg Building at the center, devoted to medical care, education and research.
She also provided support for a neuroendocrinology laboratory at the Mount Sinai Medical Center that was named after her and, from 1979 to 1985, a $100,000 annual award for excellence in clinical research.
Two grants of $1 million each helped establish and finance the Neurosciences Institute and Neurosciences Research Foundation at Rockefeller University in New York.
She understood what research was about, even in its beginning and theoretical stage.
Correction:  October 4, 1995, Wednesday
        An obituary yesterday about Lita Annenberg Hazen, a leading philanthropist in medical research, misstated her age in some editions.
But she became so distracted by references to colonial dishes and ingredients that she all but invented an entire new area of historical research with the publication  of her "Williamsburg Art of Cookery" in 1938.
Mrs. Wesley retired in 1973 as the curator of the Moorland-Spingarn Research  Center, a center for research involving documents about black history and kindred fields.
Mrs. Wesley retired in 1973 as the curator of the Moorland-Spingarn Research  Center, a center for research involving documents about black history and kindred fields.
She fled Italy and arrived in the United States in 1940, initially teaching  at the New School for Social Research and Hunter College.
Professor Holmes, also known as Elizabeth Carr, devoted most of her research  to the study of Hawaii's pidgin dialect, a combination of English, Hawaiian and  other languages.
Born Barbara Brightfield in Belleville, Ill., she grew up in Berkeley, Calif. She received three degrees in history from the University of California at Berkeley, including, in 1948, a Ph.D. She started her academic career at Berkeley as a junior research historian at the Institute of Slavic Studies and a lecturer in history.
In 1957, she joined the Veterans Administration Hospital in Brockton, Mass., to do research in psychopharmacology.
While there she also held research positions at either Stanford University or the University of San Francisco until her retirement in 1978.
Mrs. Hayter had her first solo show in 1942 at the New School for Social Research and the first of several joint exhibitions with her husband at the Sidney Janis Gallery in 1949.
In 1935, while she was completing work at Harvard University for a doctorate in biochemistry, she became one of the first women appointed to the faculty of the Harvard Medical School as a research associate.
She married the following year and moved to England with her husband where she did research on the biochemistry of diabetes at the University College Medical School in London.
From 1954 to 1965 she was in the School of Medicine's research medicine and physiology departments.
With a decade's worth of research, "Failing at Fairness" sought to document that girls' educations were inferior to those of boys.
Dr. Sadker's research was widely reported in newspapers and magazines around the country.
The experience started them in their career as a husband-and-wife team examining sexual bias in schools through research based on transcripts of classroom interactions, textbooks, surveys and polls.
Dr. Jones served as director of the university's computer-based Education Research Laboratory from 1992 until last year.
Her research centered on the experimental results involving the force holding together nuclear particles and the little bundles of energy called quarks.
Aside from research sabbaticals in Britain, Germany, Japan and Tasmania, she spent her academic career at the University of Illinois.
Her research resulted in 64 published papers.
In her later years, Mrs. Davis worked closely with her daughter-in-law, Barbara Davis, to raise money for the Children's Diabetes Foundation in Denver and for multiple sclerosis research.
Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
She and her husband, Cecil N. Rudnick, financed laboratories for research on Alzheimer's disease at the medical school and a meditation chapel at the college's Jack D. Weiler Hospital in the Bronx.
Miss Bird played an important part in the founding and development of the American Dance Guild and the Congress on Research in Dance.
