'' The book was a response to research into the Type A personality so often associated with hard-driving men.
She graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a National Science Foundation research scholarship.
For the next four decades, she continued her clinical practice and research at Einstein.
Four years after Mrs. Fisher's Alzheimer's disease was diagnosed, the Fisher Medical Foundation joined David Rockefeller in providing $5 million for the Zachary and Elizabeth M. Fisher Center for Research on Alzheimer's Disease at Rockefeller University.
She picked it up four years later, upon her husband's retirement, and kept writing and doing the research for it in England while fighting her illness.
She was hired the same year to clip newspapers in the research library of CBS News.
In 1934, she received a master's degree in social economy and social research from Bryn Mawr.
This correction was delayed for research into conflicting accounts of the agency's early days; some described Eisenstaedt as a co-founder.
      
She was also a trustee of the Archives of American Art, a part of the Smithsonian Institution that promotes research in the visual arts and amasses artists' papers and other memorabilia.
She was a board member of the Lincoln Center Institute for Arts in Education, the Whitney Museum, the Madeira School and the Research Center at the New York Public Library.
In 1965 she began working as an educational therapist at the Educational Institute for Learning and Research in New York, where for 19 years she taught children with learning disabilities.
Interest in her early work from the Ringl & Pit studio was kindled in this country in the 1980's, when museum curators and private collectors began to research European Modernism of the 1920's and 1930's.
She also gave many lectures and distributed tape recordings of them, conducted extensive research into what she described as the five stages of death based on thousands of interviews with patients and health care professionals and did groundbreaking work in counseling dying patients.
In the later part of her career, she embarked on research to verify the existence of life after death, conducting, with others, thousands of interviews with people who recounted near-death experiences, particularly of those declared clinically dead by medical authorities but later revived.
They believe that having spent more than three decades in research into death and life after death qualifies me as an expert on the subject.
Within a year, she moved to the United States; married Dr. Emanuel K. Ross, an American neuropathologist she had met at the university; began her internship at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y.; and become a research fellow at Manhattan State Hospital.
For her 90th birthday, 20 restaurants across the country staged dinners in her honor to raise money for the group to conduct culinary research in France.
She did all the research for the show herself at the Lincoln Center library.
In the course of her research several months ago, Ms. Chang became severely depressed and had to be hospitalized, Ms. Rabiner said.
Working at Bellevue Hospital in New York in the 1940's, she contributed to laboratory research that led to the cardiac catheter, a flexible tube passed through a patient's veins and directly into the heart or coronary arteries.
