Dr. Kestenberg headed Child Development Research, which she founded 30 years ago, and Holocaust Child Survivor Studies, both based in Sands Point.
With her husband, Milton, she started the research center's International Study of the Organized Persecution of Children.
Her work at Child Development Research is being continued by Dr. Fogelman and associates.
      
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
In addition, before joining the Barnard faculty as an instructor in 1938, she taught at Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., and was a research assistant at the Yale University Institute of Human Relations, at Columbia, and at the International Institute of Social Research in New York.
But she recalled years later that in the 1940's and even later, choosing women's issues to do research on was at a cost to her.
Dr. Hawkins became a vice president of that association, which, like the Center for Children and Technology, is a nonprofit research and development group financed by grants and contracts with foundations and government institutions.

        Gertrude B. Elion, a pioneer in drug research who shared a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1988, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where she lived.
Ms. Elion broke down sex barriers in the male-dominated world of scientific research, becoming one of the rare women to win a Nobel Prize and, even rarer, a scientist who did not have a doctorate.
As Ms. Elion said, ''He had two arms of research and I was one of them.
Ms. Elion decided to go into medical research as a teen-ager after her grandfather died of cancer and her father, a dentist and Lithuanian immigrant, encouraged her to develop a career.
After working for Johnson & Johnson for two years, Ms. Elion, helped by labor shortages in World War II, joined what was then Wellcome Research Laboratories, in Tuckahoe, N.Y., as a biochemist.
Du Bois Institute of Afro-American Research at Harvard University.
She was the founding coordinator of CUNY's Office of Institutional Research in 1967.
)
        Dr. Hau's laboratory at the Rowland Institute for Science in Cambridge (where she conducts research with the help of her graduate and post-doctoral students from Harvard) ) is one of a handful of organizations studying the interactions of lasers with a very peculiar kind of matter called a Bose-Einstein condensate.
Dr. Hau presides over a half million dollars' worth of apparatus at the Rowland Institute, a research organization founded by the late Edwin H. Land, the inventor of Polaroid instant photography, to support innovative research.
Dr. Hau presides over a half million dollars' worth of apparatus at the Rowland Institute, a research organization founded by the late Edwin H. Land, the inventor of Polaroid instant photography, to support innovative research.
For instance, research in quantum mechanics has been supported in Denmark by the makers of Carlsberg beer since the 1920's.
French proved to be vital to her work during seven months of research she conducted at CERN, the European Laboratory for Particle Physics near Geneva.
It remains one of the world's most important centers for notation research.
But Ms. Anderson's literary agent, Malaga Baldi of Manhattan, said any infirmities disappeared at a reading the author gave at the New School for Social Research on March 25.
Baroness de Rothschild began her professional life as a research biologist at a laboratory in Paris.
In 1997, Ms. Tilberis became president of the Ovarian Cancer Research Fund.

        Dr. Rose Payne, whose research into tissue compatibility at Stanford University over more than three decades helped advance the field of organ transplants, died on April 18 at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Santa Clara, Calif. She was 89 and had been living in Cupertino, Calif.
        Dr. Payne, an expert in tissue-typing, was credited with helping identify proteins that play an important role in how well patients accept a graft of tissue, or a blood transfusion, from another person.
She was hired by Stanford as a research assistant after World War II, one of the few women there at the time.
Dr. Ainsworth's research contributed significantly to attachment theory, which emphasizes the importance of intimate human relationships, or attachments, in shaping children's development.
Though much of Dr. Ainsworth's research was for an academic audience, it also had a practical side.
She argued, on the basis of her research, that picking up a crying baby does not spoil the child; rather, it reduces crying in the future.
Dr. Ainsworth's research also found that feeding an infant on demand rather than on a strict schedule led to a more secure attachment between infant and mother.
''He told me that he was amazed at how his school spent thousands of dollars in research hoping to come up with a new strain, but that here I did it on $15.
Ms. Williams fused her experiences in the dusty cotton fields and fruit orchards of the San Joaquin Valley with historical research to articulate the African-American experience.
Under Paul's influence, she became one of the first cellists to become interested in incorporating musicological research into her performances of Baroque works.
Mrs. Marron also assisted in research at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the University of Miami about the central nervous system of the giant squid.
''
        After leaving the program and becoming a popular lecturer, Ms. Rountree in 1965 founded Leadership, a nonprofit political research foundation based in Washington, and served as president of the organization until 1988.

        Doris R. Schwartz, a nurse who did some of the earliest research on geriatric nursing care and whose findings led to improvements in health care for the elderly, died on Sunday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa.
        A former resident of Manhattan, Ms. Schwartz was 84 and had moved to the Foulkeways Continuing Care Community in Gwynedd after a stroke in 1980.
After moving to the retirement center, she initiated research by the University of Pennsylvania School of Nursing into the use of physical restraints on patients in nursing homes and hospitals; her work led to changes in restraint procedures.
A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
A Doris Schwartz Chair of Gerontological Nursing was established at the University of Pennsylvania, and a Doris Schwartz Research Award, honoring a nurse for outstanding research in aging, is given by the Hartford Foundation Institute of Geriatric Nursing at New York University.
She later worked for the Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. in New York, the Urban Institute research organization in Washington and CRM Inc., in Del Mar, Calif., the publisher of Psychology Today.
She supported a student strike there, then went to New York to study at the New School for Social Research under a scholarship from the Urban League.
There Mrs. Gorbachev completed a doctoral dissertation, entitled ''The Emergence of New Characteristics in the Daily Life of Collective Farm Peasantry,'' based on an unusual amount of field research, which was accepted by the Lenin Pedagogical Institute in Moscow.
Ms. de Lima burst upon the New York literary scene in 1950 with ''Captain's Beach,'' the first published novel to come out of the editor Hiram Haydn's prestigious workshop at the New School for Social Research.
A gauge of the growth of her movement is that 1964, when she gave the opening speech at the inaugural dinner at the Witchcraft Research Association, it was attended by 50 subscribers.
The two immigrated to the United States and founded the Dramatic Workshop at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan.
For years, she single-handedly published Bibliographica Neuroendocrinologica, an abstract of the world's research in her field.
Her research was done with two other Einstein scientists, Berta and Ernst Scharrer, who are often credited as founders of endocrinology, which describes how hormones control the nervous system.

        Eve F. Kraft, a tennis teacher, coach, author and the founder and former executive director of the Education and Research Committee of the United States Tennis Association, died Thursday at Princeton Hospital.
Her list of more than 2,000 such genera far surpassed anyone else's, said Mr. Whitney, who also works as a research associate at Louisiana State University.
Mrs. Resnick also endowed an academic chair in brain tumor research in memory of her daughter, Susan Resnick Fisher, who died in 1993.
''
        But skeptics, many armed with volumes of research, insist that psychics have never solved a single crime.
Though it has been widely reported for three decades that they did, Mr. Nickell said that according to his research, the body was found floating in a pond by a man looking for a place to bury his dead cat.
But Dr. Chall said her research showed that knowledge of the alphabet and familiarity with the sounds that make up words were crucial.
She expressed her view in ''Learning to Read: The Great Debate'' (Harcourt Brace, 1967), recognized as a definitive analysis of reading research.
