Dr. Ray, after her surprise victory, said that she supported the Equal Rights Amendment but that women should "stop brooding about being a woman.
In later years she visited visit Spain now and then, but she continued to live in France, where she wrote about her past life, about women's rights and about union matters.
      
Marched for Civil Rights
        Mrs. Douglas was elected in 1944 after a campaign against isolationism and went to Washington as Representative-at-Large, representing Illinois as a whole.
During her husband's 18 years on Capitol Hill, Mrs. Douglas was an advocate of civil rights and marched with the Rev.
"
        As the director of the creative arts program of the New York State division of human rights in the 60's, she focused attention on discrimination and the lack of roles for black actors in film and television.

        Sally Belfrage, who wrote nonfiction books about life in an Indian ashram and about the civil rights movement in Mississippi in 1964, died yesterday at Middlesex Hospital in London.
Her Mississippi memoir, "Freedom Summer" (1965), based on her experience as a civil rights volunteer, was lauded for freshness and forcefulness.

        Sarah Patton Boyle, an author who was active in civil rights matters, died on Feb. 20 at her home in Arlington, Va. She was 87.

        Melba Johnson Kgositsile, a civil rights and anti-apartheid advocate, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx.
"
        Miss Washington worked for equal rights for blacks in the theater and film industry and was a founder of the Negro Actors Guild.
Before moving to New York from Rochester, she was a president of the Monroe County League of Planned Parenthood and the founding president of Eleanor's List, a group formed to raise funds for female candidates who support abortion rights.
In the early 1970's, she was also executive director of the National Abortion Rights Action League.
More recently, she was a leader in the New York Metropolitan Religious Coalition for Abortion Rights.

        Margie Pitts Hames, an Atlanta civil rights lawyer who argued a companion case to the better-known Roe v. Wade, in which the Supreme Court upheld a woman's right to have an abortion, died on Tuesday night while driving her car in Atlanta.
In the spring of 1993 she led the organization's defense of Lani Guinier, a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania who was nominated by President Clinton to head the Justice Department's civil rights division.
She was a delegate to three Democratic national conventions and frequently lobbied for civil rights groups in the halls of Southern state legislatures.
"Neither the 14th Amendment nor the Bill of Rights is for adults only," Justice Abe Fortas wrote for the majority.

        Margaret A. Hickey, a longtime advocate of women's rights, died on Wednesday in a Tucson, Ariz., nursing home, where she had lived for several years.
After the war, she served on a variety of high-level panels concerned with women's rights and other policy spheres.
In later years, she had a private practice in labor law representing several large corporations, and was active in the Governors Task Force on Unemployment, the Council Against Poverty, Unesco and the International League of Human Rights.
There was a retrospective of her work held at the Metropolitan Museum of Art's Costume Institute in September, attended by Yuzo Yagi, the chairman of Yagi Tsusho Ltd., the Japanese company that had bought the rights to her name in 1988 and had sponsored the exhibition.
Not Richard Martin, the curator of the Costume Institute exhibition, and not even Mr. Yagi, the owner of the rights to her name.
The daughter of a pioneer in the civil rights movement, Dr. Robert Russa Moton, she grew up on the campus of Tuskegee Institute, where her father had succeeded its founder, Booker T. Washington, as president.
