But long before the environmental movement blossomed, providing a cause that made her celebrated in her later years, Ms. Wolf was steeped in struggles over human rights, communism, labor issues, peace, feminism and immigration.
The experience led her into advocacy for the rights of immigrants, a cause she never gave up.
Ms. Fine's symphonic works include ''Elegiac Song'' for muted strings (1937) and ''Meeting for Equal Rights 1866,'' for soprano, baritone, narrator and chorus (1976).
' ''
        The novel was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection, and the movie rights were sold to 20th Century Fox, which turned the story into a popular film starring Jennifer Jones.
The battalion had been formed after civil rights organizations and black newspapers complained that the military was not using African-American women in meaningful jobs.
Her mother, Margaret Sallee Barnes, was active in community and civil rights groups, and her father, James D. Barnes, worked as a chef.
Her mother's parents had been slaves in Kentucky, and she reared her children to value education and to stand up for their rights.

        Judge Kathryn A. McDonald, who as administrator of the family court system of New York City was a champion of children's rights, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
After receiving her law degree in 1963, she became a lawyer for the Legal Aid Society's juvenile rights division and then attorney-in-charge of Legal Aid's Manhattan office.
She created the ''Cancer Survivor's Bill of Rights'' for the 75th anniversary of the American Cancer Society, said Joann Schellenbach, a spokeswoman for the organization.
The document, written in 1988, was widely distributed among those with cancer, and Mrs. Spingarn became an important figure in the patients' rights movement, Ms. Schellenbach said.

        Jane Prizant Gilman, a lawyer who was long active in civic, civil  rights and political organizations, died June 7 in Middletown, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in Hudson, N.Y., and Middletown.
In April, the Orange County Human Rights Commission honored her for her pro bono work for poor women and others needing legal help.
She began a correspondence with Mr. Paton (she was also to develop intense correspondences and lifelong friendships with Athol Fugard, among others) and campaigned in London for the rights of black Africans.
's, became increasingly influential at the United Nations in fields like the environment, international law, arms control and human rights.

        Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She soon found herself holding the hands of civil rights workers as they experienced daily intimidation and humiliation.
On July 8, the Baltimore City Council passed an emergency resolution to set up a human rights commission to mediate the park's racial problems.
Her interest in the South dated to 1950, when she became friends with Claude Williams, a white preacher working to integrate his church in Fungo Hollow, Ala.
        She quickly became involved in the civil rights movement as tensions were escalating.
''
        She sent the troubled civil rights workers to Manhattan, to Gracie Square Hospital, where she had contacts, for fear of what might happen to them in Southern hospitals.
In 1995, Nostalgia Television, a national cable network, began reruns of the original show, the rights to which Miss Young had turned over to her son, Christopher Lewis, and his wife, Linda, who are film producers.
She owned the rights to ''The Loretta Young Show'' and had control over its content, casting and final editing.
At her death, Frau Ritzerfeld, as she was known, was the longtime head of the Suhrkamp department handling what are called, in American publishing, subsidiary rights.
She was best known for her work in foreign rights -- that is, the selling to non-German publishers of the rights to publish books that had been published by Suhrkamp.
She was best known for her work in foreign rights -- that is, the selling to non-German publishers of the rights to publish books that had been published by Suhrkamp.
Drenka Willen, a senior editor at Harcourt Brace, said Frau Ritzerfeld was influential in her field because ''for one thing, Suhrkamp publishes high-quality books, so she sold the rights to books of great consequence.
In addition to forming new Amnesty chapters, Mrs. Sagan established the Aurora Foundation, which documents civil rights abuses in countries with authoritarian governments.

        Annie Devine, a no-nonsense Mississippi trailblazer for the Voting Rights Act of 1965, died on Aug. 22 at a hospital in Ridgeland, Miss.
Mrs. Devine, a soft-spoken woman with a ready smile, became deeply involved in the civil rights movement of the early 1960's.
Thus, the three women's resolve fed into the groundswell that produced the Voting Rights Act of 1965.
She was an executive for a life-insurance company before she threw her energies into the civil rights struggle.
Further transformed by a wig and dark contact lenses, she moved in 1968 first to Harlem and then to the Deep South, where at the height of the civil rights movement she took a job as a cleaning woman.
When civil rights workers raise her consciousness, she confronts her employer, and he fires her.
The newspaper also took controversial liberal stands on gun control, environmental issues and the land rights of Alaskan natives, earning it the enmity of the business establishment.
The newspaper also took liberal stands on gun control, environmental issues and the land rights of Alaskan natives, earning it the enmity of the business establishment.
Bill of Rights.
Nonesuch's business had consisted mostly of acquiring the rights to existing recordings of Baroque music by European ensembles and reissuing them at budget prices in the United States.

        Florynce Kennedy, a lawyer and political activist whose flamboyant attire and sometimes outrageous comments drew attention to her fierce struggle for civil rights and feminism, died on Thursday in her Manhattan apartment.
She fought in the courts and on the streets for abortion rights, represented Black Panthers, was a founding member of the National Women's Political Caucus and led a mass urination by women protesting a lack of women's restrooms at Harvard.
''
        In 1966, she represented H. Rap Brown, the civil rights leader.
