In 1991 the Rothko Chapel marked its 20th anniversary with a joint award with the Carter-Menil Human Rights Foundation, founded in 1986 with former President Jimmy Carter.

        Dorothy Hart Hirshon, a glamorous figure in New York society from the 1920's through the 40's who later became active in social, human rights and political causes, died Thursday in an automobile accident while driving near her home in Glen Cove, on Long Island.
She worked with the Neighborhood Children's Center for more than two decades, was a member of the New York City Human Rights Commission, served on the Hospitality Committee of the United Nations in the 1960's, and became a board member of the Vivian Beaumont Theater, a board member of Lincoln Center in the 1980's and a trustee of Carnegie Hall.

        Rene  de Epelbaum, a founder of the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo human rights group and one of its most dynamic members, died on Saturday at age 77.
Human rights advocates contend that the number of victims was closer to 30,000.
' ''
        Mrs. Epelbaum was greatly troubled by President Carlos Saul Menem's decision in 1989 to pardon senior military officers accused of human rights abuses.
After leaving the House in January 1977, she worked for women's rights for two more decades.
After Bob Dole, then the Senate majority leader, said he could not imagine why anyone ''would want to attend a conference co-chaired by Bella Abzug,'' she responded that she was not running the meeting but simply participating with more than 30,000 other women over how best to achieve equal rights.
But much of what Ms. Abzug agitated for -- abortion rights, day care, laws against employment discrimination -- was by that time mainstream political fare.
She was a co-sponsor of  the women's equal rights amendment.
Lady Lestor had two great causes in her life: the fight against racism and the fight for the rights of children, and was never afraid to criticize her party when she disagreed with its policies.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
She was passionate about the rights of abused children, saying in a 1989 debate that while it was necessary to ''strike a balance'' between the rights of children and the rest of the family, ''in my book, the rights of the children are paramount.
She was a staunch campaigner for animal rights and vegetarianism and, starting in the late 1980's, she turned her passion for vegetarian cooking into an industry.
'' Despite her image, friends described Ms. Williams as a warm, ascetic and somewhat shy vegetarian who demanded sprouts and tofu backstage, spent 12 hours a week working out and contributed to animal rights causes.
As a labor advocate for the professors, Dr. Zeller lobbied for legislation to establish tenure and pensions that today are considered some of the basic rights of public college teachers in New York State.
She used her academic expertise in the legislative process to champion the rights of faculty members, becoming a familiar figure at City Hall and the State Capitol.
Dr. Boulton married Schroeder Boulton in 1965, and their home in Greenwich Village became a gathering spot for people in civil rights and antiwar work, Mr. Bancroft said.
The law brought about what its admirers have called a revolutionary change in the practice of matrimonial law and in the rights of marital partners.
She also testified before legislative committees on behalf of equal opportunity, equal rights and comparable pay for women.
'' In the 1960's and 70's, Miss West was not active in the civil rights movement and found radicals like the Black Panthers discomfiting.

        Elizabeth Karlin, a Wisconsin doctor, advocate of women's rights and head of a clinic in Madison that was a target of abortion foes, died on July 27 at her home in nearby Arena.
She was an outspoken champion of women's rights to self-determination.
At the Charter conference in San Francisco, she insisted that the document include the phrase ''to ensure respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms without discrimination against race, sex, condition or creed.
''
        A contemporary of Eleanor Roosevelt, whose passions for human rights she shared, Ms. Bernardino joined Mrs. Roosevelt and three other women who were delegates to the first United Nations General Assembly in 1946 -- Jean McKenzie of New Zealand, Evdokia Uralova of the Soviet Union and Ellen Wilkinson of Britain -- in writing an ''Open Letter to the Women of the World'' calling on women to take a more active role in politics and government.
She was vice chairman and then chairman of the Inter-American Commission on Women from 1944 to 1949, the first regional body set up to advance the rights of women.
Ms. Bernadino, born in Seibo in the Dominican Republic, was the granddaughter of a provincial governor and one of seven children in a family that was unusually liberal on women's rights.
By 1929, she was active in the women's rights movement in the Dominican Republic, where she was a leader in Accion Feminista Dominicana, which led the fight for expanded rights in the 1942 Constitution.
By 1929, she was active in the women's rights movement in the Dominican Republic, where she was a leader in Accion Feminista Dominicana, which led the fight for expanded rights in the 1942 Constitution.
In her long life of fighting for women's and children's rights, Ms. Bernardino won many honors.

        Dr. Helen Winthrop Edey, a philanthropist and psychiatrist who was active in the field of women's reproductive health and rights, died on Sept. 15 at the Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts.
Edey became a psychiatrist after her four children were born and had a remarkable professional career, both as a psychiatrist and as an individual who was very much concerned about women's reproductive health and rights.
Hans and Sophie Scholl ''came to represent not just the small band of youthful dissenters but all the pacifist sympathizers who were tracked by the Gestapo and the innumerable anonymous victims who were forced to pay the price for believing that human rights were more important than obedience to arbitrary laws,'' wrote Albert von Schirndung, a cultural critic for the Munich daily Suddeutsche Zeitung.
She moved to Reader's Digest in 1968 and worked there until her retirement in 1996, the last 10 years as worldwide director of book rights.
She played a major role in fighting for women's rights and in obtaining the right to abortion in predominately Catholic Quebec.
mom cum after-school chauffeur with the usual array of committee meetings and volunteer work, Mrs. Lukens, a labor organizer's daughter who was also active in the antinuclear and civil rights movements, did pretty much what any suburban mother of her era did.
By the time her patents came through in 1951, she had sold their rights for $1 million and moved on to her next brainstorm: replacing cloth diapers with disposable absorbent paper.
Chairman's Civil Rights Leadership Award for her work improving the image of blacks.
''
        The poem, often quoted to describe the struggles of African-Americans, became a sort of anthem for the Civil Rights movement.
