She also sat on the boards of Young Concert Artists, the Film Society of Lincoln Center and Human Rights Watch.

        Yayori Matsui, a journalist and campaigner for the rights of Asian women, died on Dec. 27 at a Tokyo hospital.
His death came to symbolize the brutality in the racist South and became a symbol of the civil rights movement.
''What must be put into perspective is that we often say the modern Civil Rights movement began with Rosa Parks in Montgomery.
That must have been at that time the largest single civil rights demonstration in American history.
''This German Orientalist is a welcome guest in totalitarian Islamic states like Iran, but in her entire work there is not a single reference to human rights violations in those countries,'' they said.

        Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn, a writer and civil rights worker who managed to transcend the struggle between management and labor in her personal and professional life, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Pescadero, Calif. She was 79.
For half a century, Ms. Flynn worked for union rights, fair treatment of immigrants and racial and sexual equality but was best known for her contrasting marriages.
In the 1960's no musical performer was more closely identified with the civil rights movement.
''Mississippi Goddam'' was an angry response to the killing of the civil rights advocate Medgar Evers.

        Martha Wright Griffiths, a longtime United States representative who was a legend in Michigan Democratic politics and one of the most effective women's civil rights legislators of her day, died on Tuesday at her home in Armada, Mich. She was 91.
She successfully fought to bring women under the protection of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, her crowning achievement in Congress.
Her persistence became a decisive factor in House approval of the Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution in 1970.
Such key assignments gave her leverage to lobby for giving women specific protection under the Civil Rights Act.
The play was a hit, and Miss Hepburn owned the rights to it because Howard Hughes, a sometime beau, had bought them for her.
Ms. Lindh supported the same causes embraced by Swedish Social Democrats, including environmental protection and human rights, but she was unusually outspoken.

        Marie Foster, a dental technician whose quiet but effective efforts to win voting rights for blacks made her a national symbol when she was beaten by the police in the Selma, Ala., voting rights march in 1965, died on Saturday in Selma.

        Marie Foster, a dental technician whose quiet but effective efforts to win voting rights for blacks made her a national symbol when she was beaten by the police in the Selma, Ala., voting rights march in 1965, died on Saturday in Selma.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and other civil rights leaders to make Selma the center of a national crusade.
She was later called ''the mother of the voting rights movement'' by its local organizers.
On March 11, when President Lyndon B. Johnson went on national television to announce that he would send Congress a strong voting rights bill, it was in Mrs. Foster's living room that Dr. King watched and wept at the news.
In his book on the civil rights movement, ''The Children'' (Random House, 1998), David Halberstam called Mrs. Foster ''one of the heroes of the Selma group.
Her mother wanted her children to be educated, but her father resisted moving to town, Mrs. Foster said in a statement prepared for the Web site of the National Voting Rights Museum and Institute in Selma, which she helped found.
She became involved in the growing voting rights movement because of anger over racial discrimination.
In 1964, she was named in an injunction against voter registration leaders along with John Lewis, the civil rights leader who is now a Georgia congressman, Mr.
Her activism never stopped, said Rose Sanders, a friend and civil rights lawyer.
