In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burstein served on three different courts in Nassau County, outspokenly voicing her liberal opinions and acting as an advocate for the rights of children and prisoners at a time when the courts and county politics were dominated by conservatives.

        Fuki Kushida, a pioneer Japanese campaigner for women's rights, a peace activist and an opponent of nuclear weapons, died at her home in Tokyo on Monday, a family announcement said.
''We wanted to celebrate the fact that ordinary people were able to express their rights to free speech and assembly on this spot.
'' In 1989, 28 years after ''The Ann Sothern Show'' went off the air, the actress sold the rights to the cable channel Nickelodeon, where the show became an unexpected hit.
Mrs. MacFarquhar, who traveled widely in Asia and whose reports and observations had a keen audience among scholars and foreign policy experts, also worked for several years for British television and for U.S. News & World Report, covering subjects like Mao's Cultural Revolution, the Bangladesh war of independence and women's rights.
Ms. Dance also worked in the civil rights movement, founding the Catholic Interracial Council within the Roman Catholic diocese of Bridgeport, Conn., and the Human Relations Commission in Norwalk, Conn.

        Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.
Mrs. Moses was on the board of the Committee to Protect Journalists, a human rights organization in Manhattan that focuses on the rights of reporters overseas.
Mrs. Moses was on the board of the Committee to Protect Journalists, a human rights organization in Manhattan that focuses on the rights of reporters overseas.
She also trained human rights monitors in recording violations on videotape.
''
        Over the years she published many articles on the legal rights of minors, teenage behavior and sexuality, and youths with special risks.
Because the rights to their image had been sold, they said later, their parents were not allowed to photograph them and visits from Oliva and their mother, Elzier, were discouraged.
''
        Miss Welty made one notable exception to her rule against direct crusading when Medgar Evers, the black civil rights leader, was shot to death by a sniper in Jackson in 1963.
After her breast cancer was diagnosed in the mid-1990's she became an advocate for patients' rights and published, with Robert M. Gelfand, ''Just Get Me Through This!
Ms. Reagan was a politically active feminist who worked to support the proposed equal rights amendment, lobbied for abortion rights and helped elect women to public office.
Ms. Reagan was a politically active feminist who worked to support the proposed equal rights amendment, lobbied for abortion rights and helped elect women to public office.
In 1963 she moved to New York and walked into an open audition for Martin B. Duberman's ''In White America,'' a dramatic overview of the black American experience from life aboard 18th-century slave ships to the 20th-century crusade for civil rights.
At 21, she married Morris Shapiro, a future civil rights lawyer.
