A Democrat, she championed equal rights for women, environmental protection, and programs for children, the elderly and the poor.
After a bidding war, Warner Books won the rights to publish the novel for $4.94 million.
CBS bought the television rights to ''Scarlett,'' which was presented as an eight-hour mini-series in 1994.
Always outspoken about politics and human rights, Ms. Hagen was blacklisted in the 1950's, and, she said, ''that fact kept me pure.
From 1971 to 1981 she was president of the Fund for Women's Rights, founded by Betty Friedan to lobby for the Equal Rights Amendment and other women's rights issues.
From 1971 to 1981 she was president of the Fund for Women's Rights, founded by Betty Friedan to lobby for the Equal Rights Amendment and other women's rights issues.
From 1971 to 1981 she was president of the Fund for Women's Rights, founded by Betty Friedan to lobby for the Equal Rights Amendment and other women's rights issues.
Twenty years ago, she left a seat on the Des Moines City Council, where she got encouragement to run for governor, to lead the Ms. Foundation, which finances hundreds of programs to advance the rights of women and girls.
She became immersed in civil rights after studying philosophy at Vanderbilt University.
''The most important thing is really having the rights,'' she says.
It's having the same rights that you would get if you were married.
Mrs. Lash, who worked for the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations before joining the staff of the Citizens Commission for Children, collected data on the status of children in New York for major studies in 1976 and 1980.
Considered a giant in the tenants' rights movement, Ms. Wood was credited by housing advocates for helping to prevent the eviction of hundreds, if not thousands, of tenants, as her Chelsea neighborhood became gentrified.
Speaking in biblical metaphors, she sometimes addressed the struggle for civil rights.
Anthony Heilbut, the author of ''The Gospel Sound: Good News and Bad Times,'' said Ms. Edwards was ''perhaps the first and certainly the most notable advocate of civil rights'' in gospel, and that others, including Ms. Coates, spoke of segregation and racism, ''but Edwards spoke earliest, and with the most passion.

        Mildred Jeffrey, who for seven decades was an influential behind-the-scenes combatant in the women's, labor and civil rights movements, died on March 24 in Detroit.
She also became director of its community relations department, aligning the union behind many civil rights efforts, and from 1968 to 1976, the year she retired, she headed the union's consumer affairs department.
Throughout her years at the union, she was active organizing, canvassing and raising money for the Democratic Party and civil rights efforts.
She played a major role in many groups, including the Coalition of Labor Union Women, Emily's List, Americans for Democratic Action, the National Abortion Rights League and the American Civil Liberties Union.
Get them to learn their rights, and to exercise them!
''
        She became active in human rights issues after the arrest of her first husband, Yuli Daniel, for anti-Soviet essays written together with his friend Andrei Sinyavsky, in 1965, the same year she received her doctorate in linguistics.
''She was a moral influence since the beginning and her influence defined the course of this whole movement,'' said Lyuda Alekseyeva, a close friend and contemporary who now heads the Moscow Helsinki Group, a leading human rights organization.
In 1989 Ms. Bogoraz joined the reconstituted Moscow Helsinki Group and became a bridge between the older dissident movement and the country's new human rights campaigners.
''
        She is survived by Aleksandr Daniel, a son from her first marriage, who is a historian at the Memorial human rights organization.
      

        Winson Hudson, a civil rights campaigner in rural Mississippi who flaunted her contempt for Ku Klux Klan intimidation by wearing a bright red dress the many times she marched up to the courthouse to try to register to vote, died on April 24.
The Voting Rights Act of 1965 outlawed literacy tests and poll taxes.
From inviting civil rights workers to sleep on her floor, to bringing Head Start to the community center she created, Mrs. Hudson achieved much -- but not national fame.
Most histories of the civil rights movement do not mention her.
Hudson was one of the unsung, unheralded heroes of the civil rights movement,'' Vernon E. Jordan Jr., who knew her as director of the Voting Education Project of the Southern Regional Council in the 1960's, said in an interview.
''The more they did to us, the meaner we got,'' she said in an interview for John Dittmer's 1994 book, ''Local People: The Struggle for Civil Rights in Mississippi.
'' In civil rights work, she said she could do more than a man because a man would be in greater physical danger.
When Northern civil rights activists arrived to join local people in the Freedom Summer of 1964, she let the visitors sleep in her house, even after it was bombed.
Correction:  May 12, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Winson Hudson, a pioneer of the civil rights movement in Mississippi, misstated the year in some copies for the killing of the rights worker James Chaney, who had been warned by her husband against going to Philadelphia, Miss.
Correction:  May 12, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Winson Hudson, a pioneer of the civil rights movement in Mississippi, misstated the year in some copies for the killing of the rights worker James Chaney, who had been warned by her husband against going to Philadelphia, Miss.

        Sarah Betsy Fuller, an advocate for prisoners' rights who also helped law students prepare real cases, died on April 21 in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 58.
She lived in Brooktondale, N.Y.
        Ms. Fuller was a lawyer for Prisoners' Legal Services of New York, a state-financed group based in Ithaca that was started after the Attica uprising in 1971 to defend inmates' civil rights.
She worked in the civil rights division of the federal Department of Justice from 1974 to 1977.
In 1976, she was elected to the first of two terms in the Colorado House of Representatives, where she was a member of a group that called itself the Crazies for its members' passionate devotion to states' rights and opposition to federal energy and environmental policies.
Besides her contributions to causes like housing for the homeless, Greenpeace, the Actors' Fund and animal rights (she often brought home animals that appeared in shows to become family pets), she was involved with Community Board 5 in Midtown Manhattan and was prominent in continuing efforts to acquire landmark status for all the Broadway theaters.
