Presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson cited her work in civil rights.
She was a founding chairman, with Dore Schary, of Friends of Democracy, which championed human rights after World War II.

        Virginia Foster Durr, a well-born civil rights campaigner who was on hand when Rosa Parks was bailed out of jail where she was being held for not giving up her seat on a bus to a white man in 1955, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Carlisle, Pa. She was 95.
Mrs. Durr and her husband, Clifford, a lawyer, were New Deal veterans who were in the thick of the civil rights movement in their native Alabama in the 1950's and 1960's.
Her courage and steely conviction in the earliest days of the civil rights movement helped to change this nation forever.
''
        In 1955 Mrs. Durr and her husband helped a black civil rights leader, E. D. Nixon, bail Mrs.
Parks's action touched off the Montgomery bus boycott by blacks, which helped spur the civil rights movement and brought the Rev.
Three years later the Durrs moved to Montgomery, where they supported the bus boycott and other civil rights activities.
Mrs. Hallinan, elegant and chestnut-haired, served 30 days for participating in the 1964 civil rights demonstrations in San Francisco.
''
        With her during that civil rights demonstration were all of her sons, including Terence Hallinan, now the district attorney for San Francisco.
Mrs. Huckaby, whose memoir, ''Crisis at Central High,'' inspired a 1981 television movie recounting the landmark civil rights confrontation, was 93.
She became known as the author of the so-called Little Wagner Act, the city version of the National Labor Relations Act of 1935, which recognized workers' rights to organize and bargain collectively through unions of their choosing.
The cause was cancer, said Francine E. Cheeks, a spokeswoman for the American Friends Service Committee in Philadelphia, a Quaker organization that supported Ms. Carter and many other black families in the civil rights struggle of the 1960's.
Ms. Carter's response was to take an old phonograph onto the porch and play a recording of a speech by President John F. Kennedy on civil rights.
''
        Public schools throughout Mississippi were desegregated by the Civil Rights Act of 1964, but the state enacted what it called a freedom-of-choice law and used it to intimidate blacks into remaining at inferior black schools.
The story of the Carter family's battle was recounted in a book, ''Silver Rights'' (Algonquin Books of Chapel Hill, 1995) by Constance Curry, a field worker with the American Friends Service Committee in 1966, who worked closely with the family.
The title is an old rural-black colloquial abridgment, noted by the novelist Alice Walker, of the phrase ''civil rights.
''
        In four decades as a reporter, editorialist and quietly influential opinion maker in the nation's capital, Miss Greenfield provided a stream of informed commentary that had an impact on the public perception of six Presidential administrations and scores of policy debates, ranging from affirmative action and abortion rights to the Panama Canal treaties and the Persian Gulf war.

        Rose Kryzak, an outspoken lobbyist for the rights of the elderly who was once credited with getting a utility charge overturned as unfair to older people, died on Thursday at her home in Queens.
Mrs. Sierra spent 23 years doing human rights work in Chile after her husband disappeared in 1976.
Carlos Salinas, a spokesman for Amnesty International in Washington, said,  ''Anyone who was involved in human rights work at that time in Chile, especially taking the lead, was courageous.
Mrs. Sierra was often seen at human rights demonstrations in Chile, a black-and-white photograph of Mr. Pizarro hanging around her neck.
''
        Mr. Campbell died in 1971 at age 31, and the next year she married Vernon Eagle, then the executive director of the New World Foundation, which supported civil rights and community projects.
Writing of a scene in the movie when painfully complacent Atlantans hear themselves chastised for inaction in the civil rights battles, Ms. Sibley said, ''It was an Atlanta attitude at the time, and many Atlantans took it like Miss Daisy, listening and looking at the empty chair beside her where her black servant and best friend, Hoke, should have been sitting if her courage had matched her good will.

        Louise Alone Thompson Patterson, an advocate of civil rights and leftist causes, a participant in the Harlem Renaissance and a longtime associate of one of its leading figures, the poet Langston Hughes, died on Friday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan.
''
        Ms. Knight was also outspoken on equal rights for women.
''
        In a 1997 auction Warner Books paid $1 million for the rights to publish the book.

        Daisy Bates, a civil rights leader who in 1957 led the fight to admit nine black students to Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., died yesterday at a hospital there.
The result was one of the early major victories in the civil rights movement.
''
        President Clinton yesterday called her a dear friend and a heroine and said her death ''will leave a vacuum in the civil rights community, the State of Arkansas and our country.
It reported extensively on racially motivated violence and became known as a strong exponent of civil rights.
She served in various civil rights positions both locally and nationally and was the only woman who spoke at the March on Washington in 1963.
The Weitzmans were involved in the early stages of the civil rights movement, even before it was generally called that, and in 1948 they opened the Dupont Theater, the first desegregated theater in Washington.
Sometimes, in the anatomy department's lunchroom, her colorful past would return when she burst into song; she favored old-time show tunes, the Loyalist songs of the Spanish Civil War and the anthems of the civil rights movement.
      
Born into wealth, she had devoted her life to fighting for the rights of women and the poor and against the forces of religious fundamentalism.
In later life, she made women's rights her top priority and headed Bangladesh's largest women's organization for many years.
She led a liberal majority that strengthened environmental laws and consumer rights.
She also drafted a landmark farm labor bill guaranteeing workers' rights to hold secret-ballot union elections and shepherded it through the legislature.
