She fought for cause upon cause, including better treatment for laboratory animals, rights for homosexuals and free milk for schoolchildren.

        Joanne Grant, an activist who documented the grassroots efforts behind the civil rights movement through her journalism, filmmaking and commentary, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Midtown Hospital.
One of the first books to trace the origins of the civil rights movement, it remains required reading in many classes on African-American history.
DuBois, Ms. Grant sought to profile the struggle for civil rights through its community leaders.
Her award-winning documentary film ''Fundi: The Story of Ella Baker'' (1981), about an unsung matriarch of the civil rights movement, was broadcast nationally on PBS.
''She was an important voice in the early writing on the civil rights movement,'' said Evelyn Brooks Higginbotham, a professor of African-American studies at Harvard.
''She exposed and explained the civil rights movement in ways that the daily press either couldn't or wouldn't,'' said Julian Bond, chairman of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Eventually she sought legal advice and was directed to Jim Harrington, director of the Texas Civil Rights Project, who filed suit on Ms.
Donald A. Wollheim, editor of the paperback house Ace Books, saw her potential in an adult market, acquired the rights to ''Starman's Son,'' published it under the title ''Daybreak -- 2250 A.D.,'' eliminating all references to the story and its author as being for young readers, and found himself with a steady seller.
From 1965 to 1971 she was managing director of the Housing Association of Delaware Valley and, from 1967 to 1968, a consultant for the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
''
        After retiring, Colonel Hallaren helped organize Women in Community Service, an outgrowth of the civil rights and women's rights movements and the War Against Poverty of the 1960's.
''
        After retiring, Colonel Hallaren helped organize Women in Community Service, an outgrowth of the civil rights and women's rights movements and the War Against Poverty of the 1960's.
The film enhanced Ms. Hughes's image as an advocate for women's rights.
Ms. Dworkin's other books include ''Scapegoat: The Jews, Israel and Women's Liberation'' (Free Press, 2000), ''Right-Wing Women'' (Coward, McCann & Geoghegan, 1983) and, with Ms. MacKinnon, ''Pornography and Civil Rights: A New Day for Women's Equality'' (Organizing Against Pornography, 1988).
There she served as deputy director of the Human Rights Institute at the University of Central America, where six Jesuit priests and two others were assassinated in 1989.
Ms. Popkin traveled the country investigating human rights abuses at a time of internal warfare and corruption.
Mrs. Claytor, a longtime civil rights leader in Grand Rapids, served two terms, from 1967 to 1976, as national president of the Young Women's Christian Association.
With her sister, Doris Zames Fleischer, Ms. Zames wrote ''The Disability Rights Movement: From Charity to Confrontation'' (Temple University, 2001), a historical survey.

        Jane Benedict, a prominent housing advocate who was the principal founder of the Metropolitan Council on Housing, a New York City tenants' rights organization, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 93.
Today the Web site abbookman.com, owned by Intergalactic Inc., an Arizona used-bookstore chain that bought the rights to the name, offers information for dealers and collectors but does not sell books directly.
'' She was a founder of local chapters of groups like the National Organization for Women and campaigned for the Equal Rights Amendment and abortion rights.
'' She was a founder of local chapters of groups like the National Organization for Women and campaigned for the Equal Rights Amendment and abortion rights.

        Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.

        Constance Baker Motley, a civil rights lawyer who fought nearly every important civil rights case for two decades and then became the first black woman to serve as a federal judge, died yesterday at NYU Downtown Hospital in Manhattan.
Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in jail, sang freedom songs in churches that had been bombed, and spent a night under armed guard with Medgar Evers, the civil rights leader who was later murdered.
She dressed elegantly, spoke in a low, lilting voice and, in case after case, earned a reputation as the chief courtroom tactician of the civil rights movement.
After she graduated in 1946, she began to work full time for the civil rights group at a salary of $50 a week.
''
        Mr. Meredith's admission to the University of Mississippi in September 1962 was a major victory for the civil rights movement.
In February 1964, Mrs. Motley's high-level civil rights profile drew her into politics.
The article also misstated part of the name of the civil rights organization that was then the parent of the Legal Defense and Educational Fund, for which Judge Motley began volunteer work in 1943.

        Kathy Wilson, who as head of the National Women's Political Caucus in the 1980's lobbied on behalf of issues affecting women's lives, from the proposed equal rights amendment to the right to an abortion, died on Sept. 1 while vacationing in Rehoboth Beach, Del.
''I believe in individual rights and the absence of government interference in those rights,'' she told People magazine in 1983.
''I believe in individual rights and the absence of government interference in those rights,'' she told People magazine in 1983.
She attended the 1980 Republican National Convention -- visibly pregnant -- with a button supporting abortion rights pinned conspicuously to her lapel.
The conflict was fraught with charges of anti-Semitism and racism, and Ms. Feldman was in a difficult position, having been an advocate for civil rights, working to integrate Howard Johnson restaurants along Route 40 in Maryland.
Detractors in government said she sometimes protected teachers' rights at the expense of students, by, for example, winning concessions that put aides rather than teachers in charge of discipline in hallways and cafeterias.
She went to James Madison High School and studied English at Brooklyn College, where she immersed herself in socialist politics and civil rights activities.
Active since the 1930's in student and civil rights movements, Ms. Yard served as NOW's president from 1987 until 1991.
During her tenure, NOW championed issues including abortion, gay and lesbian rights and the election of women to public office.
The family moved to the United States, where Mr. Yard became the director of religious activities for Northwestern University -- until he angered superiors there with his work as a civil rights and labor organizer.
After her family moved to Pittsburgh a few years later, Ms. Yard worked in the civil rights movement and was a local organizer for the March on Washington in 1963.
Ms. Yard joined NOW in the early 1970's and for the next decade worked on its campaign, ultimately unsuccessful, to have the equal rights amendment ratified.
Her entrance to the university came as the civil rights struggle raged across the South.
On June 12, the day after Ms. Jones and James Hood were escorted into the university by federalized National Guard troops, the civil rights leader Medgar Evers was shot to death in Jackson, Miss.
After graduating from Alabama, Ms. Jones worked for the United States Justice Department in its civil rights division.
She also worked at the Environmental Protection Agency as director of civil rights and urban affairs and director of environmental justice before retiring in 1996 to sell life insurance.

        Rosa Parks, a black seamstress whose refusal to relinquish her seat to a white man on a city bus in Montgomery, Ala., almost 50 years ago grew into a mythic event that helped touch off the civil rights movement of the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at her home in Detroit.
The events that began on that bus in the winter of 1955 captivated the nation and transformed a 26-year-old preacher named Martin Luther King Jr. into a major civil rights leader.
It was Dr. King, the new pastor of the Dexter Avenue Baptist Church in Montgomery, who was drafted to head the Montgomery Improvement Association, the organization formed to direct the nascent civil rights struggle.
''
        But as she rushed home from her job as a seamstress at a department store on Dec. 1, 1955, the last thing on her mind was becoming ''the mother of the civil rights movement,'' as many would later describe her.
Recalling the incident for ''Eyes on the Prize,'' a 1987 public television series on the civil rights movement, Mrs.
Parks had been unable to find work, but also because of disagreements with Dr. King and other leaders of the city's struggling civil rights movement.

        C. DeLores Tucker, an outspoken advocate for minority and women's rights who marched arm in arm with Martin Luther King Jr. at Selma, Ala., and campaigned against profanity-ridden rap music lyrics, died on Oct. 12 at a rehabilitation center in Philadelphia.
Her first involvement in civil rights came when she registered black voters for a Philadelphia mayoral campaign in 1950.
