"
        Though Mrs. Smith seemed to many people a champion of women's rights, she said she did not regard herself as a feminist.
"I was treated fairly in the Senate, not because of equal rights but because of seniority," she said in a 1975 interview.
She was a strong supporter of civil rights and, again irritating some Republican colleagues, an early advocate of Government-financed medical care for the elderly.

        Dr. Dorothy V. Whipple, who helped to secure the rights of women in the medical profession and advanced the cause of children through her widely influential work in pediatrics, died Friday at her home in Washington.
Her husband was a New York lawyer and civil rights advocate who served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and was president of the New York City Board of Education in the mid-1960's.
Her father was an early civil rights leader; in 1916 he formed the Lincoln League to register and organize voters, and in 1917 he founded Tennessee's first chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
Miss Keliher also shared Mrs. Roosevelt's devotion to human rights.

        Fay Honey Knopp, an advocate of peace and civil rights who founded a Quaker ministry for men and women in prisons around the country, died on Thursday at her home in Shoreham, Vt. A former resident of Westport, Conn., she was 76.
What was said between the two women at the Cafe Pierre on the night of Feb. 22, 1941, was not recorded, but Honeychile's riposte made headlines the next day: she peppered her rival with a flurry of rights and lefts, then doused her with a pitcher of water.
Miss Brophy was the author of 4 plays, 7 novels and 14 other books, but she is just as well known for her most successful campaign, for lending rights for authors.
But Miss Brophy also campaigned -- even from her sickbed -- for the rights of women, of prisoners and of animals.

        Harriet Bell, a polio survivor and advocate of handicapped rights who directed the Polio Information Center from her bedroom as a resource center for the country's 250,000 polio victims, died last Sunday at her home on Roosevelt Island.
As president of the community board of the hospital, Ms. Bell helped to write its patient's bill of rights.
In 1982, she received an award for her work on behalf of patients' rights from the Wonder Woman Foundation, an organization that gives grants to accomplished women over 40.
Born a generation after the Civil War, they had triumphed over Jim Crow, worked in Harlem during its renaissance, borne witness to the feminist and civil rights movements and in recent years, become national celebrities.
Judge Ryan had found Mr. Hammett and Mr. Hunton guilty for refusing to name contributors to the bail fund of the Civil Rights Congress, which the Attorney General had designated as a Communist subversive front.
In the preceding two years, the civil rights group had posted $500,000 or more bail for Communists accused of criminal conspiracy or involved in deportation cases, and it had forfeited more than $100,000 because of bail jumping.
The $2.3 million paid for the paperback rights to "Love Signs" set an industry record.
Within months in 1963, Mrs. Blackston and her friends founded Aid to Needy Children-Mothers Anonymous, linked up with other state groups and inspired the creation of the National Welfare Rights Organization.
Along the way, Mrs. Blackston not only shaped the national welfare debate, but also changed the very terms of the argument, transforming what had been a concern far down the agenda of the civil rights movement into a compelling feminist issue.
In recent years, Mrs. Greenberg had been cheered by Bette Midler's plans to make a movie of her life, but because Ms. Midler has been unable to secure the required rights from two of the three surviving Shirelles (Ms. Harris died in 1982), the project is dormant.
Over the last decade, Ms. Bambara also collaborated with Mr. Massiah on several television documentaries, including "The Bombing of Osage Avenue," about the police assault on Move headquarters in Philadelphia, and a biography of Cecil B. Moore, a prominent civil rights activist in Philadelphia.
Throughout her life, Mr. Massiah said, Ms. Bambara fought for the rights of minorities, women, children and the homeless.
She was a 1924 graduate of the New York University School of Law and was an advocate of women's rights.
"
        But when Mr. Selznick's financial backer, John Hay (Jock) Whitney agreed to buy the rights even if Mr. Selznick was not interested in the property, Mr. Selznick changed his attitude.
Ms. Bonsall began her career at an advertising agency, where she sold the rights to one of her drawings to a doll manufacturer.
In 1982 she was one of three human rights advocates who delivered a symbolic writ of habeas corpus to officials at the Soviet Embassy in Washington on behalf of Andrei Sakharov, the Soviet dissident and nuclear physicist then living in exile in central European Russia.

        Pearl Rainwater Twyne, an animal rights advocate in the Washington area who helped draw national attention to the plight of the Tennessee Walking Horse, died last Friday in St. Alphonsus Hospital in Boise, Idaho.
Mrs. Twyne was transformed from a lover of animals to an animal rights activist in the early 1940's when she called the authorities in her town to tend to a stray dog that had collapsed near her house on a hot summer day.
