
        Princess Brown Thrush, a Matinnecock Indian who fought for the rights of her tribe, died on Jan. 20 at Booth Memorial Medical Center in Queens.

        Paula Ruth Oboler Schwartz, a psychotherapist, social worker and civil rights advocate, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
During her judicial career, she wrote and lectured often on the Constitution, adoption, pornography, alimony and divorce and the rights of children.
For nine years she represented the International Federation of Women Lawyers at United Nations commissions dealing with discrimination, minorities, women, economics, crime, commodities trade, human rights and population growth.
For CBS television she wrote "We the Women" the first network documentary on women's rights.
"We admire her commitment to freedom and human rights.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
Morris Dees, a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center in Montgomery, Ala., with whom she worked on several prominent cases, said, "If Rosa Parks was the mother of the civil rights movement, Cat Bennett is the mother of modern criminal law practice in America.
She successfully argued for The Times in broadening access rights in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in the prosecution of Mario Biaggi, and in New York State's Appellate Division for both the Howard Beach racial-attack case and Joel B. Steinberg child-brutality case.
Watchdog of Helsinki Accords
        On her substantive record, she won the respect of her political peers, sometimes grudgingly, for her advocacy on a wide variety of issues, including civil rights, peace in Vietnam, aid for asbestos victims, help for the poor, prison reform, strip-mining controls, reduction of military programs, urban renewal, campaign spending limits, gun control and restrictions on capital punishment.
Among Mrs. Fenwick's proudest achievements was being a lead sponsor of the resolution creating the commission to monitor the 1975 Helsinki accords on human rights.
In a debate over equal rights for women, she once recalled, a male legislator said: "I just don't like this amendment.
A native of Atlanta, Miss Manderson joined the Southern Regional Council, a civil rights advocacy group, in 1954, shortly after the United States Supreme Court decided the Brown v. Board of Education school desegregation case.
"I was a pitcher and I know catchers," said Mrs. Collins, who also serves as the treasurer of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League Players Association, the nonprofit organization that owns the rights to the league's name and emblems.
She was a consulting physician to the Legal Services Corporation and the Legal Aid Society for the last 16 years and worked with the Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, Prisoners' Legal Services, the Newark Public Defender and the Rutgers Law School Homeless Rights Project.
She focused on civil rights, the rights of the handicapped and prison reform.
She focused on civil rights, the rights of the handicapped and prison reform.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
There she worked with the Faith and Life Community, an ecumenical, interracial program of religious action in civil rights and other social issues.
In 1979, while she was president, an expansion plan generated a dispute over the practice of selling the air rights of the museum to an outside developer to secure needed funds.
