'' Mrs. King rose from rural poverty in Heiberger, Ala., and became an international symbol of the civil rights movement of the 1960's.
She was an advocate for women's rights, the struggle against apartheid in South Africa, and other social and political issues.
She was at times viewed as chilly and aloof by others in the civil rights movement.
''I don't know that she was a civil rights leader in the truest sense, but she became a civil rights figure and a civil rights icon because of what she came to represent.
''I don't know that she was a civil rights leader in the truest sense, but she became a civil rights figure and a civil rights icon because of what she came to represent.
''I don't know that she was a civil rights leader in the truest sense, but she became a civil rights figure and a civil rights icon because of what she came to represent.
''
        She largely carved out her own niche, most prominently through more than 30 Freedom Concerts, at which she lectured, read poetry and sang to raise awareness of and money for the civil rights movement.
''
        She joined the board of directors of the National Organization for Women and the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, and she became widely identified with a broad array of international human rights issues, rather than focusing primarily on race.
The first was to have a national holiday established in Dr. King's honor, and the second was to build the center in Atlanta to honor his memory, continue his work and provide a research facility for scholars of his work and the civil rights era.

        Endesha Ida Mae Holland, a noted scholar and dramatist whose best-known play, ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' chronicled her journey from poverty and prostitution in the Jim Crow South to civil rights activism, a Ph.D. and an academic career, died on Jan. 25 at nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 61.
''I had never seen black people sitting down using typewriters or heard black people talking about civil rights or voter registration.
Professor Holland said afterward that she believed the Ku Klux Klan had firebombed the house in retaliation for her civil rights work.
In 1998, Ms. Chaifetz joined Advocates for Children, which defends the legal rights of students in public education, and in her time there she quadrupled its staff and budget.
''I think kids are one of the last groups of people to be recognized as having fully developed rights,'' she said in an interview in the alumni bulletin of her undergraduate school, Swarthmore College, in September.
Nor were even her indomitable presence and relentless energy enough to secure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.
Nor were even her indomitable presence and relentless energy enough to secure passage of the Equal Rights Amendment.

        Anne Braden, a prominent civil rights activist who in the 1950's was indicted on charges of sedition in a famous case after she helped buy a house for a black family in an all-white suburb of Louisville, Ky., died March 6 in Louisville.
In 1957, the couple joined the staff of the Southern Conference Educational Fund, a civil rights organization.
In recent years, Ms. Braden had taught civil rights history at the University of Louisville and at Northern Kentucky University.
Correction:  March 20, 2006, Monday  An obituary on Friday about Anne Braden, a civil rights activist of the 1950's, misstated the year of her graduation from Randolph-Macon.

        Florence Latimer Mars, who defied the society into which she was born to write a searing book about the effects of the 1964 killings of the civil rights workers Andrew Goodman, Michael Schwerner and James Earl Chaney on her hometown, Philadelphia, Miss., died on Sunday at her home there.
She also stepped into the forefront of the battle for civil rights in her town.
A member of the Klan, Mr. Rainey was later tried on charges of violating the civil rights of the three young civil rights workers killed outside Philadelphia, and was acquitted.
A member of the Klan, Mr. Rainey was later tried on charges of violating the civil rights of the three young civil rights workers killed outside Philadelphia, and was acquitted.
In June 2005, Miss Mars was in the courtroom in Philadelphia when Edgar Ray Killen, by then 80, mastermind of the ambush of the civil rights workers, was found guilty of manslaughter and sentenced to 60 years in prison.
As a member of the human rights committee of the United Federation of Teachers in the early 1960's, Ms. Becker joined a group of teachers who spent two summers in Virginia teaching black students during the desegregation struggles.
Tireless and an eloquent speaker, she was a powerful voice for labor and for social legislation, including Medicare, school spending and civil rights.
'' MGM bought the movie rights to the musical, and Miss Allyson was invited to Hollywood to play her role on screen.
By the early 1960's, the patients' rights movement had taken a foothold in the United States.

        Victoria Jackson Gray Adams, a key figure in the struggle by Mississippi blacks to win their political and civil rights in the 1960's and the first woman to seek a seat in the United States Senate from her state, died Aug. 12 in Baltimore.
''
        That decision became a turning point for the civil rights movement and for the Democratic Party, which for most of its history had been profoundly influenced by all-white delegations from the South.
From Hattiesburg, the waves of the civil rights movement ''swept quietly through the church world into politics,'' the author Taylor Branch wrote in ''Pillar of Fire: America in the King Years, 1963-65'' (Simon & Schuster, 1998).
In the end, she said, ''we accomplished the removal of the wall, the curtain of fear in Mississippi for African-Americans demanding their rights.
A champion of civil rights for minorities, women and gay men and lesbians, Ms. Richards first ran for governor in 1990 calling for a ''New Texas'' that would offer more opportunity and power to those groups.
Representative Patsy T. Mink of Hawaii had just urged the committee to make women's rights a major issue.
Ms. Richards was the most recent and one of the most effective in a long-line of Lone Star State progressives who vied for control of Texas in the days when it was largely a one-party Democratic enclave, a champion of civil rights, gay rights and feminism.
Ms. Richards was the most recent and one of the most effective in a long-line of Lone Star State progressives who vied for control of Texas in the days when it was largely a one-party Democratic enclave, a champion of civil rights, gay rights and feminism.
A champion of women's rights, she told the television audience: ''Ginger Rogers did everything Fred Astaire did.
In a 1996 interview with The New York Times, she declared support for the South's position in the Civil War, as a ''state's rights issue.
In 1999, she married Wayne Hage Sr., a Nevada rancher prominent in the movement to expand private property rights.
Ms. Orr, who was paid $5,000 for the film rights, received no onscreen credit.
A British company is making a documentary about Mrs. Carr, and producers have bought rights to her book, which Ms. Halsey helped write.

        Ruth Brown, the gutsy rhythm and blues singer whose career extended to acting and crusading for musicians' rights, died yesterday in Las Vegas.
The comedian Redd Foxx, whom she had once helped out of a financial jam, invited her to Los Angeles in 1975 to play the gospel singer Mahalia Jackson in ''Selma,'' a musical about civil rights he was producing.

        Jane Hodgson, a prominent abortion rights advocate who in a highly publicized test case in 1970 became the only doctor in the United States to be convicted of illegally performing an abortion in a hospital, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Rochester, Minn. She was 91.
In later years, Dr. Hodgson remained a public champion of abortion rights, speaking widely on the subject and founding several reproductive health care clinics.
In the 1980s, she helped found No More Nice Girls, a street theater and protest group that focused on abortion rights.

        Eleanor Thomas Elliott, an advocate for women's rights who successfully fought Columbia University's attempt to take over Barnard College in the early 1970s, died Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 80 and lived in Cross River, N.Y.
