Miss Sharp was not a feminist and lobbied against the Equal Rights Amendment.
By 1992, she had become so prominent in Hispanic political and civic circles  that Mayor David N. Dinkins named her to the city's Commission on Human Rights,  a position she relinquished when Mr. Dinkins left office.
In "Salt of the Earth" (1954), Ms. Revueltas played the starring role of Esperanza Quintero, the wife of a Mexican-American zinc worker, who becomes involved in the struggle for workers' and women's rights during a violent strike.

        Katharine Gladys Kaufman Smith, a philanthropist and longtime leader of civil rights and peace groups on Long Island, died on May 4 at her home in Riverdale,  Md.
For decades, her house was a frequent meeting place for civil rights groups, antiwar groups and socialists.
As the Deputy Director of the Division for Women, Mrs. Badillo helped run the state's efforts to pass an Equal Rights Amendment, organizing rallies and conferences in various cities and towns.
"She was one of the strongest and most passionate defenders of the Equal Rights Amendment," Mr. Badillo said.

        Olga Marie Madar, who rose to the top echelon in the United Automobile Workers and fought for women's rights in the labor movement, died on Thursday at her home in Detroit.

        Emma Bowen, a lifelong advocate for community causes and the rights of minorities whose reach extended to Washington, where she challenged broadcasters' and politicians' hiring practices, died last Monday at her home in Washington Heights.

        Leslie D'Cora Holmes, an advocate of tenants' rights who was a member of the  New York City Rent Guidelines Board, died on Friday at a hospital in Albany.
She swiftly established a reputation not only as a skillful lawyer but also as an eloquent friend of the downtrodden, a champion of women's rights and a diligent party worker.
She also set up a trustee company to hold all the shares for staff members, giving up pension and dividend rights for herself, but continuing as chairman and joint managing dirctor.
She was an advocate of homeless people's rights and worked with AIDS patients.
Ms. Lear made a name for herself among feminists, working in political campaigns, including Eugene McCarthy's Presidential campaign in 1968; with the National Organization for Women on behalf of the Equal Rights Amendment, which was not ratified; as a partner in an executive search firm specializing in placing women, and as a writer, producing articles for a number of national publications.
An early advocate of women's rights in Conservative Judaism, she lectured widely on the role of women in the synagogue.

        Diane Dickerson Montgomery, a former psychiatric social worker and bank officer who was involved in civil rights causes since childhood, died on Sunday at her home in Chicago.
By rights, Dr. Bernard should have been content to observe the reawakening of feminism benignly from the far side of a long and completed career.
She moved her family to Washington and became a central figure in the feminist revolution, studying subtle forms of sex discrimination as scholar in residence for the United States Commission on Civil Rights, for example, and becoming a founding board member for the Center for Women in Policy Studies.
She received a bachelor's degree in sociology from Brooklyn College and a master's from the University of Connecticut, then joined the civil rights movement in the summer of 1961.
Yes, she told the Mayor, little people become malefactors, too, but they have rights.

        Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a psychologist who defied conventional wisdom and greatly emboldened the fledgling gay rights movement in the 1950's by finding there was no measurable psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men, died on Monday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 89.

        Somaya Fahmy, a pioneer of clinical psychology in Egypt and a women's rights advocate who developed literacy programs for rural Arab villages, died in Cairo on Nov. 29.
Rights to the book, which was selected as a Literary Guild featured alternate, were also recently sold for German, British and Dutch publication.

        Helen Wilson, a staunch advocate of patients' rights as administrator for the Association of the Attending Staff at Mount Sinai Medical Center, died yesterday at the hospital.
When they arrived in India, Josephine, who was later to become an ardent animal rights activist and naturalist, quickly bagged a tiger.
She then joined Basic Books, a subsidiary of HarperCollins, as associate publisher, senior vice president and director of publicity and rights.

        Olga Havel, a human rights campaigner and wife of President Vaclav Havel, died on Saturday.
Mrs. Havel was a signer of the Charter 77 human rights manifesto and worked in the dissident network led by her husband.
Charter 77, signed by intellectuals and others in January 1977, started a human rights offensive against Soviet control in what was then Czechoslovakia.
Over the years, she was also an ardent feminist and supporter of human rights.
As a champion of human rights, Miss Chukovskaya criticized the trial of Andrei D. Sinyavsky and Yuli M. Daniel, who were jailed in the 1960's for their  satiric commentaries on the Soviet system.
