
       Dorothy Kurgans Goldberg, an artist, writer and human rights advocate, died of lung cancer Saturday at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Medical Center in Manhattan.
Dorothy Kurgans Goldberg, an artist, writer and human rights advocate, died of lung cancer Saturday at the Memorial Sloan Kettering Medical Center in Manhattan.
'' Her most recent manuscript, dealing with international negotiations on human rights, is to be published soon.
In the late 1970's, Mrs. Goldberg served as a United States delegate to the Belgrade Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, a follow-up to the Helsinki accords on human rights.
She also was an observer at the Madrid follow-up conference on the Helsinki accords in 1981 and the Ottawa Conference on Human Rights in 1985.
Mrs. Shattuck, a lawyer with the Boston firm of Palmer & Dodge, had been working on a book about the rights of Native Americans.

       Camilla Ravera, a founder of the Communist Party in Italy and a champion of women's rights who became the first woman elected to the Italian Senate, died Thursday at her Rome apartment, her family reported.
Camilla Ravera, a founder of the Communist Party in Italy and a champion of women's rights who became the first woman elected to the Italian Senate, died Thursday at her Rome apartment, her family reported.
In Parliament, Miss Ravera sought to extend women's rights, and she wrote a history of the women's movement in Italy.
Earlier in her career, Judge Matthews had practiced law for almost 30 years and had developed a reputation as an advocate for women's rights.
At the time of her nomination, she was a familiar figure in Washington as a lawyer for the National Women's Party and an active campaigner for women's rights.
Her activities on behalf of women's rights began in law school.
'' Not only was she a woman in a field long dominated by males, she was also one of the first mass market editors to perceive the broader potential of religious and inspirational books, acquiring for Bantam the paperback rights to books by Hal Lindsey, Og Mandino and a number of others.
She also bought the reprint rights to ''Life After Death'' by Dr. Raymond A. Moody Jr., a book of case studies of near-death experiences that has sold more than a million copies in paperback.
She was active with International Labor Defense, a group that worked for the legal rights of strikers and others active in the labor movement.
Among Mrs. Gurko's books were ''Restless Spirit: The Life of Edna St. Vincent Millay'' and ''The Ladies of Seneca Falls,'' about the early women's rights movement.
She was a member of the New Jersey State Child Placement Advisory Council and the Civil Rights Commission for Essex County.
Mrs. Bunche was a native of Montgomery, Ala., where her father had been a Republican national committeeman and an advocate of civil rights.
Publishers called the ruling a violation of First Amendment rights of free speech, and an appellate panel reversed the decision, ruling that the law applied only to payments received by the criminal.
Mrs. McClintock, the widow of Harvey Childs McClintock, an investment banker who died in 1977, was an active supporter of reproductive rights groups such as Planned Parenthood for years.
