Ms. Phillips helped get the rights to ''Yentl'' years before it was made.
'' Ms. Rivera shouted to her lover on the morning of June 28, 1969, when patrons of the Stonewall Inn violently rebuffed a police raid, setting a new militant tone for the gay rights movement.
When the Gay Activists Alliance eliminated transvestites from its civil rights agenda in the early 70's, she turned on the group, Dudley Clendinen and Adam Nagourney wrote in ''Out for Good'' (Simon & Schuster, 1999).
Over the years, there were reconciliations with the mainstream gay rights movement.
But the government continued to oppose a marriage, and though Princess Margaret turned 25 in 1955 and was thus free to marry without the queen's consent, it was made plain to her that if she chose to marry Group Captain Townsend she would lose her royal rights and income.
She campaigned against militarism and the arms race as well as for abortion rights and Chancellor Willy Brandt's Ostpolitik.
Her hope of uncovering the truth behind her husband's murder was rekindled in 1998 with General Pinochet's arrest in London on a Spanish warrant charging him with human rights violations.
They don't want to know the United States government overthrew a democracy and upheld a brutal dictatorship that was violating human rights.
''It played a very important role in raising international consciousness about the wrongness of human rights crimes,'' she says.
During the civil rights movement, Mattel created Barbie's first black friend, ''Colored Francie.
She also had a subtle but substantial role in the civil rights movement.
According to an interview in Fortune magazine in 1998, Mr. Matulich had granted Ms. Fertel the rights to the restaurant's long-established name as long as she kept the original location.
In 1972, frustrated by what Dr. Pantoja saw as the continuing failure of city schools to educate Puerto Rican students -- who still had a graduation rate of only 30 percent -- Aspira filed a civil rights suit in federal court demanding that New York City provide classroom instruction in Spanish for struggling students.
In 1994, with a grant from the American Film Institute, she made a short film, ''To Catch a Tiger,'' inspired by her mother's work as a civil rights activist in the South.
She generally got $125 a book, plus Christmas bonuses, and signed away all rights to royalties and personal recognition.
The review continued, ''Women aren't supposed to have equal sexual and human rights -- and talk about them as openly as men.
In legislative hearings and other forums she championed copyright, free speech and privacy rights.
She spoke of her battle with breast cancer and about the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, which she said proved the need for a secular democracy that protects the rights of ''male/ female/Jew/ Gentile/ Muslim.
''
        Mrs. Lederer, who owned the rights to the Ann Landers name, often said she did not expect anyone to replace her after her death.
''
        Mrs. Lederer, who owned the rights to the Ann Landers name, often said she did not expect anyone to replace her after her death.
In the 1950's she championed civil rights in Virginia and was active in the Republican Party.
Mrs. Goldman's gift was also used to endow a day care center at the law school, as well as for scholarships for underprivileged students, particularly women and those interested in the study of women's rights.
The residents can be evicted at any time and have no contractual rights.

        Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57.
By the time the battle ended in 1987, Ms. Lipton had won what she and other advocates considered a major civil rights battle.
Within two years, she had become a parent advocate with the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund and was organizing a statewide campaign to integrate the Richmond schools, traveling to Washington to press for the cutoff in money.
Ms. Lipton thought this indicated that school officials regarded disabled students as freaks, Arlene Mayerson, a lawyer for the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, said.
As a member of Congress from 1965 until 1977, and again from 1990 until her death, Ms. Mink was a champion of women's rights, education, civil rights and labor unions.
As a member of Congress from 1965 until 1977, and again from 1990 until her death, Ms. Mink was a champion of women's rights, education, civil rights and labor unions.
''
        In her final term, Ms. Mink raised questions about the creation of the Homeland Security Department, saying she feared that the new legislation could be used to undermine civil rights.
Ms. Hunter, a liberal Democrat, had been a vocal supporter of civil rights, though she never belonged to the Communist Party.

        Tatyana M. Velikanova, a Soviet human rights activist who was a leading editor of the most important samizdat journal of human rights abuses and spent nearly nine years in prison camp and exile, died of cancer on Sept. 19.

        Tatyana M. Velikanova, a Soviet human rights activist who was a leading editor of the most important samizdat journal of human rights abuses and spent nearly nine years in prison camp and exile, died of cancer on Sept. 19.
The next year, Ms. Velikanova helped found the Initiative Group for the Defense of Human Rights in the U.S.S.R., and became the backbone of the Chronicle of Current Events, a samizdat news bulletin, after the arrest of its founder, Natalya Gorbanevskaya.

        Edith Tiger, the director of a civil liberties organization who fought for the rights of people ranging from the victims of McCarthyism to Haitian refugees to rebellious high school students, died on Oct. 22 in Brooklyn.
Ms. Tiger was director of the National Emergency Civil Liberties Committee from 1968 until it merged into the Center for Constitutional Rights in 1998.
But unlike the A.C.L.U., Ms. Tiger's committee never defended the constitutional rights of groups like neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan, said Jeff Kisseloff, an author who edited the group's magazine, Rights.
But unlike the A.C.L.U., Ms. Tiger's committee never defended the constitutional rights of groups like neo-Nazis and the Ku Klux Klan, said Jeff Kisseloff, an author who edited the group's magazine, Rights.
''The world is getting smaller,'' she said about the merger with the Center for Constitutional Rights.
After leaving Aperture in 1986, Ms. Kismaric struck out on her own and produced an exhibition and book, ''Forced Out: The Agony of the Refugee in Our Time'' (1989), under the auspices of the J. M. Kaplan Fund and Human Rights Watch.
A pioneer in the purchase of development rights from farmers to save the land from being turned into tract housing and shopping malls, Ms. Straus was a founder of the Marin Agricultural Land Trust in 1980.
