
        Dorothy K. Willner, a sociologist who persuaded the United Nations to adopt guidelines protecting the rights of consumers, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
The interwoven themes of her career were social change, group action, women's rights, health and writing.
Ms. Eagan was active in local and national efforts for abortion rights and other health and women's issues.
She was involved in peace and civil rights efforts and worked with Martin Luther King Jr. and Margaret Mead, among others.
She was involved in peace and civil rights efforts and worked with Martin Luther King Jr. and Margaret Mead, among others.
Photographs and films of Miss Anderson singing in front of Lincoln's statue, before the enormous crowd, quickly became a poignant symbol for the nascent civil rights movement.
In 1980, the United States Treasury Department coined a half-ounce gold commemorative medal with her likeness, and in 1984 she was the first recipient of the Eleanor Roosevelt Human Rights Award of the City of New York.
President Eisenhower appointed her an alternative representative in the United States delegation to the Human Rights Committee of the United Nations.
Mrs. Buell, who was known as Marge, was also a role model for future cartoon entrepreneurs, since she kept control of the rights to the Little Lulu character.

        Frances Ruth Grant, who spent her life opposing dictatorships and promoting human rights in the Americas, died on Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
Miss Grant's dedication to Latin American culture, art and human rights began in her childhood.
Recognized as a leader in the defense of civil and politcal liberties, she was a past chairman of the Latin American section and secretary of the International League for Human Rights.
He called her "the greatest fighter for democracy and human rights in the hemisphere.
In 1958 she served as the legal advisor to the American delegation to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
This study appears in The Family Law Quarterly and reviews developments in family law like no-fault divorce, fair distribution of property, homemaker's contribution, rights to retirement benefits, spousal support and child-support enforcement.

        Sophia Yarnall Jacobs, a lifelong advocate of civil and human rights, died on Wednesday at her home on Mount Desert Island in Northeast Harbor, Me.
She was a partner in the law firm of Jaffe, Raitt, Heuer & Weiss, and specialized in the rights of creditors and debtors.
Author of Handbooks
        She was also involved in the promotion of international human rights and was recently named deputy director of the Orville H. Schell Jr. Center for International Human Rights at Yale.
Author of Handbooks
        She was also involved in the promotion of international human rights and was recently named deputy director of the Orville H. Schell Jr. Center for International Human Rights at Yale.
The center promotes research and assists lawyers and organizations concerned about preserving individual rights and freedoms and acts as a clearing house for information.
She was the author of many articles and handbooks, including a three-part research guide on human rights law that was published by New York University.
Bill of Rights.
Her manifold interests as a philanthropist ranged from animal rights to AIDS, historical preservation to orchids.
As a philanthropist, Miss Duke was also active in support of environmental causes and animal rights.

        Marian Bruce Logan, a civil rights advocate, former New York City Commissioner of Human Rights and a cabaret singer in her youth, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center.

        Marian Bruce Logan, a civil rights advocate, former New York City Commissioner of Human Rights and a cabaret singer in her youth, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center.
Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed Mrs. Logan to head the Commission on Human Rights in 1977.
In 1971 the Citizens Union presented Dr. and Mrs. Logan with awards for outstanding public service for their prominence in campaigning for civil rights and better public health.
She also was an active supporter of the Center for Constitutional Rights.
She devoted her efforts to defending human rights and the political opposition, and she was expelled from the party in 1970.
