Miss Washington held a number of government positions, including associate counsel for the State Division of Human Rights, commissioner of the State Workers' Compensation Board and chairwoman of the Benefits Review Board of the United States Department of Labor in Washington.

       Anna Arnold Hedgeman, an educator, civil rights advocate and the first black woman to be a member of a mayoral cabinet in New York City, died Jan. 17 in Harlem Hospital.
Anna Arnold Hedgeman, an educator, civil rights advocate and the first black woman to be a member of a mayoral cabinet in New York City, died Jan. 17 in Harlem Hospital.
Correction:  February 8, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Jan. 26 about Anna Arnold Hedgeman, a civil rights advocate and former mayoral aide, misidentified the New York City mayoral candidate on whose ticket she ran in 1965.
She was among those who voted to alter the company structure fundamentally, granting limited voting rights to the Class A stock and listing it on the American Stock Exchange.
Mrs. Spann was an avid motorcyclist and belonged to the Georgia Motorcycle Rights Organization.
Princess Firouz was an early advocate of women's rights.

       May Morgan Robinson, a leader in civil rights and in the Democratic Party in Westchester, died of cancer of the uterus on Thursday at her home in Yonkers.
May Morgan Robinson, a leader in civil rights and in the Democratic Party in Westchester, died of cancer of the uterus on Thursday at her home in Yonkers.
In the mid-1960's she helped integrate the audience for the performing arts in Alabama when she and her husband escorted the city's most visible civil rights leader, Dr. John Nixon, and his wife, Ethel, down the aisle before a performance at the Municipal Auditorium.
She took an active interest in Democratic Party politics and advocated voting rights for blacks in Alabama.
''
        A Stint as a Teacher
        Mrs. French, who later became a member of the New York City Commission on Intergroup Relations, now the Commission on Human Rights, studied at the Sorbonne and at Harvard and Columbia.
A Legal Clinic
        As co-director of the legal clinic, training students in the practice of law, she specialized in public-interest disputes, individual rights and immigration cases.
She was also active in the women's suffrage movement from the early 1900's, and later in life became active in the civil rights movement.
She successfully lobbied for the extension of the Voting Rights Act in 1982, the creation of a holiday honoring the Rev.
She was also active in forming civil rights coalitions in the 1960's and in promoting equal opportunity legislation.
She marched in 1965 in Selma, Ala., in a civil rights demonstration with Dr. Martin Luther King Jr..
        Not all her battles were victories.
She retired from public life in 1970 but later served as the Indian representative to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.

        Hortense W. Gabel, a former New York State Supreme Court justice who was a longtime advocate for housing and civil rights and whose career was shattered when she was accused in the Bess Myerson case, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
She was known as a compassionate judge who supported civil rights and women's causes.
In the summer of 1970, Miss Stern formed a corporation to represent estates of composers whose reversionary rights had been disregarded by the British Music Publishers Association.
The test actions she organized resulted in a decision by the House of Lords to establish such rights as stated in a 1911 statute that she was instrumental in uncovering.
She was known in religious circles for her work for social justice, international peace and women's rights.
