Having found a measure of racial and civil justice in 19th-century America after the United States displaced the Spanish in 1898, he espoused statehood as the best way to guarantee similar rights in Puerto Rico.
Mrs. Morris honed her social conscience in the turbulent South of the 1950's and 60's, during the early days of school desegregation and of passive civil rights protests that were often met by violence.
The couple moved to the Deep South in 1954, when Mr. Morris was appointed a vicar in Dillon, S.C.
        At the end of 1958, they moved to Atlanta, where Mr. Morris became the executive director of the newly formed Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, a group that supported the civil rights movement and addressed segregation within the Episcopal Church.
In her capacity as Surrogate, she used her authority to help gay partners clarify their inheritance rights.
In her capacity as Surrogate, she used her authority to help gay partners clarify their inheritance rights.
She called on college students statewide to join the protests, evoking the civil rights spirit that had been used in the summer of 1964 to draw student protesters to the South.
They later filed suit against the Government claiming false arrest and civil rights violations.
Ms. Katz served as a consultant for Human Rights Watch, the National Council of Teachers of English and the Modern Language Association.
A survey for the American Cancer Society helped persuade the organization to focus on encouraging nonsmokers to stand up for their rights, said John H. Bartolomeo, a partner in her firm, who also worked with her in the 1970's.
But if her later songs exalted pacifism, feminism, motherhood and animal rights, the emotional turmoil of old was never far from the surface.
During the late 1930's and 40's, Mrs. Norman, along with her husband, became well known for supporting liberal causes at home and abroad, including independence for India and Israel, civil rights and education.
She made fiery speeches against the proposed equal rights amendment in 1975.

        Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn.
She was also an advocate of reparations for slavery, tenants' rights and education for the poor.
''
        In 1966, Miss Moore was among parents and civil rights workers who staged a sit-in in the Board of Education's meeting hall in Brooklyn, where the protesters accused board members of neglecting the needs of schools in poor neighborhoods.
''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show.

        Florence M. Kelley, the first administrative judge of the modern Family Court in New York City and an advocate for the legal rights of the poor, died last Saturday at her home in Little Compton, R.I. She was 85.

        Sue Sumii, a fiery human rights campaigner whose landmark novel sold 8.3 million copies and helped change attitudes toward Japan's ''untouchables,'' died last Monday.
Mrs. Sumii fought all her life for women's rights, for social equality, and in particular for equal opportunities for the burakumin, often called the ''untouchables'' of Japan.
After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
''
        In the sale of American rights, the Joan Daves Agency also represented a number of distinguished foreign publishers, like Kinderbuch Verlag of Switzerland, the German concerns Carl Hanser Verlag of Munich and Verlag Kipenheuer und Witsch of Cologne, and the Austrian concern Residenz Verlag of Salzburg.

        Jewel Lafontant-Mankarious, a Chicago lawyer who held high posts in the Nixon and Bush Administrations, was active in the civil rights movement and was on the boards of major corporations, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago.
In the civil rights field, she was a founding member of the Congress of Racial Equality, an officer of the Chicago chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and on the board of the American Civil Liberties Union.

        Mumeo Oku, a pioneer in Japan's consumer movement and an early campaigner for women's rights, died on Monday at her Tokyo home.
''She opened the way for consumers' movements and consumers' rights in Japan after the war,'' said Teiko Kihara, chairwoman of the Japan League of Women Voters.
The decision was criticized by women's organizations and praised by fathers' rights groups.
Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      
After Mr. Reagan was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Smith to the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
But in his second term, after she had been critical of Administration policies on civil rights, he refused to reappoint her.
She also became a feminist and became known for supporting civil rights and abortion rights.
She also became a feminist and became known for supporting civil rights and abortion rights.

        Janet Good, a longtime civil rights worker who cooperated with Dr. Jack Kevorkian to help terminally ill people die, ended her own life yesterday in her home in suburban Detroit.
''I have worked for civil rights and women's rights and human rights for many years, and this seemed to me just another right we should have,'' she said.
''I have worked for civil rights and women's rights and human rights for many years, and this seemed to me just another right we should have,'' she said.
''I have worked for civil rights and women's rights and human rights for many years, and this seemed to me just another right we should have,'' she said.
Reflecting its editor's fascination with the news and with the newspaper's daily production, her journal offered Tom Wicker's account of covering the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas; A. M. Rosenthal on his expulsion from Poland for reports that won a Pulitzer Prize; Claude Sitton on civil rights clashes in the South, and Robert Lipsyte on how to report a boxing match with a screaming fan standing on your typewriter.

        Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss.

        Mary Weinberger, a lifelong advocate for the rights of people with muscular dystrophy, died on Sept. 8 at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 89 and had lived in Long Beach, N.Y.
        Mrs. Weinberger had been hospitalized since June, when a coronary infection was diagnosed, a niece, Susan Dick of West Long Branch, N.J., said.
Mrs. Weinberger became involved in the rights of the disabled after doctors told her that her adopted son, Richard, 2, had muscular dystrophy.
She rallied for the rights of people with physical and mental disabilities to live in their own homes instead of  institutions.
Another was a rare interview with Speaker Sam Rayburn (who did not like to be interviewed on camera) and an exclusive interview with Senator Barry Goldwater, who wanted to explain to her why he had voted against the Civil Rights Bill.
But she did not want to be involved only in women's programming and in the next few years, covered Mr. Kennedy's funeral and the civil rights movement, including the March on Washington.
)
        Settling in Greenwich Village as her parents had done a generation earlier, Mrs. Kirchner held a series of jobs in journalism, contributing to a book on civil rights for Newsfront Publishers, working as a freelance book editor, and ending her career as a senior writer for the magazine Medical Economics.
She was a leader in organizing Housing Court in New York and was an outspoken proponent of landlords' rights.
But she often took unexpected positions, favoring the proposed equal rights amendment as she opposed abortion.
Mrs. Meyner also pressed for women's rights while in Congress.
It produced ''Women's Heritage Calendar and Almanac'' and paperbacks about women's rights advocates like Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucy Stone.
''
        In her long career, in which she was active until just recently, Mrs. Peterson was an educator, a labor organizer, a public official and an advocate of women's rights.
The collection now stretches over some 5,500 feet of shelves and includes materials about women's rights, suffrage, birth control, the women's movement of recent years  and women in the arts.
On Monday, in a major ruling against the Giuliani administration, she found that city officials had violated New York magazine's free speech rights when they pulled satirical advertisements from buses.
''
        Last January, after she suppressed evidence in a case and questioned a program in which the police stopped and searched taxicabs, Mr. Giuliani declared that Judge Scheindlin did not care as much for ''the rights of victims and potential victims as accused criminals.
The long-term benefit, she says, ''is that we keep our constitutional rights.
