She graduated summa cum laude from the University of California, Los Angeles, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and won a National Science Foundation research scholarship.

        Dr. Olga Ladyzhenskaya, a mathematician whose work with differential equations contributed to advances in the study of fluid dynamics in areas like weather forecasting, oceanography, aerodynamics and cardiovascular science, died on Jan. 12 in St. Petersburg, Russia.
In 1960, she received a doctorate in journalism and political science from the University of Minnesota, where she began her teaching career.
''That fear, perhaps justified in some quarters, would be like blocking publication of damaging effects of Celebrex, thalidomide, or estrogen because the publication could slow work in disease prevention,'' she wrote in the May 2003 issue of The Annals, the publication of the American Academy of Political and Social Science.
Dr. Rhoda Fisher's dismay over books about parenting that she thought lacked scientific merit led her and her husband, who died in 1996, to collaborate on ''What We Really Know About Child Rearing: Science in Support of Effective Parenting'' (Basic Books, 1976).
She was the principal investigator for her association's education programs, financed by NASA, ''Partnership in Astronomy'' and ''Hands-On Astrophysics: Variable Stars in Math, Science, and Computer Education,'' which she also co-directed.
'' When she proposed a new science laboratory for Barnard, she said, Columbia discouraged her, saying its labs were sufficient.
But, she said, Barnard did not control those labs, and the absence of its own lab would send a signal ''that it didn't believe in science for women.
In a statement released by Ms. Richman's family, Mr. Cronkite said that she ''was probably more important than any other individual in shaping the presentation of a new science that gripped the world's imagination.
Her assertions that she had evidence of an afterlife saddened many colleagues, some of whom said she had abandoned rigorous science and had, perhaps, succumbed to her own fears of death.
''Some of our ancestors went to the stake for the right to do science,'' she told The Baltimore Sun in 1997.
''
        Some of her books were Junior Literary Guild Selections and several of her natural-science titles received Outstanding Science Books for Children awards.
She wrote serious studies of popular art forms, like cinema and science fiction, that earlier critics disdained.
