She graduated from Tufts University in 1986 with a degree in computer science.
In 1967, when Washoe was 15 months old, they reported early results to a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in New York.
Her father was a Belgian historian of science, her mother an English artist and designer.
She was given the National Medal of Science at a White House ceremony in 1985.
There the first phase of her professional teaching career unfolded as she developed and coordinated a basic behavioral science program for psychiatric residents as well as a freshman medical course in psychiatry.
At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
The Social Science Institute, formed in 1953 to print political and economic pamphlets written by Mr.
She was a friend of most of the scientists whose institutions she helped, and although she was rarely seen at the glittering social events favored by her peers, she had an active social life centered on the arts and science community.
"Lita Hazen was a wonderful patron of pure science, who enjoyed bright and unusual people who would say things that she wouldn't expect," said Dr. James Watson, the Nobel laureate who is director of the Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory.
Dr. Richard A. Lerner, president of the Scripps Research Institute in La Jolla, Calif, said: "She, like Mary Lasker, was one of the great ladies of American science.
These kinds of individuals play important roles in science, far beyond the simple ability to donate money.
"
        Dr. Lerner added, "We are losing our 'great ladies of science,' " and he noted that with their death and with no such new individuals on the horizon, "there will not be much to replace them, and a whole culture that fostered science will come to an end.
"
        Dr. Lerner added, "We are losing our 'great ladies of science,' " and he noted that with their death and with no such new individuals on the horizon, "there will not be much to replace them, and a whole culture that fostered science will come to an end.
"
        The Hazen Trust made possible the purchase of land for a science park at the institute and also financed a chair in immunochemistry.
"
        Ms. Dearing grew up in Manhattan and graduated from City College, where she majored in mathematics and science.
Her dual interest in art and science was encouraged by frequent visits to the Berkshire Museum, where her father worked and which had collections devoted to both art and natural history.
Her dual interest in art and science was encouraged by frequent visits to the Berkshire Museum, where her father worked and which had collections devoted to both art and natural history.
Mrs. Wesley, whose maiden name was Burnett, was born in Warrenton, Va., and reared in Montclair, N.J. She went received a bachelor's degree in 1928 from Howard and a master's degree in library science in 1932 from Columbia University.
Ever restless and determined, Ms. McQueen, who had never completed college, graduated with a degree in political science from City College in 1975 at the age of 64.
      
Mrs. Miller was born in Highland Park, Ill. She received a bachelor's degree from Bryn Mawr College in 1921, a diploma in economics from Oxford University in 1922 and a doctorate in political science from the University of Chicago in 1928.
She was the author of "Milton and the Science of the Saints" (Princeton University Press, 1983), for which she received the James Holly Hanford Award of the Milton Society of America.
She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree in soil science from Cornell University and a doctorate in plant physiology from Rutgers University.
She was the author of four books on library science, including "Library Acquisition Policies and Procedures" (Oryx Press; 3d edition, 1994), and "The Library Forms Illustrated Handbook" (Neal-Schuman, 1984).
Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Futas was a political science graduate of Brooklyn College.
She received a master's in librarian science at the University of Minnesota and a doctorate in information studies at Rutgers.

        Dr. Lorella Margaret Jones, a science educator and physicist known for her work in theoretical high-energy physics, died on Feb. 9 in a nursing home in Champaign, Ill. She was 51 and lived in Urbana, Ill.
