A local jeweler fabricated that bracelet, which is now in the National Museum of Natural History's Science, Medicine and Society Collection, although it is not currently on display.
Ms. Sewell was the author of five books of criticism, including ''The Orphic Voice,'' about the role of the imagination in literature and science.
Despite his successes and initially positive reactions from colleagues, Dr. Coley was never able to win broad support for his treatment and, according to a 1984 article in Science magazine, died a disappointed man.
In an interview with Science, Mrs. Nauts described a meeting with a Mount Sinai Hospital bacteriologist, Dr. Gregory Shwartzman, with whom her father had corresponded.
After graduation, she got a master's degree in library science from Columbia University, where she was the only black person in her year of the program, said one daughter, the writer Jill Nelson.
The Oxford English Dictionary cites as the first use of the term a 1955 article in Science News Letter discussing work by the society.
Mrs. Clymer originally wanted to be a science writer, and several of her books sought to teach children about subjects like archaeology.
She worked on school newspapers at the Bronx High School of Science and Wellesley College.
Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
''
        In 1987, President Ronald Reagan presented Dr. Anastasi with a National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for scientific achievement.

        Adele Dellenbaugh Hofmann, a pediatrician who helped tailor medical science to the needs of teenagers, died on Friday at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 74 and lived in nearby Laguna Beach.
She was an emeritus professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago's Center on Aging, Health and Society.
She graduated from the University of Michigan with a bachelor's degree in English and science.
Living in Europe in the 1930's she started writing travel articles for American newspapers, including The Christian Science Monitor and The New York Times.
She studied retailing at New York University, and earned a master's degree in library science and education from C. W. Post College on Long Island.
''It is clearly a hot area right now,'' said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the chief science officer for the American Heart Association.

        Lynn Payer, a science writer and medical journalist best known for her books about the impact of culture on medical care, died Saturday at Calvary Hospice in the Bronx.
Lynn Payer was born in El Dorado, Kan., and discovered her interest in science on nature walks and at summer science camps of the National Science Foundation.
Lynn Payer was born in El Dorado, Kan., and discovered her interest in science on nature walks and at summer science camps of the National Science Foundation.
Lynn Payer was born in El Dorado, Kan., and discovered her interest in science on nature walks and at summer science camps of the National Science Foundation.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.
After the war, in 1953, Ms. Brée was appointed chairwoman of the French department at New York University's Washington Square College of Arts and Science, only the second woman in the college's history to chair a department.
Starting in the 1950's, she studied how they came to understand subjects like science and literature.
While in college, where she studied political science, she worked one summer as a clerk at The Washington Post.
''The important issue is when possible to try to have science inform public policy,'' she said.
The companion offers a glimpse of the laborious process of writing the many-layered historical novels, which delve into the art, culture, manners and science of the times.
Dr. Schor, the Benjamin F. Barge professor of French at Yale University, brought French psychoanalytic and deconstructive theory to French studies in the United States, said Joan W. Scott, a professor of social science at the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J.
        As one example of how this worked, she cited Dr. Schor's essay on fetishism in the novels of George Sand, the cigar-smoking, cross-dressing novelist who was the most widely celebrated female writer in France in the 1800's.
