"
        She earned a bachelor of arts degree from Randolph-Macon Women's College and bachelor of science and master's degrees from Columbia University, where she studied under a Carnegie fellowship.
She graduated from Antioch College in 1964 and received her master of science and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Chicago.
She graduated from Antioch College in 1964 and received her master of science and doctoral degrees in political science from the University of Chicago.
The Christian Science Monitor in 1963 said she "has probably done more than any other woman to contribute to the understanding of the American Indian, his plight, his spiritual power and the impact on him of white civilization.
She administered $21 million in grants for scholarships, fellowships and professorships for women in science, to help remedy their under-representation in that field.
She received a Bachelor of Science with honor in psychology from Tufts University.

        Dr. Joanna Hollenberg Sher, a professor of clinical pathology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn, died on July 4 at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn.
She joined the faculty of the SUNY Health Science Center as an instructor in 1962 and was named full professor in 1977.

        Alice Woodard Fordyce, a philanthropist whose support of medical research in the last five decades included her involvement in the awarding of one of science's most prestigious prizes, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan.
From 1989 to 1990 she was president of the American Political Science Association, the first woman to head the nation's largest professional organization of political scientists.
Dr. McClintock's findings were so profound that she garnered honors and prizes throughout her long career, including membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1944, president of the Genetics Society in 1945, the National Medal of Science in 1970, the first MacArthur Laureate Award, for $60,000 a year for life, in 1981, and a Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine in 1983.
She was the first woman to win an unshared Nobel Prize in that category and the third woman to win an unshared Nobel science prize.
J. R. S. Fincham of Edinburgh, Scotland, writing in the Aug. 20 issue of Nature, a British science journal, said that Dr. McClintock's "solitary style of work, total independence of thought and extraordinary record of getting things right have elevated her to the status of a prophet in the eyes of some.
In the 1930's, Dr. McClintock established her reputation by becoming one of the scientists to develop an understanding of chromosomes as the basis of heredity, work that was honored by her National Medal of Science.
The daughter of a doctor, she grew up in Brooklyn and learned to love science while attending Erasmus Hall High School there.
Her son said her explanation for this was that she refused to take any science courses.
Active Politically and Academically
        Ms. Lorde, who also used her adopted African name, Gamba Adisa, was born in Manhattan and graduated from Hunter College and the Columbia University School of Library Science.
in library science from Queens College.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
She earned her bachelor's degree and master's degree in library science at the University of Chicago and a master's degree at Columbia University Teachers College.
After earning a doctorate in socio-medical science at Columbia University in 1970, she served two years as an assistant to the first vice president at New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation.
She graduated from Hunter College and received a master's degree in Library Science from Columbia University.
