She wrote several mathematics texts and was a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She was also a former Andrew Mellon Professor at Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art.
Mrs. Mertz, whose maiden name was Turner, was born in Cincinnati and grew up in Williamsport, Pa. She graduated from Syracuse University in 1927 with a degree in library science.

        Miriam Burton Holman, a soprano and actress who appeared on Broadway and in opera, died last Sunday at High Ridge House, a Christian Science nursing facility in the Bronx.
Miss Carter was a professor of political science at Smith College from 1943 to 1964, where she held the Sophia Smith Chair from 1961 to 1964.
She was a graduate of Bronx High School of Science, Hunter College and Fordham University.
in political science from George Washington University.
From 1936 to 1939, she attended the University of Pennsylvania, where she concentrated in political science.
" She graduated in 1954 in the college's first arts and science class that included women.
She was a graduate of Vassar College and of Columbia Law School, and she had received a master's degree in political science from New York University.
Mrs. Dibble, who specialized in small garden plots for city dwellers, wrote about gardening for several publications, including The New York Times, The Christian Science Monitor, American Home and House & Garden.

        Margaret L. A. MacVicar, dean of undergraduate education at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an innovator in shaping policies for undergraduate education and science education in public schools, died Monday at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston.
She also implemented changes in humanities and science requirements.
Professor MacVicar, a professor of physical science, had held the endowed chair as Cecil and Ida Green Professor of Education since 1980.
In 1977, she received the Irwin Sizer Award for the most significant contribution to education at M.I.T., and in 1979, she held the Chancellor's Distinguished Chair at the University of California, Berkeley, in the Department of Materials Science and Engineering.
In 1985, she was awarded an honorary Doctor of Science degree from Clarkson University.
In 1941, she was recruited by the O.S.S., forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency, as a social science analyst.
After completing her documentation of New York, Miss Abbott turned to scientific photography and invention, and in 1958 she joined the physical science study committee of Education Services Inc., in Cambridge, Mass., to take photographs for a new high-school physics text.
