''
        Born in 1912, Mary Farmar attended Queens College in London and the London School of Economics and Political Science before marrying Charles Swinfen Eady, a baron, in 1937.
She graduated from the University of Minnesota in 1936 and received her doctorate in science from Johns Hopkins University three years later.
The couple taught at the New School for Social Research in New York, where she earned a master of social science degree in 1943.

        Anita Borg, a computer scientist who devoted much of her career to the advancement of women in computer science, died on Sunday at her mother's home in Sonoma, Calif. She was 54.
Through the several programs she founded, she became virtually synonymous with involving women in the emerging science.
Dr. Borg's bent for computer science emerged while she was attending New York University, where she received her Ph.D. in 1981.
Her dissertation was on operating system principles, a highly technical subset of computer science.
She became a high school science teacher but went into the string business after World War II when her husband, a guitar maker, found that the gut strings traditionally used for the guitar's three treble strings were in short supply.
She was born on June 15, 1956, in Quincy, Mass., and grew up in Wilton, Conn. She graduated from Cornell and received a master's in political philosophy from the London School of Economics and Political Science.

        Dorothy Nelkin, a New York University sociologist who chronicled the uneasy relationship between science and society, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan.
Professor Nelkin, a prolific author who began her research at Cornell in 1963, was a close observer of science and how it is perceived -- and, often, misperceived -- by the public.
''
        But Professor Nelkin, whose husband of 50 years, Mark Nelkin, is a physicist, was no enemy of science.
Although her academic background was in the humanities and the social sciences, she was generally comfortable in the world of science, especially biology.
Still, she kept her intellectual distance, believing that lay writers often had a tendency to lionize science.
''She always saw science in relationship to society, and she never went native,'' said Prof.
She wrote or co-wrote 26 books, including ''Selling Science: How the Press Covers Science and Technology,'' ''The DNA Mystique: The Gene as a Cultural Icon'' and ''Body Bazaar: The Market for Human Tissue in the Biotechnology Age.
She wrote or co-wrote 26 books, including ''Selling Science: How the Press Covers Science and Technology,'' ''The DNA Mystique: The Gene as a Cultural Icon'' and ''Body Bazaar: The Market for Human Tissue in the Biotechnology Age.
Much of her work focused on the friction between science and technology and the public.
Professor Nelkin believed that the science would be unable to live up to the hopes floated by its promoters, many of whom stood to make a lot of money.

        Barbara B. Lazarus, an educational anthropologist who studied barriers to women entering science and engineering and created programs to overcome them, died last Tuesday in Pittsburgh.
Dr. Lazarus, who was associate provost for academic affairs at Carnegie Mellon University, was recognized for her creative methods of increasing the number of women in science and engineering at Carnegie Mellon and elsewhere.
She also dreamed up a program now known as ''Explanatoids'' -- signs and videos at playgrounds, amusement parks and other sites to explain the science of everything from roller coasters to the curve balls being thrown at PNC Park, where the Pirates play.
She worked in a medical laboratory, did science research for Time magazine, served with the Naval Reserve in Washington in World War II and studied art history at Vassar College.
She graduated from the University of Minnesota with honors in library science.
She joined the United Nations in 1970, at the same time beginning studies at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in political science and international relations in 1973.
Whether serotonin influences the anterior pituitary is an issue that many scientists debate to this day, said Dr. Marc Freeman, a professor of biological science and neuroscience at Florida State University.
In addition to her husband, a teacher of mathematics and the history of science whom she married in 1958, Mrs.
Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
She started as a lecturer at City College and the New School and returned to Hunter as an instructor in political science in 1956.
She was the academic dean at Yeshiva until 1981 and a political science professor until 1993.
Dr. Bates, a professor of cognitive science at U.C.S.D.
