She was elected a fellow of the American Physics Society in 1947 and the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1980, and to membership in the National Academy of Sciences in 1972.
She was a co-founder of Brookhaven Women in Science, which furthers the advancement of women scientists and began in 1979.
She also was an adviser and consultant  at the National Research Council, the National Science Foundation and many other scientific bodies.
In an interview at the time with The New York Times, she said that her path into science had been clear because she fell in love with numbers at the age of 4 and decided to study physics and mathematics as a teen-ager in Munich.
Mrs. Hutson wanted to be a psychiatrist but took up library science with the goal of financing medical studies.
Nevertheless, Mrs. Sayre's book has been widely cited in feminist circles for helping to expose rampant sexism in science.
''
        She was born in Baltimore and graduated in 1933 from what is now the State University of New York at Albany, where she received a degree in library science the next year.
in 1975 from the State University Health Science Center in Stony Brook, N.Y..
        She held a master's degree in public health from Columbia, and she studied sociology at the University of Edinburgh and social medicine at the Hadassah Medical School in Jerusalem.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Newton College of the Sacred Heart in Newton, Mass., and a master's degree in political science from Rutgers University.
A Brooklyn native, Ms. Wolsky graduated in 1978 from the Philadelphia College of Textiles and Science.
But in her book she made her case with a rare blend of science, local lore and history, and shimmering writing: ''The clear burning light of the sun pours daylong into the saw grass and is lost there, soaked up, never given back.

        Belle Zeller, an emeritus professor of political science at Brooklyn College and a scholar of the legislative process who was an indomitable leader of unions representing City University of New York professors for more than 30 years, died on Friday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
In 1937, she received a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University.
Growing up in a wealthy Christian Science family in San Francisco, Mrs. Maxwell had harbored a grudge against the religion ever since she broke her arm when she was 9 and was denied medical treatment until she went to a doctor on her own.
But Mrs. Maxwell, who had been working with a Mississippi State scientist to produce a technical manual on Amazon remedies, remained confident that her work would be eventually be recognized by mainstream science.
She also wrote dance criticism for The Christian Science Monitor during the 1960's.

        Marjorie Lansing, a political scientist and sometime politician whose scholarly delineation of a gender gap in American voting patterns helped change the shape of political campaigns and spurred women into politics in the 1980's, died on May 1 at a hospital near her home in Ann Arbor, Mich. She was 82 and had been a professor of political science at Eastern Michigan University.
In 1949 the Lansings moved to Ann Arbor, where he became a professor of economics at the University of Michigan and she became active in the Democratic Party while rearing three children, studying for a Ph.D. in political science at Michigan and teaching at Eastern Michigan.
While Miss Mathiot was still studying to be a teacher at the Paris Training School of Homemaking at the beginning of the Depression, Albin Michel, a portly French publisher, decided that a cook book emphasizing nutrition might help his ailing business, not to mention his waistline, by appealing to what he perceived as a broad public fascination with the developments of modern science, including advances in nutritional understanding.
When leading authorities on French cuisine turned him down, Mr. Michel proposed the project to the head of a local college's science department, who also turned him down but set off a chain of recommendations that finally led Mr. Michel to the 23-year-old Miss Mathiot, who said yes.
Miss Mitchell, who was credited with strengthening science and mathematics courses, also responded positively to student complaints that the Brearley curriculum was not relevant to modern society.
A native New Yorker, Dr. Karlin graduated from Bronx High School of Science and Antioch College.
Dr. Harrison also served on the National Science Board in the 1970's.
In addition, she was a longtime board member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science and in 1984 became its president.
''My mother was very progressive and I was reared in an atmosphere that was, at that time, most unusual in my country,'' she once told The Christian Science Monitor in an interview.
Meanwhile, she was studying for a bachelor of science degree.
At a meeting of cancer researchers at the Sunnybrook and Women's College Health Science Center in Toronto, she made a dry presentation of metastatic medical issues vivid with her presence and words.

        Francelia Butler, a late-blooming academic of such passionate, unorthodox ways that she has been credited with almost single-handedly transforming the study of children's literature from a stepchild of library science into a recognized academic discipline, died last Friday at a nursing home in Windham, Conn. A resident of Mansfield Hollow, Conn., she was 85 and had been a professor at the University of Connecticut.
Although children's literature had been taught in American universities since the turn of the century, generally as part of the library science or education curriculums, it was a reflection of the subject's lowly standing that it had no academic association and no academic journal.
She earned a bachelor's degree in political science from the University of Pennsylvania and in 1942 married Warren Goff, a law student who became a lighting consultant.
During the 1950's, she wrote regularly about Japan for The Saturday Evening Post and The Christian Science Monitor.
Gallery of Science and Art in Manhattan, the Armand Hammer Museum of Art and Cultural Center in Los Angeles and the McNay, and ''The Art of Enchantment: Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, 1909-1929'' in 1988-89.
