Mrs. Kamen graduated from Smith College in 1957 and from Yale with a master's degree in science and physics in 1958.
In 1958, recognizing that college-educated women restricted by child rearing  needed jobs with flexible work schedules, she founded Part Time Research Associates, a social science research corporation.
In "Man on Earth," "A Land" and many other books, Ms. Hawkes searched for the humanity within science.
"
        Ms. Hawkes's books included "A Woman as Great as the World," a collection of  fables and a science fiction novelette; "Journey Down a Rainbow," a personalized account of a visit to the United States written with Mr. Priestley; "Providence  Island: An Archeological Tale"; "King of the Two Lands: The Pharaoh, Akhenaten," and "Dawn of the Gods," a study of Greece in the Bronze Age.

        Dr. Jane Marion Oppenheimer, a biologist and science historian whose interests ranged from embryos to the physiological effects of weightlessness in  space, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia after a brief illness.
She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emeritus of Biology and History of Science at Bryn Mawr College, where she had taught and done research for more than four decades.
Many of Dr. Oppenheimer's scientific papers dealt with experimental embryology, the history of embryology, the development of the central nervous system of fishes and the history of science, particularly 18th-century medicine  in Britain.
She was a president of the American Society of Zoologists and an officer in the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
After attending school in Saigon, Miss Duras moved to France at the age of 18 to study law and political science.
She selected college and in 1948 graduated from Swarthmore College with a degree in political science.
She earned a master's degree in library science at Columbia University the next year.
Her brother, Walter Sullivan, a former science editor of The Times, died in March.
      
She was born in Jersey City and graduated in political science and urban studies from St. Peter's College.
The fellowship, which she founded in 1974, annually commissions creative work by scientists and scholars who have shown a commitment to humanistic goals  in science and technology.
Interested in the connections between art and science, she created ''Dances in Physics'' in 1989 and presented the work at the California Museum of Science and Industry in Los Angeles.
Interested in the connections between art and science, she created ''Dances in Physics'' in 1989 and presented the work at the California Museum of Science and Industry in Los Angeles.
''She used to get mail by the pound from people all over the world,'' said Dr. Robert Kelley, associate chairman of the department of mathematics and computer science at the University of Miami, who knew Mrs. Morton for more than 20 years.
Dr. Squire retired in 1993 as Distinguished Service Professor of Radiology at the State University of New York Health Science Center in Brooklyn.
In 1966, she began teaching part time at Massachusetts General Hospital and at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn, now the State University of New York Science Center.
A writer of simple science booklets, she was credited with some 130 titles, scores of which remain in print.
While they were tailored for young readers from kindergarten through the early grades, she also wrote science books for teen-agers and a few for adults.
Mrs. Selsam published her first book in 1946, ''From Egg to Chick,'' after having taught high school science in the New York City public school system.
Her books received many awards, including the Thomas Alva Edison Award for the best juvenile science book, ''Biography of an Atom'' (1965).
Ms. Perez held two degrees from Hunter College: a Bachelor of Arts in psychology, awarded in 1978, and a Master of Science in education, awarded in 1983.
After retiring from the classroom in 1959, she became a prolific author of children's books in a science series for Crowell Company, ''Let's Read and Find Out,'' many of which remain in print.
She was a graduate of the University of Chicago and obtained a master's degree in library science from Columbia University.
The Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel was a beneficiary from its beginning, and she left her stamp on its Ullmann Institute of Life Sciences, the Ullmann Gallery at Weizmann, to which she contributed art from her private collection, and an Ullmann Professorial Chair.
Most recently, the foundation gave $250,000 for a room for the staff of the new Science, Business and Industry Library on 34th Street, and just last week she gave her annual Christmas lunch for more than 1,000 employees at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.

        Barbara Yuncker, a prize-winning science reporter for The New York Post and a longtime leader of the Newspaper Guild, died yesterday.
Ms. Yuncker was twice winner of the prestigious Albert Lasker Award for science writing: in 1966, for a series on the birth-control pill, and in 1968, for a series on the human brain.
She moved to the Post copy desk in 1946, and in 1959  became a science and medical reporter.
