She then volunteered in the musical theater program at the Bronx High School of Science, helping to stage student shows.
      
Akkadian was the region's predominant tongue for more than 2,500 years, and the dictionary, more than a mere list of words, grew into an encyclopedia of the region's culture, including law, astronomy, poetry, religion and the history of science.
Dr. Reiner's knowledge of Babylonian history of science was legendary among scholars.
She wrote ''Astral Magic in Babylonia'' (1995), which traced the roots of Greek medicine and science to Babylonian magical practices using plants and other ingredients and seeking to harness the powers of celestial bodies.
She received her undergraduate degree with honors in political science from Swarthmore in 1986 and a law degree from New York University School of Law in 1989.

        Octavia E. Butler, an internationally acclaimed science fiction writer whose evocative, often troubling, novels explore far-reaching issues of race, sex, power and, ultimately, what it means to be human, died on Friday after a fall near her home in Lake Forest Park, Wash. She was 58.
In 1995 Ms. Butler was awarded a MacArthur fellowship, the first science fiction writer to be so honored.
She received two Hugo Awards from the World Science Fiction Society and two Nebula Awards from the Science Fiction Writers of America.
She received two Hugo Awards from the World Science Fiction Society and two Nebula Awards from the Science Fiction Writers of America.
Throughout Ms. Butler's career, the news media made much of the fact that she was an African-American woman writing science fiction, traditionally a white male bastion.
Octavia Junior began writing stories as a child and soon turned to science fiction, attracted by a genre whose limitless possibilities let her imagine absolutely anything.
''When I began writing science fiction, when I began reading, heck, I wasn't in any of this stuff I read,'' Ms. Butler told The New York Times in 2000.
As a student, Ms. Butler became a protégée of the renowned science fiction writer Harlan Ellison.
Ms. Gaines earned a bachelor's degree in history and political science from Hunter College in 1944, a master's from New York University in 1947 and a doctorate in education from Harvard in 1969.
While working full time, she attended Columbia University's School of General Studies for two years and took courses in geology, zoology, law, political science and economics.

        Henriette D. Avram, a systems analyst who four decades ago transformed millions of dog-eared catalog cards in the Library of Congress into a searchable electronic database, and in the process helped transform the gentle art of librarianship into the sleek new field of information science, died on April 22 in Miami.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Queens College in 1943 and a master's in library science from Columbia in 1969.
She is survived by her husband of 41 years, Dr. Robert E. Roberts, a chemist and director of the Science and Technology Policy Institute in Washington; two sons, Dr. Karl Roberts, an orthopedic surgeon in Grand Rapids, Mich., and Greg Roberts, of Alpharetta, Ga.; a sister, Dorrie Derge, of Frederick, Md.
Mr. Silvers claimed history, politics, science and art history; Ms. Epstein looked after the arts and more literary books.
In the revised edition of his book ''The Mapmakers'' (Knopf, 2000), John Noble Wilford, a science reporter for The New York Times, described their achievement this way: ''Like other pioneering maps, the one by Heezen and Tharp is not complete and not always completely accurate.
Like many women of her era in science, Ms. Tharp was recognized mainly late in life.
A fellowship at Lamont-Doherty to promote women in science now bears her name.
She oversaw the construction of two new buildings, including a science center, which was named for her this May.
In 1953, she married Everett, an editor at Popular Science magazine for 33 years.
Yet a quarter-century earlier, ''Seventeenth Summer'' anticipated many of these authors' concerns, as Teri Lesesne, a professor of library science at Sam Houston State University and a specialist in young-adult literature, explained in a telephone interview yesterday.
A founder and former president of the Association for Women in Science, she also was a past member of the President's Advisory Committee for Women.
The business focused on the science of motion study and industrial efficiencies.
Ms. Kirkpatrick was a political science professor with no diplomatic experience when she arrived at the United Nations in February 1981.
Fifteen years her senior, he was a veteran of the wartime Office of Strategic Services, and he soon became the head of the American Political Science Association.
The next year, she earned a doctorate in political science at Columbia University.
