She painted (one of her paintings hung on the wall of Les Célébrités, a former restaurant in the Essex House in Manhattan), grew roses, watched nature programs on television, was active in the Science of Mind spiritual group,  and listened to Ray Charles, Sinatra, Debussy and Chopin.
Ms. Riley built the children's division of Crowell and was especially noted for creating the ''Let's Read and Find Out'' series of science primers, started more than 40 years ago.
She founded it with Dr. Franklyn Mansfield Branley, a science writer and teacher, as an introduction to a wide range of scientific subjects, attractively put together with pictures and plainly written texts.
The books, designed for children from preschool through the early grades, counted well-known science writers among their authors.
Now the series is known as the Let's-Read-and-Find-Out Science Books.

        Dr. Sheila Sherlock, one of the world's leading authorities on liver disease and a pioneer in the science of hepatology, died on Dec. 30 at her home in London.
Her classic reference work, ''Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System'' (Blackwell Science, 1955), now in its 11th edition and used throughout the world, was the first standard textbook on clinical liver disease.
Ms. Hamilton, known privately by her married name, Virginia Hamilton Adoff, wrote more than 35 books in many genres that spanned picture books and folk stories, mysteries and science fiction, realistic novels and biography.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
Born in Madras on Oct. 30, 1943, Lakshmi grew up in a home filled with music and dance but studied political science at college before she asked her mother to give her formal lessons.
The operations were described in a front-page article about donors of living organs in The New York Times on June 24, 2001, and they were the subject of ''A Gift of Life,'' a Science Times television program that was first shown on June 26, 2001, on the National Geographic Channel.
A native of Bergen, Norway, she studied at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology and received a degree in chemical engineering from Columbia in 1971.
She then received an advanced degree in library science at the University of Michigan.
She received a bachelor's degree in history from Earlham College in 1965 and a master's degree in library science two years later from the University of Michigan.
She received many honors, including the lifetime achievement award from the Harvard chapter of Women in Technology and an honorary degree from De Paul University's College of Computer Science.
Born Anne-Marie Huth Jackson to titled English parents in Savoie, France, she graduated from Oxford University in 1930 and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science in 1932.
