'' She was, Kirstein wrote, ''proficient in the science and pursuit of the possible and impossible.
In 1988 she was offered the Austrian Medal for Science and Art, but she declined it then since it would have been presented by Austria's president at the time, Kurt Waldheim, who had been accused of suppressing his Nazi past.
at Wellesley College in 1935 and teaching for several years at girls' preparatory schools in Illinois and Colorado, she earned degrees in German history and library science at Columbia University in 1942 and 1944.
In 1993 Mrs. Simon was named chairwoman of the National Commission on Libraries and Information Science, a post to which President Clinton reappointed her in 1997.
Ms. Clark attended the Barnard School for Girls, but she later regretted that the school taught her little science.
Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including nonfiction, fiction and science-fiction novels, mostly for children, under her own name, and other science fiction as R. W. Munson (her grandmother's name).
Their work, he said, generated a ''flood of papers'' from scientists around the world and made Mrs. Benesch one of the most-cited women in science in the 1970's.
In a review of the anthology ''The Gift Outright: America and Her Poets'' (1977), Deborah Churchman wrote in The Christian Science Monitor that Mrs. Plotz was ''an outstanding collector of poems'' who included admirers and detractors in her compilation.
Determined to get an education but lacking financial resources, she earned her first associate's degree -- an associate in applied science in business -- from Queensborough in 1972, having completed her part-time studies while working full time.
As a full-time student at the college, she went on to earn two more associate's degrees -- an associate in arts in the liberal arts program in 1974 and an associate in science in the business administration program in 1978.
She worked in libraries in Detroit, Hawaii and Louisiana and taught library science at the University of Florida before becoming Alabama's library director in 1959.
She worked for a short period at the New England Museum of Natural History, now the Boston Museum of Science.
The love of her life were the students she helped to understand science.
Her books included ''The Infant Separates Himself From Her Mother,'' published by the American Association for the Advancement of Science in 1970.
In 1985 she organized a symposium, ''Toward a Unified Science of Behavioral Development,'' for the Society for Research in Child Development.
''There is no branch of nutrition science, past or present, that has not been influenced in some way by the results of her pioneering work,'' a statement by the British Nutrition Foundation said, ''and because of the inspiration and encouragement she gave to nutrition scientists of all ages in the United Kingdom and overseas.

        Rose Wyler, who wrote more than 50 books for children on science and other topics, died on June 12 at her home in Manhattan.
Her book ''Science Fun With Toy Boats and Planes'' (1986) was praised by The Christian Science Monitor, which said: ''For the young physicist, there is a wealth of information in this little book.
At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
in political science at the University of Arkansas in 1967.

        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday.
She joined the Christian Science church.
In 1983, Ms. Fanning moved to Boston to become editor of The Christian Science Monitor.

        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later was editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday.
She joined the Christian Science church.
In 1983, Ms. Fanning moved to Boston to become editor of The Christian Science Monitor.
The 1997 festival included Chico Science, Mundo Livre, Lenine e Suzano, Cascabulho, Banda de Pifanos and Zelia Duncan at Celebrate Brooklyn and Central Park Summerstage.
She received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Hunter College, a master's degree in speech from the University of Michigan and a master's degree in police science from the City University of New York.
