''
        Born in Boston, Ms. Roberts attended Hunter College in Manhattan, graduating in 1931 with a degree in political science.
Mrs. Hurd also wrote science books for young readers, some of which were also illustrated by her husband.
She was also the first woman to receive the Cyrus B. Comstock Award of the National Academy of Sciences and the first woman to receive an honorary doctorate in science from Princeton.
''
        She also received the National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for achievement in science, and the Wolf Prize in physics.
''
        She also received the National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for achievement in science, and the Wolf Prize in physics.
''
        She received a certificate in domestic science in 1936 from the Downham School in Hertfordshire.
Mrs. Sulzle was a supporter of civic, health-care and cultural institutions, including the SUNY Health Science Center at Syracuse, which received an endowed visiting professorship, the B. G. Sulzle-Richard Burleson Memorial Lecture Series in surgery.
Her clear, simple and affecting poetic observations so delighted newspaper and magazine editors that she eventually published more than 1,000 poems, many in The Christian Science Monitor and her hometown newspaper, The Vineyard Gazette.
''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science.
She was an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the State University of New York's Health Science Center at Brooklyn.
She maintained a tumor registry at the SUNY Health Science Center.

        Judith Merril, one of the first female writers and editors to influence the direction of modern science fiction, died on Friday in Toronto, where she lived.
During and just after World War II, Ms. Merril was the only woman associated with a group of young science fiction enthusiasts known as the Futurians, whose members included Isaac Asimov, James Blish, C. M. Kornbluth and Frederick Pohl.
At a time when science fiction was still dismissed as adolescent escapism by most academic critics, her first published story, in Astounding Science Fiction magazine in 1948, told of a mother's devotion to a baby horribly deformed by radiation-induced mutation.
At a time when science fiction was still dismissed as adolescent escapism by most academic critics, her first published story, in Astounding Science Fiction magazine in 1948, told of a mother's devotion to a baby horribly deformed by radiation-induced mutation.
She edited a well-received series of anthologies of the best science fiction from 1956 to 1970.
By choosing stories from outside the usual magazines, she helped to broaden the horizons of science fiction writing.
''
        Her donation to the Toronto Public Library of more than 50,000 books and periodicals formed the basis of the Merril Collection of Science Fiction, Speculation and Fantasy, one of the major research libraries in the field.
Correction:  September 24, 1997, Wednesday
        An obituary on Sept. 17 about Judith Merril, a science fiction writer and anthologist, misspelled the given name of her former husband.
In 1972, after receiving a degree in political science from New York University, she found she could not get a teaching job, and worked as a proofreader as a member of the International Typographical Union.
In 1969, Ms. Keeton helped Mr. Guccione establish Penthouse in the United States and co-founded the science magazine Omni in 1979 and the health magazine Longevity in 1989, both of which are now published only on the Internet.
Ms. Keeton was the author of two books, ''Longevity: The Science of Staying Young,'' published in 1992,  and ''Woman of Tomorrow,'' published in 1985.
In an interview in 1995 in Calcutta, Debasis Bhattachariya of the Indian Science and Rationalists Association declared, ''Mother Teresa is not at all any better than all the other godmen and godwomen, because she helps to place a more kindly mask on the overall exploitation in our society.
She was also editor of the book ''Oceanography,'' a compendium of marine science published in 1961 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She was also editor of the book ''Oceanography,'' a compendium of marine science published in 1961 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Society of Women Geographers and the American Geophysical Union.
In 1948, while she was chairwoman of the chapter's subcommittee on exhibitions, she oversaw the installation of an exhibit titled ''Tomorrow's World,'' sponsored by the chapter, in the New York Museum of Science and Industry in Rockefeller Center.
After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
She was the first woman elected president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the largest alliance of scientists in the world.
By 1946, she was head of the mathematics branch of the Office of Naval Research, a position that she held until 1949, after which she was deputy director of the entire science division until 1953.
Dr. Rees was a Presidential appointee to the board of the National Science Foundation from 1964 to 1970, and she was active in the American Mathematical Society and the Mathematical Association of America, among other groups.
Dr. Rees enjoyed a crowning moment in 1969, when the 120,000-member American Association for the Advancement of Science elected her president.
Dr. Koshland, who was also the head of the graduate affairs division in the department, was a member of the National Science Board from 1976 to 1982 and of the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
She is survived by her husband, Daniel E. Koshland Jr., a biochemist at Berkeley and a former editor of the journal Science; five children, Ellen Koshland McCaughey of Melbourne, Australia; Phyllis Koshland of Paris; James, of Palo Alto, Calif.; Gail Koshland Wachtel of Tucson, Ariz., and Douglas, of Baltimore, and nine grandchildren.
      
Dr. Stearner was treasurer of the Foundation for Science and the Disabled of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
Dr. Stearner was treasurer of the Foundation for Science and the Disabled of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
She lectured in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before moving to the Fletcher School, where she advanced to a full professorship and served as academic dean from 1985 to 1987.
She settled in the United States in 1958 and earned a doctorate in political science at M.I.T.
She once told The Christian Science Monitor that she traced her humor to ''Alice in Wonderland,'' read to her from the age of 2.
Dr. Weintraub, who also kept a home on Fire Island in Seaview, was a professor of political science at Hunter from 1951 to 1972.
She earned a Ph.D. in political science at Columbia University in 1939.
Dr. Weintraub was also chairwoman of the department of political science until 1960 and then associate dean of graduate studies at City University of New York until 1968.
She was president of Pi Sigma Alpha, the first woman to head that political science honor society, which has chapters at 107 institutions of higher education nationwide.
