With Mr. Guzzo she wrote two books: "Trashing the Planet: How Science Can Help Us Deal With Acid Rain, Depletion of the Ozone, and Nuclear Waste (Among Other Things)," published in 1990, and "Environmental Overkill," published this year.
"
        After her family moved east, she attended Bronx High School of Science, Hunter College and, after moving to London when she was 18, the London School of Economics.
In her book "An Introduction to the Theoretical Basis of Nursing" (1970), Dr. Rogers drew on many disciplines, including psychology, sociology, biology, history and literature, to postulate a humanistic nursing science.
After taking science courses from 1931 to 1933 at the University of Tennessee, Dr. Rogers, who was born in Dallas, received a nursing diploma from the Knoxville General Hospital School of Nursing in Tennessee in 1936.
In 1945 she received a master's degree in nursing supervision from Teachers College of Columbia University and in 1952 she received a master's of public health and two years later a doctor of science, both from Johns Hopkins University.
Dr. Rogers's books, including "Nursing: A Science of Unitary Man" (1980) and "Science of Unitary Human Beings: A Paradigm for Nursing" (1983), are standard works for advanced nursing students.
Dr. Rogers's books, including "Nursing: A Science of Unitary Man" (1980) and "Science of Unitary Human Beings: A Paradigm for Nursing" (1983), are standard works for advanced nursing students.
It drew lecturers and guests in the arts, science, literature and public affairs and was also used as a residence hall for students.
Dr. Clarenbach, known as Kay, was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Wisconsin, where she earned her bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in that subject.
She graduated from the Bronx High School of Science and, in 1980, from Harvard College.
A native of Pulaski, Va., she received a Bachelor of Science degree from Simmons College in Boston in 1920 and was later employed as a librarian.
"
        The Swedish Academy of Science, in announcing Professor Hodgkin's prize, praised her "exceptional skill, in which chemical knowledge, intuition, imagination and perseverance have been conspicuous.
It is limited at any time to 24 members, who have excelled in science, art, letters or the armed services.
She went on to a school in England -- the Sir John Leman School in Beccles, in Suffolk -- and to study chemistry at Oxford and then at Cambridge, in an era when few British women pursued university-level studies in science.
Miss Potts, who was from Zanesville, Ohio, received a bachelor's degree in political science from Smith College and, in 1982, a master's degree in Russian studies from the University of Michigan.
In 1987, Ms. Miller founded the Eureka Teen Achievement Program, which the college describes as "a math and science enrichment program for minority and disadvantaged teen-age women.
She also served on the board of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and as chairwoman of the Women's Division of the United Jewish Appeal in New York City and Palm Beach.
