After years of teaching at predominantly black grade schools, Miss Delany wanted to teach high-school level domestic science, as home economics was then called.
The subjects and genres of her novels, biographies, poems, memoirs, short stories, political tracts, book reviews and magazine articles ranged over the successive enthusiasms of her life: ancient Greece, socialism, genetics, science fiction, space, fascism in Spain, home rule for Scotland and independence movements in Africa, where she became the honorary mother of a tribe in Botswana.
''
        In 1991, President George Bush awarded Ms. Elion a National Medal of Science, saying her work had ''transformed the world.
A teacher at Harvard University and an accomplished experimenter, she has gained a formidable reputation in a branch of science traditionally dominated by men: physics.
)
        Dr. Hau's laboratory at the Rowland Institute for Science in Cambridge (where she conducts research with the help of her graduate and post-doctoral students from Harvard) ) is one of a handful of organizations studying the interactions of lasers with a very peculiar kind of matter called a Bose-Einstein condensate.
''Neither of my parents had any background in science,'' she said.
She also established the Batsheva Foundation for the Advancement of Science in Israel, an endowed fund of the Israel Academy for Science and Humanities.
She also established the Batsheva Foundation for the Advancement of Science in Israel, an endowed fund of the Israel Academy for Science and Humanities.
Last year she was awarded the Gold Medal Award for Life Achievement in the Science of Psychology from the American Psychological Foundation.
As a freelance correspondent for the Voice of America, she covered topics including  politics, science and medicine.
But in the eighth grade, a science teacher saw promise and urged her to enroll in college preparatory courses.
''
        ''It was such a precise science,'' she said.
She received a master's degree in international affairs from the Johns Hopkins School of Advanced International Studies and a doctorate in political science from Johns Hopkins University.
She was a member of the Institute of Medicine at the National Academy of Science and co-director of two groundbreaking programs to train geriatric and family nurse practitioners at Cornell University-New York Hospital.
Professor Lax was a longtime active member of the New York Academy of Sciences and was instrumental in shaping its program of science education for children.

        Marion Zimmer Bradley, a science fiction writer and the creator of the Darkover series of fantasies, died on Saturday at Alta Bates Medical Center in Berkeley, Calif. She was 69 and lived in Berkeley.
She received a bachelor's degree from Simmons College in Boston and a master's degree in political science from the University of California at Berkeley.
A native of Philadelphia, Kraft received a bachelor's degree in political science in 1947 from Antioch College.
She graduated from Swarthmore College as a German major, and then taught science at the Baldwin School, a private girls school in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
'' She was, Kirstein wrote, ''proficient in the science and pursuit of the possible and impossible.
She later enrolled as a graduate student in political science at the University of California at Berkeley, but an internship in the State Legislature in Sacramento persuaded her to switch to law school, because lawyers seemed to have the most influence on public policy.
''The products of science and technology may be new, and some of them are quite horrid, but knitting?
