Her interests ranged far beyond science.
Reviewing ''Between Myth and Morning'' in The Christian Science Monitor, June Goodwin wrote: ''Of all the writers on the subject of feminism,'' Ms. Janeway ''has the most acceptability in the eyes of men.
She attended the High School of Music and Art in Manhattan, then received a Bachelor of Science degree from SUNY Cortland and a master's in sociology at the University of Wisconsin in Madison.
She taught music theory and composition in the United States before switching her profession to microbiology and biochemistry, receiving a master's degree in science from Wayne State University.
She earned a bachelor's degree from Bard College and a master's in library science from the University of Chicago.
''Star Man's Son'' was the relatively late start of Ms. Norton's science fiction career; until then, she had mainly been a novelist writing juvenile historical fiction and adventure stories, under the pen name Andre Norton, chosen because her readers were thought to be exclusively boys
        At the time, the market for science-fiction was largely confined to magazines, but with the growth of the genre in book form after 1950, Ms. Norton took the field by storm.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
Although Ms. Norton's subsequent books for Ace sold in the hundreds of thousands, she found herself the victim of a Catch-22: critics of science fiction did not take her seriously because she was considered a juvenile writer and critics of children's literature dismissed her because she wrote science fiction.
She was the first woman to win the Gandalf Grand Master of Fantasy award and the Nebula Grand Master Award for lifetime achievement from the Science Fiction Writers of America.
''I think the human race made a bad mistake at the beginning of the Industrial Revolution,'' she told Charles Platt in an interview for his ''Dream Makers Volume II: The Uncommon Men and Women Who Write Science Fiction'' (1983).
Though already interested in science fiction, she turned to writing history for young adults, publishing her first novel, ''The Prince Commands'' (Appleton, 1934), at 22.
Ms. Dolbeare earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Swarthmore College in 1949 and began her career as a housing advocate in 1951, as associate executive secretary of the Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore.
''
        Barbara Denning was born on Feb. 26, 1929, in Pueblo, Colo. After graduating from Stanford with a degree in international relations, she received a master's degree in political science from the American University of Beirut.
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
Another series explained science to children and included ''The Science Book'' (Workman, 1980), ''The Evolution Book'' (Workman, 1986) and ''The Body Book'' (Workman, 1992).
Interested in art as a child, she veered toward math and science, earning bachelor's and master's degrees in chemistry at the University of Alberta in Edmonton.
The producer and writer of 15 films, Ms. Beyers began her career as a print journalist, writing about science and education for a variety of publications.
She was a professor of science, primarily alpine ecology, and later a professor of information technology.
She graduated in 1933, with a bachelor's degree in political science.
The first African-American at the university, founded in 1831, was Autherine Lucy, who arrived in February 1956 to pursue a master's degree in library science.
'' He transferred to Wayne State University in Detroit and graduated with a bachelor's degree, having studied political science and police administration.
In 1954, Ms. Pessino helped found the museum's first natural science center for children, directing it through several incarnations.
In 1954, Ms. Pessino and several colleagues established the Peter Van Gerbig Natural Science Center at the museum.
In 1960, Ms. Pessino became the head of the center, renamed the Alexander M. White Natural Science Center.
In addition to running the natural science center, Ms. Pessino supervised the Louis Calder Natural Science Laboratory at the museum, where students could conduct research.
In addition to running the natural science center, Ms. Pessino supervised the Louis Calder Natural Science Laboratory at the museum, where students could conduct research.
She also advised the New York City Board of Education on the science curriculum.
She received a master's degree from the Harvard University Graduate School of Education in 1987 and taught high school science and health classes in the Bronx for five years.
She also received a master's degree in library science in 1958 from the Carnegie Institute of Technology while working as a volunteer children's librarian at the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh.
