Mrs. Max also served as secretary and administrative head of the New York City Employees Retirement System, one of the country's largest pension funds.
Her reputation for clear and evenhanded analyses drew the attention of Mayor La Guardia, who named her secretary of the board in 1934.

        Peggy Cass, a brassy-voiced comedian best known for her portrayal of the pregnant, unwed secretary in ''Auntie Mame,'' died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan.
''
        But it was the role of the dimwitted secretary, Agnes Gooch, in the 1956 Broadway show ''Auntie Mame'' with which Ms. Cass was most associated.
In 1956, she was elected recording secretary general of the national society, and in 1959, she was elected first vice president general.
Set in America in 1964, the story described the conflict between the Secretary for Humanity, a newly created Cabinet post, and a group of people who believed that moving to underground shelters would manifest ''prepared togetherness.
Secretary General Carlos Mladinic, who represented the Government at her funeral, said he understood the pain she must have felt.

        Sandra B. O'Leary, an economic adviser in three White House Administrations and a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State, died on Aug. 9 at her home in McLean, Va. She was 50.
Ms. O'Leary stayed on at the State Department as an economic adviser when the Clinton Administration took over in 1993, and in 1995 she became a deputy assistant Secretary of State for economic policy, serving until 1996.
For two years beginning in 1976, Mrs. Braden was the State Department's coordinator of consumer affairs and special assistant to the Under Secretary for Economic Affairs.
''
        By 1976, when Mrs. Braden took up her State Department posts, her friends included Vice President  Rockefeller, Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and many other powerful figures, who would assemble at the Bradens' large yellow clapboard house in Chevy Chase, Md., a Washington suburb.
She went on to be a special assistant for public relations to  Oveta Culp Hobby, the Eisenhower Administration's Secretary of  Health, Education and Welfare.
In the late 1920's, she became a secretary to Hughes, and a long professional association and friendship began.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
When her husband, then first party secretary in Stavropol, was promoted to Moscow as a Central Committee secretary in charge of agriculture, she returned to academics, taking a job as lecturer in philosophy at Moscow University, a position which she gave up when he became General Secretary of the Communist Party.
''Going from wife of a provincial first secretary to First Lady was a big jump.
''People treated her like a monument,'' said Jewel Tucker, the secretary to the president of the university and Miss McCarty's traveling companion in those almost giddy years after the gift.
The cause was a heart attack, said Elisabeth Waters, her cousin and secretary.
She raised a furor in Congress in 1963 when it came to light that she had told a closed meeting of the Senate Internal Security subcommittee that she had been ordered by Secretary of State Dean Rusk to approve passport applications by ''dangerous undercover Communists engaged in espionage, sabotage and sedition.
After being educated at a local convent, she was working as a lawyer's secretary when she was invited  to an audition by the film director Sir Carol Reed, who knew her father.
She worked as a secretary by day.
Her recording company, Valentim de Carvalho, said she was found dead in her bed by her secretary.
She recalled that when she first presented herself at law firms, her interviewers usually assumed she was applying for a secretary's job.
She was the first woman hired by the Santa Clara County public defender's office in Northern California, and she became the first woman to hold a cabinet-level post in state government when Mr. Brown named her his secretary of agriculture in 1975.
On taking office, Mr. Brown broke precedent by naming Ms. Bird secretary of agriculture, a post traditionally held by a grower.
She was the foundation's treasurer and one of its founders, along with her husband and Donald M. Wilson, a former vice president of Time Inc. Mr. Greenfield, a former foreign correspondent for Time magazine and former assistant secretary of state, is now a consulting member of the editorial board at The New York Times, where he has also been foreign editor and later an assistant managing editor.
