She went to work for the antecedent of the Columbia company, the Arthur Judson concert-management concern, as a secretary in the late 1920's and eventually shifted to publicity as an assistant to Dorle Soria.
Mrs. Sverdlin wrote scripts for ''The Eternal Light,'' ''Kraft Television Theater,'' ''The Paul Winchell Show,'' ''Hollywood Opening Night'' and ''Private Secretary.
Barbara Wertheim was born on Jan. 30, 1912, in New York, the daughter of Maurice Wertheim, an investment banker, art collector and philanthropist, and Alma Morgenthau Wertheim, a sister of Henry Morgenthau Jr., who was Secretary of the Treasury under President Franklin D. Roosevelt.
She was a former secretary of the Harlem Hospital Auxiliary and had been active in the Women's City Club of New York.
She was typed and mostly wasted in films, but a few roles suggested her talents - a cynical young actress in ''Stage Door'' (1937), a temperamental movie star in ''The Affairs of Annabel'' (1938), a rejected lover in the 1939 melodrama ''Five Came Back,'' a gold-digging stripper in ''Dance, Girl, Dance'' (1940), a handicapped egotist in ''The Big Street'' (1942) and a tough-talking secretary in ''The Dark Corner'' (1946).
Mrs. Porter was named an assistant secretary of the Standard Oil Company (New Jersey), now known as Exxon, in September 1945 and shared in the corporate administration of the company until her retirement in 1963.
She also served as Deputy Secretary of State in New York from 1955 to 1959 and was a hearing officer with the New York City Rent Commission for many years.

       Nancy M. Yedlin, the secretary of the Fashion Institute of Technology and director of its college relations, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 55 years old.
Nancy M. Yedlin, the secretary of the Fashion Institute of Technology and director of its college relations, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 55 years old.
Mrs. Ireland was an honorary trustee of the women's board of the Boys Club of New York, a vice president and board member of the women's committee of the Central Park Conservancy, a former board member of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Institute, a former trustee of the Grosvenor Neighborhood House and the Lighthouse for the Blind and a former secretary of the Maternity Center Association of New York.
Jobs as Secretary and Waitress
        At the Juilliard School she developed an interest in contemporary music.
After graduation, she became a legal secretary in an assemblyman's office in which Paul O'Dwyer was a clerk.
In 1982 she joined the staff of Local 1-3 of the Fur, Leather and Machine Workers Union as a secretary, a post she held until 1988, when she retired.
Mrs. Staupers was the executive secretary of the National Association for Colored Graduate Nurses from 1934 to 1949, when she became its president.
Previously, she was the first executive secretary of the Harlem tuberculosis committee of the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association and an organizer of the Booker T. Washington Sanitarium, the first inpatient center in Harlem for black patients with tuberculosis.
After being hired for The Book Review at The Times, she served as a clerk and secretary, listed new books, answered readers' queries and tried her hand at reviews.

       Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Civic League, died of a heart attack Sunday at the home of her daughter Frances Wood in Mt.
Katharine Randall, a former secretary of the Tarrytown Women's Civic League, died of a heart attack Sunday at the home of her daughter Frances Wood in Mt.
Donald Cloward, executive secretary of the Council on Christian Social Progress of the Northern Baptist Convention.

       Catherine M. Kelly, an executive secretary at The New York Times from 1953 to 1970, died of a stroke Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
She was 66 years old and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J.
        Catherine M. Kelly, an executive secretary at The New York Times from 1953 to 1970, died of a stroke Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan.
