After working briefly as a secretary in London, Andrea married David Cohen, and moved with him to Canada.
Michael S. Dukakis, with the intervention of Secretary of State George P. Shultz, bailed Ms. Caldwell out with more state support, averting a diplomatic embarrassment.
Because she liked the sound of Christopher Street, she got off there and found an apartment in Greenwich Village and soon after, a job as a secretary in a candy manufacturing company.
She worked as a secretary for five years.
She sold a series of articles about different areas of the city, like the fur district, to Vogue, earning $40 for each at a time when she was making $12 a week as a secretary.
Alliance and Estrangement
        In Rome, she met the painter and sculptor Penelope Jardine, who became her secretary and later her companion.
She later helped establish the Urban Foundation, which pressed the government to let blacks own their houses, and she was a longtime adviser of the Zamani Soweto Sisters Council, the umbrella body for women's self-help groups; the first president of the Black Consumer Union; and the general secretary of the Y.W.C.A.
In the 1940's, she joined Mr. Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others in forming the breakaway African National Congress Youth League, a more militant offshoot of the Congress, and served as its secretary.
In the mid-1940's, she worked as a secretary at the New York Life Insurance Company.
She deeply influenced distinguished students like Alicia Munnell, an assistant secretary of the treasury and member of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Clinton administration and now a professor at the Carroll School of Management at Boston College.
In 1986, she went to Austria to protest the inauguration of President Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general, who had served in a Nazi army unit implicated in the deportation of Jews from Greece in World War II.
She worked as a reporter for The Morning Call of Paterson, N.J.
        Ms. Dubrow became secretary for the Textile Workers Union in New Jersey in the late 1930's and then assistant to the president of the state's C.I.O.

        Reathel Odum, a bank clerk who was chosen by Senator Harry S. Truman during the Depression to be one of his secretaries and later served in the White House as personal secretary to Bess Truman, died in her hometown, Benton, Ill., on June 6.
One day 10 years later, Truman walked into a bank in St. Louis where Miss Odum was working and told its president, a friend, that he needed a secretary.
On his first full day as president, Truman asked Miss Odum to be Mrs. Truman's personal secretary.
''
        After her White House service, which ended when Truman left office in 1953, Miss Odum worked as a secretary for Senator Stuart Symington of Missouri, for a coal industry lobbying group and then for the Truman Scholarship Foundation.
''
        Correction:  August 9, 2006, Wednesday  A picture on July 24 with an obituary of Reathel Odum, secretary to Bess Truman when she was first lady, was published in error.
(One firm relented and offered her a position -- as a secretary.
She was previously an assistant secretary of state for educational and cultural affairs in the administration of President Jimmy Carter.
'' Among her subjects were Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the father of the Iranian revolution; Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader; Golda Meir, the Israeli prime minister; Indira Gandhi, the longstanding Indian prime minister; Nguyen Van Thieu, the South Vietnamese president during the war years; and Henry Kissinger, President Richard M. Nixon's secretary of state.
She was given the code name Anick and posed as a secretary at the headquarters of the Milice, the special police force known as the French Gestapo.
In 1985, she was appointed to a federal panel of physicians and administrators assembled to advise the secretary of health and human services about the safety of antirejection drugs in transplant surgery.
Her first job was as a secretary in the department of prints and drawings at the Museum of Modern Art; she soon quit because she was asked to sharpen too many pencils.
Taking pity on her, Ms. Bergner eventually invited the woman into her dressing room and later engaged her as a secretary.
In 1965, Ms. Allen received her best-actress Tony nomination for the role of Leona Samish in Richard Rodgers's musical ''Do I Hear a Waltz?,'' about an American secretary seeking, but not quite finding, romance while on vacation in Venice.
For years she served as his secretary, and he was named a key deputy to Mao after the Communists took power in 1949.
In addition to her daughter, of Montclair, N.J., Mrs. Morgenthau is survived by her husband of 44 years, Henry Morgenthau III, a television producer and author whose father was treasury secretary in the Roosevelt administration.
Her relationship with Mr. Reagan's first secretary of state, the four-star general Alexander M. Haig Jr., ''started off bad and got worse over time,'' Mr. Adelman said in an oral history of the Reagan years.
She had support from the director of central intelligence, William J. Casey, and Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger.
But her new boss, Secretary of State George P. Shultz, opposed her.
The next year, as the Iran-contra story began unfolding, Mr. Casey urged the president to make her secretary of state, but Mr. Reagan rejected the idea.
