She also served as executive secretary of the Illinois Housing Board when it drafted a law creating housing authorities.
A native of Brooklyn and graduate of Brooklyn College, she put herself through New York University Law School at night by working as a legal secretary.
Harold L. Ickes, the Secretary of the Interior, offered Miss Anderson the Lincoln Memorial for a concert on Easter Sunday 1939.
She served as executive secretary of the Peace Corps from 1982 to 1989.
In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State.
Mrs. Johnson, a native of Staten Island, graduated from Hunter College and briefly worked for Doubleday & Company before joining Random House in 1956 as a secretary.
In 1965, Dr. Cooper was appointed to a task force on the role of women in the military by Secretary of Defense Robert S. MacNamara.
"
        Commenting on Mrs. Nixon's death, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger said, "Pat Nixon was an extraordinarily supportive First Lady, particularly good in her judgment of people.
For two years, until 1932, she worked in New York as a secretary and X-ray technician.
Recognized as a leader in the defense of civil and politcal liberties, she was a past chairman of the Latin American section and secretary of the International League for Human Rights.
Nelson A. Rockefeller, a Republican, inducted her as New York's Secretary of State, the second woman to hold that post.
From 1937 to 1945, she served as executive secretary of the Philadelphia Orchestra Club and then became promotion manager of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
As a young woman, she was hired in 1925 as the secretary to Walter Beech, the director of the Travel Air Manufacturing Company in Wichita.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
While working at Random House as a secretary she enrolled at the Juilliard School, but left when the dean refused to let her study with the teacher of her choice, Hans Heinz.

        Elizabeth Sullivan Ridder, a philanthropist who was formerly the national secretary of the Girl Scouts of America, died on Thursday in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 93 and formerly lived on the East Side of Manhattan.
Mrs. Ridder was on the national board of the Girl Scouts from 1946 to 1958 and from 1961 to 1970 and was national secretary from 1950 to 1968.
She then became secretary to the senior partner, Edward S. Rogers, who was an expert in trademark law.
Ms. Dennis was the wife of Eugene Dennis, general secretary of the American Communist Party from 1946 to 1959 and one of 12 American Communists jailed in the late 1940's for violating the Smith Act by conspiring to overthrow the Government.

        Ruth Gilbert, a stage actress discovered by Eugene O'Neill who went on to perform on television as Milton Berle's lovesick, scatterbrained secretary, Max, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan.
A Famous Line
        After a successful stint as a radio actress, she played the secretary on "The Milton Berle Show," and her repetitious plea, "Let's not fight this, Mil-l-ton, it's bigger than both of us," became a line repeated and laughed at across the country.
She was vice president of the Hispanic AIDS Forum, secretary of the Latino Commission on AIDS and a member of the Health and Human Services H.I.V.
In Well-Known Comedies
        Later, when she was billed as "Queen of the Movies" and Gable was called the "King," the two were teamed in such madcap adventures as "Wife Versus Secretary," "Test Pilot" and "Too Hot to Handle.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer-screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
In Well-Known Comedies
        Later, when she was billed as "Queen of the Movies" and Gable was called the "King," the two were teamed in such madcap adventures as "Wife Versus Secretary," "Test Pilot" and "Too Hot to Handle.
"
        Miss Loy was married four times, to Arthur Hornblow Jr., a movie producer; John D. Hertz Jr., an auto-rental and advertising executive; Gene Markey, a producer and screenwriter, and Howland H. Sargeant, a producer and, at the time, Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs.
While living in Siam, Mrs. Landon discovered the autobiographical books by Anna Leonowens, a Welsh widow who was a governess, teacher and secretary in the court of King Mongkut in the 1860's.
