At the request of Walter Reuther, the labor organizer, Ms. Janeway served as secretary of the National Committee to Aid Families of G.M.
Before she joined the bench, she was in private practice and served as a law secretary in court.
After leaving Congress in 2001 and joining a law firm, she continued her leadership role in military matters as chairwoman of both the commission that investigated sexual abuse accusations at the United States Air Force Academy and the Defense Policy Board Advisory Committee, which advises the secretary of defense.
At 24 she was working as a secretary and went to a rally to see Hitler.
Ms. Dolbeare earned a bachelor's degree in political science from Swarthmore College in 1949 and began her career as a housing advocate in 1951, as associate executive secretary of the Citizens Planning and Housing Association of Baltimore.
As secretary for interracial education, she traveled throughout the South in a campaign to desegregate the local Y's.
In 1994, she married Harold Stuart, an assistant secretary of the Air Force in the Truman administration, who survives her.
      

        Mo Mowlam, the earthy, straight-talking politician who as Britain's Northern Ireland secretary helped negotiate the Good Friday peace settlement in 1998, died Friday morning at a hospice in Canterbury, her family said.
She was quickly made Northern Ireland secretary, with a mission to help effect a peace settlement for the warring province.
She was also executive secretary of the city Department of Labor and later held executive posts with the city's Community Mental Health Board.
Hardened in that caldron, Ms. Feldman became the union's secretary and took over its presidency in 1986, when Mr. Shanker became head of the national union.
She went on to become the highest-ranking black woman in any state government when she served as secretary of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in the 1970's.
Milton J. Shapp appointed her secretary of the commonwealth, equivalent to secretary of state in other states.
Milton J. Shapp appointed her secretary of the commonwealth, equivalent to secretary of state in other states.
As secretary, she was a leader in instituting voter registration by mail and lowering the voting age to 18.
