Ms. Moore had served as secretary for racial and social justice with the Board for Homeland Ministries of the United Church of Christ since 1988.
In 1951, she became executive secretary of the Middlebury College Russian School, and from 1956 until her retirement she taught Russian there.
She was past secretary of the Child Adoption Service of the Children's Aid Society and had been treasurer of the Oyster Bay Visiting Nurse Association on Long Island for many years.
In the early 1960's, she was national secretary of the Student Peace Union, a group protesting the blockade of Cuba during the 1962 missile crisis.
A longtime resident of Brooklyn and West Hempstead, L.I., Mrs. Peskin became secretary of Polyplastex, a publicly held family concern, in 1963.
Mrs. Alcott joined the Manhattan firm of Bernard, Shally & Company in 1914 as a secretary and in the 1920's became one of the first women to work her way up to a partnership in a Wall Street concern.
She began her career as a secretary at The Wall Street Journal.
In 1933 she served on a committee organized by the American Statistical Association to advise Secretary of Labor Frances Perkins on setting up the Bureau of Labor Statistics program.
Conferences
        In 1961, after having been a United States adviser at many United Nations and other international conferences, Mrs. Wickens was named economic adviser to the Secretary of Labor.
President John F. Kennedy gave her a post in the State Department, and within two years she was named Deputy Assistant Secretary for Public Affairs, at that time the highest job in the department ever held by a woman.

        Nancy Kulp, an actress best known for her role as the secretary Jane Hathaway on the television series "The Beverly Hillbillies," died of cancer on Sunday at a friend's home.
" She first displayed her comedic skills as a secretary in "The Bob Cummings Show" on television in the late 1950's.
In 1962, she was cast as the plain, erudite secretary hopelessly in love with Jethro in "The Beverly Hillbillies.
Mrs. Baird, who joined the League in 1940 as a secretary, was executive assistant to three chief executive officers, Lester B. Granger, Whitney M. Young Jr., and Vernon E. Jordan.
She was a founding member and first secretary of the National Book Critics Circle and she had served on the Pulitzer Prize committees for non-fiction and poetry.
She died of pneumonia and heart failure, her secretary, Eric Davis, said.
"
        In 1969, the secretary of the Smithsonian, S. Dillon Ripley, named her as head of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
"
        In 1969, the secretary of the Smithsonian, S. Dillon Ripley, named her as head of the Cooper-Hewitt Museum.
Her husband, Samuel McCrea Cavert, general secretary of the National Council of Churches, died in 1976.
Mrs. Harris had been associated with the heirs of Presidents John Adams and John Quincy Adams since the early 1920's, when she became social secretary to Brooks Adams, a historian and a fourth-generation family member who died in 1927.
In 1973 she became an assistant to the Assistant Secretary of Labor, specializing in the education, vocational training and counseling of men and women in urban and rural ghettos.
She was a member of the board of overseers of the Jewish Theological Seminary and the board of directors of the United Synagogue of America, vice president of the World Council of Synagogues and secretary of the national association of Solomon Schechter Day Schools.
In "Mr. Smith," as a secretary, she deceives an artless young senator (Mr. Stewart), but later uses her parliamentary expertise to aid his filibuster and defeat his foes.
She bluntly criticized Government officials for their fiscal policies, at one point asking in an article in The American Banker whether the Secretary of the Treasury, Henry Morgenthau Jr., had been guily of "obstinacy, stupidity or sheer ill advice" in managing Government bonds.
She was also the secretary and a board member of the Mystery Writers of America, and won the group's 1987 Ellery Queen Award for Excellence.
Mrs. Parker became interested in breeding and raising cattle in the 1930's after meeting Henry A. Wallace, then the Secretary of Agriculture.

        Carol Laise, an American Ambassador who was the wife of an American Ambassador and the first woman to be an Assistant Secretary of State, died yesterday at her home in Dummerston, Vt. She was 73 years old.
Named Director General
        In October 1973 she returned to Washington and was sworn in as Assistant Secretary of State in charge of the Bureau of Public Affairs, the first woman to hold so high a post in the department.

        E. Tamu Bess, a former special assistant to Basil Patterson when he was deputy mayor of New York City and New York State Secretary of State, died on Aug. 1 in Midway Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles.
In 1966, President Lyndon B Johnson named her husband Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, making him the first black Cabinet member in the nation's history.
Mrs. Clark, a former account executive, joined the construction-industry trade association of over 1,000 member companies in 1959 as an executive secretary and retired as executive director in 1987.

        E. Tamu Bess, a former special assistant to Basil Patterson when he was deputy mayor of New York City and New York State Secretary of State, died Aug. 1 in Midway Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles.

        Ann C. Whitman, an influential figure in the White House as the personal secretary to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and later as chief of staff to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, died Tuesday at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Clearwater.
"There's no question she played a vital role in the Eisenhower Administration; he really depended on her tremendously," said Robert J. Donovan, author of "Confidential Secretary: Ann Whitman's 20 Years with Eisenhower and Rockefeller" (E. P. Dutton, 1988).
As part of its work-study program, she went to the Institute for Child Guidance in New York City, became a secretary there and never returned to college.
Her next job, which she held for 16 years, was as a personal secretary to Adele Rosenwald Levy, whose father was a founder of Sears, Roebuck & Company.
"
        Prof. Sture Allen, one of the 18 members of the academy elected for life and also its permanent secretary, said that he had tried to call Miss Gordimer in Johannesburg on Wednesday night to give her the good news, but nobody at her home knew how to reach her.
Held Various Federal Posts
        Serving in the Government from 1965 to 1973, she variously held the posts of the White House liaison for Project Head Start, public affairs director for the National Endowment for the Arts, the National Commission on Product Safety and the National Commission on Materials Policy and press secretary to Betty Furness, when she was President Lyndon B. Johnson's special assistant for consumer affairs.
She was also a member at large of the College Entrance Examination Board, and held the posts of secretary and president of the Head Mistresses Association of the East.
As a teen-ager, she taught typing and shorthand at her father's business school and worked for Armstrong Cork as a secretary to the advertising manager.

        Dorothy Vredenburgh Bush, the secretary of the Democratic National Committee who called the roll and tallied the votes at 12 national conventions from 1944 to 1988, died on Saturday in a hospital in Naples, Fla. She was 75 years old.
She was just 27 years old when she was named secretary to the Democratic National Committee in 1944.
