But when her husband, Albert, died at the age of 33 in the early 1940's, leaving her with three young children, she pulled up stakes, moved to Washington and went to work, first as a secretary for Catholic Charities and later as an independent public relations woman.
Volunteering to become the group's first executive secretary, she operated the organization for its first few years, first from her home and later at a small office.
''U Thant was Secretary General of the United Nations at the time.
Mayor William O'Dwyer appointed her secretary of the New York City Board of Estimate in 1946, and his successor, Vincent R. Impellitteri, put her on the Magistrates Court in 1951.
That same year, however, she became directly involved with another troupe by serving as secretary to Marie Rambert, director of the Ballet Rambert.
At her retirement from the association, she was its first executive secretary.
Ms. Snyder, who headed the financial operations of the company and was responsible for developing the inventory system, held the titles of senior vice president and secretary.
Erika McMahon-Turner was born in London on July 7, 1939, a daughter of wealthy parents, Eric A. Turner, Under Secretary to the Admiralty, and Helen Lilian McMahon Turner.
By the time she arrived at Foote, Cone & Belding in time to take over the new Clairol account in 1955, Miss Polykoff, who had written her first advertising copy as a teen-age secretary at Harper's Bazaar, had long since established herself as a star in retail advertising, first for a series of department and variety stores, including Bamberger's and Kresge in Newark, then for New York agencies with retail accounts.
By the time she retired from the board in 1970, Mrs. Shoup had been a member or chairwoman of many board committees and a perennial board secretary who had used her positions to play a key role in growing and nurturing the colleges.
In 1929 she was hired by Joseph Widener as secretary to his art collections.
Mrs. Smith, whose clients included Richard Adams, Judy Blume, Dean Koontz and James Herriot, began her career as a secretary at Alfred A. Knopf.
In Washington yesterday, Ms. Lewis's accomplishments as an educator were praised by Richard W. Riley, the Secretary of Education.
in Tulsa and afterward credited the skills she acquired for the jump she made from stenographer in the Gulf Oil Corporation's accounting department to a senior secretary in the executive suite.
She became Mr. Carnegie's secretary in January 1944 and, several months later, his second wife.
On the 50th anniversary of the United Nations Commission on the Status of Women in 1997, she was honored in a speech by Secretary General Kofi Annan, who called the commission ''to an important extent her creation.
Mrs. Judd, then a 26-year-old secretary at a Phoenix medical clinic and the wife of a doctor, arrived at Union Station in Los Angeles on Oct. 18, 1931, on a train from Phoenix, accompanied by two trunks and several valises.

        Paula Kissinger, a refugee from Nazi Germany who held the Bible at the White House in 1973 when her first-born son, Henry, was sworn in as Secretary of State, the highest Cabinet post in her adopted land, died at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center yesterday in Manhattan.
He stepped down in disgrace as Secretary of State for War in 1963 after it had become known that he was having an affair with a British call girl, Christine Keeler, who was also involved with a Soviet military attache.
After a year in the Office of the Secretary of the Treasury in Washington, she began teaching full time at Harvard.
She later performed with the French Theater of New York and worked as a secretary for Theater Inc., a producing organization.
