Her death was reported yesterday by her press secretary, Kara Hahn.
She was the secretary for the Sisters of Charity from 1996 to 2003.
She joined the presidential campaign staff of John F. Kennedy and was one of nine assistants to President Kennedy's press secretary, Pierre E. Salinger.
A graduate of Boston's elite Girls' Latin School and Emmanuel College, Ms. McGrory got her start as secretary to the book editor of The Boston Herald Traveler.
''For eight days,'' she wrote in an early column, ''the Army secretary has been having his honesty questioned, his motives impugned and his patriotism challenged.
''
        Bob Moses, the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee's Mississippi field secretary in the 1960's, talked in an interview about the reign of terror of white supremacists whom he said wanted to eliminate the leadership of the N.A.C.C.P.
Patricia Derian, who fought for integrated schools in Mississippi as a young mother and was an assistant secretary of state in the Carter administration, said in an interview, ''When she walked in a room, it was a little bit like having a battleship arrive.
Mrs. McMenamin's husband of 51 years, Edward B. McMenamin, a former secretary of Columbia University, died in 1994.
James Watt, who became Mr. Reagan's interior secretary, and James Coors, the Colorado brewing and energy magnate, sponsored Ms. Burford for the E.P.A.
But her father angrily opposed the plan, telling her she could resign herself to being his secretary in the office supply business that he managed or spend the rest of her life as a maid.
Mrs. Copley began working at the Union Tribune Publishing Company as a secretary in 1953.
She began working as a secretary for Mr. Copley, who had become chief executive of Copley Press after the death of his father, Ira C. Copley, who started the company in 1905.
''If you're fortunate enough to get the secretary of state and the head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the night of an international crisis ,'' she mused in an interview with The Post in 1987.
By the early 1950's, with leading magazines and advertising agencies for clients, she could afford a secretary, private school for Li-lan and designer clothes.
By the early 1950's, with leading magazines and advertising agencies for clients, she could afford a secretary, private school for Li-lan and designer clothes.
'' She first appeared in print in 1951 with ''A Day at the Playground'' from Golden Books, where she worked as a secretary.
''
        Born Sylvia Kossovsky in New York in 1913, Ms. Herscher effectively began her theatrical career when Alexander Cohen, a producing partner of her husband, Seymour Herscher, helped her obtain a job as Styne's secretary.
