Over the years, she angered fellow Republicans by supporting Federal aid to education in 1948, by voting against Lewis L. Strauss, President Dwight D. Eisenhower's nominee for Secretary of Commerce in 1959, and by opposing President Richard M. Nixon's unsuccessful nominees to the Supreme Court, Clement F. Haynsworth in 1969 and G. Harrold Carswell in 1970.
Ms. Hyman, a legal secretary who sang jazz and rhythm and blues and recently performed rap, had a starring role in "Sophisticated Ladies," a Broadway musical that paid tribute to Duke Ellington.
      
Ms. Hyman, a legal secretary who sang jazz and rhythm and blues and recently performed rap, had a starring role in "Sophisticated Ladies," a Broadway musical that paid tribute to Duke Ellington.
      
As director of child and youth services of the New York Office of Civilian Defense, and secretary of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia's Committee on the Wartime Care of Children, Miss Keliher helped make day care an accepted staple of American life.

        Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston.
Mrs. Hobby was the nation's second woman to hold a Cabinet post; the first, Frances Perkins, was Secretary of Labor under President Franklin D. Roosevelt from 1933 to 1945.
When Mrs. Hobby resigned, Treasury Secretary George M. Humphrey was so dismayed that he said, "What?
Miss Lupino had cancer and had recently suffered a stroke, Mary Ann Anderson, her former secretary, said yesterday.
She was executive secretary of the American Committee for the Protection of the Foreign Born.
In 1951, she was in a Federal courtroom as a defense lawyer when Dashiell Hammett, the writer, and W. Alphaeus Hunton, secretary of the Council on African Affairs, were convicted of criminal contempt and sentenced to six months in prison.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.
Mrs. Robinson died of cancer Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital, the foundation's executive secretary, Thelma Miles Smith, said today.
There, she worked at Neiman Marcus as the personal secretary to its president, Stanley Marcus, a boyhood friend of her husband-to-be, Edmund J. Kahn, who made a fortune in real estate, cotton and oil.
When the university founded the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in the mid-1970's, she was named to its Board of Directors and served as secretary from 1986 until her death.
She worked as the executive secretary of the New York League of Women Voters and on the staff of the Atomic Energy Commission, becoming assistant director of public information.
