Since the early 1960's Ms. Wolf was a leader in the Audubon Society, serving as secretary of the Seattle chapter for 37 years and helping to establish 21 of the 26 Audubon chapters in Washington.
After separating from her first husband, Edward Dalziel, she moved to the United States in 1923 with her daughter, finding work as a legal secretary, her lifelong career.
The pace of life -- eventually as secretary of the Board of Estimate, the panel of top elected officials that then ran city government -- was blistering: Mayor La Guardia resented staff members taking lunch, barely tolerated their vacations and routinely punished unproductive commissioners by making them wait five or six hours for appointments.
Her father suggested speaking to his secretary, who just happened to be Mayor La Guardia's sister.
Her husband, Robert Pelletier, who died in 1997, was a Times art director; her daughter, Alexandra, is a news assistant on the Times national desk; her sister, Clare Salvaggio, is a staff assistant on the Times Magazine staff, and another sister, Cecilia Moran, was a  Times secretary, now retired.
Mrs. Legendre began her wartime career as a secretary with the O.S.S.
Her husband, Joseph J. Sisco, a former under secretary of state for political affairs and a former president of American University, joined the firm in 1981.
Born in Montreal on Nov. 23, 1907, Ms. Bobrow moved to New York City in 1922 and worked as a legal secretary and later as an accountant.
Never wealthy, according to Jennifer J. Dullahan, a spokeswoman for the school, Ms. Bobrow became a benefactor by drawing upon her income as a legal secretary, a small inheritance and modest investments.
In between she worked as an analyst for the President's Committee on Government Contracts, a researcher for the Senate Special Committee on Unemployment and legislative secretary to Senator Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri.
In the early 1960's, she became a staff assistant to Abraham A. Ribicoff, the secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, and became his executive assistant when he was elected senator from Connecticut.
She worked as a volunteer with displaced persons after the war, before becoming secretary to the director David Lean.
Miss Benson returned to South Africa in 1957, becoming secretary of the defense fund for the 156 people, Mr. Mandela among them, who had been charged with treason for opposing the country's apartheid laws.
In March 1917, however, with America's entry into World War I imminent, Navy Secretary Josephus Daniels called on women to enlist in the Naval Reserve to free sailors for combat duty.
In addition to Mrs. Roosevelt, she was supported by Dr. Albert Schweitzer; Pope John XXIII; U Thant, secretary general of the United Nations; Jawaharlal Nehru, the first prime minister of India; and President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt.
Wanting experience in the real world, she became a secretary, soon winding up in the offices of the powerful manager Sol Hurok, where she nurtured the careers of other young artists.
Born in Mankato, Minn., and a graduate of the University of Minnesota, Marvel Jackson moved to New York in 1926 and worked as secretary for W. E. B. DuBois, editor of The Crisis, the magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
