She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.
She was executive vice chairwoman and secretary of the Board of Trustees.

        Alice Ehrenfeld Weil, the first American woman to hold the rank of Assistant  Secretary General at the United Nations, died on Wednesday at her home in New York.
As Assistant Secretary General for General Services from 1984 until her retirement in 1986, Mrs. Weil was the highest-ranking American woman to serve at the United Nations.
Mrs. Bernstein retired as director in 1977 and worked as a special assistant  to Secretary Joseph A. Califano Jr. for more than a year longer.
After graduation, she worked as a secretary  in the French Ministry of the Colonies until 1941, but by then Nazi Germany had  occupied France.
He is related to four earlier Frelinghuysens who were United States senators, one of whom, Frederick T., became a Secretary of State under President Chester A. Arthur.
She was program director and lands manager for the Windham Foundation, a nonprofit organization that conducts seminars on critical issues facing Vermont, from 1983 to 1985; commissioner of the Vermont Department of Forests, Parks and  Recreation from 1985 to 1989, and deputy secretary of the state's Agency of Natural Resources from 1989 to 1990.
A former neighborhood worker in the mayoral campaign of John V. Lindsay, she was later executive secretary of what is now the city's Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services.
She studied at a commercial college and became a legal secretary.
Its boss, Carmine DeSapio, procured a job for her as secretary to the president of the Board of Elections in 1964, and she did the rest.
Before then, she had been secretary and assistant treasurer.
Mrs. Zorbaugh worked as a secretary in her hometown, Barnesboro, in central Pennsylvania, and later in New York City, where she met her husband, had two children, graduated from law school and became prominent as a network lawyer, first at ABC.
After college she worked as a secretary in the radio industry, at the Blue Network, and, as Ms. Applewhaite said, "after observing what the lawyers were doing, she went to law school," in 1938.
She spent more than 50 years in public service, starting as secretary and chief examiner of the Pittsburgh Civil Service Commission in 1938.
She was the secretary of the State Democratic Committee from 1948 to 1971.
In 1954 she  was elected Secretary of Internal Affairs, a statewide office.
When Jascha Heifetz, a family friend, was looking for a secretary, she applied.
Her first job was as secretary to the producer David Gerber at 20th Century Fox in New York.
She moved to Hollywood with Mr. Gerber and eventually found work at International Creative Management, the talent agency, where she rose from secretary to agent.
Mr. Quarles, who served President Dwight D. Eisenhower as Secretary of the Air Force and Deputy Secretary of Defense, died in 1959.
Mr. Quarles, who served President Dwight D. Eisenhower as Secretary of the Air Force and Deputy Secretary of Defense, died in 1959.
After the war, Mr. Trocme became the European secretary for the Fellowship of Reconciliation, an American-based pacifist group, and during the 1950's he and his wife made fund-raising tours of the United States.
In a store on Ocean Avenue in Brooklyn, Mrs. Waldbaum, who was also the secretary of the company, told a produce clerk to discard a bruised grapefruit, or put it in with the reduced-price merchandise.
Brendan T. Byrne appointed her the first chairwoman of the State Advisory Commission on the Status of Women despite objections to her strong partisan identification as the secretary of the State Democratic Committee.
After retiring in 1953 she became active in the National Arts Club, editing its bulletin and serving as its  secretary for more than a decade.
She was offered the State Department's Berlin desk in 1952, just before Foster Dulles was named Secretary of State.
One ancestor, John Welsh, served as envoy to Britain in Rutherford B. Hayes's Administration, and her grandfather John W. Foster and an uncle, Robert Lansing, each served as Secretary of State, under Presidents Benjamin Harrison and Woodrow Wilson, respectively.
Leonard Mosley wrote in his 1978 book ''Dulles'' that early in 1962, during the Kennedy Administration, Secretary of State Dean Rusk summoned her and said, ''The White House has asked me to get rid of you.
She is survived by two sons, Dr. Hussein Fawzi, a physician in Scotland, and Ahmad Fawzi, deputy spokesman for the Secretary General of the United Nations in New York.
      
Beginning in 1912, when she began working as a secretary and reader at The American Magazine and met such writers as John Reed, Ida Tarbell and Walter Lippmann, she combined literary zeal with political advocacy.
At the time, she held the titles of secretary to the medical board, secretary to the board of trustees and head of the medical staff services office, in addition to that of administrator for the Association  of the Attending Staff.
At the time, she held the titles of secretary to the medical board, secretary to the board of trustees and head of the medical staff services office, in addition to that of administrator for the Association  of the Attending Staff.
Summoned to a meeting with the union's secretary, Yuri F. Strekhinin, and another writer, A. M. Mednikov, she was questioned about her criticism of the treatment of dissidents.
