From 1945 to 1947 she was executive secretary of the women's division, which she served as associate director before becoming the committee's vice chairwoman.

       Mary DuBois Schwarz, a board member and secretary of the Union Theological Seminary, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan.
Mary DuBois Schwarz, a board member and secretary of the Union Theological Seminary, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan.
At her death she was secretary of Kingsbrook's board.
She worked in Hollywood as a social secretary to Irene Selznick, George Cukor, Ingrid Bergman and others.
She remained in New York after the chamber was abolished by Secretary of State Henry L. Stimson in 1929 with the oft-quoted aphorism, ''Gentlemen do not read each other's mail.
She was appointed executive secretary of the newly formed National Committee on the Aging, which was established to provide information and consultation services on the field of aging, with headquarters in New York City.
She attended the Brown Business College and the American Institute of Banking and worked as a secretary for Barclay's Bank in Manhattan until she met and married Mr. Hogan in 1936.
Mrs. Whaley, also a former deputy assistant secretary of the Federal Department of Housing and Urban Development, had been head of the Washington Urban League since 1983.
''
        But in 1935, after marrying Col. Clarence M. Young, an Assistant Secretary of Commerce, Miss Moran slowed the pace of her career.
As Tamara Lebenhaft, she was secretary to an expatriate organization of Polish journalists in London when she and Mr. Deutscher were married in 1947.
She served for two years as a law secretary before being appointed by Mayor Abraham D. Beame to the Family Court in 1976.

       Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
She was 47 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J.
        Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan.
Before that she was law secretary to Judge Sylvia B. Pressler of the Appellate Division of the New Jersey Superior Court.

       Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a confidential aide to Frances Perkins during her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, died Tuesday at her home in Washington.
Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a confidential aide to Frances Perkins during her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, died Tuesday at her home in Washington.
A forceful, dynamic woman, Mrs. Beyer became a close friend of Secretary Perkins and Eleanor Roosevelt.
Mrs. Beyer began her career as secretary of the Minimum Wage Board for the District of Columbia after World War I.
After Franklin D. Roosevelt's election as President, she played a valuable back-room role in the appointment of Secretary Perkins, the first woman ever named to a Cabinet, and in the development of much of the social legislation that marked the New Deal: establishing worker safety, maximum hours, minimum wages and Social Security.
She was a graduate of St. Mary's Academy in Newburgh, N.Y., and had been an executive secretary for many years before joining the foundation.

        Eve Arden, the caustic comedienne featured in dozens of films as a heroine's wry and wisecracking best friend, a warmhearted but sassy schoolteacher or secretary, died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif.
An early advocate of academic collective bargaining, she was secretary of the Legislative Conference, an organization representing the professional staff at the City University of New York, from 1959 to 1972.
Singing "The Weekend of a Private Secretary" and an operatic number entitled "Il Bacio" in her own syncopated version, she created a sensation.
As executive secretary of the church's Women's Division, Ms. Stevens was head of social relations work for Methodist women from 1940 to 1968.
