Dr. Ray was appointed by President Gerald R. Ford in 1975 as Assistant Secretary of State for Oceans, International Environment and Scientific Affairs.
She resigned from the post later that year, contending that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger had ignored her office on policy matters.
Mrs. Wohlforth later became secretary to the columnist and author Heywood Broun and wrote a second novel, "Headlines.
In later years, she became a secretary and was hired by the School of American Ballet in 1938.
Her marriage to Roswell Gilpatric, Deputy Secretary of Defense during the Kennedy Administration, ended in divorce.
She joined William Morris in 1964 as a secretary in the Chicago office and was promoted to assistant in the personal appearance department in New York in 1962.
Miss Leet left Paris in 1938 to become national secretary to the Foreign Policy Association in New York, returning to Reid Hall in 1946.

        Marie T. Mandry, who over 36 years in the advertising business rose from a secretary to senior vice president of Young & Rubicam in New York, died Thursday at her home in Manhattan.
"
        Letitia Baldridge, who was Mrs. Kennedy's chief of staff and social secretary in the White House, remembered her sense of humor.
It helped, she said, that Nancy Tuckerman, who had been her social secretary at the White House, already had a job there; the two worked closely for the next 15 years.
She began her career as a production secretary on Broadway.
She began with the team in 1966 as a secretary.
Mrs. Christy also served on the boards of the Visiting Nurse Association of Brooklyn and the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service, and was secretary of the National United Service Organization from 1957 to 1968.
"
        Born in Milton, Tenn., she was a legal secretary when she started studying law at Middle Tennessee State University.
In 1933, she was hired as a secretary by Hitchcock, who was at work on "The Man Who Knew Too Much.
" A poor secretary by her own description, she soon graduated to reading books and scripts, writing synopses and contributing to scripts.
Miss Potts also served as the executive secretary of a commission established by Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia to foster economic and technological cooperation between the two nations.
In 1940, she married Jenaro A. Gautier, a lawyer who was secretary general of the Popular Democratic Party at the time.
She worked as a secretary and a writer at Oxford University Press from 1943 to 1951 and as reference librarian at the National Audubon Society from 1952 to 1959.
"
        She was born in Pontiac, Mich., and was an executive secretary for various companies, including the Chrysler Corporation.
Among other roles, she played an idiosyncratic secretary in George Bernard Shaw's "Candida," an extroverted medium in Noel Coward's "Blithe Spirit" and a shrewish wife in Jean Anouilh's "Waltz of the Toreadors.
"
        She continued to be active in male-dominated spheres, however: in 1978, after having served as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army in several administrations, she became the founding president of the newly formed Army War College Foundation.

        Virginia E. Montes, a former national secretary and lobbyist for the National Organization for Women, died Thursday at her home in Atlanta.
She was elected secretary of NOW and of its national political action committee in 1991 and served until last year.
She had fallen into a semi-coma four days earlier, a month after being hospitalized for a stroke, said her secretary, Jan March.
Shouse, a lawyer and businessman, had been a Congressman from Kansas and the Assistant Secretary of the Treasury under President Coolidge.

        Charlotte Moton Hubbard, who was deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs from 1964 to 1970, making her the top-ranking black woman in the Johnson Administration at the time, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md.

        Aminda Badeau Wilkins, a retired welfare official and the widow of Roy Wilkins, longtime executive secretary of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center.
