There she became special assistant to the Secretary, working on housing and problems that affect the disabled and the elderly.
She joined the company as a secretary to its founder, Carol Fox, during its first season, and she spent her entire career there.
She taught briefly after her graduation in 1951, but when the Lyric was founded, originally as the Lyric Theater, she joined it as a secretary, chorister and occasional soloist.
In it, they wrote: ''Except for words that refer to females by definition (mother, actress, Congresswoman), and words for occupations traditionally held by females (nurse, secretary, prostitute), the English language defines everyone as male.
In 1980, President Carter appointed Ms. Seidman Assistant Secretary for Trade in the United States Commerce Department, a post she held until 1981.
Remembering Mrs. Harriman yesterday, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright called her a ''central figure in the history of this century.
In 1933, she became secretary to  the author and editor Max Eastman, who got her an entry-level job at Simon & Schuster in Manhattan.
Dr. Fosdick's career was also influenced by her beloved Uncle Raymond, her father's brother, Raymond B. Fosdick, an international lawyer whose appointment as Under Secretary of the League of Nations came to naught after the Senate failed to ratify the founding treaty.
In time, Dr. Fosdick was eclipsed on the public stage by some of her  admiring young proteges, among them Ricard N. Perle, who became an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Elliott Abrams, who became an Assistant Secretary of State, but only, perhaps, because she preferred to work behind the scenes.
In time, Dr. Fosdick was eclipsed on the public stage by some of her  admiring young proteges, among them Ricard N. Perle, who became an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Elliott Abrams, who became an Assistant Secretary of State, but only, perhaps, because she preferred to work behind the scenes.
During a life in which she was variously a French teacher in Wales, a secretary, a traveling saleswoman, an Olympic sailer, a competitive skier, a pioneer field hockey player, an actress, a sculptor's model and a movie stuntwoman, Ms. Maillart seemed most comfortable on the frontiers of social convention and  Western civilization.
While Manhattan Democratic Commissioner, she held terms as president and secretary of the board.
''
        Sophia Wittenberg, went to work after high school as a secretary and then became an editor at The Dial, where she met Lewis Mumford.
A year after her graduation in 1918, she was holding down a stifling job on Wall Street when she got a note asking if she would like to be his secretary.
It was she who financed the Boas expeditions and paid Miss Goldfrank's salary, but Miss Goldfrank did not remain a secretary long.
Although 35 years had passed since Mrs. Burke's days in Admiral's House, Margaret Dalton, wife of John H. Dalton, Secretary of the Navy, described her as ''still first lady of the Navy.
During a family visit to Washington when she was 13, President Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of War, Newton D. Baker, a former Cleveland mayor, had a young assistant, Walter Lippmann, show her around.
She attended public schools in Rochester, graduated from Smith College and attended the Sorbonne in Paris for a year before joining The Times in 1934 as a secretary to Ivan Veit, then the promotion manager.
When the bureau was abolished in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for family planning and population.
He is also a former senior partner and co-chairman of Goldman, Sachs & Company, and was a Deputy Secretary of State in the Reagan Administration.
The large crowd also included Princess Cristina and her husband, making their first public appearance since their wedding, and NATO's Secretary General, Javier Solana, formerly a Socialist minister under Mr. Gonzalez.
(The task of collecting the signatures was given to Mrs. Kennedy's secretary, Mary Gallagher, who neglected to sign one, herself, and eventually wrote her own tell-all with Miss Leighton, ''My Boss,'' in 1969.
After working as a theatrical secretary, Ms. Harvey became assistant to Alfred de Liagre Jr. She then moved to the Music Corporation of America.
At Radcliffe, as the first member of her family to earn a college degree, she became interested in American history and, while working her way through school as secretary to the head of the Harvard observatory, picked up the skills that would lay the groundwork for her scholarship.
As a Columbia University graduate student, she worked as secretary to the historian Jacques Barzun and the literature professor Lionel Trilling, impressing both scholars so much that when Mary McCarthy abruptly quit her teaching post at Bard College in 1946, they recommended her as a replacement, which is how a 23-year-old secretary came to spend three years teaching literature to returning G.I.
As a Columbia University graduate student, she worked as secretary to the historian Jacques Barzun and the literature professor Lionel Trilling, impressing both scholars so much that when Mary McCarthy abruptly quit her teaching post at Bard College in 1946, they recommended her as a replacement, which is how a 23-year-old secretary came to spend three years teaching literature to returning G.I.
'' The almost $8 million renovation, paid for with private funds, included the $3.5 million, 47-by-102-foot Benjamin Franklin Dining Room and the Secretary of State's $1.95 million, 10-room suite.
In 1961, President Kennedy named her an Assistant Secretary of Labor and Director of the Women's Bureau, an agency that administered the labor laws concerning women.
In 1942 she took on the additional tasks of executive secretary of Friends of the Library and director of its fledgling Sophia Smith Collection.
