She signed correspondence during intermissions at concerts and took her secretary with her to the beauty parlor so she could give dictation.
Ms. Wasserman was working with her at the time, as a secretary, at Herb Jaffe Associates.
''Since a secretary was very important, I got paid $90 a week, and Candida, since she was only an agent, got only $75 a week,'' Ms. Wasserman said.
Ms. Donadio, a child of Italian immigrants, was born in 1929 in Brooklyn and moved to Manhattan in the early 1950's when she began her career as a secretary at the McIntosh & McKee agency.
In 1957, when Mr. Jaffe, who represented playwrights, screenwriters and actors, decided to expand in the literary realm, he hired Ms. Donadio, who was still a secretary but had a reputation for working extremely hard and working directly with some of the clients at McIntosh & McKee.
In 1946 Ms. Kushida became the first secretary general of a newly established feminist and peace organization called the Women's Democratic Club.

        Gail Fisher, who won an Emmy Award in 1970 for her portrayal of Peggy Fair, secretary to the gumshoe played by Mike Connors on the CBS television series ''Mannix,'' died on Dec. 2 at a hospital in Los Angeles.
In the 1937 film ''True Confession,'' she was a secretary being interrogated by a lawyer, played by Fred MacMurray.
Her astuteness would eventually lead to her ownership of two early television series, ''Private Secretary'' and ''The Ann Sothern Show.
Ms. Sothern was savvy enough to produce ''Private Secretary,'' and to demand that the situation comedy be shot on film, to preserve it.
As Susie McNamera, private secretary to a New York talent agent, Ms. Sothern became a heroine to secretaries all over America.
''
        After making seven movies in 1937, she was off the screen until 1939, when she returned with fourth billing in an A movie, MGM's ''Trade Winds,'' as Fredric March's manipulative secretary.
For six months, she was secretary to the editor, Roderick MacFarquhar.
In a letter to her on her 100th birthday, Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, said: ''For half a century, as the representative of the International Federation of Business and Professional Women at the United Nations, you actively promoted the concerns of women.
When Golda Meir was prime minister of Israel, Dr. Metlitzki served in her government: she worked as press officer for the Foreign Ministry and secretary for the affairs of Arab women in the Israeli Federation of Labor.
Mrs. Robb, a political independent who had had training to become a legal secretary, was married to Gene Robb, who was the publisher of Capital Newspapers, including The Times Union of Albany.
In 1946, she moved to Manhattan to work as a secretary, copy editor and proofreader for McGraw-Hill and other publishers.
Ms. Chabot began the markets in her capacity as executive secretary of the New Mexico Association of Indian Affairs, an advocacy group, with the goal of bringing broader awareness of the artfulness of Indian crafts.
She began her advertising career in 1963 in New York as a secretary and copywriter trainee at J. Walter Thompson.
''
        The work she got was as a secretary in Washington, where she also took part in local theater.
''
        Larry Speakes, a White House spokesman in the Reagan administration, noted in his book ''Speaking Out,'' that the president's aides, including Secretary of State George P. Shultz, were afraid of Ms. Reagan, known to many as Big Mo.
I hope you will tell the secretary my reason for leaving.
She was a speechwriter for the Treasury Department in the Kennedy administration and assistant secretary for public affairs in the Health, Education and Welfare Department under Jimmy Carter.
The family's poverty forced her to leave school at 14 and work as a secretary.
Later she moved to Washington to work at the Office of Policy Analysis at the invitation of Donna E. Shalala, then an assistant secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
She worked as a secretary until she was 28, and did not make her stage debut until 1942, when she sang Hänsel in Humperdinck's ''Hänsel und Gretel'' at the opera house in Remscheid.
