From 1978 to 1996, Ms. Bliven held various offices, including secretary and vice president, at PEN, the national organization of writers and editors.
Both Winston Churchill and the queen's private secretary, Sir Alan Lascelles, advised against allowing the marriage.
She worked as an editor and researcher in Chicago, including two years as executive secretary of the board of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the mid-1960's.
Elizabeth may have seemed complaisant and sweet, but she had a ''steel hand within a velvet glove,'' in the words of Lord Halifax, the foreign secretary, and she never forgave David or Wallis Simpson for throwing her husband to the wolves.
She was 62 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mrs. Sawyer, a public relations specialist, was at Mrs. Reagan's side throughout the Reagan presidency, serving four years as the first lady's special assistant and four years as her press secretary.
As press secretary, she was called upon to explain Mrs. Reagan's consultations with a California astrologer, Joan Quigley.
She filed a criminal suit in Chile in December 2000 seeking responses from Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state, among other Nixon administration officials, who supported coup plots there.
''
        After leaving the Jehovah's Witnesses, she moved to the East Village and worked as a secretary at a publishing house and at the American Committee on Africa.
In 1969, as secretary of state for employment and productivity and with the prime minister's enthusiastic support, Ms. Castle had published a plan called ''In Place of Strife,'' which sought to inject some discipline into Britain's chaotic industrial relations by making trade unions subject to legal sanctions.
The home secretary, James Callaghan, had led the opposition to her plan within the cabinet, and when he succeeded Mr. Wilson as prime minister in 1976 his first act was to dismiss her.
As secretary for employment and productivity, she legislated equal pay for men and women.
And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
Ms. Deegan moved to Winston-Salem, N.C., and began working as a secretary for the Western Electric Company.
Her father, who worked for the federal government in charge of Medicare and Medicaid in the Northeast, and her mother, an antiques dealer, hoped for the best: that she would perhaps snare a job as a secretary in an insurance office.
Ms. Read joined the institute in 1939 when it was based in Chicago, and was executive secretary to Mr. Korzybski before his death in 1950.
She took a job as a secretary and movie booker in a relative's film distribution business.
In 1977, President Jimmy Carter appointed her assistant secretary of state for oceans and international, environmental and scientific affairs.
In 2000, she played matchmaker between Lawrence M. Small, former vice chairman of Citicorp, and the Smithsonian Institution, where he is now secretary.
Her grandfathers were Benjamin F. Goodrich, the inventor and industrialist, and John Cabell Breckinridge, a vice president, a presidential candidate in 1860 and secretary of war for the Confederacy.
They were married in 1940 in Berlin, where he was first secretary at the embassy.
She was Carol Bellamy's press secretary when Ms. Bellamy was City Council president; a communications officer at Planned Parenthood of America; and the press secretary during Bella Abzug's campaign for the United States Senate.
She was Carol Bellamy's press secretary when Ms. Bellamy was City Council president; a communications officer at Planned Parenthood of America; and the press secretary during Bella Abzug's campaign for the United States Senate.
