
        Gretchen Householder Poston, the White House social secretary in the Carter Administration, died Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington.
In January 1977, she was appointed the White House social secretary, a post in which she organized the visit of Pope John Paul II to the White House and state dinners celebrating the Panama Canal treaty, the Camp David accords and normalized relations with China.
She worked her way up to become secretary to a branch manager.
She also served as executive secretary of the League of Nations Association of Greater New York from 1927 to 1928.
She was also executive secretary of the National Federation of Music Clubs and of the New York City Opera Guild.
Topping was the vice president and secretary of the Henry Luce Foundation in Manhattan and principal staff officer of its Clare Boothe Luce Fund.
Three years later, she was appointed general secretary, in charge of the college's development plan.
For her wartime service, she was awarded a Commendation from the Secretary of the Navy in 1944 and the Legion of Merit in 1946.
"
        Plagued by diminishing sight and crippling arthritis, her voice reduced to a whisper by Parkinson's disease, she spoke of waking up before 4 A.M. and writing stories in her mind for the hours before her secretary came in to take dictation.
"
        Plagued by diminishing sight and crippling arthritis, her voice reduced to a whisper by Parkinson's disease, she spoke of waking up before 4 A.M. and writing stories in her mind for the hours before her secretary came in to take dictation.
Mrs. Freeman was born in Brooklyn, to Elias Gilner, one of the founders of the Haganah, the defense force raised by Palestinian Jews during the British Mandate, and Violet Sandheim, who had been private secretary to Henrietta Szold, the founder of Hadassah, the women's Zionist and charitable organization.
From 1954 to 1966 she was secretary of research and statistics of the National Lutheran Council.
She worked as a decorator before becoming executive secretary of the Spence School.
She was the secretary of the Overseas Press Club and served on its board of directors.
As secretary to the service's policy planning committee, she reported to Col. Edward Buxton, Deputy Director of the O.S.S.
Mrs. Flast was one of seven taxpayers who sued John W. Gardner, then the Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, to establish that principle under the doctrine of separation of church and state.
A native of Los Angeles, Calif., Mrs. Del Monte graduated from Reed College in Portland, Ore., in 1952 and moved to New York City, where she soon took a job as a secretary at McCall's.
She worked there until her retirement in 1990, advancing from secretary to editorial assistant to editor to fiction editor.
Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, the United States Secretary of Health and Human Services, has praised the ABC movie and said Ms. Gertz delivered "a powerful message to all Americans about the realities of AIDS.
He was an Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Roosevelt Administration, the head of the New York Racing Association and a part owner in the company that made Hanes hosiery and underwear.

        Clara Rotter, for many years secretary of The New York Times drama department and a well-known figure in Broadway circles, died on Sunday at her home in Woodside, Queens.
"
        In addition to being a founder of the mosque, Mother Khadijah served as its secretary and treasurer and led its Muslim Ladies Cultural Society.
Also on Broadway, Miss Booth was an urbane secretary in "Goodbye My Fancy" (1948), a freewheeling aunt in "A Tree Grows in Brooklyn" (1951), a romantic tourist in "The Time of the Cuckoo" (1952) and an ingratiating researcher in "The Desk Set" (1955).
When she had made some progress and wanted more frequent lessons than she could afford, she agreed to work for her teacher, Louis Darnay, as both secretary and maid in exchange for lessons.
In 1938 he appointed her secretary to the Board of Estimate and, in 1941, to a 10-year term as a City Magistrate.
She enrolled there because it was the only school where she could attend night classes while working days, as a secretary.
