After the Texas Supreme Court upheld her conviction, she served three years of a 15-year sentence.
A recipient of a Guggenheim Fellowship, she later served on the Guggenheim Foundation board, and she also taught playwriting at several universities.
She sang the operas of Richard Strauss and made a specialty of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' but it was Wagner who served her career and whom she served as no other soprano since the days of Kirsten Flagstad.
She sang the operas of Richard Strauss and made a specialty of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' but it was Wagner who served her career and whom she served as no other soprano since the days of Kirsten Flagstad.
served as a common means of communication throughout the Middle East.
The same year, Ms. Maynard became a founding member of the Weeksville Society and served as president from 1972 until 1974, when she became executive director.
Joseph Lowery, who helped found the Southern Christian Leadership Conference with Dr. King and then served as its president for 20 years.
She was reared at a rambling country house, Goodfellows, and spent much of World War II in Moscow, where her father served as ambassador.
Settling in Kumasi, the capital of the Ashanti people, shortly after her wedding, she shunned the traditional British -- and Ghanaian-- role of homemaker, even as she reared her children, served as helpmate to her husband, kept the family going when he was in prison and established several philanthropies.
Carl Braden was convicted and sentenced to 15 years in prison, but he served just over seven months before the verdict was overturned in 1956.
On special occasions, visitors might find Ms. Cosman, wearing a flowing velvet gown, presiding over an elegant table that could include blankmangere en doucette (chicken cooked with cumin and cream, served in pastry) and lentil mawmenye (a lamb and lentil stew).
Her family was fond of hamburger, which was always served by candlelight.
''There is a quality even meaner than outright ugliness or disorder,'' she wrote in ''Death and Life,'' ''and this meaner quality is the dishonest mask of pretended order, achieved by ignoring or suppressing the real order that is struggling to exist and to be served.
In Manhattan, Mrs. Pflueger was a founder of the Winter Antiques Show, established in 1954 to aid the East Side House Settlement, on whose board she served from 1947 to 1991.
After Nelson Mandela's inauguration as president in 1994, she became, at the age of 79, a member of the first multiracial Parliament and served for five years.
In the 1940's, she joined Mr. Mandela, Walter Sisulu, Oliver Tambo and others in forming the breakaway African National Congress Youth League, a more militant offshoot of the Congress, and served as its secretary.
In 1986, she went to Austria to protest the inauguration of President Kurt Waldheim, the former United Nations secretary general, who had served in a Nazi army unit implicated in the deportation of Jews from Greece in World War II.

        Reathel Odum, a bank clerk who was chosen by Senator Harry S. Truman during the Depression to be one of his secretaries and later served in the White House as personal secretary to Bess Truman, died in her hometown, Benton, Ill., on June 6.
Her father, John Yarde-Buller, the third Baron Churston, was a military officer who served in the Boer War.
She also served on numerous boards of directors, including those of J. C. Penney, Brandeis University and the Aspen Institute.
Patricia Kennedy was born on May 6, 1924, in Brookline, Mass., the fourth daughter of Joseph P. and Rose Kennedy and the granddaughter of John F. Fitzgerald, the popular mayor of Boston who had earlier served in the House of Representatives.
She devoted her energies to organizations that served the mentally disabled and those helping people with substance abuse problems.
Her name appeared regularly in the society columns of New York, the Hamptons and Palm Beach, Fla.
        Patricia Kennedy was born on May 6, 1924, in Brookline, Mass., the fourth daughter of Joseph and Rose Kennedy and the granddaughter of John F. Fitzgerald, the popular mayor of Boston who had earlier served in the House of Representatives.
Mrs. Lawford devoted her energies to organizations that served the mentally disabled and to those helping people with substance abuse problems.
Mrs. D'Aquino, who served more than six years in prison but steadfastly denied disloyalty and received a presidential pardon in 1977, was 90.
She served six years and two months, then lived quietly in Chicago, running a family gift shop.
She championed inclusion of women's rowing in the Olympics, a goal attained in 1976 at the Montreal Games, when she served on the United States Olympic Committee's women's rowing unit.
She served as series editor of ''Documentary Sources in Contemporary Art,'' five anthologies of theory and criticism.
For three generations every male on her father's side served in the British Army.
Mrs. Chenoweth-Hage was elected in 1994 as part of the Republican takeover of the House and served three terms, from 1995 to 2001, representing Idaho's First Congressional District.
She served canned salmon and complained about the presence of Idaho salmon on the endangered species list.
In the mid-1940's, however, she traveled to the Communist Party headquarters in Yanan and served as an interpreter during efforts by the American statesman George C. Marshall to negotiate a truce between the Nationalist government and the Communist rebels.
For years she served as his secretary, and he was named a key deputy to Mao after the Communists took power in 1949.
From 1977 to 1986, Dr. Levit served as the board's president and chief executive; she was among the first women to head a national medical organization, according to an account in the National Library of Medicine.
She served no jail time.
''
        Beginning in the 1970s, Dr. Smith served as a co-principal investigator on a benchmark N.I.H.
Dr. Smith joined Harlem Hospital in 1968 and served as president of its medical board from 1984 to 1987.
Earlier, in the 1970s, she served as president of Englewood's Board of Education.
During the Reagan administration, she served on the National Advisory Council on Women's Educational Programs.
Her research also served as a model to help unlock the mechanism of genetic inheritance in more complex viruses.
Fifteen years later, in March 2003, President Bush recalled Ambassador Kirkpatrick to active duty and sent her to Geneva, said Alan Gerson, who had served as her general counsel at the United Nations.
If they served American interests, she asserted, they were defensible.
