For many years Ms. Riley also did volunteer work for the Grolier Club, Unicef, the Hroswitha Society of book collectors, and the Pierpont Morgan Library, where she served on the board for 24 years.
The organizations in which Mrs. Moore served included Wellesley College, her alma mater, and the United Board for Christian Higher Education in Asia.
She graduated in 1937, having served as the first woman to be managing editor of the Stanford Daily newspaper.
Peter Townsend of the Royal Air Force, a Battle of Britain hero with whom she fell in love when he served as an equerry to her father, King George VI.
She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
Accustomed to eating meager sandwiches served by the queen during his weekly luncheon meetings with the king, he found on one occasion that the food was even more horrific than usual.
She served as either president or patron of 312 British organizations, ranging, as one biographer put it, ''from the Royal Agricultural Society to the Dachshund Club.
In 1967, she served on a committee, convened by Mayor John V. Lindsay, that recommended the decentralization of the school system.
She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal.
''
        Baroness Castle of Blackburn, as she became in 1990, served in Harold Wilson's first two Labor cabinets, from 1964 to 1970, and in his third, from 1974 to 1976.
But she always served in governments buffeted by industrial unrest and unending currency crises, which forced them into deflationary policies she could never accept.
She also served under party leaders anxious to maintain good relations with Washington during the Vietnam War, which she strongly opposed.
After retiring from Pratt in 1977, Ms. Tish occasionally taught dance history part time there and at Brooklyn and Hunter Colleges, and she was active in dance organizations including the American Dance Guild, which she had served as president, and the Dance Films Association.
Ms. Bober founded the department of fine arts at the old Heights campus of New York University in the Bronx and served as its chairwoman from 1967 to 1973.
She served as president of the College Art Association from 1988 to 1990; was elected to the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei in Rome in 1995 and to the American Philosophical Society in 1999 and, because of her work in culinary history, to the Dames d'Escoffier in 1995.
She taught at the Library School from 1972 to 1986 and served on all the important library and children's book committees, including those for the Newbery and Caldecott Awards.
'' The story has served ever since as a metaphor for Mr. Monk's relation to the world, and for his music, in which a pretty melody is set slightly askew by dissonance, or a swinging rhythmic phrase is gapped with an irregular rest.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.

        Barbara Scott Preiskel, a lawyer whose career helped break down racial barriers in entertainment law as well as on the numerous corporate boards on which she served, died Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
Mr. Clooney was a house painter who drank so much and so often that his own father, a jeweler who served several terms as mayor of Maysville, had his son jailed for public drunkenness.
She served on the board of Dow Jones from 1949 to 1985 when its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, grew to wield international influence and the company evolved from a small private enterprise to become a publicly traded, $4 billion media empire.
He later served as managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
She also served for seven years as a children's book specialist at the University of California Press.
Her cluttered East Side town house, usually full of boarders, birds, dogs and litters of gerbils, served as the base for a kind of floating salon.
When Martha Clarke, the choreographer and director, left Pilobolus Dance Theater in the early 1980's to form her own dance company, Crows Nest, Ms. Reinhart served as her manager, consultant and fund-raiser.
She overcame her dread of escaping Venezuelan rats and served finger sandwiches, caviar and coffee to the crew of 10, and martinis to the journalists who showed up.
In 1945 she served in the Woman's Army Corps for three years.
After her tour as commander of the Jarrett, Captain McGrath served at the Joint Advanced Warfighting Unit in Alexandria, Va.
        During her career, Captain McGrath was honored with many medals, including the Legion of Merit and four Meritorious Service Medals.
During the reforms of Mikhail S. Gorbachev, Ms. Velikanova was allowed to return to Moscow before her nine-year term was fully served.
She became a full professor in 1972 at York College, where she also served as chairwoman of the music department.
Mrs. Boudjakdji had served on the Hearst Corporation's board since 1986.
At the Vietnam Veterans of America, where Ms. Van Devanter founded and administered a project dealing with the concerns and complaints of the 7,465 women who had served in Vietnam, a spokesman said she had long been ill with a vascular disease that she attributed to wartime exposure to chemical agents.
''
        She dedicated her book in part to ''all of the unknown women who served forgotten in their wars.
''
        Ms. Van Devanter established the Women's Project at the Vietnam Veterans of America, overseeing studies that underscored her view that though Vietnam veterans in general were ''a forgotten minority,'' the women who had served as nurses were ''the most forgotten.
In World War II, while her husband served in the Navy, she and he signed petitions protesting the relocation of Japanese-Americans to internment camps.
It served up the flavor of life before the main in the Royal Navy and the recipes for dishes a hungry sailor might enjoy.

        Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn.
        Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms as its president, from 1950 to 1958.
Ms. Straus served on its board until 1990 and was its chairwoman from 1999 to 2001.
During the Kennedy and Johnson administrations, she served on the National Advisory Committee on Rural Areas Development for the Department of Agriculture.
