After she stopped dancing, she served as dean of students at Balanchine's request until she retired in 1971.
She also served as executive secretary of the Illinois Housing Board when it drafted a law creating housing authorities.
Mrs. Cosnow, a co-founder of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, also served in the 1960's as president of Friendly Visitors Inc., a women's volunteer group that provided social and recreational services to inmates of the city's Women's House of Detention in Manhattan.
She was the founding president of the Friends of the Vienna Philharmonic and served on the boards of the Lyric Opera of Chicago and the Community Arts Music Association of Santa Barbara.
High-Ranking Welfare Posts
        In 1978-79 she headed the nation's largest local welfare agency when she served as the city's Human Resources Administrator, with more than a million residents receiving aid.
Dr. Bernstein also served as the State Social Services Department's deputy commissioner for income maintenance from 1975-77, under Gov.
Finally Won Respect
        When Mr. Trudeau named her to the largely ceremonial but highly respected position of Governor General, she was also the first woman in that post, where she served until 1990.
In 1948 she married Maurice Sauve, a businessman who also served as a minister to Mr. Trudeau; he died last year.
She also served at the American embassies in Lisbon, London, Prague and Paris.
They served together in diplomatic posts in Poland, Italy, Germany, and Liberia and at the State Department in Washington.
Mrs. Willner served as the representative of the International Organization of Consumers Unions at the United Nations from 1974 to 1983.
Mrs. Ryan was a member of the women's committee of the Boys' Club of New York for 30 years and served on the club's board for 20 years.
For many years she served on the executive committee of Hadassah's New York chapter and held other offices in that organization.
From 1983 to 1987 she served as the founding president of the National Writers Union, which won contracts for freelance writers at several national magazines.
She also served as the president of the International Council of Christians and Jews in 1975-77 and of the Jewish-Christian-Fellowship of France from 1968 to 1981.
In 1924 she opened France's first library for children, L'Heure Joyeuse (The Joyous Hour), and served as its director for five years.
She also served as a judge at the North Salem Horse Show and the Piping Rock and Smithtown Horse Shows on Long Island.
Mr. Goldstone, an architect, was a major force in establishing the Landmarks Commission and served as its chairman from 1968 to 1973.

        May Friend Goodman, who served for two decades as a representative of a leading international Jewish organization at the United Nations, died on Friday at her home in Cedarhurst, L.I.
She also served on the boards of the American Federation of Arts, the MacDowell Colony, the New York Studio School and the Provincetown Fine Arts Work Center.
She served on many committees to enhance neighborhood life into the 1970's.
Mrs. Lambert served on the boards of the Pierpont Morgan Library, Princeton University Library and Art Museum, and the University of Pennsylvania, among others.
She also served as a vice president of the board of governors of the New York University College of Medicine Alumni Association.
She had also served on the boards of Stratford Hall Plantation in Virginia and the Salk Institute in La Jolla, Calif.
        A native of Dallas, she was a member of a prominent business family in Texas as the daughter of Kenneth Murchison.
She served as executive secretary of the Peace Corps from 1982 to 1989.
In Yale's early years of coeducation in the 1970's, she taught a course on black women and served on the executive committee for the women's studies program.
She also served on UNICEF's committee for selecting its annual fund-raising holiday greeting cards.
Reviewing Atheneum's American edition in February 1987 in The New York Times Book Review, Eden Ross Lipson, an editor of the Book Review, wrote, "If you like your tea and fiction delicately seasoned and served exquisitely, this novel may be a perfect midwinter cup.
It was a talent that served her well in the course of a venturesome life as reflected in the titles of her books: "Baghdad Sketches" (1933 and 1937), "The Valleys of the Assassins and Other Persian Travels" (1934, 1972 and 1978), "The Southern Gates of Arabia: A Journey in the Hadhramaut" (1936 and 1972), "A Winter in Arabia" (1940, 1972 and 1987), "Letters From Syria" (1942), "The Freya Stark Story" (1953), "Alexander's Path" (1958 and 1988) and "Gateways and Caravans: A Portrait of Turkey" (1971).
From 1961 to 1967, Ms. Gilliatt served as film critic and, for one year, drama critic of The Observer in London.
In 1911 she married Stuart Holmes Clement of Buffalo and moved to New Haven, where she served with numerous civic organizations, including the Red Cross, the United Way, the Women's Auxiliary of New Haven Hospital and the New Haven Tuberculosis Association.
Mrs. Clement served as trustee of the Westover School in Middlebury, Conn.
        She is survived by two sons, Stuart Holmes Clement Jr. of Saybrook, Conn., and Samuel Prescott Bush Clement of Litchfield, Conn.; a daughter, Mary Bush Clement Estabrook of North Haven, Conn.; 12 grandchildren, and 14 great-granchildren.
      
In 1927 she married Adolf A. Berle Jr., an economist and lawyer who served during the Roosevelt Administration as Assistant Secretary of State.
She also served as co-chairwoman of the Committee for the Library of the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center.
She served on the editorial advisory boards of the World Book Encyclopedia and the Thorndike-Barnhart and Funk & Wagnalls dictionaries.
She taught for more than 40 years at Brooklyn College and served as chairwoman of its English department.
Lulu also served as the advertising mascot for Kleenex tissues until 1960.
She later served as co-chairwoman of the interior design committee.
Mrs. Hausman served as a volunteer ambulance driver in World War II.
Among other activities, she served as a consultant on hazardous substances for the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council.
On the faculty since 1925, Professor McManus served as director of the Division of Nursing Education at Teachers College from 1947 until her retirement in 1961.
She served as editorial director of the Dell Magazine Group from 1981 until she retired in 1987.
It has served more than 20,000 youngsters from Co-op City and its neighborhood with education, recreation, culture and career programs.
Until her retirement in 1977 she also served as an assistant clinical research professor in public health at Cornell University Medical College.
She graduated from the Birch Wathen School in Manhattan, where she later served as a trustee, and from Smith College.
A specialist in 17th- and 18th-century French textiles, she served as consultant to the Metropolitan Museum of Art and to the Art Institute of Chicago.
In 1975 Mrs. Bevans and her family moved to West Cornwall, where she served on the Cornwall Board of Education from 1977 to 1983.
She also served on the boards of St. Joseph's Hospital and the Straight and Narrow drug and alcohol rehabilitation center, both in New Jersey.
She served as a vice president of the museum until 1937.
Judge Simon, who was still active as a lawyer at her death, served in state posts under appointments from both Republican and Democratic governors and was the first woman nominated by a major party for citywide office in New York City.
During World War II she served as the Office of Civilian Defense's director of group activities in New York, New Jersey and Delaware.
In 1958 she served as the legal advisor to the American delegation to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
She was active in the Urban League movement for more than 20 years and served as vice president and trustee of the National Urban League.
From 1937 to 1945, she served as executive secretary of the Philadelphia Orchestra Club and then became promotion manager of the Philadelphia Orchestra.
Dr. Ramsey taught and lectured at Johns Hopkins and Georgetown and George Washington Universities and served on the Dean's Council of Yale Medical School.
She also served on the boards of the National Symphony Orchestra and the National Cathedral Choral Society.
She served on the boards of Fort George Head Start and the Napeague Institute of Art in Amagansett, L.I.
An amateur painter, she served as administrator of the art school at the Museum at the Museum of Modern Art in the 1970's and held private art classes for children.
She attended Miss Spence's School but left before her graduation in 1918 to be trained as a radio operator 1st class, and served in that capacity until the end of World War I. Eisenhowers Were Clients
        Soon after the war, she married Seth Low, a banker.
She served as its secretary, vice president and president, and finally, from 1961 until 1988, as its executive director.
She served on state commissions on aging and was founding president of the Michigan Society of Gerontology.
She served for 10 years as director of the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, a post she left 10 years ago.
In World War II, she served in the United States Navy Women's Reserve, retiring in 1946 as a commander.
Ms. Eolis was a tax consultant in private practice and served on the faculty of the New York University Tax Institute and Pace University.
She served on the oversight board of the Anne Frank House for homeless women in Washington, D.C. She was also active in the National Museum for Women in the Arts and the Glen Rock League of Women Voters.
She also was active in the founding of Conservation International and served on the board of the New York Blood Center.
She served on the oversight board of the Anne Frank House for homeless women in Washington, D.C. She was also active in the National Museum for Women in the Arts and the Glen Rock League of Women Voters.
From 1952 to 1974 Miss Carbery served as the director of the nursing service at New York Hospital.
During World War II she served four years in the United States Army Nurse Corps in the Pacific.
She also served on the boards of the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, the Cincinnati Ballet, the Cincinnati Opera and the American Symphony Orchestra League.
Before she established the business Ms. Kessler served for a year as an analyst for the Foreign Economic Administration, a Federal agency, conducting studies of postwar industrialization in Ethiopia and China.
Mrs. Sovern also served on the Columbia Art History Advisory Council and helped create the Henry Moore Sculpture Reserve at Columbia's campus in Harriman, N.Y.
Three years later she accepted an appointment as professor of medical sciences at Southern Illinois University and also served as department chairwoman from 1974 until her academic retirement in 1977.
Ms. Dennis worked mostly in internal party organizing and for many years served as a courier of messages to Communist leaders in Germany, Poland, France and other countries.
She had served in numerous humanitarian organizations since moving to the Greenwich area with her husband in 1967.
She served in this position until last year.
She served as a mentor to generations of scholars since the 1940's when she was associated with the American Institute of Pacific Relations.
She served as a trustee of Duke University, which her family had built up with donations of many millions, and in her later years she became fascinated by the search for alternative sources of energy.
Mrs. Jablons helped found the City Opera Guild in 1959 and for six years served as its president.
" A Civil War ballet in "Bloomer Girl" served as the basis for "The Harvest According," a serious work that was also inspired by a Walt Whitman poem.
Mrs. Giordano served as president of the Ladies of Charity of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York for 25 years starting in 1952.
She also served on groups advising Catholic Charities, Fordham University, St. John's University, Elizabeth Seton College and St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers.
When the Federal Government set up the Headstart program for pre-schoolers, she served as a consultant.
She served on the board of Rutland Corner House, an early halfway house for women, in Brookline.
She also served on the boards of Wildwood School and Trinity Institute, a settlement house, both in Albany, and on a regional Planned Parenthood board.
Working in education, she helped found the Westland School in Los Angeles, a progressive school where she served as a consultant.

        Rita Klimova, a former dissident who served as Czechoslovakia's first Ambassador to the United States after the ouster of the Communist Government, died yesterday in a hospital in Prague.
She also served on the boards of the New York Philharmonic, the Metropolitan Opera and the Juilliard School of Music.
