She was not the only dancer who served as a muse to Balanchine or with whom he had a relationship.
She also wrote articles and served as its United Nations observer.
Ms. Johnson also served on the faculty of the School of Sacred Music, Union Theological Seminary (1960-65), and the Manhattan School of Music (1982-1989), and was an adjunct professor at the Conservatory of Music, Brooklyn College.

        The last queen of Italy, Maria José of Savoy, who served after World War II for only 27 days before Italians voted to abolish the monarchy, died on Saturday in a Geneva hospital.
In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burstein served on three different courts in Nassau County, outspokenly voicing her liberal opinions and acting as an advocate for the rights of children and prisoners at a time when the courts and county politics were dominated by conservatives.
Justice Burstein was the first woman to be appointed to the New York State Commission of Correction, on which she served from 1955 to 1961.
She also served on President John F. Kennedy's Commission on Juvenile Delinquency at the United Nations in 1961.
A collegiate badminton champion, Ms. Letheren later served as a judge in the gymnastics competition at the Summer Olympics of 1976, 1980 and 1984, according to her official I.O.C.
From 1990 to 1994, she also served as president of the Canadian Olympic Association.
Humphrey served as the artistic adviser to the Limón company and she and Limón asked Miss Koner to perform with the troupe.
She joined the Army in November 1942 and during World War II served in Africa, France and Italy.
She lectured widely, conducted seminars, appeared on national television programs and served on industry advisory boards on toys and other products.
She also served as chairwoman of the John Drew Theater in East Hampton.
When Golda Meir was prime minister of Israel, Dr. Metlitzki served in her government: she worked as press officer for the Foreign Ministry and secretary for the affairs of Arab women in the Israeli Federation of Labor.
She later served on the boards of many corporations, including Allied Stores Corporation and Sterling National Bank.
and served as its president in 1976-77.
She and Ms. Kinsella served as  consultants for projects including  theaters, opera houses and small community theaters as well as the lighting for Niagara Falls.
      
She served as the president of Big Sisters and for 25 years was on the board of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, where she focused on programs for the elderly and public social policy.
She served as a nurse's aide at Roosevelt Hospital during World Wars I and II.
She served as a nurse's aide at Roosevelt Hospital during World Wars I and II.
Mrs. Graham served on the board of The Associated Press, and was chairwoman and president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association, director of the Newspaper Advertising Bureau Inc. and a trustee of George Washington University, the University of Chicago and the Urban Institute.
Mrs. Milstein served as vice president of children's wear and juvenile products from 1974 to 1997.
Thereafter, except for service with the Red Cross during World War II, she served on the board uninterruptedly.
Chairwoman of the council's membership committee in its early days, she later served as its vice chairwoman and, from 1957 to 1966, as its president.
Mrs. Newhouse has been particularly adroit at roping family members into involvement with Career Transition for Dancers, which has served more than 2,000 dancers since it began in 1985.
Ms. Sayre served as New York correspondent for the New Statesman from 1965 until 1970.
Over the course of her career she also served as a lecturer and instructor in various writing workshops, including as a participant in the visiting authors program of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the lecture series at the Museum of Modern Art, and at the Museum of Television and Radio.
Ms. Brée also served as president of the Modern Language Association.
Ms. Brée also served as president of the Modern Language Association.
She served on the boards of the New Museum of Contemporary Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum before settling on the Modern.
Her talent for toughness and sarcasm served her well in a series of commercials for Hanes during the 80's.
For example, in 1988, when Asian influence on American cooking was felt most strongly on the West Coast but was spreading throughout the nation, Ms. Tropp served a Chinese pizzette, using Chinese scallion bread as the base.
Mrs. Ash boned and cooked chicken for 200 people, made the jalapeno dressing and Jell-O salad herself and served it all on paper plates.
Mrs. Ash boned and cooked chicken for 200 people, made the jalapeno dressing and Jell-O salad herself and served it all on paper plates.
For the next 34 years she served as its corporate secretary-treasurer and as a close adviser to Leslie Wexner.
Dr. Kleber served as deputy drug czar in the first Bush administration, and was a leader of Yale's drug research program.
In 1953 she wrote ''Elizabeth Enters: The Story of a Queen'' (Scribners), a biography for which Mr. Johnston served as the picture editor.
