The charitable organizations on whose boards she served in New York City included the Grosvenor Neighborhood House and the Henry Street Settlement.
The charitable organizations on whose boards she served in New York City included the Grosvenor Neighborhood House and the Henry Street Settlement.
She was 71 years old and lived in Wakefield, R.I.
        Miss Bliss was named the museum's curator of invertebrates in 1967, and from 1974 to 1977 she served as chairman of the its department of fossils and living invertebrates.
As the center's first director, Miss Haviland helped organize it in 1963 and served as its head until she retired in 1981.
She also wrote book reviews, and served on juries that judged children's books.
She also served as music critic of The Los Angeles Herald-Examiner and The Baltimore Sun and as director of the Kerr Cultural Center in Scottsdale, Ariz.
        Ms. Monson was the author of two books: ''Alban Berg'' (1979) and ''Alma Mahler: Muse to Genius'' (1983).
In Spanish Morocco
        She married Francisco Franco, then an up-and-coming army lieutenant colonel, on Oct. 22, 1923, and the couple left soon after for Spanish Morocco, where Franco was responsible for much of the conduct of the Riff Wars and where he built the military power base that served his successful uprising against the Republican Government.
In the late 1970's, Mrs. Goldberg served as a United States delegate to the Belgrade Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe, a follow-up to the Helsinki accords on human rights.
From 1932 to 1941, she served on the Y.W.C.A.
She was his chief assistant on many of his voyages of exploration in the late 20's and 30's, and she served with other expeditions of the New York Zoological Society, of which she was a fellow.
During her career, Mrs. Brook served as liaison in France for the Loyalist international brigades during the Spanish Civil War.
During her career, Mrs. Brook served as liaison in France for the Loyalist international brigades during the Spanish Civil War.
'' At Abyssinian Baptist Church, of which she was a member, she served in many groups, including the scholarship committee.
Mrs. Van Santvoord befriended and served as benefactor for such well-known artists as Childe Hassam, Walt Kuhn and Timothy Cole, the woodcarver.
She also served as a faculty adviser to the Makeup Box, an undergraduate theater group, and directed many plays at Hunter.
An active participant in New York City civic affairs, she served as president of the Women's City Club from 1936 to 1940, and was later president of the Cosmopolitan Club.

       Dr. Bessie Lee Gambrill, a specialist in elementary education who served on the faculty of Yale University for three decades, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She was 105 years old and lived at Whitney Center, a retirement home in Hamden, Conn.
        Dr. Bessie Lee Gambrill, a specialist in elementary education who served on the faculty of Yale University for three decades, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital.
She served five years in jail and eight in internal exile before being freed after the Allied invasion of Italy.
Mrs. Tofel, a graduate of Skidmore College, also served on the board of the Barnard School in New York from 1968 to 1977.
Active in a number of philanthropic organizations, Ms. Lehman served on the board of the Save the Children Federation from 1962 until 1978.
In World War II, she served as a lieutenant in the Women's Ambulance and Defense Corps.
She was born Dec. 28, 1894, in Copiah County, Mississippi, where her father owned a plantation and served as clerk of the local chancery court.
Mrs. Garland, who was born and reared in Terre Haute, Ind., served on the Pulitzer Prize selection committee in 1979.
She was 70 years old and lived in Sparta, N.J.
        Mrs. Ryan served as secretary to the editor in chief of House Beautiful and later as editor and director of the magazine's mail-order column.
She served the library as a volunteer for more than 30 years.
She moved to Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
She moved to the Canterbury Shaker Village in 1972 to assume further responsibilities as a member of the Lead Ministry and served as vice president of the nonprofit educational corporation and museum that administers the historic site founded in the 1780's.
She served on the board of the Institute of Pirandello Studies and Contemporary Italian Theater since 1962.

       Leonie Adams, who served as a consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress in 1948 and 1949, died of heart disease Monday in the Candlewood Valley Care Center, a nursing home, in New Milford, Conn., where she made her home.
Leonie Adams, who served as a consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress in 1948 and 1949, died of heart disease Monday in the Candlewood Valley Care Center, a nursing home, in New Milford, Conn., where she made her home.
She served the library as a volunteer for more than 30 years.
Ms. Gillars, who died Saturday, had moved here after her release in 1961 from Federal prison, where she served 12 years after her conviction for treason.
She served 12 years at Alderson, W.Va. After her release, she moved to Columbus and taught music at a kindergarten.
She served on several committees of the National Institutes of Health and the National Academy of Sciences national research council.
She was named editor of the Journal of Nutrition in 1984 and had served as president of three national scientific organizations.
She served on several committees of the National Institutes of Health and the National Academy of Sciences national research council.
She was named editor of The Journal of Nutrition in 1984 and had served as president of three national scientific organizations.
At Mount Holyoke, where she was named a full professor in 1971, she served for a number of years as chairman of the art department, and in the early 1970's oversaw new construction to house it.
She served on several committees of the New York State Bar Association.
During World War II she served in the United States Army Signal Corps.

       Margaret B. McFarland, a child psychologist who served as a consultant to Fred Rogers, the host of the children's television show ''Mr.
Margaret B. McFarland, a child psychologist who served as a consultant to Fred Rogers, the host of the children's television show ''Mr.
She served as its director until 1971.
Previously, she served on the state's Public Utility Commission, a period in which she won an antidiscrimination suit against Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, for refusing her a job.
She served as a director on a number of boards, among them the New York City Youth Board, the Inwood House for Unwed Mothers, the Japan International Christian University and the advisory board of the Metropolitan Chapter of the United Nations Association of the United States of America.
She was a member of the Labor Party's national executive from 1958 to 1970 and served as party chairman in 1967 and 1968.
Miss Graham, who also served as a war correspondent in Europe in World War II and who at various times had her own Hollywood-based radio and television shows, is probably best remembered for her love affair with F. Scott Fitzgerald, whose last unhappy years she described in her first book, ''Beloved Infidel,'' published in 1958.
She served as the model for Kathleen, the heroine in ''The Last Tycoon,'' the Fitzgerald novel that was unfinished at his death.
She also served as chairman of the New York State Advisory Council on Unemployment Insurance under Governors Cuomo and Hugh L. Carey.
John Birch, a missionary in China before World War II, served in the war as an intelligence officer.
She earned a master's degree in social work from Columbia University and served as president of the board of trustees of the School of Social Work.
She had been on the legal staff of the Federal Securities and Exchange Commission and served as an assistant general counsel of the Atomic Energy Commission.
She then served as executive secretary of the National Association for the Education of Young Children, in Washington, until 1966.
After practicing law in Mineola, L.I., for 20 years, she was elected a judge of the Nassau County District Court, where she served from 1953 to 1970, when she retired.
Miss Kane prepared the charter for the Nassau County Women's Bar Association and served as its president.
