' "  She served as executive director of the school until 1979 and also taught there.
In 1977 she raised more than $2 million to build a new facility for the school,  which originally served 20 children and now has more than 1,000 students.
For more than four decades, Mrs. Klau served as a volunteer with the auxiliary at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
For more than four decades, Mrs. Klau served as a volunteer with the auxiliary at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx.
From then until her death, she served as a director of the Non-Governmental Committee on Aging at the United Nations.
The council served as the first  liaison between the schools and social service agencies in the field.
She served as  national vice president and treasurer and headed its Nassau and Suffolk region as well as a number of its divisions.
She served for many years on the board of the Hudson Guild, a large settlement house in Chelsea.
She also served as chairwoman of the department from 1975 to 1980.
Although she served on numerous boards and was involved in fund raising for  a number of projects, Mrs. Rockefeller, who was known as Peggy, maintained a low profile, preferring to remain in the background and devoting much of her time to causes that were more worthy than fashionable.
She served as president of the Irish Academy of Letters in 1971.

        Anne McDonnell Ford Johnson, who served on the White House Fine Arts Committee during the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations, helped restore Blair House in Washington and played an active role in social and charitable events in New York, died Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center.
But although her own sister once described her as an unloved child, her childhood served her well, providing the swirling fox-hunting background and social intrigue she drew on for more than a dozen novels and five plays.
"
        She had served as a chairman of the American Advertising Federation National  Convention.
From 1989 until two years ago she served as the museum director of the Historical Society of Delaware.
A friend and ally of Edward I. Koch, the former Mayor, for 40 years, Ms. Nichols twice served as president of the WNYC Communications Group, with two radio stations, WNYC-AM and WNYC-FM, and a television station, WNYC-TV, Channel  31, licensed and partly financed by the city.
In World War II she served in the Women's Army Corps in the United States and in occupied Germany.
Dr. Cox was born in Murray, Ky., the daughter of a country doctor who served  as a role model as she accompanied him on his rounds in a horse-drawn buggy.

        Honor R. Holland, who served as a British Army officer with the future Queen  in World War II and as a high Government official in Imperial Ethiopia, died last Monday in Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. She was 79 and lived  in Saratoga Springs.
She served in the same unit as the Princess Royal, now Queen Elizabeth II, and her sister, Princess Margaret.
She also served as civilian head of the country's modest navy and co-founded a magazine, Ethiopian Woman.
A trustee at the Museum of Modern Art since 1971, she served on more than one-third of the museum's many trustee committees, including those of painting and sculpture, drawings and prints and illustrated books, and had been chairwoman of the museum's architecture and design committee since 1981.
In 1991, Mrs. Auchincloss served on the jury for the competition for the design of the cathedral's new wing, which was won by the Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava.
She also served on the board of Japan Society, and was a director  of the Municipal Arts Society and a Fellow for Life of the Morgan Library.
She also was a member of the advisory committee to the Supervising Judge for  the Civil Court in Manhattan and served on the citywide task force on Housing Court.
She served until 1975.
For many years, she also served as a director of the Institute of International Education and the Spoleto Festival of Two Worlds.
Mrs. Patton is credited with contributing significantly to the growth of Recording for the Blind, which she served as president in 1954, and of the Opera Guild.
Mrs. Patton, who had served as a director, was familiar with the operation and earned a reputation for running a trim ship.
"
        Mrs. Crain, who served on the boards of the International Advertising Association, the National Press Foundation and the Advertising Council of New York, was an early critic of violence in television shows.
She attended every Democratic National Convention from 1932 to 1972 and served as vice chairwoman of the Pennsylvania delegation at the 1956 convention.
Ms. Rosenblum served for the last six years as the borough historian of Manhattan, and her positions of civic authority included her job as district manager of Community Board 7 on the Upper West Side from 1983 to 1990.
Ms. Rosenblum's base of influence included the Strycker's Bay Neighborhood Council, where she served as a board member and president, and later Community Board 7, where she became a member in 1971.
She served for eight years, after which she was appointed Ambassador to Norway by President George Bush.
She became Chief Judge in June 1990, and served in that post until March 1994.
Mr. Quarles, who served President Dwight D. Eisenhower as Secretary of the Air Force and Deputy Secretary of Defense, died in 1959.
'' A director of the Screen Actors Guild from 1990 until her death, Ms. Besch served on many of the organization's committees, among them the national communications committee, the women's committee, the agents relations committee and the women's health task force.
She also served as a trustee of the Lawrence Country Day School in Hewlett Bay Park, L.I.
She no more understood the fuss over her efforts to rescue Jews than the consternation she caused her neighbors  when policemen came to arrest her husband (he was later released) and she served them dinner.
Dr. Boynton served as chief medical director of the American Red Cross blood donor program for metropolitan New York during both World War II and the Korean War.
She also served as administrator of the Lenox Hill blood bank in the 1970's through mid-1980's.
As an active member of the Association of the Bar of New York City, she served on its council on criminal justice and as chairwoman of the committee on criminal justice.
Working to raise awareness of domestic violence against people with disabilities, she served on Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's task force on domestic violence, giving a voice to some of the more vulnerable victims of abuse.
Justice Moskowitz served on professional panels, in the Office of Court Administration and the New York Task Force on Women in the Courts.
She also served on the Board of Governors of the Fashion Group and on the committee for the American Fashion Critics Award.
So while her husband, whom everyone called Doc, attended to the tickets and logistics, Mrs. Hyman served cake and coffee and became a troubleshooter, all the while marveling at the medicinal effect a sport could have on those who had lost limbs, sight or the ability to walk.
She then served as chairwoman of the local housing authority, until the early 1960's.
In her law practice, Mrs. Rosenberger worked on behalf of youthful offenders, and she later served as a law guardian in the Nassau County Children's Court before the establishment of Family Court in Westbury.
One ancestor, John Welsh, served as envoy to Britain in Rutherford B. Hayes's Administration, and her grandfather John W. Foster and an uncle, Robert Lansing, each served as Secretary of State, under Presidents Benjamin Harrison and Woodrow Wilson, respectively.
One ancestor, John Welsh, served as envoy to Britain in Rutherford B. Hayes's Administration, and her grandfather John W. Foster and an uncle, Robert Lansing, each served as Secretary of State, under Presidents Benjamin Harrison and Woodrow Wilson, respectively.
George E. Pataki, who served in the Assembly with Ms. Dugan, ordered state flags to be flown at half-staff in her memory.
Since 1991, Ms. Dugan, one of the principal political tacticians in the Assembly, had served as the chairwoman of the Democratic Assembly Campaign Committee, a major fund-raising and strategy-making arm of the party.

        Mary Cooper Jewett Gaiser, a philanthropist who served on the boards of nonprofit institutions in the fields of education, community service and the arts, died on Sunday at Deaconess Medical Center in Spokane, Wash. She was 95 and lived in Spokane.
Over the years, Mrs. Gaiser (pronounced like ''geyser'') served on the boards of numerous institutions that were beneficiaries of her largess.
Her philanthropy extended to other educational institutions, including the American University of Beirut, Whitman College in Walla Walla, Wash., and Church Divinity School of the Pacific in Berkeley, Calif., all of which she served as a trustee.
The institute in Princeton, now caring for about 40 autistic children, has grown into a nationally recognized center that has served as a model elsewhere in the country.
She served as its longtime chairwoman, raising funds for the state-supported institute.
From 1965 to 1969, she served as assistant director of the State Department's Office of Carribean Affairs before returning to Barbados as Ambassador, becoming the highest ranking woman in the Foreign Service.
Miss Donovan was a history teacher in the Boston public school system from 1938 to 1943, and then served in the Women's Army Corps during World War II, where she quickly rose from private to captain.
She also served on charitable boards benefiting children, including the Spence-Chapin Adoption Service, as well as the Norman Rockwell Museum and the Berkshire Botanical Garden.
"
        As a Congressional newcomer, Ms. Jordan served notice that she had received 80 percent of the vote and would therefore have far broader interests than the Black Caucus agenda, and would hardly be a "female chauvinist.
"
        "You know, Barbara wasn't really that concerned about the guilt or innocence  of Nixon," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, the Manhattan Democrat who served with Ms. Jordan on the impeachment hearings.
When Josephine earned her spurs in Chicago in the early 1930's, interviewing  killers like George (Baby Face) Nelson and covering murders and the criminal courts, she worked not for her father's newspaper but for a rival paper, The Chicago Daily News, whose staff members served as models for the characters in the classic Ben Hecht-Charles MacArthur comedy "The Front Page.
She served as a trustee of Butler University, the Christian Theological Seminary and Union Theological Seminary.
She served as  president of the organization in 1958, when it was known as the National Association for Retarded Children.
Previously, certain Federal programs served only people who were mentally retarded.
She was a former trustee of Bard College and the American University in Beirut and served on the New York City Board of Education as a member for District 2 and the Advisory Board for Vocational and Extension Education.
A volunteer for the Mount Sinai Hospital Auxiliary Board from 1927 to 1991, she served as president for five of those years and was a founder of the hospital gift shop.
She served as a member of its Painting and Sculpture Committee from 1978 to 1989.
She served as her father's amanuensis, and in "To the Memory of Childhood" she described him as a humorous, fun-loving man who was passionate about language and fanatical about poetry.
Working in different studies of the converted 17th-century barn that served as their home in Fairfield, Conn., they  wrote from 9 A.M. to 2 P.M. daily, she using the typewriter in the companionship of their cat, he writing in longhand accompanied by their dog.
