
        Françoise Giroud, a widely admired French journalist who co-founded the political weekly L'Express and later served as France's first minister of women's affairs, died Sunday in the American Hospital of Paris.
Ms. Giroud was not a militant feminist in the manner of, say, Simone de Beauvoir but, as both a pioneering journalist and editor and as a cabinet minister, she served as a role model for two generations of French women seeking a more prominent role in French society.
Then, in 1953, with Jean-Jacques Servan-Shreiber, she founded L'Express, France's first American-style news weekly, and served as its news editor and later as editor.
''
        Ms. McClendon served as a public relations lieutenant in the Women's Army Corps in World War II, and she diligently covered the Veterans Administration, later the Department of Veterans Affairs.
She then served as the staff director of a Senate subcommittee, followed by a job as public affairs adviser to Adlai Stevenson, then ambassador to the United Nations.
She served as a trustee for the Massachusetts state college system and the University of Massachusetts and was president of the Friends of Boston University Libraries.
Known for her sharp intellect and blunt language, she entered Congress in 1955, was re-elected nine times and served through 1974, when she chose not to run again.
Ms. Topaz received a John Simon Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship in 1998, served as a panelist for many cultural organizations, including the Massachusetts Cultural Council and the New York State State Council on the Arts, and was an auditor for the National Endowment for the Arts.
'' She also served as an adviser to the federal government's Human Genome Project.
She also served as Loyola's volleyball coach from 1984 to 1990 and as an assistant athletic director from 1993 to 1998.
She worked in a medical laboratory, did science research for Time magazine, served with the Naval Reserve in Washington in World War II and studied art history at Vassar College.
After the war, she and Sir Oswald, who also served time in Holloway, moved to Orsay, Paris, where they lived happily, and only partly in disgrace, for the rest of their lives (he died in 1980).
Before the Waves, neither the women who served in World War I nor Navy nurses were permitted to become officers.
Earlier, Ms. Younes served as chief of protocol at the biggest gathering of world leaders the United Nations has every held, the meeting of 150 kings, presidents, prime ministers and dictators at its headquarters in New York in September 2000.
A resident of East Orange, she had served as its recreation director.
Yet she was also deeply involved in the endless maneuvering of her husband, who served uneasily at the helm of several shifting alliances with Chinese warords vying for control of what was then a badly fractured nation.
Chiang spoke almost no English, though his wife taught him to call her ''darling,'' and she served as his interpreter, often interspersing her own views.
Madame Chiang's elder brother, T. V. Soong, often called Nationalist China's financial wizard, served at various times as finance minister, acting prime minister and foreign minister, where his primary role was raising money from America.
She served as the artistic director for the triennial USA International Ballet Competition from 1986 to 1994.
In World War II, Mrs. Love served as president of the American Women's Voluntary Service.
She served on the board of the Fashion Institute of Technology and the Educational Foundation for Fashion Industries.
She served as an adviser on several task forces for health care reform.
Ms. Smythe also served on boards and advisory councils at numerous charities and educational organizations, including the March of Dimes, the Visiting Nurse Services in Westchester, Manhattanville College, the Dominican Academy and Catholic Charities USA.
She served as director of the division of corporation finance from 1986 to 1996.
While she studied art, Mr. Russell, whom she had met at Teaneck High School, pursued her with a romantic diligence from the South Pacific, where he served in World War II as a radioman aboard seaplane tenders.
