Dr. Ray, a marine biologist who championed the nuclear industry, was appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the atomic commission in 1972, and served as chairwoman from 1973 to 1975.
She organized and served as chairman of the Dutchess County branch of the Foreign Policy Association and formerly directed the information center for voluntary organizations at the Woodrow Wilson Foundation.
Innovative Exhibitions
        In 1943, she was hired by Daniel Catton Rich, director of the Art Institute of Chicago, to run the museum's public-relations office while its regular director served in the military.

        Susan Lehman Cullman, a New York philanthropist who served as a Navy cryptographer in World War II, died on Sunday at her home in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. She was 79 and also had a home in Manhattan.
From 1981 until her retirement in 1987 she served with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in Washington, where she was the deputy assistant administrator of its National Environmental Satellites, Data and Information Service.
She served with the Red Cross in World War II.
But having served in the House from 1945 to 1947, she was the first American woman to precede a husband to Congress.
She also served on the board of the California Institute of Arts in Valencia for 36 years and of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York City for 17 years.
Mrs. Simon served for more than 30 years on the board of directors of the Riverdale Mental Health Association.
Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served variously as chairman of the board of the American Cancer Society, a trustee of Research to Prevent Blindness and of the Cancer Research Institute and a director of the National Committee for Mental Hygiene.
"
        Over the years, Mrs. Lasker also served on the boards of trustees or directors of a number of organizations and institutions, including the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the Museum of Modern Art, the Norton Simon Museum, New York University and Braniff Airways.
During World War II she managed the large McMillan family farm in Maryland while her husband served in the Navy in the Pacific.
She served as executive director from 1969 to 1979.
She served as its principal from 1963 until 1982, when she became a full-time professor in administration and teacher education at the graduate school.
faculty in 1963 and served as professor of European archeology until her retirement four years ago.
She served as its president from 1980 until her illness.
Since 1979, she served as the United States chairwoman of the International Committee for the Dance Library of Israel, which presented her with its documents of dance award last year.
Representing the Presbyterian Church, she served as director of Christian education for the Protestant Council's Manhattan division and the National Council of Churches for 28 years, beginning in 1938.
She served as the president of this organization in 1957 and 1958.
She served in the post until 1989, when her party lost power, and then returned when the party was re-elected in October.
Miss Leet also served from 1953 to 1956 as president of the International Federation of University Women.
She established a Judith Schwartz scholarship fund at the Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School and served as a representative of the Women's International Zionist Organization to the United Nations.
From 1972 until her retirement in 1984, she lectured in the department of film and television at Howard, and served as the director of the university's department of continuing education and of its community-service programs.
She previously served as director of Young Adult Psychiatry at Columbia.
She later served as assistant regional counsel of the New York Environmental Protection Agency.
Over the years, Mrs. Bissell served as chairman of the collections and garden committees, chairman of the board of regents and, twice, as president of the board.

        Dr. Dorothy F. Berezin, a child psychologist who served as a municipal welfare official from 1969 to 1978, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan.
Dr. Berezin served as an assistant commissioner and director of child and adolescent services for the New York City Department of Mental Health and Mental Retardation Services from 1971 to 1978.
Benchmark Cases
        From 1955 to 1966, she served Pennsylvania as Deputy Attorney General and played a key role in two benchmark cases.
For more than 40 years she also served as the office manager for her husband, Dr. David Bernstein, a surgeon who practiced medicine in Brooklyn until his death in 1988.
In 1969, she founded and organized the library for the institute and served as its archivist and curator until her retirement in 1988.
In 1974 she became a member of Community School Board District 25 in Flushing and served for 19 years.
She had also served since 1973 as a member of the New York City Commission on the Status of Women.
Over the years, she also served as senior vice president of Catalina, a sportswear company based in Los Angeles, and as a merchandising and marketing consultant for Bullock's department stores.
She managed the 1989, 1990 and 1991 Olympic dressage teams and served as chef d'equipe, or team manager, for the dressage team at the 1987 Pan American Games.
"
        Ms. Stevens served on local and national boards of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists from 1978 until her death.
She served as a board member for many years and was one of the museum's 27 commissioners at her death.
Dr. Gordon was a professor of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, where she had served as associate director of the Institute of Industrial Relations from 1954 until 1969.
After Pearl Harbor, she served as a director of the National Board of the American Women's Voluntary Service and as chairman of its Chinese unit in New York.
She also served as a literary assistant to Mary McCarthy.
Mrs. Christy also served on the boards of the Visiting Nurse Association of Brooklyn and the Brooklyn Bureau of Social Service, and was secretary of the National United Service Organization from 1957 to 1968.
She had served at St. George's for the last four years, after assignments at the Church of the Heavenly Rest and St. Mark's Church-in-the-Bowery.
She then helped to organize the Avalon Community Center in Los Angeles and served as its executive director until she was named a Rockefeller Foundation research fellow in 1942.
In 1937, Miss Stroganova joined the Mordkin Ballet, a New York company that served as the nucleus of Ballet Theater, as American Ballet Theater was originally known.
She later served as administrative assistant to the federation's executive secretary-treasurer.
She served Govs.
Before joining New York University, she served as a field instructor at the Rutgers University Graduate School of Social Work and a research assistant at the Columbia University School of Social Work.
Miss Potts also served as the executive secretary of a commission established by Vice President Al Gore and Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin of Russia to foster economic and technological cooperation between the two nations.
Mrs. Cliburn served as her son's adviser, manager and inspiration throughout his career.
A native of Marion, Ohio, she also served on the National Health Care Reform Committee set up by Hillary Rodham Clinton and was a member of the Iowa State Commission on AIDS, Dr. Osterholm said.
She had served as co-chairwoman of Palm Beach's first Landmarks Preservation Commission and had drafted landmarks preservation legislation for that city.
"
        It reported, for example, that Ulysses S. Grant personally selected the wines to be served at formal dinners, "though his own glass was usually turned down"; that Chester A. Arthur was an epicure who savored fine wines, and that William McKinley's taste ran to fried potatoes, bacon and eggs, johnnycakes and cherry pie.
Mrs. Horton also served as president of the American Association of Colleges and was on the boards of the NBC and RCA.
She was also the chairman of the Albright Institute for archeological research in Jerusalem and served on the boards of other cultural and educational institutions.
Sister Mary Margaret was elected to the Provincial Council of the School Sisters of Notre Dame in St. Louis in 1971 and served as the international leader in Rome from 1977 to 1987.
As such, she served as Bishop Michael F. McAuliffe's principal administrator for 87 parishes and their 37 parochial schools.
Beginning in 1968, Ms. Lawrence served as the chief writer for the organization, producing training manuals, public-service advertising and other written materials.
Mrs. Nemerov's son, the poet Howard Nemerov, won a Pulitzer Prize in 1978 and served as Poet Laureate of the United States from 1988 to 1990.
Mrs. Roebling also served as a director of numerous other corporations over the years, was active in many civic, charitable and educational organizations, and was a tireless advocate of a greater role for women in the country's economic affairs.
"
        She continued to be active in male-dominated spheres, however: in 1978, after having served as a civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army in several administrations, she became the founding president of the newly formed Army War College Foundation.
In the early 1950's, her family joined with three others to found a congregation, Temple Emanuel in Great Neck, L.I., of which she served as administrator.
She was elected secretary of NOW and of its national political action committee in 1991 and served until last year.
The medieval-style 1840's window was restored under her direction and given on extended loan to the museum, where it hangs in the Charles Engelhard Court of the American Wing
        Miss Hayward served as a technical illustrator for the United States Navy during World War II.
She then served as a psychiatric caseworker at the Jewish Family Service's Mandel Clinic in Brooklyn and with the New York Association for New Americans.
      
In 1980 Miss Knapp was a co-founder of the Southeastern Savoyards in Atlanta, and served as its artistic director through 1987.

        Beatrice Kneeland, who helped to establish the Hartford College for Women in 1939 and had served as a trustee since then, died on Sunday at the Cherry Brook Health Center in Canton, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Bloomfield.
She served in several administrative posts before becoming Dean of the College in 1954.
She also served on the board of the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel and as chairwoman of the Women's Division of the United Jewish Appeal in New York City and Palm Beach.
After the war, she served on a variety of high-level panels concerned with women's rights and other policy spheres.
In 1919, she became the first woman appointed to the Democratic National Committee, and in the mid-1920's, she served under President Calvin Coolidge as chairwoman of the First Federal Prison for Women, where she instituted a job training and rehabilitation program.
In 1949, she joined the National Symphony Orchestra's board, and she served as its vice president from 1951 through 1968.
Mrs. Schuman was the founder and first chairwoman of the Friends of Thirteen and the National Friends of Public Broadcasting, and served for many years on the board of WNET Channel 13.
She also served as vice chairman and continued as an active board member until her death.
She served as president of Rehabilitation International USA and vice president of Rehabilitation International, a worldwide volunteer agency.
She later carried out special projects for the commissioner and served as director of community relations.
President Lyndon B. Johnson named her to the National Advisory Council on Extension and Continuing Education, and she served on the Department of Defense Advisory Committee on Women in the Armed Forces.
