
       Helenka Adamowska Pantaleoni, who served for more than 25 years as president of the United States Committee for Unicef, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, died of cardiac arrest Monday at New York Hospital.
Helenka Adamowska Pantaleoni, who served for more than 25 years as president of the United States Committee for Unicef, the United Nations International Children's Emergency Fund, died of cardiac arrest Monday at New York Hospital.
''
        An energetic exponent of dance, in the San Francisco area and across the nation, Miss Van Tuyl served on the California Arts Commission through the 1970's, compiling a modern dance directory for the organization that was published in 1972.
She served as treasurer emeritus of the agency, having only recently retired from her positions as secretary, treasurer and chief financial officer.
After the war, she served as press attache for Chief Justice Robert Jackson at the Nuremberg Trials of German war criminals.
She served as treasurer emeritus of the agency, having only recently retired from her positions as secretary, treasurer and chief financial officer.
Women were admitted to the Bronx Bar Association in 1945, and Mrs. Siskind served as its president from 1970 to 1971.
Mrs. Vandivier founded the child care department of Temple University in Philadelphia, where she developed a curriculum that served as the model for others.
Mrs. Stein served as a precinct captain and member of the county Democratic committee from 1958 until 1985.
For three years, she served as curator of contemporary art at the John and Mabel Ringling Museum in Sarasota.
Mrs. Hinshaw served as an assistant to the ministers at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, in charge of pastoral visitations, from 1958 to 1969, when she retired.
Mrs. Nason, who was a daughter of a well-known real-estate developer, William E. Harmon, served from 1928 until 1985 as a director and, for a time, as president of the Harmon Foundation.
She also served on volunteer committees to promote the city's fashion industry and on the State Attorney General's consumer-fraud commission.
Democratic Party Activities
        In the 1950's Mrs. Burton helped organize the California Democratic Council and served as its vice president.
Mrs. Manning, a specialist in British colonial history, served as dean from 1917 to 1919 and from 1925 to 1941.
She later served as professor of history and head of the department, retiring in 1957.
Democratic Party Activities
        In the 1950's Mrs. Burton helped organize the California Democratic Council and served as its vice president.
Mrs. Manley is survived by two sons: Michael, leader of the party his father founded and Jamaica's Prime Minister from 1972 to 1980, and Douglas, a social scientist who served in his brother's Cabinet.
      
Miss Kaye served as executive producer of ''The Turning Point,'' a 1977 film whose story was said to have been drawn from her own life, though she denied the rumor.
Mrs. Connell, who served as regional director from 1979 to 1985, was one of the principal architects of the state policy of financing street outreach programs for the homeless mentally ill. She helped initiate programs to send state, city and voluntary agency workers into shelters to assist and to place the homeless.
Miss Lightbody served as nanny to Princes William and Richard, sons of the Queen's uncle, the Duke of Gloucester, then ran the Buckingham Palace nursery from 1948, when Prince Charles was a month old, until she resigned in 1956.
Her father, William Green, served as a United States Representative, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee and, later, as a Federal judge.
Mrs. Gill served as a first lieutenant in the Medical Corps in World War II.
She rose to the second-highest position on the House Education and Labor Committee and served as chairwoman of its Subcommittee on Higher Education.
After retiring, she became a professor of government at Warner Pacific College and in 1976 she served as co-chairwoman of the National Democrats for Gerald Ford.
She also served for more than 20 years as a member of the company's executive committee.
Miss Gibson, who served on the board of Actors' Equity and as chairwoman of the Equity Library Theater, had starring or featured parts in more than 30 movies, as well as roles on Broadway, radio and television.
She served for 25 years with the Housing Authority, rising to the position of supervisor of the casework and referral unit.

       Margaret Harrison, who served for 20 years as personal secretary to Arthur Hays Sulzberger, publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961, died Tuesday at her home in New York City after a long illness.
Margaret Harrison, who served for 20 years as personal secretary to Arthur Hays Sulzberger, publisher of The New York Times from 1935 to 1961, died Tuesday at her home in New York City after a long illness.
She was Mr. Sulzberger's secretary from 1948 until his death in 1968, then served as secretary to his widow, Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger, until last year.
Professor Brody served for many years as chairman of the music department at the former University Heights campus of N.Y.U.
During World War II, Judge Polier served as counsel to Eleanor Roosevelt in the Office of Civil Defense in Washington.
Active in Adoption Issues
        After Yale, she served on a state committee to study workers' compensation laws and was an assistant corporation counsel of New York City before she was named a judge.
A Democrat, she had been a teacher in the city's school system and had served three and a half terms in the State Legislature before her election to the Council in 1965.
Only a handful of women had served in the New York State Assembly when she was elected to the Legislature in 1958.

       Hyla Stowell Watters, a Methodist missionary surgeon in China and India who remained in practice until 1974, died Aug. 2 of heart failure at Saranac Lake General Hospital, N.Y. She was 93 years old and lived in Tupper Lake, N.Y.
        Hyla Stowell Watters, a Methodist missionary surgeon in China and India who remained in practice until 1974, died Aug. 2 of heart failure at Saranac Lake General Hospital, N.Y. She was 93 years old and lived in Tupper Lake, N.Y.
        Dr. Watters served as a Methodist missionary surgeon in China at the Wu Hu General Hospital on the Yangtze River from 1924 to 1948.
In the commercials Mrs. Peller, who was 4 feet 10 inches tall, played the part of a consumer outraged by the small size of hamburger patties served by other fast-food chains.
A similar group of women who served in the Navy in World War I were referred to as ''yeomanettes,'' and Mrs. Watson's oldest sister was serving at the time with that group.
An aviator who learned to fly as a civilian, she served in the Marine Corps in World War II, rising from private to lieutenant colonel.
In 1968 she served as the Council's president.
Over the years, she served as an official of the American Bureau for Medical Aid to China, the Hong Kong True Light School Foundation and the American-China Policy Association.
She was 78 years old and lived in Darien, Conn.
        Miss Blood, who was a state legislator in the early 1940's, later served as an assistant to Clare Boothe Luce during Mrs. Luce's years in the House of Representatives, from 1943 to 1947.
Miss Blood served as a consultant on women's organizations from 1953 to 1973 with the National Foundation for the March of Dimes.
He served as president of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints from 1973 until his death in 1985.
      
In recent years Mrs. Luce served on President Reagan's unpaid Foreign Intelligence Advisory Board.
An avid golfer in her earlier years and the first president of Remsenburg's Garden Club in 1958, Miss Remsen also served as a trustee of Finch College in Manhattan.
Active in politics, Dr. Weithorn also served as a Democratic committee member for 20 years in Manhasset.
At its peak the summer camp served approximately 150 children a season.
But during her prime she was recognized as one of the world's leading cellists, and served as a role model for many young musicians.
She served on several boards and foundations.
She also served as honorary chairman of the women's division of United Cerebral Palsy.
She had joined the Linnaean Society in 1950 and served as treasurer and archivist for many years and as president from 1977 to 1979.
She was also a member of the board of trustees of Cancer Care and served as co-chairman of the development committee and chairman of the women's committee.
She served until 1986.
Sister O'Byrne served on the American Council on Education, the American Association of University Women, and the White House Conference on Education.
From 1963 to 1970, she served on Gov.
