Her daughter and successor, Dr. Kathy Fryer, estimated yesterday that the center had served more than 10,000 people and their families.
She also served stints as a piano teacher at the Manhattan School of Music in the 1930's, and more recently at the Brearley School.
She served as executive director of the White House Commission on the Status of Women during the Kennedy Administration.
Miss Torre served 10 days in the Hudson County Jail in New Jersey in 1959, the first reporter to gain national attention for going to jail for refusing to identify a news source.
In his opinion, Judge Potter Stewart, who later served on the United States Supreme Court, conceded that ''compulsory disclosure of a journalist's confidential sources of information may entail an abridgment of press freedom.
During a long career, Ms. Pierre served as press representative for tours by such groups as the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, American Ballet Theater, the Old Vic, the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Comedie Francaise and the Royal Dramatic Theater of Sweden.
A champion of the arts in Southern California, she served as public relations director for such Los Angeles organizations as the Greek Theater Association, the Hollywood Bowl, the Free Shakespeare Festival and the Los Angeles Ballet.

        Pilar Barbosa de Rosario, a revered Puerto Rican historian and political authority who served as teacher, mentor and mother confessor to generations of Puerto Rican politicians, scholars and intellectuals, died on Wednesday at a hospital near her home in San Juan.
A small, rotund woman with an earthy sense of humor, Ms. Roberts also served as a patient yet eminently practical ''great mother figure,'' as Alvin Ailey put it, to several generations of modern dancers.
''
        She served as director of company up to her death.
      
She also sponsored minority scholarships at Barnard College and served for years on the board of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center.
During World War II, she served for three years in the Navy, working in Washington in naval intelligence.
In 1972, she served as its first president.
Working with the Children's Television Workshop, where she served as a consultant after retiring in 1992, Mrs. Davis also helped open scores of children's centers in prisons.
''
        Mrs. Kisselgoff served as president in 1972-74 and 1982-84 of the New York Oriental Club.

        Elizabeth Rudel Gatov, a wealthy California businesswoman who was long active in Democratic politics and served briefly as Treasurer of the United States, died on Jan. 25 at her home in Kentfield, Calif., near San Francisco.
Over the next few years, she helped shape the Dumbartron Oaks and San Francisco conferences, which laid the groundwork for the United Nations, served on the delegations to both conferences and attended the early sessions of the U.N.
Her work served as a model for those outside the courts as well.
Mrs. Hershey's seminars on the role of women in the economy led to the creation in 1972 of the Presidential Advisory Committee on the Economic Role of Women, on which she served.

        Leanne Katz, who served as executive director of the National Coalition Against Censorship since its creation more than 20 years ago, died at her New York home Sunday, after a three-year battle with cancer.
Ms. Katz served as a consultant for Human Rights Watch, the National Council of Teachers of English and the Modern Language Association.
She was a founding member of New York's Liberal Party, was a member of the Americans for Democratic Action and served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the National Urban League.
She served on the boards of the Lexington Center for the Deaf and of the Associates of the California Institute of Technology.
She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
President Johnson appointed Mrs. Anderson to represent the United States on the United Nations Trusteeship Council and a year later she served on the United Nations Committee for Decolonization.
''
        Both women married young, bore children, traveled, entertained, served on the boards of charities and collected antique English furniture, Chinese porcelain, American folk paintings and modern art.
She served three terms as national president of the large volunteer agency, from 1953 to 1956.
Mrs. Gleason's father, William T. Dewart, bought The Sun from the estate of Frank A. Munsey, and served as its president and publisher until his death in 1944.
Mrs. Gleason served on the board of the C. W. H. Merlis Corporation, a Dewart family holding company with interests in real estate and banking.
While running a household and raising two children, she served as a sounding board and occasional editor and adviser to a man who took neither advice nor editing easily.
She studied ballet in Rome and Paris and toured Australia and Western Europe, from 1936 to '38, with a group directed by Leon Woizikovsky that served as the second company for the celebrated Ballets Russes directed by Col. W. de Basil.
Ms. Johnson also served for three years as director of the Storm King Art Center in Mountainville, N.Y.
      
But retirement was a relative term for a woman who was also president of the Women's City Club and a member of foundations dedicated to the poor and the mentally ill. She and her husband moved to Little Compton, where she served on the town planning board and helped raise money for the Sakonnet Light House, which was relighted in March.
Mrs. Neuberger, who took a special interest in the public schools, served several terms as president of the Women's City Club, an organization concerned with urban problems.
She also served as a trustee of Bryn Mawr, her alma mater.
She served as assistant keeper of the costume collection at the London Museum, and later directed an excavation at Bredon Hill, an Iron Age fort in Worcestershire.
Mrs. Lafontant-Mankarious, a Republican, was known as Jewel S. Lafontant when she served in the Nixon and Bush Administrations.
During the Eisenhower Administration, from 1955 to 1958, she served as assistant United States attorney for the Northern District of Illinois.
From 1993 to 1995, she served as a governor of the National Association of Securities Dealers.
In later years, Mrs. Chandler served on numerous boards and Presidential commissions, devoting special attention to the University of California.
At a private dinner where she was a guest, just weeks before the Music Center was to open, Mrs. Chandler is said to have stood up after coffee was served and gone from person to person collecting money in a large, blue bag.
Mrs. Oku won a seat the next year in the upper house of Parliament and served for three six-year terms.
''
        Mrs. Oku is survived by a daughter, Kii Nakamura, who also served as a chairman of the Housewives' Association, and a son, Kyoichi Oku, both of Tokyo.
She became active and prominent in Republican politics and served on the Republican National Committee from 1964 to 1984.
Mrs. Winship served for some years in the 1970's as the American chairwoman of Girls Town of Italy, an international organization based in Rome that cared for children who had been abandoned.
She lived in Arizona from 1976 to 1995 and served as an adviser to Mr. Babbitt when he was the Governor.
Her mother, Nellie Nugent Somerville, was the first woman to be elected to the Mississippi Legislature, and Lucy also served there for four years in the 1930's.
Mrs. Howorth was president of the Business and Professional Women's Club of Washington and often served as a mentor to women in government.
She served on the board of the Puerto Rican Family Institute for more than 30 years and on the New York Council on Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for eight years.
He was succeeded by her husband, who served also as president, then chancellor, of Bar-Ilan University in Ramat Gan, Israel, until his death in 1979.
After running for mayor of Los Angeles in 1945 and again in 1949, Mrs. Weiss and her husband came to New York, where he served as editor and she as a staff writer for the party's newspaper, The Militant.
She also served as an editor of translations for the Journal of Soviet Studies during the 1960's.
She came to know Brecht, at that time living in California, and served as choreographer for the premiere in 1947 of his ''Galileo,'' which starred Charles Laughton.
Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Dr. Oettinger served four administrations.
She also served as a commentator for Fox News.

        Pilar Miro Romero, a pioneering female director of movies and television who also fostered Spain's film industry by introducing state aid for promising young filmmakers when she served in the Socialist Government of the 1980's, died at her home here on Sunday.
Ms. Miro served in his administration, first in the Culture Ministry, then as Director General of state television and radio.
Beginning in 1968, she served four terms in the Assembly, becoming the first Conservative to win state office.
Assemblyman Robert Werts, a Republican with whom she served, remembered an event at Gov.

        Jane Warner Dick, an early social welfare advocate who later served on a United Nations panel, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 91.
She later served on the Illinois Social Welfare Foundation as well as the Illinois Board of Public Welfare, where she established volunteer services for the state's mentally ill.
        Mrs. Dick was active in Democratic politics in Illinois, where she was an early supporter of Adlai Stevenson.
She urged Mr. Stevenson to run for governor in 1948 and served as the state chairwoman of his successful gubernatorial campaign.
)
        For all the furor it created in the White House, the Parks book was comparatively tame, providing a wealth of charming and intimate gossip about the various First Families she served but no serious scandal.

        Mary Brooks Griswold, who served four terms in the Connecticut legislature after the death of her husband, A. Whitney Griswold, a Yale University president, died on Nov. 15 at Fox Hill Village in Westwood, Mass.
Throughout, she served on the Assembly's Education Committee.
She also served on the boards of the Newark Museum, the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and Rider College.
''
        During her two terms in office, Mrs. Meyner served on the Committee on International Relations, but turned down an invitation to join the powerful Ways and Means Committee, saying she feared stretching herself too thin.
After leaving Washington, Mrs. Meyner served on the boards of directors of Allied Chemical, Girard Trust and Prudential Insurance, and through her work in these companies, she continued to advocate for women.
Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
She lectured in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before moving to the Fletcher School, where she advanced to a full professorship and served as academic dean from 1985 to 1987.
She served on the board of the World Peace Foundation.
During her marriage, Mrs. Disney served as her husband's sounding board and unofficial adviser.
Mrs. Peterson served in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter, and worked for businesses as well.
When Mr. Johnson became President, he brought Mrs. Peterson into the White House as his special adviser for consumer affairs, and she served in a similar capacity for President Carter.
''
        She taught at colleges and universities, and served as poetry editor of The Nation and Mother Jones.
She served until 1986.
Mrs. Hoffman joined the Sears board in 1963 and served until 1970.
Named after the college's patron, the collection initially served as a repository of works by female writers but grew over the years into a women's history archive.
She was in private practice, and served as a United States magistrate and a Federal prosecutor in Brooklyn, before being named to the Federal bench.
She was the second wife of Mr. Rockefeller, the first Republican Governor of Arkansas since Reconstruction, who served two terms, from 1967 to 1970.
She served on the national board of the Urban League and the White House Commission on Mental Health under Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
