In time, she became the ranking Republican on the Armed Services and Aeronautical and Space Sciences Committees, and served as well on the Appropriations Committee.
She served on the Advisory Council of the Victoria and Albert Museum from 1979 to 1983 and became a trustee the next year.
In the New Deal era, Mr. Clague helped organize the Social Security Administration and later served as Commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
" She also served on many boards, including those of the Museum of American Folk Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
She was also a member of the visiting committee of the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University and served on visiting committees at the Museum of Modern Art and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
Appearance at these evenings became somewhat of a status symbol among musicians, and they often served as showcases for emerging talents.
The salon concerts -- up to 18 per season -- developed through her work at the center and served as benefit events for the center and for Camphill Village, a community in Copake, N.Y., for mentally handicapped adults.
There was no school for English-speaking children, so she helped start one and served as its first director.
A decade later, she served as a consumer advocate on the Food and Drug Administration committee that investigated the potential hazards of silicone breast implants.
"
        Her stormy personal life, peppered by many marriages and publicized romances, was as lurid as many of her films, but her identity as a sex symbol served to insulate her career from scandal's consequences.
In the 1950's she served as president of Women United for the United Nations.
Her husband was a New York lawyer and civil rights advocate who served on numerous Federal agencies and commissions in the Roosevelt and Truman Administrations and was president of the New York City Board of Education in the mid-1960's.

        Jeanne-Marie Ruth-Rolland, an official of the Central African Republic who served as its Minister of Social Affairs in 1992 and 1993 after being imprisoned for five years for political reasons, died on June 4 in a hospital in Paris.
"
        Her stormy personal life, peppered by many marriages and publicized romances, was as lurid as many of her films, but her identity as a sex symbol served to insulate her career from scandal's consequences.
Miss Cook also served two terms under President Richard M. Nixon as a member of his Advisory Council on Adult Education.
      
's faculty, she served on virtually every city, state and national conference devoted to children and wrote widely on the subject.
After retiring in 1992, Ms. Hafey served as vice president for the agency's foundation and as the editor of its alumni magazine.
At one time, she also served on the boards of the National Urban League, the New York Urban League, WAIF/International Social Service, the Girl Scouts of Greater New York and the Cooperative Education Association.
Over the years she also served as director of the New York Region of the American Friends Service Committee, projects director for the National Peace Education Division in Philadelphia and counselor to many conscientious objectors.
At Medical College and Metropolitan Hospital Center she also served as chief of psychosomatic and consultation services, co-director of the Behavior Therapy Unit, chairman of the Behavioral Science Teaching Program and director of a program for women residents with children.
Mrs. Schoenborn became a museum trustee in 1953 and served on the program and drawing comittees.
He served 11 straight terms, until his death in 1976.
Mrs. Day also served as an adviser for the 1947 film adaptation of "Life With Father.
But she was sent to the gulag again in 1960, after Pasternak's death, and served four years of an eight-year sentence, apparently to punish her for the relationship.
She served as a trustee of the college from 1981 to 1991.
She was 85 and lived in Westport, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley, who was born in Bridgeport, Conn., served on the board of directors of the Westport Country Playhouse and fought to save the American Shakespeare Theater in Stratford, Conn.
        Mrs. Bradley was also active in radio and television as a weekly panelist on "What in the World," a quiz show, for WTIC-TV in Hartford and as a writer and producer of her own television interview show for WICC-TV in Bridgeport.
She served on advisory boards for Cornell University's Institute for Women and Work and for the National Organization for Women.

        Gladys M. Dorman, a lawyer who served 20 years on the New York City Board of Higher Education, died on Thursday at her home in Bal Harbour, Fla. She was 84.
In 1963, Mrs. Hazen was a founding sponsor of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York, served as a trustee of its medical center from 1976 and contributed, with her siblings, to the construction of the 33-story Annenberg Building at the center, devoted to medical care, education and research.
Mrs. Haynes served as an executive vice president and assistant treasurer and each owned 26 percent of the team before it was sold to Carl Pohlad in 1985.
She was 71  and had served for three years on the university's board of regents, the very body that had denied her admission on the basis of her race.
In 1922, she married Wallace Bennett, who served four terms in the United States Senate and retired in 1974.
Mrs. Beame was married to the former New York Mayor, who served from 1974 to  1978, for almost 68 years.
In an era when leading magazines had voracious appetites for short fiction, she served almost as an adjunct editor at The Saturday Evening Post, making weekly trips to its headquarters in Philadelphia.
"
        After serving as the national organization's executive director until a lack  of money forced it to close the Washington office in 1974, Mrs. Blackston returned to California, where she worked as a legislative aid and served on state and local committees concerned with welfare.

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
She served on the  National Board of Directors of Church Women United and was the keynote speaker at the first "International Year of the Woman" Conference in Mexico City in 1975.

        Ethel T. Chamberlain, who dedicated her life to the Salvation Army and served as national president of its women's organizations from 1974 to 1977, died on Wednesday at a Salvation Army retirement home in Asbury Park, N.J. She was 86.
She served on the  National Board of Directors of Church Women United.
The medical center, which has served the people of Greenwich Village and Chelsea since 1849, is operated jointly by the New York congregation of the Sisters of Charity and the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York.
Widely regarded as the nation's leading authority on open-hearth cooking, she wrote widely in the field and served as a consultant to historical culinary projects like "The First Ladies Cookbook" and "The American  Heritage Cookbook.
Before her appointment, Dame Nita, who was a nurse and public health expert, served as the Barbados representative at the United Nations and was previously president of the World Y.W.C.A.
Walter Edge and reappointed in 1951, she served in Union County for 10 years until she resumed her private law practice in Plainfield.
She served one term in the Senate.
When the university founded the Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law in the mid-1970's, she was named to its Board of Directors and served as secretary from 1986 until her death.
Mrs. Etra was on the national Board of Directors for the United Jewish Appeal and served as a director of Seton Hill College in Greensburg, Pa., and the Brookdale Center of Hunter College.
She was born in Istanbul, Turkey, and served for many years as a trustee of Roberts College, an English-language university there.
For 32 years, Mrs. Taylor served as the unsalaried principal of the Concord Baptist Elementary School, which she established in 1960 with her husband, the Rev.
In conjunction with her work for the league, she served on the board of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, a coalition of social-welfare agencies and service organizations serving the poor.
She also served on the executive board of the Nassau / Suffolk Coalition for a National Health Care Plan.
Sister Ann was also executive director of the National Coalition of American Nuns in the 1970's and served several terms on the governing board of Common Cause, the public-affairs lobbying organization.
      
In conjunction with her work for the league, she served on the board of the Health and Welfare Council of Nassau County, a coalition of social-welfare agencies and service organizations serving the poor.
Dr. Jones served as director of the university's computer-based Education Research Laboratory from 1992 until last year.
Mrs. Mercati served as a member of the national council of the Metropolitan Opera, a director of the English Speaking Union and in many capacities with Recording for the Blind, including vice president of its board and director emeritus, a post she held at her death.
Professor Turkevich, who also held research positions at the Institute for Advanced Study and the Center for Theological Inquiry at Princeton and served as the president of the American Association of Teachers of Slavic and Eastern European Languages, wrote widely on Russian literature.
Professor Turkevich also served as a specialist in American education at the United States exhibit in Moscow in 1959.
"
        Mrs. Plimpton, a graduate of Smith College, also served on the boards of Planned Parenthood, the Institute for World Affairs and the Public Education Association.
In the 1930's and 40's she wrote for various magazines and for the North American Newspaper Alliance, and served as a naval correspondent in World War II.
She also served on the boards of several civic and philanthropic organizations, including the World Federation for Mental Health and the Menninger Foundation.
And when she served on a Federal advisory panel that made only a vague reference to a need for Government subsidies in a report stressing the role of private insurance in protecting Americans against catastrophic medical costs, Mrs. Ostrander issued a stinging dissent, chiding her fellow panelists for obscuring a need for Government participation.
The article also misstated the name of a group whose board she served on.
