Her father, John Lillie, a native of Northern Ireland, had served with the British Army in India before he married Lucie Shaw, an Englishwoman.
The one who won her was the handsome Robert Peel, whose ancestor Sir Robert Peel served as one of Queen Victoria's Prime Ministers and organized London's Metropolitan police force.
She became a professor in 1974 and served as chairman of the department of comparative literature from 1974 to 1979 and the department of rhetoric from 1981 to 1986.
She was the guild's first female president and later served as its chairwoman and honorary chairwoman.
She served as chairwoman of the Allergy Foundation of America and as president of the Women's Medical Association of New York City and of the New York Allergy Association.
She served as a guidance counselor at, among others, Haaren High School, Gompers High School and Wadleigh High School, which is now a junior high school.
She served as an interpreter.
Mrs. North served as Mr. North's editor and researcher.
'' Emphasized Human Qualities
        The book's emphasis on the human qualities of the leaders of the time helped make it popular with the public, and it served as the basis for a 1964 documentary film, produced by Nathan Kroll, with the same title.
From 1969 to 1971, she served in Vietnam with Catholic Relief Services, assisting in the placement of homeless and orphaned children.
      
Later, fulfilling a childhood dream, she and her husband moved into the mansion that had served as the setting for her novel.
She had also served on the board of governors of the Women's National Republican Clubs.
Miss Thomas served on the Council of Actors Equity, and was a member of the national board of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists.
She also served as Deputy Secretary of State in New York from 1955 to 1959 and was a hearing officer with the New York City Rent Commission for many years.
She had been active in the Democratic Party for many years and served on the board of the National Women's Party in Washington.
In 1950, Mrs. Takatsukasa married Toshimitsu Takatsukasa, a member of one of the five families who have traditionally served as advisers to the imperial family.
He served as her dramatic coach for many years.
Though trained as an architect, he had served as a general with the Resistance in southern France.
A Sensation in Tabloids
        As George Jorgensen, she served as a clerk in the Army.
She served as president of the trustees of the National Symphony Orchestra, a fellow of the Viriginia Museum and the Aspen Institute and a governor of the Arthritis and Rheumatism Foundation.
in 1937 and served as director of its college and university division, traveling to Mexico, Denmark, Australia and Ghana in the course of her work, before she was appointed to the executive director's post in 1960.
In 1975 she was elected City Auditor and served four years; in 1979 she was elected to the City Council.
She was dean of nursing at Seton Hall from 1968 to 1977 and served as Vicar General of the congregation until 1982.
After her retirement she served as a consultant to the United Hospital Fund of New York.
Earlier she had served as executive vice president and as chairwoman of the company's executive committee.
She also served for eight years on the New Jersey Health Care Administration Board and was a former trustee of St. Mary's Hospital in Hoboken.
Mrs. Kellogg also served on the board of the African Wildlife Foundation.
She also served on the book-selection committees of the National Conference of Christians and Jews and the National Committee for Program Services of the Campfire Girls.
Valentina was the widow of George Schlee, the financier who served as her business partner and as an adviser to Greta Garbo, who was one of Valentina's notable clients.
He served as her protector as they fled the country.
After she retired, Mrs. Campbell was an honorary trustee of the museum, and for several years served as editor of catalogues of its European and American painting collections.
After leaving the Met, she served as assistant ballet director of the Vienna State Opera for two years.
She served for a time as a Hubert H. Humphrey Visiting Professor at Macalester College in St. Paul.
'' She served on the national board of the Y.W.C.A.
She also served in the Bureau of Community Health Services and the Indian Health Service.
She served on many boards and commissions, including the Public Health Association of New York City.
Her collection, intensively documented through her own research and personal recollections, served as a research tool for graduate students in art history.
She was active in the Founders Society of the Detroit Institute of Arts, and served for eight years on the acquisitions committee of the Art Institute of Chicago.
''
        In Dwight D. Eisenhower's Presidential campaigns she served as musical coordinator.
After being hired for The Book Review at The Times, she served as a clerk and secretary, listed new books, answered readers' queries and tried her hand at reviews.
She also served as an officer of the American Dance Guild and a consultant to the National Endowment for the Arts.
She also served as an officer of the American Dance Guild and a consultant to the National Endowment for the Arts.
They merged when she became the first chairwoman of the Legal Aid Society, an organization she served for more than 50 years.
She was chairwoman of the New York City Committee on Adoptions and often served as a pro bono lawyer for children's aid organizations.
She served on the zoning and landmarks committees of the community board.
Captain Lenihan served for four years as the head of the Waves, the now-defunct women's branch of the Navy.
She later served as Director of Officer Personnel and as officer in charge of the Waves Officer School in Newport, R.I.
On Rhodes Scholar Panel
        She served on the Williams College board from 1974 to 1986, then becoming a trustee emeritus.
A 1928 graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Bowles was the widow of Chester B. Bowles, who served as Ambassador to India and Governor of Connecticut.
A 1928 graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Bowles was the widow of Chester B. Bowles, who served as Ambassador to India and Governor of Connecticut.
Served on AIDS Panel
        Dr. Ma, who held a Ph.D. in microbiology from Jefferson University, was assistant professor of clinical pathology at the New York University School of Medicine at the time of her death.
Mrs. Tishman served on several boards, including the Meals-on-Wheels in New York City and the Animal Rescue Fund in East Hampton.
'' She also served on the board of John Houseman's troupe, the Acting Company, in Manhattan.
She was active in business and philanthropic circles, served as president of the Advertising Club of Westchester in 1984 and was a member of the board of Sales and Marketing Executives of Westchester.
She established nine scholarship funds for students in communities served by her directories, with awards made on the basis of community service and academic achievement.
