She also served on the five-member administrative board of the state's Unified Court System.
Shortly after earning her Ph.D. at 65, Ms. Rae wrote her first book, ''Edith Wharton's New York Quartet,'' a work of literary criticism about the writer, who with Eudora Welty served as Ms. Rae's inspiration.
She also played a major role in founding New Dramatists in 1949, served for many years on its board and was its president in the early 1980's.
She served as an assistant state's attorney for Cook County and was one of a few women in the Illinois Legislature when she met her husband, then a fellow lawmaker.
A member of the Bahai faith since 1929, Mrs. Mottahedeh served for many years as the first Bahai representative to the United Nations.
With her husband, she founded a series of primary and secondary schools in Uganda, and maintained four village development projects in Maharashtra state in India that served as training facilities in agricultural techniques, public health services and the development of local handicrafts.
Grommets were arranged in the back of one style so that the glove could almost have served as a set of brass knuckles.
The era in which Ms. Clark served the dynamic mayor known as ''the Little Flower'' seems almost impossibly quaint: he had no telephone on his desk and wandered into her cubbyhole to take calls.
Mrs. Venturelli succeeded Mrs. Churchill as president in 1977 and served in that post for 20 years.
She was a niece of Dr. Ramon Grau San Martin, a professor of physiology who served as Cuba's provisional president in 1933 and '34 and as president from 1944 to 1948.
One of the first fellows of the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Studies in Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Brainard was an artist in residence at Northeastern University and served as a director and chairwoman of the Congress on Research in Dance.
Mrs. Komanoff, a Democrat, was elected to the board from Long Beach, where she lived much of her life, in 1973, and served three terms from 1974 to 1985.
''
        A devotion to detail served the Marriotts well, as the chain thrived, eventually expanding to 65 sites.
She also created public service advertising for the NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund, for which she served as vice president and member of the board.

        Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington.
She served as a judge in many piano competitions as well as giving lectures and master classes around the country.
The experience served them well in helping Ailey as much-needed surrogate parents and de facto booking agents and accountants in the tumultuous early days of Ailey's company.
She also served as co-editor of the scientific journal Johnsonia.
From then until the 1970's, while she was in private practice in Manhattan, she served as an advocate general in the Army Reserve, encouraging female law students to follow her path into the corps.
After moving to Arkansas, she served Governors Dale L. Bumpers and David H. Pryor on various state commissions.
In 1980, Governor Clinton appointed her a commissioner of the Arkansas Educational Television Network, and she served until 1993.
Restless and daring, Miss Benson served as an aide to various British generals in the Middle East, North Africa and Europe.

        Neuma Goncalves da Silva, a central figure in the slums that served as the testing ground for the composers, seamstresses and fiercely talented layabouts who catapulted samba into an art form, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro.
Reilly was a longtime high school and college basketball official, and she served on a number of N.C.A.A.
Naval Reserve,'' Mrs. Hardin provided the emotional high point at the ceremony, held in October 1997 at Arlington National Cemetery to dedicate the Women in Military Service for America Memorial, honoring almost  two million women who had served.
Women had served in a quasi-military capacity, as nurses, but there were no women in the regular Navy or Army.
She was among almost 12,000 women who served in the Navy during World War I as clerks, draftsmen, translators, camouflage designers and recruiters.
''
        Among those in the crowd was a woman named Ann Darr, who had served during World War II in the Women's Air Force Service Pilots, or Wasps.
She served two terms on the national board, and Amnesty International U.S.A. now gives an annual Ginetta Sagan Award for outstanding work on behalf of oppressed women and children.
She served variously as a member, vice chairwoman and chairwoman.
Mrs. Davis served as a trustee and spearheaded the drive to build a new wing.

        Katherine W. Fanning, a former owner of The Anchorage Daily News who later served as editor of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Thursday.
She also served on the board of several charitable foundations.
In the final years of her life, her daughter, Chandrika Kumaratunga, succeeded her as the standard bearer of the family party and has served as president of the country since 1994.
Mrs. Bandaranaike -- known simply as Mrs. B -- served twice as  head of state, from 1960 to 1965 and again from 1970 to 1977.
During five years of her daughter's presidency, Mrs. Bandaranaike served as prime minister, which had become a largely ceremonial role under the Constitution adopted in 1978.
At Fosse's request, Ms. Verdon served as superviser of his 1978 musical, ''Dancin,' '' and also worked with him on his 1979 autobiographical film, ''All That Jazz.
She also published short stories and served as an editor at The New Yorker and Houghton Mifflin, the publisher.
Her books, with their accessible prose, site plans and photographs, have served as basic training for many in the next generation of professional landscape architects and for amateurs as well.
''
        Policewoman Shpritzer served almost 20 years as a policewoman in the Juvenile Aid Bureau before she and five other women applied to take a test for possible promotion to the rank of sergeant in 1961.
'' She wrote four more books on beauty and grooming and served as a trustee of the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York from 1966 to 1976.
