She served as president of the Hauppauge Library Board in the 1970's and was a vice president of the Amityville Board of Education from 1984 to 1988.
She served as minority leader and headed the Health Services Committee, the Human Services Committee and the Senior Citizens Committee.
Elizabeth Fisher, born in Allegheny County, Pa., was a Ziegfeld girl and served overseas with the United Service Organizations in World War II, helping entertain the troops, visiting the wounded in field hospitals and volunteering for the Veterans Bedside Network.
Her husband, Maj. Gen. Goff Hamilton, served with Queen Victoria's Own Corps of Guides, as had his father.
The serene Ms. O'Donnell might have served as the model for the tranquil all-seeing Pioneer Woman in Graham's 1944 ''Appalachian Spring,'' a role she created.
''
        Ms. Cullman was a vice chairwoman of the board of the Lincoln Center Theater and had served on the board there since 1985.
From the administration of John F. Kennedy to that of George W. Bush, she served on committees to preserve the White House.
She did inherit a microfilm company that copied United States war records and material for the Library of Congress, on whose board she later served.
She also served on the city's Commission on Heroin Addiction and twice was a delegate to the White House Conference on Aging.
Intended as a place to entertain her friends away from her home, the tiny club attracted painters, poets and musicians, for whom the owner cooked -- after she had to fire her chef -- served tables and, at the urging of her friends, sang.
Although Mrs. Bradshaw spent $2 million on the legal defense of Marc Schreuder and his mother, Marc Schreuder was convicted of second-degree murder in 1982 and served 12 years in prison.
Before she became director of the variable-stars association, she briefly served as an assistant to her predecessor and taught physics and astronomy at the American College Institute in Turkey and Aegean University.
She served on the board for 16 years, including three years as its chairwoman.
She was an honorary board member and served on committees concerned with contemporary art, prints and drawings.
'' During her long career in classical music she also served as an assistant to Rudolf Serkin, Alexander Schneider and Ravi Shankar.
She studied at the Rubin Academy of Music in Jerusalem, and served with an entertainment unit in the Israeli Army.
She also held several honorary doctorates, served as head of the Israeli entertainers' union, and was a member of the Hebrew Language Academy.
After meeting Celia Franca, the British-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada, she was appointed its ballet mistress in 1952 and served as its associate artistic director from 1969 to '75.
She also served as a guest teacher around the world.
Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
''
        With help from her husband she appeared on a set replicating a home kitchen and cooked the dishes of the week, then served them to herself, complete with wine.
She said the president shook dry martinis, ''which I adored,'' and served fresh caviar sent by Stalin.
Professor Hanson served as president of the College Art Association (1972-74), was acting head of the Yale University Art Gallery (1986-87) and a Samuel H. Kress professor at the Center for Advanced Study in the Visual Arts at the National Gallery of Art, Washington (1992-93).
Her father was an Iraqi diplomat who served as the country's ambassador to Iran and India until the monarchy was overthrown in 1958.
Ms. Rudge is on her cellphone, trying to find black cabbage for Tuscan chefs who consider it an absolute must for a thick peasant soup to be served in the Grill Room at the World Financial Center.
At the time of her death, she was researching a book on American soldiers who served in tank units on the Bataan peninsula before World War II, many of whom were captured and imprisoned by the Japanese.

        Mary Bertina Carter Hunter, an arts patron and collector who served on New York City's advisory Art Commission under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died on Nov. 23 in Newport News, Va. A former resident of Greenwich Village, she was 92.
