She then served as the accredited representative of the Federation of Catholic Universities at the United Nations.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
She also served as an officer and director of the Westchester Women's Bar Association.
During her 16 years on the national board, Mrs. Inselbuch served in several capacities.
Formerly a family charity, it became a public community foundation in 1989, and Mrs. Isaacs served as its chairman from 1954 until her death.
She was also a member of the Decorators Club and served on the board of the Thomas Paine Historical Association.
She served as president of the Garden State Ballet and the New Jersey Ballet and on the board of the Zionist Organization of America.
She served as president of the American Library Association in 1966-67, the American Association of School Librarians in 1959-60 and the New Jersey School Library Association in 1954-55.
High School English Teacher
        In the 1920's and 1930's she worked as a high school English teacher and librarian in Danville and served as technical director of a Federal Works Project Administration library program for Virginia.
After her retirement from Rutgers, she served as a library consultant and later vice president of Bro-Dart Inc., a wholesale book supplier.
She also served as a dramaturg for regional companies and playwriting festivals.
She was chairwoman of Columbia's Advisory Committee for Ethnic Studies and served on its Commission on the Future of the University, the University Senate and the Faculty Executive Committee.
Served on Several Panels
        She was director of research training in social work and mental health for the National Institutes of Health from 1977 to 1988.
Sharing her husband's love of music, Mrs. Naumburg served as a director on the boards at the Greenwich School of Music, the Friends of French Opera and the Naumburg Park Concerts.
A skilled pianist, Mrs. Blair served on the boards of directors of the Juilliard School of Music, the Manhattan School of Music and the St. Louis Symphony Orchestra.
She served three consecutive terms as chairwoman of Community Planning Board No.
She served 20 years on the Durham City Council after being elected in nonpartisan balloting.
Justice Levittan served as an officer of the New York Women's Bar Association and was a member of the New York city and state bar associations and the National Association of Women Lawyers.
She also served as executive secretary of the League of Nations Association of Greater New York from 1927 to 1928.
She headed the Mount Vernon branch of the American Red Cross and served on the board of its Westchester County chapter.
She served two terms as chairwoman of the classics department.
She had also served as the Senate's vice chairwoman for four years and its Governance Committee chairwoman for two years.
Mrs. Montgomery's volunteer work also included her serving as a trustee of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory, Miss Porter's School in Farmington, Conn., and the Thacher School in Ojai, Calif. She also served on committees of the Environmental Defense Fund.

        Cecile Ruth Sands, who served for six years as the only woman on New York City's Board of Education and also worked for charitable causes, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan.
In 1947, after working for the Selznick organization, Miss Colby served as a $150,000-a-year executive assistant to the head of Paramount Pictures.
She also served as an exhibition consultant for the Hallmark Corporation, the Eastman Kodak Corporation and other organizations.
      
She served on the Tony nominating committee and was an officer of the Dramatists Guild and Authors League.
She had served as director of the Bellevue Children's Chest Clinic, medical director for the Adolescent Girls Clinic at the Judson Health Center and director of Pediatric Laboratories at Gouverneur Hospital.
She served on the board of the Open Door Family Health Clinic in Ossining, was a deacon for Briarcliff Congregational Church and was president of the Inter-Faith Council for Action, a housing preservation organization.
In the 1950's she also served as chairwoman of the volunteer training program.
She earned a medical degree from New York Medical College in 1948 and served her internship and residency at the Marine Hospital on Staten Island and at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan.
Before enlisting in the Naval Reserve in 1942, she served as business manager of the Association of the Junior Leagues of America for 14 years.
She served on the board of directors of the American College Dance Festival, the Association of American Dance Companies and the National Association for Regional Ballet, and contributed articles to Vogue, Parents Magazine and other publications.
In World War II, she served in India and China as an intelligence agent for the United States Office of Strategic Services, then became a correspondent in China for Life magazine.
She served as an analyst for a United States economic mission to China and later was director of education and information for the Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction, which modernized much of Taiwan.
She served as a lieutenant commander in the Navy Women's Reserve during the war and was director of emplacement for the Waves in San Diego.
In World War II, she served in India and China as an intelligence agent for the United States Office of Strategic Services, then became a correspondent in China for Life magazine.
She served as an analyst for a United States economic mission to China and later was director of education and information for the Sino-American Joint Commission on Rural Reconstruction, which modernized much of Taiwan.
From 1967 until her retirement in 1979, she served as a psychologist in the Herricks public school system in New Hyde Park, L.I.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
As a leader in many causes, Mrs. Black became an expert on volunteerism and served as a consultant and coordinator of volunteer activities at local, state and Federal levels.
Mrs. Black served as the co-chairwoman of New York City's Voluntary Action Council under Mayors John V. Lindsay, Abraham D. Beame, Edward I. Koch and David N. Dinkins.
Mrs. Bornstein served as president of 14 community organizations in Fair Lawn.
"
        She was the first black woman elected to the Georgia Legislature, where she served in the General Assembly from 1966 to 1984.
She drafted a law that authorized a revision of the city charter, then served as the charter commission's vice chairwoman.
She was a trustee of Clark Atlanta University and Meharry Medical College and served on the boards of the Fulton-DeKalb Hospital Authority and the National Young Women's Christian Association.
She described herself, a well-loved little girl, by depicting a meal that her mother once served: "deep rich, floating puddles of hot cocoa for supper, with buttered toast sogging deliciously in them.
A Former Dean
        Sister Margaret began her years in the administration at the College of New Rochelle as assistant registrar in 1941 and served as dean of the college from 1950 to 1957 and then as president until 1961.
In addition, she served as archivist for the Eastern Province of the Ursulines.
She was an active member of the City Bar Association and served on both the Committee on Communication Law and the Committee on Women in the Profession.
She described herself, a well-loved little girl, by depicting a meal that her mother once served: "deep rich, floating puddles of hot cocoa for supper, with buttered toast sogging deliciously in them.
"The Cooking of Provencal France," (Time-Life, 1968); Mrs. Fisher served as a consultant with Julia Child and Michael Field.
      
She served as a priest in the city's Episcopal Church Center, then as a vicar in West Milford, N.J. For the past six years her home parish had been St. George's Episcopal Church in the Diocese of Newark.
Miss Thomas served as the first full-time executive director of the organization, from 1952 until her retirement about 25 years later.
She also served as an officer or head of various hospital committees as well as the Comprehensive Planning Board for her local health district.
She was the secretary of the Overseas Press Club and served on its board of directors.
From 1971 until her retirement in 1977, she served as superior of the Kenwood Convent, where she continued to live.
Elected to the Senate in 1956, she served for six years and won praise as the author of a law on family education enacted in Peru in 1957.
She wrote several books on the conditions faced by children and adolescents and served as an adviser to the United Nations and two of its agencies, Unesco and Unicef.
She also served as vice chairwoman of the state Committee for Modern Courts, a non-profit organization.
She also served as vice chairwoman of the state Committee for Modern Courts, a nonprofit organization.
She served on the boards of the National Conference of Christians and Jews, the Red Cross, the United Negro College Fund and Lincoln Center and was chairwoman of funds, committees and benefits for these organizations.
She also served as an officer of the Community Service Society, one of the city's oldest and most prestigious civic organizations.
She also directed a major collection of historical material on women, served as Harvard's first female assistant dean and was a mentor to other female scholars.
She also served as a college administrator, first as an associate dean at Harvard's affiliated Radcliffe College from 1963 to 1970, then as an assistant dean at Harvard from 1970 to 1974.
Mr. Chorley, a close associate of Laurance S. and John D. Rockefeller Jr., served for 23 years as president of the Colonial Williamsburg restoration project and was an officer of several nonprofit organizations.
Mrs. Chorley served as the board president of the Old Barracks Association, an American Revolution historical organization in Trenton, and also coached the lay readers at the Trinity Episcopalian Church in Princeton.
Moving steadily up the ladder of leadership in the Westchester organization in the 1970's and 1980's, she served as its vice chairwoman, then regional vice chairwoman to coordinate Republican activities in five counties.
In 1961, Miss Kraushaar was among the handful of New York gallery owners who founded the Art Dealers Association of America; she served for many years on its board.
Mrs. Fordyce served as executive vice president of the foundation and director of the awards program until December 1990.
Mrs. Fordyce served on many governmental committees and with health-related organizations, including the United States branch of the World Association for Psychosocial Rehabilitation, the International Council for Coordinating Cancer Research, the United States Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation, the Rockefeller University Council, the Geriatric Advisory Council of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Psychiatry Department at Columbia University.
She had arrived at Brown from Carleton College in Minnesota, where she had spent 26 years and had served at various times as the Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, chairwoman of the English department and faculty chairwoman.
Miss Rotter served as the conduit between the newspaper's critics and those involved in productions.
Miss Rotter served with several later critics before retiring at the age of 70.
She graduated from Hollins College in Hollins, Va., in 1924, and later served on the college's board.
Scandalized Her Family
        Mrs. Fenwick attended the Foxcroft School in Virginia but left to accompany her father to Spain when he served as the American ambassador under President Calvin Coolidge.
Mrs. MacKaye, who wrote under the byline Dorothy Cameron Disney, was something of a pioneer both as an advice columnist and a marriage counselor, and for generations of readers her column -- entertaining, occasionally titillating, sometimes a little pedantic -- served as a spyglass into the lives of anonymous strangers.
Founder of Peer Group
        During the early 1980's, she served consecutive terms as president of the British-American Chamber of Commerce, for which she was made a Commander of the British Empire.
She was also a founder of the Peer Group, a national association of women in management and the arts, and served as a director of the New York Mission Society, the Women's Economic Round table and Mary Baldwin College.
Mother Khadijah founded the mosque in 1939 with her husband, Sheik Daoud Ahmed Faisal, who served as its imam, or spiritual leader, until his death in 1980.
"
        In addition to being a founder of the mosque, Mother Khadijah served as its secretary and treasurer and led its Muslim Ladies Cultural Society.
She moved to Israel in 1961, where she served on the Committee to Beautify Jerusalem.
Mrs. Paine joined CBS News as a staff administrator in 1951 and served as staff administrator for the "See It Now" and "CBS Reports" programs, with Edward R. Murrow reporting and Fred W. Friendly producing.
She served in the city transportation agency and in public relations for Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
Since 1989 she had served as president of the Godwin-Ternbach Museum at Queens College.
She later served as a member of its advisory board and took special pride when Columbia awarded her its Bicentennial Medal in 1956.
She served as chairwoman of the women's division fund campaigns in 1943, 1944 and 1949.
She served three terms as vice president of the Community Council of Greater New York and was elected its first president in 1973.
Dr. Shepherd also served with the New York City Mayor's Advisory Council on Child Health, Physicians for Reproductive Health, the Teen-Age Adolescent Pregnancy Care and Prevention Program and the New York State Advisory Panel on Primary Physicians.
Active in the Republican Party, Mrs. Koskoff served as a state legislator from 1953 to 1958.
John Dempsey, where she served until her retirement in 1990.
While teaching at Goucher, she also served on the board of the Baltimore Museum of Art and other local art institutions, and was co-author with Richard H. Howland of "The Architecture of Baltimore: A Pictorial History.
She was an outspoken lesbian and served on the board of the Feminist Press in New York City and often gave readings of her works at Judith's Room, a feminist bookstore in Greenwich Village.

        Enid Schechter, who served as the executive assistant to four Speakers of the New York State Assembly in the Legislature's New York City office, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan.
After studying at Harvard Divinity School and Princeton Theological Seminary, she served on the faculty of the Ecumenical Institute in Chicago for 10 years.
After studying at Harvard Divinity School and Princeton Theological Seminary, she served on the faculty of the Ecumenical Institute in Chicago for 10 years.
For the last 25 years or more her home served as a fountainhead of funds for Democratic candidates from around the country.
She served as hostess for foreign ambassadors during the 1976 national convention, and she often entertained other visiting foreign dignitaries as well.
She served in various capacities on the Governor's Committee on Scholastic Achievement, Just One Break Inc., Manhattan Industrial Home for the Blind, Community Board No.
Mrs. Furman helped found the volunteer organization in the early 1970's, and served a year's term as president from 1974 to 1975.
She twice served as its president, although she insisted she had no curatorial expertise.
From 1974 to 1980, she was a member of the National Council on the Humanities and served on the New York State Council on the Arts.
She served as dean of women at the Cincinnati Conservatory of Music and taught French literature at Nebraska Wesleyan and Aix-en-Provence before her marriage in 1953 to Dr. Hoxie.
Dr. Hoxie served as its president.
Mrs. Hoxie helped to found the Presidential Studies Quarterly and served as its editor.
Under her guidance the number of day-care centers multiplied and the number of children served rose from 5,000 to 40,000.
After earning a doctorate in socio-medical science at Columbia University in 1970, she served two years as an assistant to the first vice president at New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation.
With her husband, the late Dennis Green, she served as scriptwriter for "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes," starring Basil Rathbone.
Mrs. Gnichtel was a horsewoman and served on committees of the National Horse Show Association.
She later served as an adminstrator for the United States Agency for International Development.
