Mrs. Hasebroock served as president of the organization, which has members in 41 countries, including 500,000 in the United States, from 1964 to 1966.
She was also chairman of theater benefits for The Soldiers', Sailors' and Airmen's Club Inc., and served as its treasurer.
From 1945 to 1947 she was executive secretary of the women's division, which she served as associate director before becoming the committee's vice chairwoman.
She served on the New York City Charter Revision Commission from 1972 to 1977.
For the last 15 years, she served as president of the institute, organizing seminars and lectures on nutrition and biochemical disorders like schizophrenia, alcoholism and drug addiction.
Miss Luhrman became the nation's oldest veteran in 1987 when Jasper Garrison of Illinois, who had served in the Spanish-American War, died at the age of 107.
      
Mrs. Gruver, a bridge administrator, served as a member of the National Laws Commission of the American Contract Bridge League and as co-chairman of the national appeals committee, ruling on tournament disputes.
Mrs. Stuart also served on President Lyndon B. Johnson's Commission of Law Enforcement and Administration of Justice and on the National Citizens Commission on International Cooperation.
Ms. Yockel served on the boards of the Byrd Hoffman Foundation, the Technical Assistance Group and the Wooster Group.
She graduated from Barnard College in 1969 and served as college archivist before becoming a dean in 1979.
''
        Miss Craske retired from teaching in 1986, moving to Myrtle Beach, where she had served as a director of the Meher Spiritual Center for 11 years.
Mrs. Sulzberger also served the paper as a director and as a trustee for the stock left by her father.
In addition to her occupation with Barnard affairs, she served at various times as a trustee of the Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion, which gave her an honorary Doctorate of Humane Letters in 1973, and of the University of Chattanooga.
She served on numerous fund-raising and special events committees.
She served on the board of Jazzmobile, which also conducts year-round workshops, lectures and demonstrations.
She served on the jazz council of Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians and took part in the breakfast feeding program of St. Peter's Lutheran Church.
In 1977 she collected letters sent by her mother from India, where Lillian Carter served in the Peace Corps, for a book, ''Away From Home: Letters to My Family.
She then served as pastor of the Church of the Resurrection for two years and later was dean of the East Harlem School of Faith, a leader of the East Harlem Healing Community and a member of the board of the East Harlem Churches and Community Urban Center.
In addition, she has served on the board of East Harlem Interfaith, as well as on a public school board that encompasses East Harlem.
She served with the city's Environmental Control Board and with the Parking Violations Bureau before retiring in 1989.
She served with the Red Cross in the Pacific in World War II, and was a copy editor for Dance magazine before joining Life.
She then served a term as co-chairman of Gov.
She served as director of the Political Department of the Chinese military force in Korea during the Korean War.
      
Ms. Block was founder and co-chairwoman in the late 1980's of the Suffolk Safe Homes Coalition, a group dedicated to fighting drug abuse, and she served on Gov.
She was director of the Office of Intercultural Affairs for the Diocese of Jackson, Miss., and served on the faculty of the Institute of Black Catholic Studies at Xavier University in New Orleans.
She served until 1982, whenshe retired.
Mrs. Quigley, a Republican, served on the Borough Council in 1985.
She entered the Novitiate of the Sisters of Mercy in Tarrytown in 1952 and served as a sister for 19 years, teaching at parochial schools in Tarrytown and in the Bronx.
Mrs. Hance, a Republican, was elected in November 1975 and served four two-year terms before retiring in 1983.

       Ruth M. Martin, a nurse who served in American embassies in Europe, Africa and Asia and who was later in charge of the international program of the American Nurses Association, died of pneumonia last Saturday in the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village.
Ruth M. Martin, a nurse who served in American embassies in Europe, Africa and Asia and who was later in charge of the international program of the American Nurses Association, died of pneumonia last Saturday in the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village.
Later in the war she served in the American Embassy in London, and after the war she was assigned to embassies in Cairo and Teheran.
She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Paradise Valley, Ariz.
        Mrs. Barbey, who was attending a conference here when she was stricken, served as a liaison between UNICEF and member nations.
President of Company
        For many years she served as president of Tisch Hotels while the chain included the McAlpin in Manhattan and Traymore and Ambassador in Atlantic City.
Preston Robert Tisch, known as Bob, is chairman of the hotel chain and of the Lorillard Corporation and served as United States Postmaster General in the mid-1980's.
She had served on the Faculty Council for much of her teaching career and was a member of the Geological Society of America and the New York Academy of Sciences.
In World War II she served in the Office of Inter-American Affairs in Washington.
Mrs. Joy, a graduate of Barnard College, was president of the New Jersey division of the American Association of University Women from 1948 to 1950 and served on several committees of the national organization.
She also served as president of the Citizen's Help Council of New Jersey and of the New Jersey Welfare Council.
Mrs. Joy also served as president of the Barnard College Alumni Association.
After the three-year voyage, which ended in 1939, she became a ham radio operator and served in the Army Signal Corps throughout World War II.
Dr. Bennett served on several peer review committees for the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation in Washington.
It was probably the first time that a President of the United States served as a chorus boy.

       Bess Goodykoontz, an educator who served as Assistant United States Commissioner of Education in the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday at her daughter's home in South Newfane, Vt. She was 95 years old.
Bess Goodykoontz, an educator who served as Assistant United States Commissioner of Education in the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday at her daughter's home in South Newfane, Vt. She was 95 years old.
She served as Assistant Commissioner from 1929 to 1946, was director of the elementary education division from 1946 to 1949 and was then named Associate Commissioner of Education.
It was probably the first time that a President of the United States served as a chorus boy.
She had earlier been director of public relations for the Morris Morgenstern Foundation and asssistant to the president of Heublein, Inc., and also served with the public relations firm of Steve Hanagan Asosicates and with the United States Trust Company.
During the 1950's and 1960's, she served in various posts on the New York City Youth Board, now part of the Division of Youth Services, Mrs. Cormona said.
Before that, she served as a judge in the Family Court and in the Criminal Courts of New York City.
She served for two years as a law secretary before being appointed by Mayor Abraham D. Beame to the Family Court in 1976.
She served as president of Group Attitudes before and after it became a subsidary of Hill & Knowlton.
She served on the governing board of the National Council of Churches for the past 12 years as a representative of the United Methodist Church.
She also served as a medical missionary in Tennessee while in training.
She had served as director of development, director of publications, editor of the school bulletin and director of annual giving.

       Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a confidential aide to Frances Perkins during her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, died Tuesday at her home in Washington.
Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a confidential aide to Frances Perkins during her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, died Tuesday at her home in Washington.
She was active with the Citizens Committee for almost four decades and served as its president from 1960 to 1962 and chairwoman from 1962 to 1964, when she stepped down and became head of the committee's health section, a post she held until 1981.
She also served with county and township organizations.
On her 80th birthday in 1967, Mount Sinai was joined by the United Hospital Fund, the United Jewish Appeal, the New York Association for New Americans, the Play Schools Association, the New York City Y.W.C.A., the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and the Smith College Club of New York - all of which Mrs. Hirsch served for long periods as an officer, director, trustee or founder -in paying special tribute to her.
Miss Audry ran as a Socialist candidate for the National Assembly in 1962 and 1967 and served on the party steering committee from 1971 to 1981.
      
She served on what is now Community Board 2 for almost four decades, having been appointed in 1951 to its predecessor, the Community Council for the Greenwich Village area, by the Manhattan Borough President, Robert F. Wagner.
Mrs. Pandit, the sister of India's first Prime Minister, Jawaharlal Nehru, was the virtual chief of one of Asia's most important political dynasties, which included Mr. Nehru's daughter, Indira Gandhi, who was Prime Minister for 13 years, and Mrs. Gandhi's son Rajiv, who succeeded his mother in 1984 and served until 1989.
At home, she was elected a lawmaker two times and served as Governor of the western state of Maharashtra.
She retired from public life in 1970 but later served as the Indian representative to the United Nations Human Rights Commission.
Mrs. Gabel served on the Civil Court and State Supreme Court for 17 years.
In her several decades of public service, she served as an assistant New York City corporation counsel, general counsel and first deputy administrator of the New York State Temporary Housing Rent Commission and assistant to the mayor for housing and New York City Rent and Rehabilitation Commissioner, a position she held from 1962 to 1965.
She served as an acting justice of the State Supreme Court in 1973 and as an acting Family Court judge in 1974.
To avoid further notoriety, Mr. Wanger pleaded guilty to a reduced charge and served 100 days at a minimum-security prison farm.
Mrs. Christiansen served as acting dean of studies at Fordham from 1968 to 1971 after being assistant to the dean of students at Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville, N.Y. She was director of the University of North Carolina's fellows program for eight years before retiring in 1988.
She served on the board of advisers of the United States Naval War College in Newport, R.I., from 1978 to 1981.
She also served as director of public affairs and education and children's programming.
She served as assistant to the president of the Mannes College of Music from 1966 to 1970 and was acting director of the New York University Institute for the Humanities in the late 1970's.
Mrs. Cousteau served as nurse and purser and sometimes took part in underwater missions.
Mrs. Kane served on the boards of the Foxcroft School, the Brearley School, the Vocational Advisory Service and the national Y.W.C.A.
