The style served Ms. Unger well in numerous public commissions, mostly recently in 1991 with ''Ode to Tatlin,'' a pair of tall, crisp colonnadelike curving forms that face each other, forming a kind of elliptical gateway, at the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College.
Correction:  February 2, 1999, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Rita V. Tishman, a New York benefactor of Jewish and civic causes, referred incorrectly to a Jewish women's organization she served as president, and to an organization it sponsored for the blind.
Ms. Elion also served on the faculty of Duke University and the University of North Carolina.
She drafted the first master plan and the financing formula for the system and served as liaison to its Administrative Council of College Presidents.
Mrs. Max also served as secretary and administrative head of the New York City Employees Retirement System, one of the country's largest pension funds.
Over the years she served as an officer of the Women's Club of New York, Ethical Culture Schools, Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith, New York Metropolitan Council and American Society of Public Administrators, among other organizations.
She served on the Supreme Court in Bronx County in 1975 and 1976.
Mrs. Hallinan, elegant and chestnut-haired, served 30 days for participating in the 1964 civil rights demonstrations in San Francisco.
She served in the Army Nurse Corps as a first lieutenant in World War II and received a master's degree from Columbia University in 1947 and a doctorate in education in 1953.
Bowman directed a ballet school in New York from 1957 until 1977, when she married Albert Kaye and moved to Las Vegas, where she served as a consultant to local dance groups.
Mrs. Rivkin was also a founder of the National Museum of Women in the Arts, and in 1976 she served as the coordinator of volunteers at the Democratic National Convention in New York City.
She served as the institute's director of training from 1960 to 1970.
She also served on the advisory board of the Center for Infants and Parents.
''
        In 1988, Ms. Brandel was named co-chef of Chez Panisse and used her position to create some of the dishes it has become famous for, like tangles of wild greens served on brick-oven-fired olive oil focaccia or local cheeses turned into ravioli with wild onions, beets and hazelnuts.
She then served as a ballet mistress for the Royal Danish Ballet and was its associate director from 1978 to 1988.
She then served as a ballet mistress for the Royal Danish Ballet and was its associate director from 1978 to 1988.
She served as an adviser to the movie ''China'' (1943), starring William Bendix, Loretta Young and Alan Ladd.
''
        Her arresting looks may not have benefited her career as a Hollywood player at a time when black actresses were rarely portrayed as glamorous, but they served her well as a model and singer.
Until her death, she served on the board of the NOW Legal Defense Fund.
Mrs. Whitney's husband served as her sounding board on all editorial matters until his death in 1995.
The family moved to Washington, Conn., in 1945, when Mr. Miller became headmaster of the Gunnery School, where he served until he retired in 1969.
She served as artistic director of the Vienna State Opera Ballet from 1993 to 1995.
On the political side, she was a founder of Women Strike for Peace, which opposed nuclear weapons and the Vietnam War, and she served as Washington representative for the National Committee to Abolish the House Un-American Activities Committee.
She was also vice chairman of the Lighthouse for the Blind and served on the board of the Spence-Chapin Home for Adoption.
Ms. Richardson was a founding member of Reading Is Fundamental and served as its chairwoman from  1981 to 1996.
She graduated magna cum laude from Radcliffe and later served on the Harvard University board of overseers.

        Jean Gardiner Chisholm Lindsey, a business and civic leader who in the 1980's served as an officer, trustee or member of 18 organizations and foundations at the same time, died of a cerebral hemorrhage in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan on June 29, according to her son John.
She was a member of the business council of the Phillips Collection in Washington, served on the executive committee of the Mississippi Arts Commission and was a trustee of Millsaps College in Jackson, Miss.
Ms. O'Leary served as an economic adviser from 1986 to 1992 to Secretaries of State George P. Shultz and James A. Baker 3d in the Reagan and Bush Administrations.
''
        After leaving the program and becoming a popular lecturer, Ms. Rountree in 1965 founded Leadership, a nonprofit political research foundation based in Washington, and served as president of the organization until 1988.
She enlisted in the Army Nurse Corps and served in the Pacific and, after the war, at a military rehabilitation center in Battle Creek, Mich., rising to the rank of captain.
Ms. Harris was the first president of the Women's Forum, a networking organization, served on the board of the Planned Parenthood Federation of America and was a trustee of Mount Vernon College and Tusculum College in Tusculum, Tenn.
        No immediate survivors were reported.
      
Her brother, Shmuel Tamir, served as Justice Minister, and an uncle, Zalman Shazar, was Israel's third President.
She served until 1977, when she was 72.
She was a senior partner in the firm and served two consecutive terms as co-chairwoman of its executive committee from 1995 to 1998.
She served in various civil rights positions both locally and nationally and was the only woman who spoke at the March on Washington in 1963.
Ms. Iotti, who served as a Partisan during World War II, was first elected to office in 1946, winning a seat in the constitutional assembly.
From 1979 until 1992, she served as Italy's president of the lower house of Parliament, a role similar to that of the speaker of the house in the United States.
